What is an Iceberg Order  

Iceberg orders are large single orders that have been divided into smaller limit orders, usually through the use of an automated program, for the purpose of hiding the actual order quantity. The term "iceberg" comes from the fact that the visible lots are just the "tip of the iceberg" given the greater number of limit orders ready to be placed. They are also sometimes referred to as reserve orders.





Key Takeaways

Iceberg orders are large orders that are split up into lots or small sized limit orders. They are split up into visible and hidden parts, with the latter transitioning to visibility after the former type of order is executed. They are typically placed by large institutional investors to avoid disrupting trading markets with a single, large order. Traders can profit off iceberg orders by buying shares just above the price levels supported by initial batches of an iceberg orders.


   Basics of Iceberg Order  

Iceberg orders are mainly used by institutional investors to buy and sell large amounts of securities for their portfolios without tipping off the market. Only a small portion of their entire order is visible on Level 2 order books at any given time. By masking large order sizes, an iceberg order reduces the price movements caused by substantial changes in a stock's supply and demand.



For example, a large institutional investor may want to avoid placing a large sell order that could cause panic. A series of smaller limit sell orders may be more palatable and disguise the extant selling pressure. On the other hand, an institutional investor looking to buy shares at the lowest possible price may want to avoid placing a large buy order that day traders could see and bid up the stock.



Previous research has indicated that traders tend to place order types similar to the amount and pattern of iceberg orders, thereby increasing liquidity and minimizing impact of the iceberg order on overall trading.


   Identifying Iceberg Orders  

Traders can identify iceberg orders by looking for a series of limit orders coming from a single market maker that constantly seems to reappear. For example, an institutional investor might break an order to buy one million shares into ten different orders for 100,000 shares each. Traders have to watch closely to pick up on the pattern and recognize that these orders are being filled in real-time.



Traders looking to capitalize on these dynamics might step in and buy shares just above these levels, knowing that there's strong support from the iceberg order, creating an opportunity for scalping profits. In other words, the iceberg order(s) may serve as reliable areas of support and resistance that can be considered in the context of other technical indicators.



For example, a day trader may notice high levels of selling volume at a certain price. They may then look at the Level 2 order book and see that most of this volume is coming from a series of similarly-sized sell orders from the same market maker. Since this could be the sign of an iceberg order, the day trader may decide to short sell the stock due to the strong selling pressure from the constant stream of limit sell orders.



Exchanges typically prioritize orders based on the sequence in which they are received. In the case of an iceberg order, the visible portion of an order is executed first. The hidden portion of an order is executed only after it becomes visible in the order book. If traders have already placed orders similar to the iceberg order, then they are executed after the visible portion of an iceberg order.


   Example of an Iceberg Order   

Suppose a large pension investment fund wants to make an investment of $5 million into stock ABC. News of the fund's investment could cause a massive spike in ABC's price within a short period of time. To avoid such a disruption, the fund devises an iceberg order that splits its original order into smaller lots of $500,000 each.
What Is the Ichimoku Cloud?  

The Ichimoku Cloud is a collection of technical indicators that show support and resistance levels, as well as momentum and trend direction. It does this by taking multiple averages and plotting them on a chart. It also uses these figures to compute a “cloud” that attempts to forecast where the price may find support or resistance in the future.



The Ichimoku Cloud was developed by Goichi Hosoda, a Japanese journalist, and published in the late 1960s. It provides more data points than the standard candlestick chart. While it seems complicated at first glance, those familiar with how to read the charts often find it easy to understand with well-defined trading signals.





Key Takeaways


The Ichimoku Cloud is composed of five lines or calculations, two of which comprise a cloud where the difference between the two lines is shaded in.
The lines include a nine-period average, a 26-period average, an average of those two averages, a 52-period average, and a lagging closing price line.
The cloud is a key part of the indicator. When the price is below the cloud, the trend is down. When the price is above the cloud, the trend is up.
The above trend signals are strengthened if the cloud is moving in the same direction as the price. For example, during an uptrend, the top of the cloud is moving up, or during a downtrend, the bottom of the cloud is moving down.
















TradingView.


   The Formulas for the Ichimoku Cloud  

The following are the five formulas for the lines that comprise the Ichimoku Cloud indicator.


















Conversion Line (tenkan sen)


=




9-PH


+


9-PL



2

















Base Line (kijun sen)


=



26-PH + 26-PL


2

















Leading Span A (senkou span A)


=



CL + Base Line


2

















Leading Span B (senkou span B)


=



52-PH + 52-PL


2

















Lagging Span (chikou span)


=


Close plotted 26 periods

















Lagging Span (chikou span)


=



in the past
















where:
















PH


=


Period high
















PL


=


Period low
















CL


=


Conversion line







\begin{aligned}&\text{Conversion Line (tenkan sen)} = \frac {\text{9-PH} + \text{9-PL}}{2} \\&\text{Base Line (kijun sen)} = \frac{\text{26-PH + 26-PL}}{2} \\&\text{Leading Span A (senkou span A)} = \frac{\text{CL + Base Line}}{2} \\&\text{Leading Span B (senkou span B)}= \frac{\text{52-PH + 52-PL}}{2} \\&\text{Lagging Span (chikou span)} = \text{Close plotted 26 periods} \\&\phantom{\text{Lagging Span (chikou span)} =} \text{in the past} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{PH} = \text{Period high} \\&\text{PL} = \text{Period low} \\&\text{CL} = \text{Conversion line}\end{aligned}


​Conversion Line (tenkan sen)=29-PH+9-PL​Base Line (kijun sen)=226-PH + 26-PL​Leading Span A (senkou span A)=2CL + Base Line​Leading Span B (senkou span B)=252-PH + 52-PL​Lagging Span (chikou span)=Close plotted 26 periodsLagging Span (chikou span)=in the pastwhere:PH=Period highPL=Period lowCL=Conversion line​






   How to Calculate the Ichimoku Cloud  

The highs and lows are the highest and lowest prices seen during the period—for example, the highest and lowest prices seen over the last nine days in the case of the conversion line. Adding the Ichimoku Cloud indicator to your chart will do the calculations for you, but if you want to calculate it by hand, here are the steps:



Calculate the Conversion Line and the Base Line.
Calculate Leading Span A based on the prior calculations. Once calculated, this data point is plotted 26 periods into the future.
Calculate Leading Span B. Plot this data point 26 periods into the future.
For the Lagging Span, plot the closing price 26 periods into the past on the chart.
The difference between Leading Span A and Leading Span B is colored in to create the cloud.
When Leading Span A is above Leading Span B, color the cloud green. When Leading Span A is below Leading Span B, color the cloud red.
The above steps will create one data point. To create the lines, as each period comes to an end, go through the steps again to create new data points for that period. Connect the data points to each other to create the lines and cloud appearance.


   What Does the Ichimoku Cloud Tell You?  

The technical indicator shows relevant information at a glance by using averages.



The overall trend is up when the price is above the cloud, down when the price is below the cloud, and trendless or transitioning when the price is in the cloud.



When Leading Span A is rising and above Leading Span B, this helps to confirm the uptrend and the space between the lines is typically colored green. When Leading Span A is falling and below Leading Span B, this helps confirm the downtrend. The space between the lines is typically colored red in this case.



Traders will often use the Ichimoku Cloud as an area of support and resistance depending on the relative location of the price. The cloud provides support/resistance levels that can be projected into the future. This sets the Ichimoku Cloud apart from many other technical indicators that only provide support and resistance levels for the current date and time.



Traders should use the Ichimoku Cloud in conjunction with other technical indicators to maximize their risk-adjusted returns. For example, the indicator is often paired with the relative strength index (RSI), which can be used to confirm momentum in a certain direction. It’s also important to look at the bigger trends to see how the smaller trends fit within them. For example, during a very strong downtrend, the price may push into the cloud or slightly above it, temporarily, before falling again. Only focusing on the indicator would mean missing the bigger picture that the price was under strong longer-term selling pressure.



Crossovers are another way that the indicator can be used. Watch for the conversion line to move above the base line, especially when the price is above the cloud. This can be a powerful buy signal. One option is to hold the trade until the conversion line drops back below the base line. Any of the other lines could be used as exit points as well.


   The Difference Between the Ichimoku Cloud and Moving Averages  

While the Ichimoku Cloud uses averages, they are different than a typical moving average. Simple moving averages take closing prices, add them up, and divide that total by how many closing prices there are. In a 10-period moving average, the closing prices for the last 10 periods are added, then divided by 10 to get the average.



Notice how the calculations for the Ichimoku Cloud are different. They are based on highs and lows over a period and then divided by two. Therefore, Ichimoku averages will be different than traditional moving averages, even if the same number of periods are used.



One indicator is not better than another; they just provide information in different ways.


   Limitations of Using the Ichimoku Cloud  

The indicator can make a chart look busy with all the lines. To remedy this, most charting software allows certain lines to be hidden. For example, all of the lines can be hidden except for Leading Span A and Leading Span B, which create the cloud. Each trader needs to focus on which lines provide the most information, then consider hiding the rest if all of the lines are distracting.



Another limitation of the Ichimoku Cloud is that it is based on historical data. While two of these data points are plotted in the future, there is nothing in the formula that is inherently predictive. Averages are simply being plotted in the future.



The cloud can also become irrelevant for long periods of time, as the price remains way above or way below it. At times like these, the conversion line, the base line, and their crossovers become more important, as they generally stick closer to the price.




What Does Ichimoku Mean in English?
In Japanese, "ichimoku" translates to "one look," referring to the fact that support and resistance levels can be gauged in just a glance.




What Are the Tenkan Sen and Kijun Sen?
The Japanese terminology for the moving average lines used in the Ichimoku cloud are called the Tenkan and Kijun Sen.The Tenkan Sen is the average of the highest high and the lowest low calculated over the previous nine periods.The Kijun Sen is the average of the highest high and the lowest low over the past 26 periods.




What Are the Senkou Spans Used in Ichimoku Clouds?
The Senkou Spans form the "cloud" of the Ichimoku cloud. Senkou Span A takes the average of the Tenkan Sen and the Kijun Sen plotted 26 periods ahead of the current price action.Senkou Span B averages the highest high and the lowest low taken over the past 52 time periods and then plotted 26 periods ahead.




What Is the Chikou Span in Ichimoku Clouds?
The Chikou Span is meant to measure market sentiment, using the most recent closing price and plotted 26 periods behind the price action.


   The Bottom Line  

In order to create a "cloud" to show where prices may find future resistance or support, the Ichimoku Cloud plots multiple averages on a chart. This shows not only support and resistance but also trend direction and momentum, all of which appear as a group of technical indicators. While there are some limitations to the Ichimoku Cloud, it is neither better nor worse than existing technical indicators such as moving averages. It simply represents information in a different way.
What Is the Ichimoku Kinko Hyo?  

The Ichimoku Kinko Hyo, or Ichimoku for short, is a technical indicator that is used to gauge momentum along with future areas of support and resistance. The all-in-one technical indicator is comprised of five lines called the tenkan-sen, kijun-sen, senkou span A, senkou span B and chikou span.















TradingView.


   Understanding Ichimoku Kinko Hyo  

The Ichimoku Kinko Hyo indicator was originally developed by a Japanese newspaper writer to combine various technical strategies into a single indicator that could be easily implemented and interpreted. In Japanese, "ichimoku" translates to "one look," meaning traders only have to take one look at the chart to determine momentum, support, and resistance.



Ichimoku may look very complicated to novice traders that haven't seen it before, but the complexity quickly disappears with an understanding of what the various lines mean and why they are used.



The Ichimoku indicator is best used in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis despite its goal of being an all-in-one indicator.


   Ichimoku Kinko Hyo Interpretation  

There are five key components to the Ichimoku indicator:



Tenkan-sen: The tenkan-sen, or conversion line, is calculated by adding the highest high and the lowest low over the past nine periods and then dividing the result by two. The resulting line represents a key support and resistance level, as well as a signal line for reversals.
Kijun-sen: The kijun-sen, or base line, is calculated by adding the highest high and the lowest low over the past 26 periods and dividing the result by two. The resulting line represents a key support and resistance level, a confirmation of a trend change, and can be used as a trailing stop-loss point.
Senkou Span A: The senkou span A, or leading span A, is calculated by adding the tenkan-sen and the kijun-sen, dividing the result by two, and then plotting the result 26 periods ahead. The resulting line forms one edge of the kumo - or cloud - that's used to identify future areas of support and resistance.
Senkou Span B: The senkou span B, or leading span B, is calculated by adding the highest high and the lowest low over the past 52 periods, dividing it by two, and then plotting the result 26 periods ahead. The resulting line forms the other edge of the kumo that's used to identify future areas of support and resistance.
Chikou Span: The chikou span, or lagging span, is the current period's closing price plotted 26 days back on the chart. This line is used to show possible areas of support and resistance.


   Example of an Ichimoku Kinko Hyo Chart  

The following is an example of an Ichimoku indicator plotted on a chart:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In this example, the Ichimoku cloud is the area that's shaded in orange, which represents a key area of support and resistance. The chart shows that the SPDR S&P 500 ETF remains in a bullish uptrend since the current price is trading above the cloud. If the price were to enter the cloud, traders would watch for a potential reversal of the trend.
What Is ICON (ICX)?  

ICON is a platform that is intended to facilitate the interactions of independent blockchains, also referred to as communities. Within the ICON platform, a community is defined as a network of nodes that follow a single governance system. (A node is a computer that connects to a cryptocurrency network.)



Cryptocurrency networks (such as Bitcoin and Ethereum) are considered communities, but banks, businesses, hospitals, schools, and governments could also participate as communities within this ecosystem. ICON is supported through a cryptocurrency token, ICX. The ICON Project was founded in 2017 by the Icon Foundation, an organization based in South Korea.



The goal of the ICON project is to facilitate a platform where entities from a diverse range of industries—financial, security, insurance, healthcare, educational, and commerce—can interact and transact on a single network.





Key Takeaways

ICON is a blockchain technology and network framework designed to allow independent blockchains to interact with each other.Communities are connected to the ICON Network through a decentralized exchange.Potential opposition from traditional centralized cryptocurrency exchanges is a major challenge facing ICON.


   Understanding ICON (ICX)  

An initial coin offering (ICO) in September 2017 for Icon’s cryptocurrency, ICX, raised roughly $43 million. This sale included 50% of ICON’s token supply. The project officially launched its blockchain in January 2018 and participants in the ICO received their ICX cryptocurrency in June 2018.



In 2019, ICON released its own token standard, IRC16, which allows users to use the ICON software as infrastructure to create their own tokenized assets and securities.﻿﻿ These tokenized assets and securities are digital tokens (or "coins") that represent equity ownership units. With tokenized equity, a business can raise capital by issuing its shares in the form of digital assets.



This is how ICON describes its goal: to establish a “digital nation,” wherein different economic actors can issue and control their own forms of value, under rule systems they select. According to its website, the aim of Project ICON is to "hyperconnect the world" by "building one of the largest decentralized networks in the world."﻿﻿



The ICON project took inspiration for their project from the way that real-world economies are structured; businesses, nonprofit organizations, and government institutions all leverage a common medium of exchange—a national currency—while still remaining distinct but interoperable economic actors.﻿﻿ The blockchain technology and accompanying cryptocurrency token, called ICX, allow participants in a decentralized system to converge at a central point, creating an interconnected blockchain network.



A blockchain is a type of database. It differs from a typical database in the way that it stores data. Data is stored in blocks in chronological order: As new data comes in, it is entered into a new block. Once the block is filled with data, that block is chained onto the previous block.



While blockchains are most commonly associated with cryptocurrencies, there are additional areas where this technology can be applied because different types of information can be stored on a blockchain. While the most common use so far has been as a ledger for transactions, any exchange of information can be added to a blockchain. Transactions involving securities, currencies, business contracts, deeds, loans, intellectual property, and personal identification could be tokenized.



Every blockchain is managed by a specific network. For this reason, in the past, connecting different blockchains was not considered a possibility. The ICON project is an attempt at such a connection. Unlike other centralized payment systems, which require businesses to adhere to their own policies and guidelines, ICON allows individual communities to retain control of their own policies. In this way, ICON seeks to reduce potential barriers to adoption.


   Goals of ICON  

ICON aims to create a greater network—composed of individuals networks—that is powered by cryptocurrencies. Blockchains that participate in the ICON project can exchange currencies using the platform’s decentralized exchange (DEX).



The DEX sets currency reserves for each blockchain community so that the communities can exchange value in real-time. Exchange rates are set for these transactions using an A.I. analysis model and the native ICX coin is used as an intermediary currency for the exchange.



The ICON project consists of five major components: the ICON Republic, ICON communities, community representatives (C-Rep), community nodes (C-Nodes), and citizen nodes. ICON communities are a network of nodes within a single governance system; they can operate with their own governance structures, numbers of nodes, and characteristics. Communities can also vary in their approaches to decision-making. For example, while bitcoin takes a consensus-driven approach, other communities—such as financial institutions—may follow a hierarchical approach.



Community nodes are the infrastructure for each community; they maintain a community’s blockchain. Community representatives are nodes that are elected from within each community and are trusted to interact with the ICON Republic. Through the community representative, each community's blockchain is linked to the ICON Republic. Community representatives receive ICX for their work.



The ICON Republic is the governing structure of the network. It is also the decision committee for the blockchain’s operations. ICON Republic governance is determined by the votes of community representatives. A helpful analogy is to imagine the ICON Republic as the United States and to imagine each ICON community as a separate state.



The actions of the ICON Republic do not determine the governance of the separate communities themselves. However, the ICON Republic does govern the process by which new ICX cryptocurrency is minted. 



Citizen nodes are participants in the blockchain that do not have voting rights but can make transactions within a community, with other communities, and with the Icon Republic.



The ICON Republic's blockchain is referred to as the "nexus." The technology that powers the nexus is an algorithm called a loopchain. The loopchain connects communities that are part of the ICON Republic. These communities—when grouped together they are referred to as a consortium—determine a common set of rules that allow the different blockchains to effectively work together.



The set of rules governing how the independent blockchains interact with the ICON Republic's blockchain—the nexus—is called the Blockchain Transmission Protocol (BTP).



Finally, as with Ethereum, anyone can use ICON to build decentralized applications, called DAPPs, through the blockchain's public channel. Additionally, after these applications are listed on ICON’s DAPP store, anyone with a citizen node can download and use them.


   Criticisms of ICON  

While ICON has ambitious plans for connecting different communities, it faces many challenges in accomplishing this goal. First, many investors are used to traditional centralized cryptocurrency exchanges. While it is true that these traditional, centralized exchanges do not fit with the decentralized ideology of cryptocurrencies, in 2021, these exchanges are still an integral part of the cryptocurrency market. Many investors only purchase cryptocurrencies that they can buy through their favorite exchanges. This could create problems for ICX. Given the goals of ICON, many exchanges might not want to offer ICX to their customers.



High levels of competition increase the risk that a particular cryptocurrency will fail to catch on. Like other cryptocurrencies, ICON faces stiff competition from other cryptocurrencies.
What Is Ideation?  

Ideation refers to the process of developing and conveying prescriptive ideas to others, typically in a business setting. It describes the sequence of thoughts, from the original concept to implementation. Ideations can spring forth from past or present knowledge, external influences, opinions, convictions, or principles. Ideation can be expressed in graphical, written, or verbal terms.





Key Takeaways

Ideation is the process of forming ideas from conception to implementation, most often in a business setting.Ideation is expressed via graphical, written, or verbal methods, and arises from past or present knowledge, influences, opinions, experiences, and personal convictions.Ideation is usually derived from brainstorming sessions, online forums, seminars, surveys, social media platforms, and team-building exercises.Anyone from an organization, from the CEO to an intern, can partake in the ideation process and contribute innovatively to a company.Most of the ideation process originates from trying to fix a problem; ideation is commonly reverse engineered.Styles of ideation include problem solutions, derivative ideas, and symbiotic ideas.


   How Ideation Works  

Simply put, ideation is the literal action of forming ideas, from their conception to real-world application and implementation. Ideas and the act of ideating can come from anyone tangentially or directly associated with a business or organization, including low-level employees, managers, customers, partners, and stakeholders. Actual ideations can be the result of brainstorming sessions, online forums, seminars, team-building exercises, surveys, and social media platforms.



Ideation is a key component of any successful business. For example, in its early days, Google encouraged employees to spend as much as 20% of their work hours meditating on new ideas that personally intrigue them and potentially solve real problems. As the company has grown, this is apparently not utilized as much as before.﻿﻿ This focus on ideation allows companies to become innovative or remain competitive by increasing the likelihood of new product rollouts, increased customer acquisition, and superior financial performance.



The point is that if employees are spending 100% of their time focused on the requirements of their job, then there is no time to think about new strategies or products in which to grow or improve.


   The Ideation Process  

Although the ideation process does not necessarily have to conform to one universal model, there are general guidelines that people can follow to help them maximize the effectiveness of ideation and the solutions it generates.



First and foremost, ideation does not necessarily start with a randomly generated thought. Instead, ideas are reverse engineered to fit emergent problems. It is thus critically important to first clearly define the problem and understand its key underlying factors, such as industry trends, business environments, customer needs, budget constraints, and any other causes behind the vexing issue at hand.



Once key pain points are identified, as well as their root causes, brainstorming sessions, and other collaborative pow-wows can be initiated in an effort to crowdsource potential ideas and generate possible solutions to the problems being posed. Ideally, these collaborations should blend the right brain and left brain thought processes, because many problems require both creative and pragmatic approaches to cultivating viable solutions.






Barriers to ideation can include a hostile environment, vague goals, closed-minded individuals, groupthink, people-pleasers, ego, inexperienced teams, inability to think out of the box, and pessimism.



These forums should invite open, unrestricted, and unencumbered dialogue, where participants feel safe to float ideas without fear of ridicule. All ideas, from the deeply academic to the wildly fanciful, should be enthusiastically embraced and should be treated with equal fairness and open-mindedness.



The plethora of ideas generated during collaboration stages is then pared down to one prevailing idea that can best drive the future actions of the group. This marquis idea is tested against the problem and adjusted as needed. It is then tirelessly reworked, retested, and finessed until a potential solution is perfected. The idea is then implemented in the real world, and if it’s deemed successful, the ideation process concludes.



Styles of ideation include the following:



Problem solutions: This straightforward method is where an individual identifies a problem that they subsequently solve.Derivative ideas: This involves making improvements to an existing idea.Symbiotic ideas: This is a collision of several incomplete ideas that combine to create a fully-baked, holistic idea.
What Is an Identifiable Asset?  

An identifiable asset is an asset whose commercial or fair value can be measured at a given point in time, and which is expected to provide a future benefit to the company. These assets are an important consideration in the context of mergers and acquisitions.



Because not all assets on a company's balance sheet are able to be quickly and accurately valued at a point in time, only those which are may be classified as identifiable. Examples include cash, short-term liquid investments, property, inventories, and equipment, among others.



Identifiable assets may be contrasted with goodwill.





Key Takeaways

Identifiable assets can be given a fair value or expected selling price, such as such as liquid investments, machinery, vehicles, buildings, or other equipment.Identifiable assets may be either tangible and intangible but may be contrasted with goodwill.These are recorded on a company's balance sheet and come into play when valuing a takeover bid.


   Understanding Identifiable Assets  

When one company seeks to take over another, the acquiring company can assign a fair value to the identifiable assets that can be reasonably expected to provide a benefit to the purchasing company in the future. Identifiable assets can be both tangible and intangible assets. Identifiable assets are quite important in valuing a business accurately.



If an asset is deemed to be identifiable, the purchasing company records it as part of its assets on its balance sheet. Identifiable assets consist of anything that can be separated from the business and disposed of such as machinery, vehicles, buildings, or other equipment. If an asset is not deemed to be an identifiable asset, then its value is considered part of the goodwill amount arising from the acquisition transaction.


   How Identifiable Assets Are Used  

For example, suppose a conglomerate company purchases both a smaller manufacturing firm and a smaller start-up internet marketing company. The manufacturing company would likely have most of its value tied up in property, equipment, inventory, and other physical assets, so virtually all of its assets would be identifiable.



The Internet marketing company, on the other hand, would likely have very few identifiable assets, and its value as a company would be based on its future earnings potential. As such, the purchase of the marketing company would generate a lot more goodwill on the company's books, as it's total value cannot be readily measured even though there might be a few tangible assets.


   Example of Identifiable Assets vs. Goodwill  

If the fair value of Company ABC's identifiable assets are $22 million, and its liabilities are $10 million, it has an identifiable value:



Assets - liabilities = $12 billion



Company XYZ agrees to purchase Company ABC for $15 billion, the premium value following the acquisition is $3 billion. This $3 billion will be included on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill since it exceeds the identifiable assets.



As a real-life example, consider the T-Mobile and Sprint merger announced in early 2018. The deal was valued at $35.85 billion as of March 31, 2018, per an S-4 filing. The fair value of the assets was $78.34 billion and the fair value of the liabilities was $45.56 billion. The difference between the assets and liabilities is $32.78 billion. Thus, goodwill for the deal would be recognized as $3.07 billion ($35.85 - $32.78), the amount over the difference between the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities.
What Is Identity Theft?  

Identity theft is the crime of obtaining the personal or financial information of another person to use their identity to commit fraud, such as making unauthorized transactions or purchases. Identity theft is committed in many different ways and its victims are typically left with damage to their credit, finances, and reputation.





Key Takeaways

Identity theft occurs when someone steals your personal information and credentials to commit fraud.There are various forms of identity theft, but the most common is financial.Identity theft protection is a growing industry that keeps track of people's credit reports, financial activity, and Social Security Number use.


   Understanding Identity Theft  

Identity theft occurs when someone steals your personal information—such as your Social Security Number, bank account number, and credit card information. Identity theft can be committed in many different ways. Some identity thieves sift through trash bins looking for bank account and credit card statements.



More high-tech methods involve accessing corporate databases to steal lists of customer information. Once identity thieves have the information they are looking for, they can ruin a person's credit rating and the standing of other personal information.



Identity thieves increasingly use computer technology to obtain other people's personal information for identity fraud. To find such information, they may search the hard drives of stolen or discarded computers; hack into computers or computer networks; access computer-based public records; use information-gathering malware to infect computers; browse social networking sites; or use deceptive emails or text messages.






Victims of identity theft often do not know their identity has been stolen until they begin receiving calls from creditors or are turned down for a loan because of a bad credit score.


   Types of Identity Theft  

There are several types of identity theft including:


  Financial Identity Theft  

In financial identity theft, someone uses another person's identity or information to obtain credit, goods, services, or benefits. This is the most common form of identity theft.


  Social Security Identity Theft  

If identity thieves obtain your Social Security Number, they can use it to apply for credit cards and loans and then not pay outstanding balances. Fraudsters can also use your number to receive medical, disability, and other benefits.


  Medical Identity Theft  

In medical identity theft, someone poses as another person to obtain free medical care. ﻿﻿


  Synthetic Identity Theft  

Synthetic identity theft is a type of fraud in which a criminal combines real (usually stolen) and fake information to create a new identity, which is used to open fraudulent accounts and make fraudulent purchases. Synthetic identity theft allows the criminal to steal money from any credit card companies or lenders who extend credit based on the fake identity.﻿﻿


  Child Identity Theft  

In child identity theft, someone uses a child's identity for various forms of personal gain. This is common, as children typically do not have information associated with them that could pose obstacles for the perpetrator.



The fraudster may use the child's name and Social Security Number to obtain a residence, find employment, obtain loans, or avoid arrest on outstanding warrants. Often, the victim is a family member, the child of a friend, or someone else close to the perpetrator. Some people even steal the personal information of deceased loved ones.


  Tax Identity Theft  

Tax identity theft occurs when someone uses your personal information, including your Social Security Number, to file a bogus state or federal tax return in your name and collect a refund.


  Criminal Identity Theft  

In criminal identity theft, a criminal poses as another person during an arrest to try to avoid a summons, prevent the discovery of a warrant issued in their real name or avoid an arrest or conviction record.


   Warning Signs of Identity Theft  

It can be difficult to know if you've been a victim of identity theft, especially if you're not always checking your financial statements.



Some clear indicators of identity theft include bills for items that you didn't buy; these can be seen on your credit card or received via email or other means, calls from debt collectors regarding accounts that you didn't open, and your loan applications being denied when you believed your credit is in good standing.



Other warning signs include bounced checks, a warrant for your arrest, unexplainable medical bills, utilities being shut off, inability to sign into accounts, hard inquiries into your credit report not caused by your actions, and new credit cards in your name that you didn't apply for.


   Potential Victims of Identity Theft  

Anyone can be a victim of identity theft. Children and aging adults are particularly vulnerable to identity theft as they may not understand specific situations, bills, and their care and finances are handled by others.



Children may be victims of identity theft but not aware of it until they are adults. Seniors often provide a lot of information to hospitals, caregivers, and doctor's officers, where information can be obtained by those seeking to commit fraud.


   Identity Theft Protection  

Many types of identity theft can be prevented. One way is to continually check the accuracy of personal documents and promptly deal with any discrepancies.






If you believe you are a victim of identity theft, start by going to IdentityTheft.gov, a website administered by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). It provides directions on how to help you recover your identity and repair any damage you have experienced.



There are several identity theft protection services that help people avoid and mitigate the effects of identity theft. Typically, such services provide information helping people to safeguard their personal information; monitor public records and private records, such as credit reports, to alert their clients of certain transactions and status changes; and provide assistance to victims to help them resolve problems associated with identity theft.



In addition, some government agencies and nonprofit organizations provide similar assistance, typically with websites that have information and tools to help people avoid, remedy, and report incidents of identity theft. Many of the best credit monitoring services also provide identity protection tools and services.


   Recovering From Identity Theft  

Managing identity theft can be a painstaking and long process. Once you have determined that you have been a victim of identity theft and filed a report with the FTC, there are other steps that you need to take.



You can start by placing fraud alerts on all of your credit reports as well as freezing your credit reports. Fraud alerts are an added layer of protection in that lenders must confirm your identity before opening an account, usually via phone. Freezing your reports prevents access to any credit information. Your credit report is removed from circulation so that a lender will not have access to it. If they don't have access to your report, they cannot open an account in your name.



Once you've managed the above, you need to contact all of the companies involved. Demonstrate to companies that you are a victim of identity theft, that you did not open these accounts, and that your accounts should be frozen.



You can demonstrate that you are a victim of fraud by filing complaints, disputing charges, and showing any other reports you have filed, such as police reports or reports with the FTC. The Fair Credit Billing Act and the Electronic Funds Transfer Act work in your favor. You must also dispute any incorrect charges and information on your credit reports as well.



This should be done once you have the report that you filed with the FTC. Banks and credit card companies should close your old cards and send you new ones, and you should change all of your login and password information.



From there, continue monitoring your reports to ensure that your information is no longer available for thieves to use.




What Do You Do If Someone Has Stolen Your Identity?
The first step to take if someone has stolen your identity is to report the theft to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at IdentityTheft.gov. You can also call them at  1-877-438-4338. From there, you can freeze your credit reports, file a police report, and change all your login and password information. It would also be wise to close your current credit and debit cards and receive new ones. Check your credit reports for false accounts and dispute these with the credit agencies once you have a report from the FTC.




What Are the First Signs of Identity Theft?
The first signs of identity theft are unexplainable charges on your credit card or debit card statements, new cards that you did not apply for, incorrect items on your credit report, medical bills for doctor's visits that you did not have, and collection notices for accounts that you did not open.




What Are the 3 Types of Identity Theft?
The three main types of identity theft are medical identity theft, financial identity theft, and online identity theft.


   The Bottom Line  

Identity theft is a traumatic and difficult experience and can severely damage your creditworthiness and leave you with bills that you did not incur. It's important to always monitor your bank and credit card statements as well as your credit report for any signs of fraud.



If you have detected that you are a victim of fraud, there are ways to dispute the charges, fix the theft, and stop your information from being available to thieves. The government provides many resources to help you get back to a good credit standing.
What Is Idiosyncratic Risk?  

Idiosyncratic risk is a type of investment risk that is endemic to an individual asset (like a particular company's stock), a group of assets (like a particular sector), or in some cases a very specific asset class (like collateralized mortgage obligations). Idiosyncratic risk is also referred to as a specific risk or unsystematic risk.



Therefore, the opposite of idiosyncratic risk is a systematic risk, which is the overall risk that affects all assets, such as fluctuations in the stock market, interest rates, or the entire financial system.





Key Takeaways

Idiosyncratic risk refers to the inherent factors that can negatively impact individual securities or a very specific group of assets.It is also known as specific, or unsystematic risk.Certain securities will naturally have more idiosyncratic risk than others.Idiosyncratic risk can generally be mitigated in an investment portfolio through the use of diversification.The opposite of Idiosyncratic risk is a systematic risk, which refers to broader trends that impact the overall financial system or a very broad market.


   Understanding Idiosyncratic Risk  

Research suggests that idiosyncratic risk accounts for most of the variation in the uncertainty surrounding an individual stock over time, rather than market risk. Idiosyncratic risk can be thought of as the factors that affect an asset such as the stock and its underlying company at the microeconomic level. It has little or no correlation with risks that reflect larger macroeconomic forces, such as market risk. Microeconomic factors are those that affect a limited or small portion of the entire economy, and macro forces are those impacting larger segments or the entire economy.



Company management's decisions on financial policy, investment strategy, and operations are all idiosyncratic risks specific to a particular company and stock. Other examples can include the geographical location of operations and corporate culture. In terms of industry or sector, an example of idiosyncratic risk for mining companies would be the exhaustion or the inaccessibility of a vein or a seam of metal. Likewise, the possibility of a pilots' or a mechanics' strike would be an idiosyncratic risk for airline companies.







Business risk is an idiosyncratic risk associated with the nature of a business along with its competitive landscape and market.
Operational risk arises when, for example, a machine breaks down, a factory catches fire, or a key employee dies.
Financial risk relates to a particular company's capital structure and financial exposures.
Regulatory/legal risk has to do with the possibility of new laws or regulations that can harm a firm's bottom line or ability to operate freely.




   Idiosyncratic Risk vs. Systematic Risk  

Idiosyncratic risk is inherent in any individual company or investment. This is because every company has its own specific strengths and weaknesses, competitive landscape, management style, external threats, and so on. Thus the business risk for any one company will be largely unique.



However, there are also market-wide risks that are inherent in most every security in a certain asset class, stemming largely from macroeconomic considerations. This is known as systematic risk or market risk. Thus, in contrast to idiosyncratic risk, systematic risk cannot be simply mitigated just by adding more assets to an investment portfolio that can counteract the specific risks of certain stocks. This market-wide risk cannot be eliminated by adding stocks of various sectors to one's holdings. These broader types of risk reflect the macroeconomic factors that affect not just a single asset but other assets like it and greater markets and economies as well.


   Strategies for Minimizing Idiosyncratic Risk  

While idiosyncratic risk is, by definition, irregular and unpredictable, studying a company or industry can help an investor to identify and anticipate—in a general way—its idiosyncratic risks. Idiosyncratic risk is also highly individual, even unique in some cases. It can, therefore, be substantially mitigated or eliminated from a portfolio by using adequate diversification. Proper asset allocation, along with hedging strategies, can minimize its negative impact on an investment portfolio by diversification or hedging.



Diversification works because the specific risk of one company will likely not be the same as other companies. So, if one company in one sector experiences a product recall (say it is a car company), it likely won't influence the price of an apparel company or a restaurant stock. The best way to diversify is to hold stocks, therefore, that are largely uncorrelated with one another. Another diversification strategy is to buy the overall index, such as the S&P 500, using a mutual fund or ETF. This is a low-cost way to ensure a well-diversified portfolio.



Hedging is a strategy that takes an offsetting position in a similar security. This can be done, for instance, using options contracts. A put grants the right, but not the obligation to sell the underlying stock at a set price. So, if you own stock in the automaker, you can buy a protective put that will establish a price floor for you until the contract expires. Hedging, however, requires an outlay of cash since you need to buy the options, but you can also think of it like buying insurance on your holdings.


   Examples of Idiosyncratic Risk  
  Energy Stocks: Industry-Specific Risk  

In the energy sector, the stocks of companies that own or operate oil pipelines face a sort of idiosyncratic risk that's particular to their industry—that their pipelines may become damaged, leak oil, and bring about repair expenses, lawsuits, and fines from government agencies. Unfortunate circumstances like these may cause a company such as Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) or Enbridge, Inc. (ENB), to decrease distributions to investors and cause the shares to fall in price.


  Apple: The Role of a Charismatic Leader  

Another example of idiosyncratic risk is a company's dependence on the CEO. For much of its history, and certainly, its breakout success in the 2000s, Apple Inc. (AAPL) was synonymous with its co-founder, Steve Jobs. When Jobs fell ill and took a leave of absence from the company in 2010, Apple's stock continued to appreciate in absolute terms, but its valuation relative to price multiples fell.



After Jobs took another leave in early 2011, resigning as CEO in August and passing away in October, Apple's stock traded lower—briefly. Jobs was known for being a visionary and turning around Apple; as such, his leadership was part of Apple's success and its stock price. Ultimately, faith in the company and its products prevailed, and Apple stock recovered to reach new highs through early 2020.


  CoinBase: Tied to a Unique Asset Class  

CoinBase (COIN) is the largest North American cryptocurrency exchange and has made a reputation for itself as being legitimate and trustworthy. Still, its stock price is largely tied to that of the crypto market. This is an idiosyncratic risk. In the Spring of 2022, when the crypto market experienced a severe correction, the price of COIN stock also suffered.




What Are Types of Idiosyncratic Risk?
While each company will have its own idiosyncratic risk profile, these can generally be categorized into one or more of the following: business risk; financial risk; operational risk; strategic risk; and legal or regulatory risk.




How Is Idiosyncratic Risk Measured?
Idiosyncratic risk can be measured for a stock as its variance in excess of the systematic risk observed in the market. In other words, the difference between a stock's variance and the market's variance.




Is Beta the Same As Idiosyncratic Risk?
A stock's beta estimates its volatility in reference to the S&P 500. In that respect, it might be seen as a measure of idiosyncratic risk. However, this is mistaken. Beta is actually a measure of a stock's contribution to overall systematic risk and is arrived at using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).
What Is Idle Time?  

Idle time is paid time that an employee, or machine, is unproductive due to factors that can either be controlled or uncontrolled by management. It normally applies to full-time workers rather than consultants, who typically have to bill for every hour of their time.





Key Factors

Idle time is paid time that an employee, or machine, is unproductive due to factors that can either be controlled or uncontrolled by management.Idle time can be classified either as normal or abnormal.Minimizing idle time is key if a business wants to maximize efficiency over long periods of time.


   Understanding Idle Time  

Idle time is a period of time associated with employees waiting. That may be because a piece of machinery they need to use isn't working, they are waiting for an important shipment, or the company is overstaffed and not everyone paid to be there has a task to do.



When employees are not engaged in productive activities it can have serious implications for employers. According to a 2018 study from the Harvard Business School, 78.1% of workers find themselves on a weekly basis with involuntary idle time, which costs employers an estimated $100 billion per year.﻿﻿


   Types of Idle Time  

Idle time can be classified either as normal or abnormal.


  Normal Idle Time  

Normal idle time is categorized as "downtime" for regular maintenance and repair. Regularly scheduled downtime for manufacturing assets is a normal business practice and cannot be controlled by management.


  Abnormal Idle Time  

Abnormal idle time, such as a worker strike, is out of the ordinary and can, in many cases, be controlled by management. Time management is extremely important in any business, particularly when there are high fixed costs. Idle machinery or equipment generates depreciation expenses and also reduces output productivity.






Idle workers who are on fixed salaries are a detriment to company profitability and a drag on overall productivity.


   Examples of Idle Time  

Company managers who do not efficiently schedule work shifts or operations flow may cause idle time. Employees themselves, too, may be responsible for causing idle time.



For instance, if a car factory assembly team makes 100 cars in an eight-hour shift and the quality inspection and testing group processes only 50 cars during that shift, the assembly line would have to idle for a period of time until the quality control group caught up to pace.



A natural disaster could also be the reason for idle time. Floods, for example, frequently result in stoppages of loading and unloading of containers at shipping ports or railway terminals, which would have a ripple effect on factories that rely on these transportation networks. With a surplus of finished inventory, factories would be forced to idle both workers and manufacturing facilities until goods started moving again.


   The Bottom Line  

No business runs at 100% efficiency over long periods of time, and idle time is inevitable. However, the goal is to minimize this "cost" to the company through careful scheduling and coordination with connected groups. In addition, it is advisable for managers to draw up contingency plans to keep operations running when an unexpected event arises.
What Is Illiquid?  

Illiquid refers to the state of a stock, bond, or other assets that cannot easily and readily be sold or exchanged for cash without a substantial loss in value. Illiquid assets may be hard to sell quickly because there is low trading activity or interest in the issue, indicated by a lack of ready and willing investors or speculators to purchase or sell the asset. As a result, illiquid assets tend to have lower trading volume, wider bid-ask spreads, and greater price volatility.



Illiquidity is the opposite of liquidity.






Illiquidity occurs when a security or other asset that cannot easily and quickly be sold or exchanged for cash without a substantial loss in value.Illiquid assets may be hard to sell quickly because of a lack of ready and willing investors or speculators to purchase the asset, whereas actively traded securities will tend to be more liquid.Illiquid assets tend to have wider bid-ask spreads, greater volatility and, as a result, higher risk for investors.


   Illiquidity Explained  

Regarding illiquid assets, the lack of ready buyers also leads to larger discrepancies between the asking price, set by the seller, and the bid price, submitted by the buyer. This difference leads to much larger bid-ask spreads than would be found in an orderly market with daily trading activity. The lack of depth of the market (DOM), or ready buyers, can cause holders of illiquid assets to experience losses, especially when the investor is looking to sell quickly.



Illiquidity in the context of a business refers to a company that does not have the cash flows necessary to make its required debt payments, although it does not mean the company is without assets. Capital assets, including real estate and production equipment, often have value but are not easily sold when cash is required. The sale of illiquid assets is not a company’s core business. They generally include any property owned by the company that is outside of the products produced for sale. In times of crisis, a company may need to liquidate these assets to avoid bankruptcy, and if this happens quickly, it can dispose of assets at prices far below an orderly fair market price, sometimes known as a fire sale.



Additionally, a company may become illiquid if it is unable to obtain the cash necessary to meet debt obligations.


   Examples of Illiquid and Liquid Assets  

Some examples of inherently illiquid assets include houses and other real estate, cars, antiques, private company interests and some types of debt instruments. Certain collectibles and art pieces are often illiquid assets as well.



Stocks that trade on over-the-counter (OTC) markets are also often less liquid than those listed on robust exchanges. Though these assets may have inherent value, the marketplace in which they are sold often has few buyers in comparison to those interested in the purchase of more liquid assets.



On the other end of the spectrum, most listed securities traded at major exchanges, such as stocks, ETFs, mutual funds, bonds, and listed commodities, are very liquid and can be sold almost instantaneously during regular market hours at fair market price. Additionally, precious metals, such as gold and silver, are often fairly liquid. Trading after normal business hours can also result in illiquidity because many market participants are not active in the market at those times.



An asset's liquidity may change over time, depending on outside market influences. This change in price is especially true for collectibles, as an item's popularity in the consumer market may fluctuate dramatically, leading to highly volatile pricing.


   Illiquidity and Increased Risk  

Illiquid securities carry higher risks than liquid ones, known as liquidity risk, which becomes especially true during times of market turmoil when the ratio of buyers to sellers is thrown out of balance. During these times, holders of illiquid securities may find themselves unable to unload them at all, or unable to do so without losing money.



Illiquid securities also may demand a liquidity premium added to their price to compensate for the fact that they may difficult to dispose of later on. During times of financial panic, markets and credit facilities may seize up, causing a liquidity crisis, when sellers of even marketable securities find it challenging to find eager buyers at fair prices.


   Real World Example  

Illiquidity can leave both companies and individuals unable to generate enough cash to pay their debts. For example, The Economic Times reported that Jet Airways had delayed repayment of overseas debt for the fourth time “in recent months” due to a corporate illiquidity crisis that left the company struggling to access liquid funds. As a result, Jet Airways not only had to ground more than 80 planes, but it also put together a resolution plan that called for the resignation of its chair, Naresh Goyal, and the board voting to allow lenders to take control of the airline.
What Is Immediate Family?  

Most of us know how we define "immediate family" in our own minds, but our views of the matter may not matter when it comes to its definition in the fine print of legal documents or company policies.



The definition of an immediate family can affect whether a person can use paid or unpaid leave to care for a sick family member or attend a funeral. It also can restrict some financial transactions, especially those involving the stock market.





Key Takeaways

The immediate family usually consists of one's parents, siblings, spouse, and children.Who is considered immediate family matters in situations such as a company's family leave policy.The Family and Medical Leave Act, for example, defines immediate family as your spouse, parents, and dependent children.For U.S. immigration purposes, immediate family is limited to one's spouse, parents, or unmarried children below age 21. In estate law, the right of inheritance passes to one's spouses and surviving children before moving on to other relatives. 


   Understanding Immediate Family  

In general, a person's immediate family is their smallest family unit, including parents, siblings, spouse, and children. It may include relatives through marriage, such as a mother-in-law. But the exact inclusions may differ depending on the law or organization that defines an individual's immediate family.



However, the definition of an immediate family can be murky because, unless a specific law is involved, it’s up to companies, organizations, and policy-makers to make their own rules.



Parents, spouses, and minor children are almost always considered to be immediate family, while siblings may or may not count. In addition, adoptive parents or children are also considered immediate family, although there is no blood relation. Half-siblings, step-siblings, and other near relatives are also ambiguous.


  Criteria for Immediate Family  

In addition to blood ties, there are also other factors that may help determine what counts as immediate family. The following are some other criteria that may determine who counts for one's immediate family:



Distance: In the past, family members who lived at a great distance might not have fit the definition of the immediate family, even if they were close blood relatives. Due to the growing importance of Internet communication and air travel, this factor is less important.
Relationship: Half-siblings, step-siblings, and stepparents do not always count as immediate family, depending on the type of relationship that they have with you.
Length of Time: In some cases, a long-term relationship might qualify someone as a member of the immediate family even if there are no blood or legal ties. One example of this type of relationship is common-law marriage.


   Legal Aspects of Immediate Family  

The members of your immediate family may be allowed to make important legal or medical decisions in the event that you are incapacitated. Moreover, there are certain legal restrictions on their ability to trade or sell stock in a company where you are an executive officer, and when you die, they may be permitted to make a claim on your estate.


  Medical Leave and the Immediate Family  

For example, companies with 50 or more employees must comply with the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The FMLA requires that up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave be given to employees who need to care for a sick member of their immediate family.



The act in this case broadly generally defines that as a spouse, parent, or minor child. Notably, it does not mention an adult independent child or a grandparent, not to mention a more distantly related family member who may live with you or depend on you for assistance.



The fine print in the law further specifies that the leave must be extended to care for children under age 18 or unable to care for themselves, and it includes adopted and foster children. In-laws are excluded, even if they live with the employee.



As another example, federal law does not require a company to give its employees paid bereavement leave when they attend a funeral for a family member. Many companies choose to offer this benefit anyway, but they are free to define family members in any way they choose.


  The Stock Markets and Immediate Family  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is responsible for preventing corrupt practices in the financial markets. For instance, it prohibits brokers from selling hot issues such as initial public offering (IPO) shares to members of their immediate families.



As such, its Rules of Fair Practice include a strict definition of what constitutes an immediate family member. In this case, it includes all in-laws and anyone who relies on the person for material support. Rules governing transactions with a person's immediate family also are noted in FINRA's concepts of withholding and free-riding.






Adoptive parents or children are usually considered immediate family, although there is no blood relation.


  Inheritance and Immediate Family  

If a person dies without leaving behind a will, the assets of the deceased are divided according to the laws of intestate succession. These rules vary from state to state, as do the definitions of those family members entitled to make a claim.



In most states, a surviving spouse inherits at least half of the deceased's assets, with the remainder divided among their surviving children. If there are no immediate children, the right of inheritance passes down to any grandchildren, before returning to the deceased's parents, and any collateral heirs (such as brothers and sisters).



If there is no identifiable next of kin, the asset passes on to the state. Close friends, unmarried partners, and unrecognized children may not be able to inherit even if they believe that the deceased would have wanted it. For that reason, it is important to have a clear will that states how you wish your estate to be divided.


   How to Protect Your Immediate Family  

Given the ambiguity, it's wise for everyone to consider making sure that all of the members of their immediate families, as they define them, are protected. A few considerations:



Make sure that you have a will, and that it specifies who gets what. Every state has its own inheritance laws, and you want to make sure that your assets are awarded to the family member or members that you want to have them.Check other key documents including all financial accounts to make sure you have correctly identified the beneficiaries of your assets, and make sure you keep this information up to date.Read the fine print in your company's employee manual to determine how it defines your immediate family, particularly in that Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provision. The policy may be negotiable if you are responsible for a mother-in-law or other family member not defined as "immediate" by law.


   Immediate Family vs. Extended Family  

In contrast to the immediate family, the extended family is a large network of individuals with blood or legal ties. This can include aunts, uncles, cousins, grandparents, grandchildren, as well as their married spouses (and their extended family).



In some cases, extended family may be able to exercise some rights if the immediate family is unable to exercise them. For example, if a child loses one parent, the grandparents may be able to exercise some custody rights, such as legal visitation. Extended family members may also be eligible to adopt the children of parents who are deceased or otherwise unable to provide care.




Who Counts As Immediate Family for Bereavement Pay?
Federal law does not require companies to offer bereavement pay, so each company may have its own definition for which family members count. Generally speaking, one's legal children and parents will almost always count for bereavement leave. Siblings, step-children, and step-parents are also likely to be included.




Who Counts as Immediate Family for a Green Card?
A U.S. citizen can petition for members of their immediate family to receive permanent resident ("green card") status. For these purposes, the immediate family is defined as one's spouse, a child who is unmarried and less than 21 years old, or a parent (if the applying citizen is over 21 years old). Older children, married children, siblings, half-siblings and adoptive siblings are also eligible, although they may face longer wait times.




What Counts as Immediate Family for Asylum Claims?
People with asylum or refugee status may petition for members of their immediate family to be given green card status. Under U.S. law, "immediate family" only includes the spouse, parent, or child of the person making the application. A "child" is considered to be younger than age 21 and unmarried.


   The Bottom Line  

Immediate family is a term for the closest members of a person's family unit: their spouse and children, parents and siblings. However, the exact definitions of one's immediate family may vary depending on the context.
What Is an Immediate or Cancel Order (IOC)?  

An immediate or cancel order (IOC) is an order to buy or sell a security that attempts to execute all or part immediately and then cancels any unfilled portion of the order. An IOC order is one of several "duration," or time in force orders, that investors can use to specify how long the order remains active in the market and under what conditions the order is canceled.



Other commonly used duration order types include fill or kill (FOK), all or none (AON) and good ‘till canceled (GTC). Most online trading platforms allow IOC orders to be placed manually or programmed into automated trading strategies.





Key Takeaways

Immediate-or-cancel (IOC) orders attempt to execute immediately and cancel any unfilled portion.IOC orders only require a partial fill, and may be designated as limit or market orders.Investors use IOC orders when markets are volatile to try to fill as much as possible at current market prices.


   Basics of an IOC Order  

Investors can submit either a “limit” or “market” immediate or cancel order (IOC) depending on their specific execution requirements. An IOC limit order is entered at a specific price, whereas an IOC market order has no price attached and transacts with the best offer price for a buy and best bid price for a sell.



IOC orders differ from other duration orders in that they only require a partial fill, whereas both FOK and AON orders must be filled in their entirety or canceled. GTC orders remain active until either executed in the market or canceled by the client, although most brokers cancel them between 30 and 90 days. IOC orders help investors to limit risk, speed execution and provide price improvement by providing greater flexibility.


   When to Use an IOC Order  

Investors typically use IOC orders when submitting a large order to avoid having it filled at an array of prices. An IOC order automatically cancels any part of the order that doesn’t fill immediately. Assume, for example, that a client places an IOC order to purchase 5,000 shares of International Business Machines Corporation (IBM). Any portion of the 5,000 shares not purchased immediately is automatically canceled. Those who trade several stocks throughout the day may use an IOC order to minimize the risk of forgetting to cancel an order at the close manually.


   Real-World Example of an IOC Order  

Suppose an investor places an IOC market order to buy 1,000 shares of Apple Inc. (AAPL). Let’s say the order book shows 2,000 shares bid at $170.95 and 500 shares offered at $171.00. The order would immediately fill 500 shares at the offer price ($171) and cancel the unfilled portion of 500 shares.



Let's assume another investor places an IOC limit order to buy 1,000 shares of Apple at $169 around the market open when the stock is currently offered at $170. The S&P 500 drops slightly in the afternoon, at which time a seller offers 700 shares of AAPL at $169. The IOC order, however, would not be filled because it was cancelled immediately after not being filled earlier in the day.



IOC limit orders protect against getting a bad fill in a fast moving or illiquid market. On the other hand, IOC market orders ensure a complete or partial execution in a strongly trending stock that has heavy buying demand.
What Is an Immediate Payment Annuity?  

An immediate payment annuity is a contract between an individual and an insurance company that pays the owner, or annuitant, a guaranteed income starting almost immediately. It differs from a deferred annuity, which begins payments at a future date chosen by the annuity owner. An immediate payment annuity is also known as a single-premium immediate annuity (SPIA), an income annuity, or simply an immediate annuity.





Key Takeaways

Immediate payment annuities are sold by insurance companies and can provide income to the owner almost immediately after purchase.Buyers can choose monthly, quarterly, or annual income.Payments are generally fixed for the term of the contract, but variable and inflation-adjusted annuities are also available.


   How an Immediate Payment Annuity Works  

Individuals typically buy immediate payment annuities by paying an insurance company a lump sum of money. The insurance company, in turn, promises to pay the annuitant a regular income, according to the terms of the contract. The amount of those payments is calculated by the insurer, based on such factors as the annuitant's age, prevailing interest rates, and how long the payments are to continue.



Payments typically begin within a month of purchase. Annuitants can also decide how often they want to be paid, known as a "mode." A monthly mode is most common, but quarterly or annual payments are also an option.



People often buy immediate payment annuities to supplement their other retirement income, such as Social Security, for the rest of their lives. It is also possible to buy an immediate payment annuity that will provide income for a limited period of time, such as 5 or 10 years.



The payments on immediate payment annuities are generally fixed for the period of the contract. However, some insurers also offer immediate variable annuities that fluctuate based on the performance of an underlying portfolio of securities, much like deferred variable annuities. Still another variation is the inflation-protected annuity, or inflation-indexed annuity, which promises to increase payments in line with future inflation.






Immediate payment annuities represent a bit of a gamble: Annuitants who die too soon may not get their money's worth, while those who live a long time can come out ahead.


   Special Considerations  

One potential drawback of an immediate payment annuity is that payments typically end upon the death of the annuitant, and the insurance company keeps the remaining balance. So an annuitant who dies earlier than expected may not get their money's worth out of the deal. On the other hand, an annuitant who lives longer may come out ahead.



There are some ways to get around this problem. One is by adding a second person to the annuity contract (referred to as a joint and survivor annuity). It is also possible to buy an annuity that guarantees payments to the annuitant's beneficiaries for a certain period, or that will refund the annuitant's principal if the annuitant dies early (known as a cash refund annuity). Such provisions cost extra, however.



Once purchased, an immediate payment annuity cannot be canceled for a refund. This may pose a problem should the annuitant need the money in a financial emergency. For this reason, it's smart to have an emergency fund set aside for unforeseen needs before deciding how much money will be placed in the annuity.
What Is Immunization?  

Immunization, also known as multi-period immunization, is a risk-mitigation strategy that matches the duration of assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rates on net worth over time.





Key Takeaways

Immunization is a risk-mitigation strategy that matches asset and liability duration so portfolio values are protected against interest rate changes.Immunization can be accomplished by cash flow matching, duration matching, convexity matching, and trading forwards, futures, and options on bonds.The downside to immunization of a portfolio is foregoing the opportunity cost if the assets were to increase in value while the liabilities did not also rise in the same manner.


   Understanding Immunization  

Immunization helps large firms and institutions protect their portfolios from exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Using a perfect immunization strategy, firms can nearly guarantee that movements in interest rates will have virtually no impact on the value of their portfolios. For example, large banks must protect their current net worth, whereas pension funds have the obligation of payments after a number of years. These institutions are both concerned about protecting the future value of their portfolios and must deal with uncertain future interest rates.



Immunization is considered a "quasi-active" risk mitigation strategy because it has the characteristics of both active and passive strategies. By definition, pure immunization implies that a portfolio is invested for a defined return for a specific period of time regardless of any outside influences, such as changes in interest rates.



The opportunity cost of using the immunization strategy is potentially giving up the upside potential of an active strategy for the assurance that the portfolio will achieve the intended desired return. As in the buy-and-hold strategy, by design, the instruments best suited for this strategy are high-grade bonds with remote possibilities of default. In fact, the purest form of immunization would be to invest in a zero-coupon bond and match the maturity of the bond to the date on which the cash flow is expected to be needed. This eliminates any variability of return, positive or negative, associated with the reinvestment of cash flows.






Just like a vaccine immunizes a body against infection, immunization leaves a portfolio safeguarded against interest rate fluctuations.



Duration, or the average life of a bond (which is also its price sensitivity to changes in interest rates), is commonly used in immunization. It is a much more accurate predictive measure of a bond's volatility than a bond's term to maturity. This strategy is commonly used in the institutional investment environment by insurance companies, pension funds, and banks to match the time horizon of their future liabilities with structured cash flows.



It is one of the most sound strategies and can also be used successfully by individuals. For example, just like a pension fund would use an immunization to plan for cash flows upon an individual's retirement, that same individual could build a dedicated portfolio for their own retirement plan.



Immunization can be accomplished by cash flow matching, duration matching, convexity matching, and trading forwards, futures and options on bonds. Similar strategies can be used to immunize other financial risks, such as exchange rate risk. Often investors and portfolio managers use hedging techniques to reduce specific risks. Hedging strategies are usually imperfect, but if a perfect hedging strategy is in place, it is technically an immunization strategy.


   Immunization Examples  
  Cash Flow Matching  

Assume an investor needs to pay a $10,000 obligation in five years. To immunize against this definite cash outflow, the investor can purchase a security that guarantees a $10,000 inflow in five years. A five-year zero-coupon bond with a redemption value of $10,000 would be suitable. By purchasing this bond, the investor matches the expected inflow and outflow of cash, and any change in interest rates would not affect their ability to pay the obligation in five years.


  Duration Matching  

To immunize a bond portfolio using the duration method, an investor must match the portfolio's duration to the investment time horizon in question. If an investor has a $10,000 obligation in five years, there are a few ways in which they can use duration matching.



Purchase a zero-coupon bond that matures in five years and equals $10,000.
Purchase several coupon bonds that each have a five-year duration and a total of $10,000.
Purchase several coupon bonds that total $10,000 but have an average duration of five years when viewed together.



It is possible to make a profit using duration matching. All that needs to be done is to construct a bond portfolio in a way that the portfolio's convexity is higher than the convexity of the liabilities.






Increasingly, long-term personal investments, such as retirement accounts, are immunized; for example, future liabilities are matched by fixed income portfolio duration.


   Choosing an Immunization Strategy  

Portfolio immunization using duration and cash-flow matching are two types of dedication strategies to safeguard the funding of liabilities when due. Immunization via duration matching aims to balance the opposing effects interest rates have on the price return and reinvestment return of a coupon bond. A multiple liability immunization strategy pays off better when the interest rate shifts are not too arbitrary. It requires a lower investment than cash flow matching but does carry reinvestment risk in the case of non-parallel rate shifts.



Cash flow matching, on the other hand, relies on the availability of securities with specific principals, coupons, and maturities to work efficiently. This is far-fetched in most practical cases, and so this strategy requires more cash investment. It also runs the risk of excess cash balances accumulating and being reinvested at very low rates in between liabilities.



Due to these factors, multiple liability immunization is generally superior to cash flow matching. Linear programming and optimization techniques are used to extend and even combine the two strategies in order to achieve even better results.
Impact investing is an investment strategy that aims to generate specific beneficial social or environmental effects in addition to financial gains. Impact investments may take the form of numerous asset classes and may result in many specific outcomes. The point of impact investing is to use money and investment capital for positive social results.





Key Takeaways

Impact investing is a general investment strategy that seeks to generate financial returns while also creating a positive social or environmental impact.Investors who follow impact investing consider a company's commitment to corporate social responsibility or the duty to positively serve society as a whole.Socially responsible (SRI) and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing are two approaches to impact investing, although there is still some disagreement over terminology in the investing community.According to the Global Impact Investing Network, more than 88% of impact investors reported that their investments met or exceeded their expectations.Studies show that the median impact fund realized a 6.4% return, compared to 7.4% from non-impact funds.


   Understanding Impact Investing  

The term impact investing was first coined in 2007, but the practice was developed years earlier. A basic goal of impact investing is to help reduce the negative effects of business activity on the social environment. That's why impact investing may sometimes be considered an extension of philanthropy.



Investors who use impact investing as a strategy consider a company's commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) or the sense of duty to positively serve society as a whole before they become involved with that company. The type of impact that can evolve from impact investing varies based on the industry and the specific company within that industry, but some common examples include giving back to the community by helping the less fortunate or investing in sustainable energy practices to help save our planet.






This strategy actively seeks to make a positive impact by investing, for example, in nonprofits that benefit the community or in clean-technology enterprises that benefit the environment.



The bulk of impact investing is done by institutional investors, including hedge funds, private foundations, banks, pension funds, and other fund managers.



However, a range of socially conscious financial service companies, web-based investment platforms, and investor networks now offer individuals an opportunity to participate, too. One major venue is microfinance loans, which provide small-business owners in emerging nations with startup or expansion capital. Women are often the beneficiaries of such loans.


   Types of Impact Investments  

Impact investments come in many different forms of capital and investment vehicles. Like any other type of investment class, impact investments provide investors with a range of possibilities when it comes to returns. But the most important thing is that these investments offer both a financial return and are in line with the investor's conscience.





67%

According to a 2020 survey by the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), the majority of investors who choose impact investing look for market-rate returns.



The opportunity for impact investments varies and investors may choose to put their money into emerging markets (EM) or developed economies. Impact investments span several industries including:



HealthcareEducationEnergy, especially clean and renewable energyAgriculture


  Environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  

Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) refers to the practices of an investment that may have a material impact on the performance of that investment. The integration of ESG factors is used to enhance traditional financial analysis by identifying potential risks and opportunities beyond technical valuations. While there is an overlay of social consciousness, the main objective of ESG valuation remains financial performance.


  Socially responsible investing (SRI)  

Socially responsible investing (SRI) goes a step further than ESG by actively eliminating or selecting investments according to specific ethical guidelines. The underlying motive could be religion, personal values, or political beliefs. Unlike ESG analysis which shapes valuations, SRI uses ESG factors to apply negative or positive screens on the investment universe. 


   Special Considerations  

Socially and environmentally responsible practices tend to attract impact investors, meaning companies can benefit financially from committing to socially responsible practices. Impact investing appeals largely to younger generations, such as millennials, who want to give back to society, so this trend is likely to expand as these investors gain more influence in the market.



Investors also tend to profit. A 2020 survey by the Global Impact Investing Network found that more than 88% of impact investors reported that their investments were meeting or surpassing their financial expectations.



By engaging in impact investing, individuals or entities essentially state that they support the message and the mission of the company in which they're investing, and they have a stake in the company's welfare. As more people realize the social and financial benefits of impact investing, more companies will engage in social responsibility.






While money isn't everything, in a 2020 survey of impact investors, more than 88% of respondents said that their investments were meeting or exceeding financial expectations.


   Impact Investing vs. Socially Responsible Investing (SRI)  

SRI, which is sometimes referred to as sustainable or socially conscious investing or, when focused on environmental causes, green investing, is a form of impact investing. While the definition of SRI encompasses avoidance of harm, impact investing also suggests positive impact via its investments.



Investors who practice SRI tend to believe in and choose companies that subscribe to their views concerning human rights, environmental protection, and a sense of responsibility to consumers. For example, some investors may choose not to invest in companies that manufacture, distribute, or promote cigarettes because of their overall negative effect on people's health.



Many asset management companies, banks, and other investment houses now offer funds specifically tailored to socially responsible investors.


   Examples of Impact Investing  
  The Gates Foundation  

One of the most well-known impact investment funds is the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, launched by the celebrated Windows pioneer with a total endowment of nearly $50 billion. While most of the Gates Foundation is engaged in philanthropy, it also has a strategic investment fund with $2.5 billion under management, which is invested in ventures that align with the Foundation's goals of improving health, education, and gender equality. As explained on the fund's website, the strategic investment fund supports "organizations or projects that benefit the world's poorest and are often overlooked by traditional investors."


  Soros Economic Development Fund  

The Soros Economic Development Fund is part of the Open Society Foundations, launched by billionaire philanthropist George Soros. Soros has contributed about $18 billion to the Open Society Foundations, $90 million of which is actively invested in impact ventures. As the name implies, the Foundation seeks to support "open societies" by promoting democracy, legal reforms, higher education, and journalism, as well as other fields.


  The Ford Foundation  

The Ford Foundation was launched in 1936 by Edsel and Henry Ford, with an initial endowment of $25,000. Today, it has one of the world's largest private endowments, with $16 billion under management. Most of that money is given as grants to support causes aligned with the values of the foundation; however, in 2017 the Ford Foundation announced plans to invest $1 billion in business ventures aligned with their mission.


   What is impact-focused investing?  

Impact-focused investing, or simply impact investing, is an investment strategy that seeks to achieve social or environmental goals, as well as generate profit. Unlike philanthropic endeavors, impact investors typically expect a return on their investment, although this may be a secondary consideration.


  Does impact investing work?  

Most impact investors seek returns that are comparable to market rates, and some impact funds can even outperform the market. Generally speaking, the returns from impact investing tend to be slightly lower than the market average. In a study by the University of California, the median impact fund had a median internal rate of return of 6.4%, compared to 7.4% from non-impact seeking funds.


  What is the difference between ESG and impact investing?  

Impact investing is often associated with environmental, social, and governance(ESG) as socially responsible business practices that are gaining increasing attention in the business world. While they have many features in common, they refer to distinct practices.



Environmental, social, and governance practices refer to business decisions that could affect the returns of that company. For example, a company that knowingly employs child labor or engages in discrimination could be at a competitive disadvantage, particularly when marketing to socially conscious consumers.



Impact investing, on the other hand, is the practice of seeking investments that specifically optimize a goal other than profits. This might include investments in clean energy, education, or microfinance.


  What is an impact-investing firm?  

An impact-investing firm is an investment fund that specifically seeks to support beneficial social or environmental outcomes, in addition to generating financial returns. Some impact funds invest in causes that they believe will generate strong returns; others consider profits to be a secondary consideration.


  What is an impact-investing strategy?  

An impact-investing strategy is an investment strategy that targets companies or industries that produce social or environmental benefits. For example, some impact investors seek to support renewable energy, electric cars, microfinance, sustainable agriculture, or other causes which they believe to be worthwhile.


   The Bottom Line  

Impact investing is part of a growing trend of socially responsible practices that seek to reduce some of the negative consequences of traditional business activities.  By supporting companies and industries in worthwhile causes, impact investing can produce social or environmental benefits while also earning a profit.
What Is an Impaired Asset?  

An impaired asset is an asset that has a market value less than the value listed on the company's balance sheet. When an asset is deemed to be impaired, it will need to be written down on the company's balance sheet to its current market value.





Key Takeaways

Assets should be tested for impairment on a regular basis to prevent overstatement on the balance sheet.Assets that are most likely to become impaired include accounts receivable, as well as long-term assets such as intangibles and fixed assets.When an impaired asset's value is written down on the balance sheet, there is also a loss recorded on the income statement.GAAP and IFRS have differing standards for impairment.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How Impaired Assets Work  

An asset is impaired if its projected future cash flows are less than its current carrying value. An asset may become impaired as a result of materially adverse changes in legal factors that have changed the asset’s value, significant changes in the asset’s market price due to a change in consumer demand, or damage to its physical condition. Another indicator of potential impairment occurs when an asset is more likely than not to be disposed prior to its original estimated disposal date. Asset accounts that are likely to become impaired are the company's accounts receivable, goodwill, and fixed assets.






Long-term assets, such as intangibles and fixed assets, are particularly at risk of impairment because the carrying value has a longer span of time to become impaired.



Assets are tested for impairment on a periodic basis to ensure the company's total asset value is not overstated on the balance sheet. According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), certain assets, such as goodwill, should be tested on an annual basis. GAAP also recommends that companies take into consideration events and economic circumstances that occur between annual impairment tests in order to determine if it is "more likely than not" that the market value of an asset has dropped below its carrying value.



An impairment loss should only be recorded if the anticipated future cash flows are unrecoverable. When an impaired asset’s carrying value is written down to market value, the loss is recognized on the company’s income statement in the same accounting period.


   Accounting for Impaired Assets  

Under GAAP rules, the total dollar value of an impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying value and its fair market value. Under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the total dollar value of an impairment is the difference between the asset's carrying value and the recoverable value of the item. The recoverable value can be either its fair market value if you were to sell it today or its value in use. The value in use is determined based on the potential value the asset can bring in for the remainder of its useful life.



The journal entry to record an impairment is a debit to a loss, or expense, account and a credit to the related asset. A contra asset impairment account, which holds a balance opposite to the associated asset account, may be used for the credit in order to maintain the historical cost of the asset on a separate line item. In this situation, the net of the asset, its accumulated depreciation, and the contra asset impairment account reflect the new carrying value.



Upon recording the impairment, the asset has a reduced carrying value. In future periods, the asset will be reported at its lower carrying value. Even if the impaired asset’s market value returns to the original level, GAAP states the impaired asset must remain recorded at the lower adjusted dollar amount. This is in compliance with conservative accounting principles. Any increase in value is recognized upon the sale of the asset. Under IFRS, impairment losses can be reversed in specific instances.



Standard GAAP practice is to test fixed assets for impairment at the lowest level where there are identifiable cash flows separate from other groups of assets and liabilities. For example, an auto manufacturer should test for impairment for each of the machines in a manufacturing plant rather than for the high-level manufacturing plant itself. However, if there are no separately identifiable cash flows at this low level, it's allowable to test for impairment at the asset group or entity level. If an asset group experiences impairment, the adjustment is allocated among all assets within the group. This proration is based on the current carrying value of the assets.



IFRS prefers fixed asset impairment at the individual asset level. If that is not possible then it can be impaired at the cash generating unit (CGU) level. The CGU level is the smallest identifiable level at which there are identifiable cash flows largely independent of cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.


   Asset Depreciation vs. Asset Impairment  

A capital asset is depreciated on a regular basis in order to account for typical wear and tear on the item over time. The amount of depreciation taken each accounting period is based on a predetermined schedule using either straight line or one of multiple accelerated depreciation methods. Depreciation differs from impairment, which is recorded as the result of a one-time or unusual drop in the market value of an asset.



When a capital asset is impaired, the periodic amount of depreciation is adjusted moving forward. Retroactive changes are not required for adjusting the previous depreciation already taken. However, depreciation charges are recalculated for the remainder of the asset's useful life based on the impaired asset’s new carrying value as of the date of the impairment.


  Real-World Example of an Impaired Asset  

In 2015, Microsoft recognized impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets related to its 2013 purchase of Nokia. Initially, Microsoft recognized goodwill related to the acquisition of Nokia in the amount of $5.5 billion, plus another $4.5 billion in other intangible assets.



The book value of goodwill from the Nokia purchase, and therefore assets as a whole, reported on Microsoft's balance sheet were deemed to be overstated when compared to the true market value. Because Microsoft had not been able to capitalize on the potential benefits in the cellphone business, the company recognized an impairment loss in the amount of $7.6 billion, including the entirety of the $5.5 billion in goodwill.




How Do You Calculate the Impairment of an Asset Under GAAP?
To calculate the impairment of an asset, take the carrying value of the asset (its historical cost minus accumulated depreciation) and subtract its fair market value. If its fair market value is less than the carrying value, you will need to record an impairment loss for the difference.




Where Does Impairment Show Up on My Company's Financial Statements?
An impairment loss shows up as a negative value on the income statement. If you keep a contra asset account for the value of the impairment to preserve the historical cost of the asset, it would be reported directly below the asset on your balance sheet. A contra asset account has a natural balance that is opposite that of a standard asset account, a credit.




When Should an Asset Be Impaired?
An asset should be impaired when its fair market value is less than its carrying value (historical cost minus accumulated depreciation). This may occur due to physical damage to the asset, a change in consumer demand, or legal changes surrounding the asset.


   The Bottom Line  

When a company has an asset that is now worth less than the value given for it on the company's balance sheet, that asset is impaired. It needs to be written down on the companys balance sheet, with the loss also recorded on the the its income statement. GAAP and IFRS have differing standards for impairment. Depreciation is not the same thing as impairment, and when an asset is impaired, depreciation on that asset also needs to be adjusted.
What Is Impaired Credit?  

Impaired credit typically refers to a deterioration in the perceived creditworthiness of an individual, a business, or other entity. Impaired credit is usually reflected for individuals in a lower credit score and for businesses and other entities as a lower credit rating. Would-be borrowers with impaired credit will find it harder to obtain loans and generally have to pay higher interest rates if they do. Impaired credit can be either a temporary and fixable condition or a warning sign that even greater financial distress may lie ahead.





Key Takeaways

Impaired credit refers to a deterioration in the creditworthiness of an individual, a business, or another entity.Impaired credit will be reflected in a lower credit score for individuals or a lower credit rating for companies, governments, and other entities.Would-be borrowers with impaired credit will find obtaining loans and other forms of credit more difficult and more costly.Impaired credit can sometimes be fixed by addressing the factors that caused it in the first place.


   How Impaired Credit Works  

Impaired credit is usually the result of financial stress brought on by a change in circumstances, often an unforeseen one.



In the case of an individual, impaired credit may be the result of a job loss, a costly illness, a steep decline in asset values, or a multitude of other crises that can make it difficult for a person to keep up with their bills.



For a company, impaired credit might be due to increased competition, a weak economy, supply chain issues, or bad management decisions, among other causes.


   How Creditworthiness Is Assessed for Individuals  

For individuals, credit scores are the most common and simplest measure of creditworthiness. Credit scores are based on the information in a person's credit report and expressed as a three-digit number, typically ranging from 300 to 850.



Credit scores consider a number of factors and weight them in terms of importance. In the case of FICO scores, the most widely used credit scoring system, the weighting looks like this:



Payment history (35%)Amounts owed (30%)Length of credit history (15%)Credit mix (10%)New credit (10%)



In general, a score below 580 is considered poor, while one between 580 and 669 is considered fair. Good scores begin at 670, very good ones at 740, and exceptional ones at 800.



Someone who once had a good or very good credit score but now has a poor score could be considered credit impaired.



Because payment history and amounts owed count for nearly two-thirds of a person's credit score, it is likely that something has gone wrong in one of those two categories. Payment history reflects whether they have been making their monthly credit payments on time, so perhaps they have, for whatever reason, started paying late or missing payments altogether.



The amounts owed category is largely based on the person's credit utilization ratio, which is the amount they currently owe as a percentage of all the revolving credit they have available to them. For example, if they have two credit cards with a combined credit limit of $20,000 and they owe $10,000 on those cards, their credit utilization ratio is 50%. Credit scores reward lower utilization ratios and punish higher ones, so it's possible that the person has run up much bigger balances than they carried in past. Again, there may be a logical reason for that, but their credit score will still take a hit.



If the individual can keep up with their bills and pay off a large chunk of their outstanding debt, they should be able to restore their credit score over time and no longer be labeled as credit impaired.





Note

In addition to credit ratings, some companies have business credit scores. Also known as commercial credit scores, they are computed by Dun & Bradstreet, Equifax, and Experian.


   How Creditworthiness Is Assessed for Businesses and Governments  

Credit ratings agencies assess the creditworthiness of businesses, governments, and other entities, assigning them letter grades rather than numbers. They also rate the credit quality of the debt, such as bonds, that these entities may issue.



The major credit rating agencies are Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service, and S&P Global. Another large ratings agency, AM Best, focuses on the insurance industry. All of these agencies are private companies and typically paid by the entities they rate.



While their ratings systems differ, all assign letter grades from AAA (best) down to C or D (worst) based on their assessment of that particular entity's creditworthiness. The higher the grade, the more likely it will be to repay its debts, in the ratings agency's opinion.



An entity that has dropped a number of letter grades could be considered to be credit impaired.



Credit ratings take a variety of factors into account, which will vary based on the type of entity that's being rated. As S&P Global explains, "the credit analysis of a corporate issuer typically considers many financial and non-financial factors, including key performance indicators, economic, regulatory, and geopolitical influences, management and corporate governance attributes, and competitive position."



In rating a government entity, on the other hand, "the analysis may concentrate on fiscal and economic performance, monetary stability, and the effectiveness of the government's institutions" S&P Global notes.




What Is Credit Repair?
Credit repair usually refers to the steps a person, or third party working on their behalf, can take to remove information from their credit report that is damaging to their credit score. However, it's worth noting that only inaccurate information can be removed from a credit report. Accurate information will remain on the report until it drops off due to age, usually after seven years.




How Can You Obtain Your Credit Report?
You can obtain your credit reports from all three major credit bureaus at the official website, AnnualCreditReport.com. By law, you are entitled to a free report from each of the three bureaus at least once every 12 months. If you find errors—especially ones that might be hurting your credit score—you have a right to challenge them, and the bureau is required to investigate.




How Can You Obtain Your Credit Score?
You may be able to obtain your credit score free of charge from your bank or credit card companies. There are also some reliable websites that offer free credit scores. Bear in mind that there are multiple credit scoring models, so chances are you have several credit scores and the one you get for free may not be identical to all the others.


   The Bottom Line  

Having impaired credit is not a good situation for a person, business, government, or any other entity to be in. Fortunately, they may be able to improve their standing by addressing the issues that caused their credit scores or credit ratings to call in the first place.
What Is Impairment?  

In accounting, impairment is a permanent reduction in the value of a company asset. It may be a fixed asset or an intangible asset.



When testing an asset for impairment, the total profit, cash flow, or other benefits that can be generated by the asset is periodically compared with its current book value. If the book value of the asset exceeds the future cash flow or other benefits of the asset, the difference between the two is written off, and the value of the asset declines on the company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Impairment can occur as the result of an unusual or one-time event, such as a change in legal or economic conditions, a change in consumer demand, or damage that impacts an asset.Assets should be tested for impairment regularly to prevent overstatement on the balance sheet.Impairment exists when an asset's fair value is less than its carrying value on the balance sheet.If impairment is confirmed as a result of testing, an impairment loss should be recorded.An impairment loss records an expense in the current period that appears on the income statement and simultaneously reduces the value of the impaired asset on the balance sheet.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Impairment  

Impairment is most commonly used to describe a drastic reduction in the recoverable value of a fixed asset. The impairment may be caused by a change in the company's legal or economic circumstances or by a casualty loss from an unforeseeable disaster.



For example, a construction company may face extensive damage to its outdoor machinery and equipment due to a natural disaster. This will appear on its books as a sudden and large decline in the fair value of these assets to below their carrying value.



An asset's carrying value, also known as its book value, is the value of the asset net of accumulated depreciation that is recorded on a company's balance sheet.


  Periodic Evaluation for Impairment  

An accountant tests assets for potential impairment periodically. If any impairment exists, the accountant writes off the difference between the fair value and the carrying value. Fair value is normally derived as the sum of an asset's undiscounted expected future cash flows and its expected salvage value, which is what the company expects to receive from selling or disposing of the asset at the end of its life.



Other accounts that may be impaired, and thus need to be reviewed and written down, are the company's goodwill and its accounts receivable.



A company's capital can also become impaired. An impaired capital event occurs when a company's total capital becomes less than the par value of the company's capital stock.



Unlike impairment of an asset, impaired capital can naturally reverse when the company's total capital increases back above the par value of its capital stock.


   Impairment vs. Depreciation  

Impairment is unexpected damage. Depreciation is expected wear and tear.



The value of fixed assets such as machinery and equipment depreciates over time. The amount of depreciation taken in each accounting period is based on a predetermined schedule using either a straight line method or one of a number of accelerated depreciation methods.



Depreciation schedules allow for a set distribution of the reduction of an asset's value over its lifetime, unlike impairment, which accounts for an unusual and drastic drop in the fair value of an asset.



For instance:



A tractor depreciates in value from year to year throughout its useful lifetime.A tractor that gets crushed by a falling tree has experienced an impairment that must be recorded on the books as such.


   GAAP Requirements for Impairment  

Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), assets are considered to be impaired when their fair value falls below their book value.



Any write-off due to an impairment loss can have adverse effects on a company's balance sheet and its resulting financial ratios. It is, therefore, important for a company to test its assets for impairment periodically.



Certain assets, such as intangible goodwill, must be tested for impairment on an annual basis in order to ensure that the value of assets is not inflated on the balance sheet.



GAAP also recommends that companies take into consideration events and economic circumstances that occur between annual impairment tests in order to determine if it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of an asset has dropped below its carrying value.


   Causes of Impairment  

Specific situations in which an asset might become impaired and unrecoverable include when a significant change occurs to an asset's intended use when there is a decrease in consumer demand for the asset, damage to the asset, or adverse changes to legal factors that affect the asset.



If these types of situations arise mid-year, it's important to test for impairment immediately.



Standard GAAP practice is to test fixed assets for impairment at the lowest level where there are identifiable cash flows. For example, an auto manufacturer should test for impairment for each of the machines in a manufacturing plant rather than for the high-level manufacturing plant itself. If there are no identifiable cash flows at this low level, it's allowable to test for impairment at the asset group or entity level.


   Example of Impairment  

ABC Company, based in Florida, purchased a building many years ago at a historical cost of $250,000. It has taken a total of $100,000 in depreciation on the building and therefore has $100,000 in accumulated depreciation. The building's carrying value, or book value, is $150,000 on the company's balance sheet.



A category 5 hurricane damages the structure significantly. The company determines that the situation qualifies for impairment testing.



After assessing the damages, ABC Company determines the building is now only worth $100,000. The building is therefore impaired and the asset value must be written down to prevent overstatement on the balance sheet.



A debit entry is made to "Loss from Impairment," which will appear on the income statement as a reduction of net income, in the amount of $50,000 ($150,000 book value – $100,000 calculated fair value).



As part of the same entry, a $50,000 credit is also made to the building's asset account, to reduce the asset's balance, or to another balance sheet account called the "Provision for Impairment Losses."




How Is Impairment Determined?
The generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) define an asset as impaired when its fair value is lower than its book value. To check an asset for impairment, the total profit, cash flow, or other benefit expected to be generated by the asset is compared with its current book value. If it is determined that the book value of the asset is greater than the future cash flow or benefit of the asset, an impairment is recorded.




Where Are Impairment Losses Shown?
Impairment losses are shown both on the income statement and the balance sheet. An impairment loss is simultaneously recorded as an expense on the income statement and reduces the value of the impaired asset on the balance sheet.




How Is Impairment Accounted for?
An accountant will write off the difference between the fair value and the carrying value if an impairment is present, and the value of the asset decreases on the company's balance sheet.Fair value is typically the sum of an asset's undiscounted expected future cash flows and its expected salvage value, which is what the company would expect to receive from selling or disposing of the asset at the end of its useful life.




What Is the Purpose of Asset Impairment?
The overall goal of asset impairment is to periodically evaluate a company's assets to make sure the total value of the assets is not being overstated. An impaired asset is one that has a market value less than what is listed on the company's balance sheet. There are various factors that can affect an asset's value so periodically checking its value is prudent business management.




Is an Impaired Asset Considered a Loss?
Under GAAP, an impaired asset must be recorded as a loss on the income statement. It is important to compare the value of the asset to the fair market value to help determine the loss.


   The Bottom Line  

Impairment refers to the reduction in the value of a company asset, either a fixed asset or an intangible asset. The entire value of the asset is not typically recorded as a loss, but most often the difference between the predicted cash flow of the asset and the book value (if the book value is higher) is the amount recorded as a loss.



Periodically evaluating the value of assets helps a company accurately record its asset value rather than overstating its asset value, which could lead to financial problems later on.
What Is Impeachment?  

Impeachment, as authorized by Article II, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution, is the formal process that allows Congress to bring charges of "Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors" against high-ranking civil officers, such as the president.



The power to impeach serves as the first step in an important check on the executive and judicial branches of government regarding violations of law and abuses of power. When impeached by the House of Representatives, the official goes on trial and, if convicted by the Senate, is removed from office.





Key Takeaways

Impeachment, as defined in Article II, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution, is the formal process by which Congress brings charges against high-ranking civil officers, such as the president, in a bid to remove them from office.Only the U.S. House of Representatives has the power to impeach a federal official, and only the Senate can convict and remove the impeached official.Only three U.S. presidents have been impeached by the House—Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump—and all were acquitted by the Senate.


   How Impeachment Works  

Article II, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution says:



The President, Vice President and all Civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.



Importantly, impeachment is not the same as removal or conviction, though many people think that is the case. Impeachment is a charging process, similar to an indictment in a criminal proceeding.



Impeachment at the federal level is rare; removal even more so. Impeachment proceedings have been initiated by the House of Representatives more than 60 times since the adoption of the U.S. Constitution. Just 20 of those proceedings have actually ended with impeachment. There have been just eight convictions by the Senate, all of them of federal judges.



Only three U.S. Presidents—Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump—have been impeached by the U.S. House of Representatives. All three were acquitted by the Senate.


   Officials Subject to Impeachment  

The Constitution names the president and vice president as subject to impeachment. The question of exactly who "all Civil Officers of the United States" are has been the subject of much discussion.



The Federalist Papers—85 essays by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison that comprise a foundational document of American history—make clear that impeachment serves as a check on the executive and judicial branches of government. The essays do not, however, specify who within those branches would be considered civil officers.



The term "civil officers" is broad enough to include any officer appointed by the federal government. Based on historic precedent, federal judges including Supreme Court justices are subject to impeachment, as are members of the president's cabinet. Military officers—who face discipline under the military code—are not subject to impeachment, nor are members of Congress, a precedent established in 1799.


   Impeachable Offenses  

There was considerable debate at the 1787 Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia over the definition of impeachable crimes. Initially, the founders said the president and others could be removed by impeachment and conviction for "corrupt conduct" or "malpractice or neglect of duty." Later, the wording was changed to "treason, bribery, or corruption," then to just "treason or bribery," before finally settling on "treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors."



The debate did not stop there because the phrase "high crimes and misdemeanors" left the matter of impeachable offenses open to interpretation. Since the ratification of the Constitution in 1789, the definition of "high crimes and misdemeanors" has plagued members of Congress, lawyers, and legal scholars alike.



The framers borrowed the term "high crimes and misdemeanors" from British law, wherein it referred to crimes by public officials against the government. In practical terms, as Representative Gerald Ford said in 1970, "An impeachable offense is whatever a majority of the House of Representatives considers it to be at a given moment in history."


   Duties of the House and Senate  

Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution states that the House of Representatives has the sole power to impeach. The House, however, does not have the power to remove an impeached individual. That duty goes to the Senate, which holds a trial and decides whether to convict and remove or acquit.



Impeachment begins when the House adopts a resolution calling for an investigation by a House committee into charges against the official in question. The committee may recommend impeachment or dismissal. The House then votes, by simple majority, to approve or dismiss articles of impeachment.



Following approval, the House appoints managers to conduct the impeachment trial in the Senate. The House then passes a resolution informing the Senate about the articles of impeachment and the names of the House managers who will bring the case before the Senate.



When the Senate receives the resolution, that body advises the House when it will receive the managers and begin the impeachment trial. The Senate becomes the court with the president of the Senate presiding, except when the person impeached is the president, in which case, the presiding officer is the chief justice of the Supreme Court. To convict and remove an impeached individual from office requires a two-thirds majority in the Senate.


   Penalties of Impeachment and Conviction  

The penalty for impeachment is a trial in the Senate. Because impeachment is the same as an indictment, there is no other penalty, except perhaps to one's reputation. Impeachment, as discussed above, only requires a simple affirmative majority in the House of Representatives.



The Constitution requires a two-thirds affirmative vote in the Senate to convict an impeached person. The penalty for conviction is removal from office. The Senate also has the option, by simple majority vote, to disqualify the official from holding public office in the future. There is no appeal to impeachment or conviction because it involves a political rather than criminal question.


   History of Federal Impeachment Proceedings  

Of the 20 federal impeachment proceedings since 1799, 10 have occurred in the past 100 years. Impeached officials included 15 federal judges, three presidents, one senator, and a cabinet secretary (the secretary of war). These impeachments resulted in seven acquittals, eight convictions (all judges and they were removed from office), three dismissals, and one resignation with no further action.



As discussed earlier, only three U.S. presidents have been impeached by the House—Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump—and all were acquitted by the Senate. President Richard Nixon was never impeached, although he was threatened with impeachment over the Watergate scandal of 1974. Nixon stepped down before Congress could vote on whether to proceed with impeachment, becoming the only U.S. President to have resigned from office.


   Real-Life Example of Impeachment  

A recent impeachment and Senate trial occurred when former President Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives on Dec. 18, 2019. The resolution contained two impeachment articles:


  1. Abuse of power  

This example of “high crimes and misdemeanors” accused Trump of corruptly attempting to solicit Ukraine to conduct investigations to discredit his Democratic political rivals. The article passed 230-197 with Republican members of the House united in their opposition and two Democrats also voting against the article.


  2. Obstruction of Congress  

The obstruction of Congress charge, which also fell under “high crimes and misdemeanors,” arose from accusations that when Congress tried to investigate the Ukraine situation, Trump ordered his administration to defy each attempt at obtaining information and testimony. This article passed 229-198 with one additional Democrat joining Republicans in opposition to the charge.



The articles of impeachment were submitted to the Senate on Jan. 16, 2020, and the trial began. Due to objections by Republican senators, no witnesses or documents were subpoenaed. On Feb. 5, 2020, the president was acquitted on both counts. The vote on Article I, abuse of power, was 48 for conviction, 52 for acquittal. On Article II, obstruction of Congress, the vote was 47 for conviction, 53 for acquittal.



From start to finish, not counting the accumulation of evidence, these impeachment proceedings took a little less than two months. That said, there is no set amount of time for impeachments and very few specifics about it in the Constitution. For that reason, every impeachment is unique.
What Is Imperfect Competition?  

Imperfect competition exists whenever a market, hypothetical or real, violates the abstract tenets of neoclassical perfect competition. In this environment, companies sell different products and services, set their own individual prices, fight for market share, and are often protected by barriers to entry and exit.





Key Takeaways

Imperfect competition refers to any economic market that does not meet the rigorous assumptions of a hypothetical perfectly competitive market.In this environment, companies sell different products and services, set their own individual prices, fight for market share, and are often protected by barriers to entry and exit.Imperfect competition is common and can be found in the following types of market structures: monopolies, oligopolies, monopolistic competition, monopsonies, and oligopsonies.Economists generally agree that real-world markets rarely meet the assumptions of perfect competition, but disagree as to how much of a substantial difference this makes for market outcomes.


   Understanding Imperfect Competition  

Perfect competition is a set of assumptions in microeconomics used to make the theories of consumer and producer behavior, supply and demand, and market price determination mathematically tractable so that they can be precisely defined and described. In welfare economics and applied economics for public policy, it is also sometimes utilized as a standard to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of real-world markets.



In a perfect competition environment, the following criteria must be met:



Companies sell identical products with no product differentiation
The market consists of a large enough number of buyers and sellers so that no company can influence the price it charges and consumers alone set the price they are willing to pay each company
All market participants and potential participants have free and perfect information about past, present, and future conditions, preferences, and technologies
All transactions can be carried out with zero costs
Companies can enter or exit the market without incurring any costs



It is immediately apparent that very few businesses in the real world operate this way, bar perhaps a few exceptions, such as vendors at a flea market or farmer’s market. If and when the forces listed above are not met, competition is said to be imperfect—it is labeled this way because differentiation results in certain companies gaining an advantage over others, enabling them to generate higher profit than peers, sometimes at the expense of customers.






Imperfect competition creates opportunities to generate more profit, unlike in a perfect competition environment, where businesses earn just enough to stay afloat.



In an imperfect competition environment, companies sell different products and services, set their own individual prices, fight for market share, and are often protected by barriers to entry and exit, making it harder for new companies to challenge them. Imperfect competitive markets are widespread and can be found in the following types of market structures: monopolies, oligopolies, monopolistic competition, monopsonies, and oligopsonies.


   History of Imperfect Competition  

The treatment of perfect competition models in economics, along with modern conceptions of monopoly, were founded by the French mathematician Augustin Cournot in his 1838 book, Researches Into the Mathematical Principles of the Theory of Wealth. His ideas were adopted and popularized by the Swiss economist Leon Walras, considered by many to be the founder of modern mathematical economics.



Prior to Walras and Cournot, mathematicians had a difficult time modeling economic relationships or creating reliable equations. The new perfect competition model simplified economic competition to a purely predictive and static state. This avoided many problems that exist in real markets, such as imperfect human knowledge, barriers to entry, and monopolies.



The mathematical approach gained widespread academic acceptance, particularly in England. Any deviation from the new model of perfect competition was considered a troublesome violation of the new economic understanding.






Neoclassical microeconomists in the 19th and 20th centuries claimed to be able to demonstrate mathematically that perfectly competitive markets could maximize economic efficiency and socialwelfare.



One Englishman in particular, William Stanley Jevons, took the ideas of perfect competition and argued that competition was most useful not only when free of price discrimination, but also when there is a small number of buyers or a large number of sellers in a given industry. Thanks to the influences of Jevons, the Cambridge tradition of economics adopted a whole new language for potential distortions in economic markets—some real and some only theoretical. Among these problems were oligopoly, monopolistic competition, monopsony, and oligopsony.


   Limitations of Imperfect Competition  

The Cambridge school’s wholesale devotion to creating a static and mathematically calculable economic science had its drawbacks. Ironically, a perfectly competitive market would require the absence of active competition.



All sellers in a perfect market must sell exactly similar goods at identical prices to the exact same consumers, all of whom possess the same perfect knowledge. There is no room for advertising, product differentiation, innovation, or brand identification in perfect competition.



No real market can or could attain the characteristics of a perfectly competitive market. The pure competition model ignores many factors, including the limited deployment of physical capital and capital investment, entrepreneurial activity, and changes in the availability of scarce resources. 



Other economists have adopted more flexible and less mathematically rigid theoretical constructs, such as Mises' evenly rotating economy. However, the language created by the Cambridge tradition still predominates the discipline—even today, the basic graphs and equations shown in most Economics 101 textbooks hail from these mathematical derivations.
What Is an Imperfect Market?  

An imperfect market refers to any economic market that does not meet the rigorous standards of the hypothetical perfectly—or purely—competitive market. Pure or perfect competition is an abstract, theoretical market structure in which a series of criteria are met. Since all real markets exist outside of the spectrum of the perfect competition model, all real markets can be classified as imperfect markets.



In an imperfect market, individual buyers and sellers can influence prices and production, there is no full disclosure of information about products and prices, and there are high barriers to entry or exit in the market.



A perfect market is characterized by perfect competition, market equilibrium, and an unlimited number of buyers and sellers.





Key Takeaways

Imperfect markets do not meet the rigorous standards of a hypothetical perfectly or purely competitive market.Imperfect markets are characterized by having competition for market share, high barriers to entry and exit, different products and services, and a small number of buyers and sellers.Perfect markets are theoretical and cannot exist in the real world; all real-world markets are imperfect markets.Market structures that are categorized as imperfect include monopolies, oligopolies, monopolistic competition, monopsonies, and oligopsonies.


   Understanding Imperfect Markets  

All real-world markets are imperfect. Thus, the study of real markets is always influenced by competition for market share, high barriers to entry and exit, different products and services, prices set by price makers rather than by supply and demand, imperfect or incomplete information about products and prices, and a small number of buyers and sellers.



For example, traders in the financial market do not possess perfect or even identical knowledge about financial products. The traders and assets in a financial market are not perfectly homogeneous. New information is not instantaneously transmitted, and there is a limited velocity of reactions.



When considering the implication of economic activity, economists only use perfect competition models. A such, the term imperfect market is somewhat misleading. Most people will assume an imperfect market is deeply flawed or undesirable. However, this is not always the case. The range of market imperfections is as wide as the range of all real-world markets—some are much or less efficient than others.


   Consequences of Imperfect Markets  

Not all market imperfections are harmless or natural. Situations can arise in which too few sellers control too much of a single market, or when prices fail to adequately adjust to material changes in market conditions. It is from these instances that the majority of economic debate originates.



Some economists argue that any deviation from perfect competition models justifies government intervention, in order to promote increased efficiency in production or distribution. Such interventions may come in the form of monetary policy, fiscal policy, or market regulation. One common example of such interventionism is anti-trust law, which is explicitly derived from perfect competition theory.






Governments may also use taxation, quotas, licenses, and tariffs to help regulate so-called perfect markets.



Other economists argue that government intervention may not always be necessary to correct imperfect markets. This is because government policy is also imperfect, and government actors may not possess the right incentives or information to interfere correctly. Finally, many economists argue government intervention is rarely, if ever, justified in markets. The Austrian and Chicago schools notably blame many market imperfections on erroneous government intervention.


   Types of Imperfect Markets  

When at least one condition of a perfect market is not met, it can lead to an imperfect market. Every industry has some form of imperfection. Imperfect competition can be found in the following structures:


  Monopoly  

This is a structure in which there is only one (dominant) seller. Products offered by this entity have no substitutes. These markets have high barriers to entry and a single seller who sets the prices on goods and services. Prices can change without notice to consumers.


  Oligopoly  

This structure has many buyers but few sellers. These few players in the market may bar others from entering. They may set prices together or, in the case of a cartel, only one takes the lead to determine the price for goods and services while the others follow.


  Monopolistic Competition  

In monopolistic competition, there are many sellers who offer similar products that can't be substituted. Businesses compete with one another and are price makers, but their individual decisions do not affect the other.


  Monopsony and Oligopsony  

These structures have many sellers, but few buyers. In both cases, the buyer is the one who manipulates market prices by playing firms against one another.


   Imperfect Markets vs. Perfect Markets  

Perfect markets are characterized by having the following:



An unlimited number of buyers and sellers.Identical or substitutable products.No barriers to entry or exit.Buyers have complete information on products and prices.Companies are price takers meaning have no power to set prices.



In reality, no market can ever have an unlimited number of buyers and sellers. Economic goods in every market are heterogeneous, not homogeneous, as long as more than one producer exists. A diverse range of goods and tastes are preferred in an imperfect market.



Perfect markets, though impossible to achieve, are useful because they help us think through the logic of prices and economic incentives. It is a mistake, however, to try extrapolating the rules of perfect competition into a real-world scenario. Logical problems arise from the start, especially the fact that it is impossible for any purely competitive industry to conceivably attain a state of equilibrium from any other position. Perfect competition can thus only be theoretically assumed—it can never be dynamically reached.
What Is an Implicit Cost?  

An implicit cost is any cost that has already occurred but not necessarily shown or reported as a separate expense. It represents an opportunity cost that arises when a company uses internal resources toward a project without any explicit compensation for the utilization of resources. This means when a company allocates its resources, it always forgoes the ability to earn money off the use of the resources elsewhere, so there's no exchange of cash. Put simply, an implicit cost comes from the use of an asset, rather than renting or buying it.





Key Takeaways

An implicit cost is a cost that exists without the exchange of cash and is not recorded for accounting purposes.Implicit costs represent the loss of income but do not represent a loss of profit.These costs are in contrast to explicit costs, which represent money exchanged or the use of tangible resources by a company.Examples of implicit costs include a small business owner who may forgo a salary in the early stages of operations to increase revenue.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Implicit Costs  

Implicit costs are also referred to as imputed, implied, or notional costs. These costs aren't easy to quantify. That's because businesses don’t necessarily record implicit costs for accounting purposes as money does not change hands.



These costs represent a loss of potential income, but not of profits. Implicit costs are a type of opportunity cost, which is the benefit that a company misses out on by choosing one option or alternative versus another. The implicit cost could be the amount of money a company misses out on for choosing to use its internal resources versus getting paid for allowing a third party to use those resources. For example, a company could earn income from renting out its building versus the revenue earned from using the building for manufacturing and selling its products.



A company may choose to include implicit costs as the cost of doing business since they represent possible sources of income. Economists include both implicit costs and the regular costs of doing business when calculating total economic profit. In other words, economic profit is the revenue a company generates minus the cost of doing business and any opportunity costs.






In corporate finance decisions, implicit costs should always be considered when deciding how to allocate company resources.


   Implicit Costs vs. Explicit Costs  

Implicit costs are technically not incurred and cannot be measured accurately for accounting purposes. There are no cash exchanges in the realization of implicit costs. But they are an important consideration because they help managers make effective decisions for the company.



These expenses are a big contrast to explicit costs, the other broad categorization of business expenses. Explicit costs represent any costs involved in the payment of cash or another tangible resource by a company. Rent, salary, and other operating expenses are considered explicit costs. They are all recorded within a company's financial statements.



The main difference between the two types of costs is that implicit costs are opportunity costs, while explicit costs are expenses paid with a company's own tangible assets. This makes implicit costs synonymous with imputed costs, while explicit costs are considered out-of-pocket expenses. Implicit costs are harder to measure than explicit ones, which makes implicit costs more subjective. Implicit costs help managers calculate overall economic profit, while explicit costs are used to calculate accounting profit and economic profit.


   Examples of Implicit Costs  

Examples of implicit costs include the loss of interest income on funds and the depreciation of machinery for a capital project. They may also be intangible costs that are not easily accounted for, including when an owner allocates time toward the maintenance of a company, rather than using those hours elsewhere. In most cases, implicit costs are not recorded for accounting purposes.



When a company hires a new employee, there are implicit costs to train that employee. If a manager allocates eight hours of an existing employee's day to teach this new team member, the implicit costs would be the existing employee's hourly wage, multiplied by eight. This is because the hours could have been allocated toward the employee's current role.



Another example of an implicit cost involves small business owners who may decide to pass on taking a salary in the early stages of operations to reduce costs and increase revenue. They provide the business with their skill in lieu of a salary, which becomes an implicit cost.
What Is Implied Authority?  

Implied authority refers to an agent with the jurisdiction to perform acts that are reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose of an organization. Under contract law, implied authority figures have the ability to make a legally binding contract on behalf of another person or company.


   How Implied Authority Works  

Implied authority is an authority that is not express or written into a contract, but it is authority an agent is assumed to have in order to transact the business for a principal. Implied authority is incidental to express authority since not every single detail of an agent's authority can be spelled out in the written contract. For example, in real estate, express authority means the agent has been given the authority to act on behalf of the principal.





Key Takeaways

There are three types of authority used frequently in business deals, like real estate: express, implied, and apparent.In a situation of apparent authority, it means that a person’s conduct gives the impression that they are allowed to act in the principal’s interest.When a real estate agent signs a binder with a client, that agent is given implied authority to act on behalf of the seller.Express authority occurs when an agent is working on behalf of his or her company to act on behalf of a principal. For example, a life insurance agent may have express authority under their company. 



Implied authority applies to the insurance company agent that is given the authority to solicit applications for life insurance on behalf of the insurer. When the insurer gives the agent that express authority, it also gives the agent the implied authority to telephone prospects on its behalf to arrange sales appointments. Implied authority also applies in a situation where a person is wearing a uniform or nametag bearing the logo or trademark of a business or organization. 






Express and implied authority are often used in the real estate industry.


   Example of Implied Authority  

If a server at a restaurant tells you they can give you a free beverage with the purchase of an entree, they have made a contract with you on behalf of the restaurant business they are representing. The server's authority is implied by the fact that they have been chosen as the sole employee of the business designated to do business with you. Whether or not other employees ultimately get involved in the transaction is immaterial because it is expected that they will be the only person required to complete your business transaction.



In such a situation, if a restaurant manager came to your table and informed you that the server made a mistake and tried to take back the "free beverage with paid entree" offer, the business would actually be in direct violation of a legally enforceable contract made between you, the client, and their employee. They may certainly penalize the employee if they choose, but implied authority legally obliges them to honor the terms of the agreement. The same principle applies to more complex or extreme legal circumstances.


   Special Considerations  

By contrast, "expressed authority" is clearly stated and granted by the principal to the agent either orally or in writing...and "apparent authority," sometimes called "ostensible authority," exists where a principal's actions could result in a third party (as a reasonable person) believing the agent had authority even where it may not be expressed or implied.
What Is an Implied Contract?  

An implied contract is a legally-binding obligation that derives from actions, conduct, or circumstances of one or more parties in an agreement. It has the same legal force as an express contract, which is a contract that is voluntarily entered into and agreed on verbally or in writing by two or more parties. The implied contract, on the other hand, is assumed to exist, but no written or verbal confirmation is necessary.





Key Takeaways

An implied contract is created by the actions, behavior, or circumstances of the people involved.An implied contract has the same legal force as a written or verbal contract.The implied contract, such as an implied warranty, is assumed to exist, and no confirmation is necessary.Because of the lack of documentation, it is more difficult to enforce an implied contract in some circumstances.


   Understanding Implied Contracts  

The principles underlying an implied contract are that no person should receive unjust benefits at the expense of another person, and a written or verbal agreement is not needed to get fair play. For example, the implied warranty is a type of implied contract. When a product is purchased, it must be capable of fulfilling its function. A new refrigerator must keep food cool, or either the manufacturer or the seller has failed to meet the terms of an implied contract.



An implied contract is sometimes difficult to enforce because proving the justice of the claim is a matter for argument, not a simple matter of producing a signed document. In addition, some jurisdictions place limits on implied contracts. For example, a contract for a real estate transaction must be backed up by a written contract in some courts.






An implied contract has the same legal force as a written contract but may be harder to enforce.


   Implied-in-Fact vs. Implied-in-Law Contracts  

There are two forms of implied contract, called implied-in-fact and implied-in-law contracts. An implied-in-fact contract is created by the circumstances and behavior of the parties involved. If a customer enters a restaurant and orders food, for example, an implied contract is created. The restaurant owner is obligated to serve the food, and the customer is obligated to pay the prices listed on the menu for it.



An implied-in-fact contract may also be created by the past conduct of the people involved. For example, a teenager offers to walk a neighbor's dog and is rewarded with two movie tickets. On three subsequent occasions, the teenager comes over to walk the dog and is given two movie tickets. But on the last occasion, the neighbor simply fails to produce the movie tickets. The teenager has a case for claiming that the neighbor created an implied-in-fact contract by regularly producing movie tickets in return for dog-walking services. It is a reasonable assumption.






The following must be present to establish an implied-in-fact contract:An offer and acceptance of the offerMutual agreementConsideration



The other type of unwritten contract, the implied-in-law contract, can also be called a quasi-contract. It is a legally binding contract that neither party had the intention of creating. Say the same restaurant patron mentioned above chokes on a chicken bone, and a doctor dining at the next booth leaps to the rescue. The doctor is entitled to send a bill to the diner, and the diner is obligated to pay it.




What Is an Implied Contract vs. an Express contract?
Express and most implied contracts require mutual agreement and a meeting of the minds. However, an express contract is formally arranged through an oral or written agreement. An implied contract is formed by circumstances or the actions of parties. A real estate contract is an express contract that must be formed in writing to be executable. Ordering a pizza is an implied contract as the pizza restaurant is obligated to provide pizza to the customer once the purchase is complete.




Do Implied Contracts Hold Up in Court?
Implied contracts are legally enforceable and can be held up in court. However, proving that there is or was a contract could be challenging compared to ones formed orally or in writing. Courts will often review, among other things, the relationship between parties, whether previous agreements were established, and duties performed.




What Are the Types of Implied Contracts and How Do They Differ?
Implied contracts are either implied-in-fact or implied-in-law. Implied-in-fact agreements are made when parties perform duties as if they have a contract in place. Implied-in-fact assume that parties understand the terms of the agreement and what actions must be taken. On the contrary, an implied-in-law contract is not formed by intent. This type of contract ensures that someone for whom services were provided is not unjustly enriched by the performance of another.




What Are the Requirements for an Implied Contract?
Requirements for an implied contract differ based on the type of implied contract that is assumed. Neither are formed orally or in writing. For an implied-in-fact contract, there must be an offer, an acceptance of the offer, mutual agreement, and consideration. The terms and execution of the agreement will be evidenced by the behavior of the parties involved. For an implied-in-law contract, circumstances form the contract, rather than intent. When services or goods are not gratuitously provided to one party, the receiver is expected to offer consideration. There cannot be an imbalance of benefit between the parties, meaning the receiver cannot be unfairly enriched.


   The Bottom Line  

Implied contracts are contracts formed by the actions, conduct, or circumstances of parties to an agreement. Unlike express contracts, they are neither oral nor written agreements. Implied contracts are either characterized as implied-in-fact or implied-in-law. The former, which is easier to prove before a court, is formed when parties intend to enter into an agreement and behave in a manner that forms the contract. Implied-in-law requires no intent from parties to enter an agreement. Implied-in-law was created to prevent one or more parties from being unfairly enriched by another. Normal contract rules, such as mutual agreement, an offer, and acceptance, are not required for implied-in-law contracts. Implied-in-law occurs when a party bestows upon another a measurable benefit that is not intended as a gift.
What Is the Implied Rate?  

The implied rate is the difference between the spot interest rate and the interest rate for the forward or futures delivery date.





Key Takeaways

The implied rate is an interest rate equal to the difference between the spot rate and the forward or futures rate.The implied rate gives investors a way to compare returns across investments.An implied rate can be calculated for any type of security that also has an option or futures contract.


   Understanding the Implied Rate  

The implied interest rate gives investors a way to compare returns across investments and evaluate the risk and return characteristics of that particular security. An implied interest rate can be calculated for any type of security that also has an option or futures contract.



For example, if the current U.S. dollar deposit rate is 1% for spot and 1.5% in one year's time, the implied rate is the difference of 0.5%. Alternatively, if the spot price for a currency is 1.050 and the futures contract price is 1.1071, the difference of 5.71% is the implied interest rate. In both of these examples, the implied rate is positive, which indicates that the market expects future borrowing rates to be higher than they are now.



To calculate the implied rate, take the ratio of the forward price over the spot price. Raise that ratio to the power of 1 divided by the length of time until the expiration of the forward contract. Then subtract 1.



Implied rate = (forward / spot) raised to the power of (1 / time) - 1



where time = length of the forward contract in years


   Implied Rate Examples  
  Commodities  

If the spot price for a barrel of oil is $68 and a one-year futures contract for a barrel of oil is $71, the implied interest rate is:



Implied rate = (71/68)(1/1) -1 = 4.41%



Divide the futures price of $71 by the spot price of $68. Since this is a one-year contract, the ratio is simply raised to the power of 1 (1 / time). Subtract 1 from the ratio and find the implied interest rate of 4.41%.


  Stocks  

If a stock is currently trading at $30 and there is a two-year forward contract trading at $39, the implied interest rate is:



Implied rate = (39/30)(1/2) - 1 = 14.02%



Divide the forward price of $39 by the spot price of $30. Since this is a two-year futures contract, raise the ratio to the power of 1/2. Subtract 1 from the answer to find the implied interest rate is 14.02%.


  Currencies  

If the spot rate for the euro is $1.2291 and the one-year futures price for the euro is $1.2655, the implied interest rate is:



Implied rate = (1.2655 / 1.2291)(1/1) - 1 = 2.96%



Calculate the ratio of the forward price over the spot price by dividing 1.2655 by 1.2291. Since this is a one-year forward contract, the ratio is simply raised to the power of 1. Subtracting 1 from the ratio of the forward price over the spot price results in an implied interest rate of 2.96%.
What Is Implied Volatility (IV)?  

The term implied volatility refers to a metric that captures the market's view of the likelihood of changes in a given security's price. Investors can use implied volatility to project future moves and supply and demand, and often employ it to price options contracts. Implied volatility isn't the same as historical volatility (also known as realized volatility or statistical volatility), which measures past market changes and their actual results.





Key Takeaways

Implied volatility is the market's forecast of a likely movement in a security's price.IV is often used to price options contracts where high implied volatility results in options with higher premiums and vice versa.Supply and demand and time value are major determining factors for calculating implied volatility.Implied volatility usually increases in bearish markets and decreases when the market is bullish.Although IV helps quantify market sentiment and uncertainty, it is based solely on prices rather than fundamentals. 






   How Implied Volatility (IV) Works  

Implied volatility is the market's forecast of a likely movement in a security's price. It is a metric used by investors to estimate future fluctuations (volatility) of a security's price based on certain predictive factors. Implied volatility is denoted by the symbol σ (sigma). It can often be thought to be a proxy of market risk. It is commonly expressed using percentages and standard deviations over a specified time horizon.



When applied to the stock market, implied volatility generally increases in bearish markets, when investors believe equity prices will decline over time. IV decreases when the market is bullish. This is when investors believe prices will rise over time. Bearish markets are considered to be undesirable and riskier to the majority of equity investors.



IV doesn't predict the direction in which the price change will proceed. For example, high volatility means a large price swing, but the price could swing upward (very high), downward (very low), or fluctuate between the two directions. Low volatility means that the price likely won't make broad, unpredictable changes.


   Implied Volatility and Options  

Implied volatility is one of the deciding factors in the pricing of options. Buying options contracts allow the holder to buy or sell an asset at a specific price during a pre-determined period. Implied volatility approximates the future value of the option, and the option's current value is also taken into consideration. Options with high implied volatility have higher premiums and vice versa.



Keep in mind that implied volatility is based on probability. This means it is only an estimate of future prices rather than an actual indication of where they'll go. Even though investors take implied volatility into account when making investment decisions, this dependence can inevitably impact prices themselves.



There is no guarantee that an option's price will follow the predicted pattern. However, when considering an investment, it does help to consider the actions other investors take with the option, and implied volatility is directly correlated with the market opinion, which does, in turn, affect option pricing.






Implied volatility also affects the pricing of non-option financial instruments, such as an interest rate cap, which limits the amount an interest rate on a product can be raised.


   Implied Volatility and Option Pricing Models  

Implied volatility can be determined by using an option pricing model. It is the only factor in the model that isn't directly observable in the market. Instead, the mathematical option pricing model uses other factors to determine implied volatility and the option's premium.


  Black-Scholes Model  

This is a widely used and well-known options pricing model, factors in current stock price, options strike price, time until expiration (denoted as a percent of a year), and risk-free interest rates. The Black-Scholes Model is quick in calculating any number of option prices.



But the model cannot accurately calculate American options, since it only considers the price at an option's expiration date. American options are those that the owner may exercise at any time up to and including the expiration day.


  Binomial Model  

This model uses a tree diagram with volatility factored in at each level to show all possible paths an option's price can take, then works backward to determine one price. The benefit of the Binomial Model is that you can revisit it at any point for the possibility of early exercise.



Early exercise is executing the contract's actions at its strike price before the contract's expiration. Early exercise only happens in American-style options. However, the calculations involved in this model take a long time to determine, so this model isn't the best in rushed situations.


   Factors Affecting Implied Volatility  

Just as with the market as a whole, implied volatility is subject to unpredictable changes. Supply and demand are major determining factors for implied volatility. When an asset is in high demand, the price tends to rise. So does the implied volatility, which leads to a higher option premium due to the risky nature of the option.



The opposite is also true. When there is plenty of supply but not enough market demand, the implied volatility falls, and the option price becomes cheaper.



Another premium influencing factor is the time value of the option, or the amount of time until the option expires. A short-dated option often results in low implied volatility, whereas a long-dated option tends to result in high implied volatility. The difference lays in the amount of time left before the expiration of the contract. Since there is a lengthier time, the price has an extended period to move into a favorable price level in comparison to the strike price.


   Pros and Cons of Using Implied Volatility  

Implied volatility helps to quantify market sentiment. It estimates the size of the movement an asset may take. However, as mentioned earlier, it does not indicate the direction of the movement. Option writers will use calculations, including implied volatility, to price options contracts. Also, many investors will look at the IV when they choose an investment. During periods of high volatility, they may choose to invest in safer sectors or products.



Implied volatility does not have a basis on the fundamentals underlying the market assets, but is based solely on price. Also, adverse news or events such as wars or natural disasters may impact the implied volatility.





Pros

Quantifies market sentiment, uncertainty
Helps set options prices
Determines trading strategy



Cons

Based solely on prices, not fundamentals
Sensitive to unexpected factors, news events
Predicts movement, but not direction





   Real-World Example  

Traders and investors use charting to analyze implied volatility. One especially popular tool is the Cboe Volatility Index (VIX). Created by the Cboe Global Markets, the VIX is a real-time market index. The index uses price data from near-dated, near-the-money S&P 500 index options to project expectations for volatility over the next 30 days.



Investors can use the VIX to compare different securities or to gauge the stock market's volatility as a whole, and form trading strategies accordingly.




Why Is Implied Volatility Important?
Future volatility is one of the inputs needed for options pricing models. The future, however, is unknown. The actual volatility levels revealed by options prices are therefore the market's best estimate of those assumptions. If somebody has a different view on future volatility relative to the implied volatility in the market, they can buy options (if they think future volatility will be higher) or sell options (if it will be lower).




How Is Implied Volatility Computed?
Since implied volatility is embedded in an option's price, one needs to re-arrange an options pricing model formula to solve for volatility instead of the price (since the current price is known in the market).




How Do Changes in Implied Volatility Affect Options Prices?
Regardless of whether an option is a call or put, its price, or premium, will increase as implied volatility increases. This is because an option's value is based on the likelihood that it will finish in-the-money (ITM). Since volatility measures the extent of price movements, the more volatility there is the larger future price movements ought to be and, therefore, the more likely an option will finish ITM.




Will All Options in a Series Have the Same Implied Volatility?
No, not necessarily. Downside put options tend to be more in demand by investors as hedges against losses. As a result, these options are often bid higher in the market than a comparable upside call (unless the stock is a takeover target). As a result, there is more implied volatility in options with downside strikes than on the upside. This is known as the volatility skew or "smile."
What Is an Import?  

An import is a good or service bought in one country that was produced in another. Imports and exports are the components of international trade. If the value of a country's imports exceeds the value of its exports, the country has a negative balance of trade, also known as a trade deficit.



The United States has run a trade deficit since 1975. The deficit stood at $576.86 billion in 2019, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.





Key Takeaways

An import is a product or service produced abroad and purchased in your home country.Imported goods or services are attractive when domestic industries cannot produce similar goods and services cheaply or efficiently.Free trade agreements and tariff schedules often dictate which goods and materials are less expensive to import.Economists and policy analysts disagree on the positive and negative impacts of imports.


   The Basics of an Import  

Countries are most likely to import goods or services that their domestic industries cannot produce as efficiently or cheaply as the exporting country. Countries may also import raw materials or commodities that are not available within their borders. For example, many countries import oil because they cannot produce it domestically or cannot produce enough to meet demand.



Free trade agreements and tariff schedules often dictate which goods and materials are less expensive to import. With globalization and the increasing prevalence of free-trade agreements between the United States, other countries and trading blocks, U.S. imports of goods and services increased from $580.14 billion in 1989 to $3.1 trillion as of 2019.



Free-trade agreements and a reliance on imports from countries with cheaper labor often seem responsible for a large portion of the decline in manufacturing jobs in the importing nation. Free trade opens the ability to import goods and materials from cheaper production zones and reduces reliance on domestic goods. The impact on manufacturing jobs was evident between 2000 and 2007, and it was further exacerbated by the Great Recession and the slow recovery afterward.


   Disagreement About Imports  

Economists and policy analysts disagree on the positive and negative impacts of imports. Some critics argue that continued reliance on imports means reduced demand for products manufactured domestically, and thus can hobble entrepreneurship and the development of business ventures. Proponents say imports enhance the quality of life by providing consumers with greater choice and cheaper goods; the availability of these cheaper goods also help to prevent rampant inflation.


   Real-Life Example of Imports  

The United States' top trading partners, as of November 2020, included China, Canada, Mexico, Japan, and Germany. Two of these countries were involved in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that was implemented in 1994 and, at the time, created one of the largest free-trade zones in the world. With very few exceptions, this allowed the free movement of goods and materials between the United States, Canada, and Mexico.






The United States has experienced a continuous trade deficit since 1975.﻿﻿



It is widely believed NAFTA has reduced automotive parts and vehicle manufacturing in the United States and Canada, with Mexico being the main beneficiary of the agreement within this sector. The cost of labor in Mexico is much cheaper than in the United States or Canada, pushing automakers to relocate their factories "south of the border."





$16

The minimum hourly wage paid to autoworkers for certain cars under a trade agreement signed between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.



In 2018, the U.S., Canada, and Mexico agreed to replace NAFTA with the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA). Its highlights include:



Requiring automobiles to have 75% of their components made in one of the three member nationsSetting a minimum wage for autoworkers and extending union protections and sanctions for labor violationsExtending intellectual property copyrights and prohibiting duties on digital music and literatureGiving the U.S. farmers access to Canada's dairy market



The USMCA took effect on July 1, 2020.
What Is Import Duty?  

Import duty is a tax collected on imports and some exports by a country's customs authorities. A good's value will usually dictate the import duty. Depending on the context, import duty may also be known as a customs duty, tariff, import tax or import tariff.


   Import Duty Explained  

Import duties have two distinct purposes: raise income for the local government and to give a market advantage to locally grown or produced goods that are not subject to import duties. A third related goal is sometimes to penalize a particular nation by charging high import duties on its products.



In the United States, Congress established import duties. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) lists the rates for imports and is published by the International Trade Commission (USITC). Different rates are applied depending on the countries' trade relations status with the United States. The general rate applies to countries that have normal trade relations with the United States. The special rate is for countries that are not developed or are eligible for an international trade program.





Key Takeaways

Import duty is also known as customs duty, tariff, import tax or import tariff.Import duty is levied when imported goods first enter the country. Around the world, several organizations and treaties have a direct impact on import duties. 


   International Organizations  

Around the world, several organizations and treaties have a direct impact on import duties. Several countries have tried to reduce duties to promote free trade. The World Trade Organization (WTO) promotes and enforces commitments that its member nations have made to cut tariffs. Countries make these commitments during complex rounds of negotiations.



Another example of an international effort to reduce tariffs was the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Canada, the United States, and Mexico. NAFTA eliminated tariffs, except those on certain agriculture, between the three North American nations. In 2018, the U.S., Canada, and Mexico signed a new deal to replace NAFTA called the USMCA.



In February 2016, 12 Pacific Rim nations entered into the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which significantly impacts the import duties between these countries. It is expected to take several years before the TPP comes into force.


   Real World Example  

In practice, import duty is levied when imported goods first enter the country. For example, in the United States, when a shipment of goods reaches the border, the owner, purchaser or a Customs broker (the importer of record) must file entry documents at the port of entry and pay the estimated duties to Customs.



The amount of duty payable varies greatly depending on the imported good, the country of origin and several other factors. In the United States, Customs uses the HTS, which has several hundred entries, to determine the correct rate. For consumers, the price they pay includes duty costs. Therefore, all other things being equal, the same good produced internally should cost less, giving local producers an advantage.



It takes years for someone to learn how to classify an item to determine its correct duty rate. Every product requires specialized knowledge to set a correct import duty. For instance, you might want to know the rate of duty of a wool suit. A classification specialist will need to know, does it have darts? Did the wool come from Israel or another country that qualifies for duty-free treatment for specific categories of its products? Where was the suit assembled, and does it have any synthetic fibers in the lining?
What Is Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI)?  

Import substitution industrialization (ISI) is a theory of economics typically adhered to by developing countries or emerging market nations that seek to decrease their dependence on developed countries. The approach targets the protection and incubation of newly formed domestic industries to fully develop sectors so that the goods produced are competitive with imported goods. Under ISI theory, the process makes local economies, and their nations, self-sufficient.





Key Takeaways

Import substitution industrialization is an economic theory adhered to by developing countries that wish to decrease their dependence on developed countries.ISI targets the protection and incubation of newly formed domestic industries to fully develop sectors so the goods produced are competitive with imported goods.Developing countries began to reject ISI policy in the 1980s and 1990s.


   Understanding Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI)  

The primary goal of the implemented substitution industrialization theory is to protect, strengthen, and grow local industries using a variety of tactics, including tariffs, import quotas, and subsidized government loans. Countries implementing this theory attempt to shore up production channels for each stage of a product's development. 



ISI runs directly counter to the comparative advantage concept that occurs when countries specialize in producing goods at a lower opportunity cost and export them.


  The History of Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI) Theory  

ISI refers to the development economics policies of the 20th century. However, the theory itself has been advocated since the 18th century and was supported by economists such as Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List.



Countries initially implemented ISI policies in the global south (Latin America, Africa, and parts of Asia), where the intention was to develop self-sufficiency by creating an internal market within each country. The success of ISI policies was facilitated by subsidizing prominent industries, such as power generation and agriculture, and encouraging nationalization and protectionist trade policies.



Nevertheless, developing countries slowly began to reject ISI in the 1980s and 1990s after the rise of global market-driven liberalization, a concept based on the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank's structural adjustment programs.


  The Theory of Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI)  

ISI theory is based on a group of developmental policies. The foundation for this theory is composed of the infant industry argument, the Singer-Prebisch thesis, and Keynesian economics. From these economic perspectives, a group of practices can be derived: a working industrial policy that subsidizes and organizes the production of strategic substitutes, barriers to trade such as tariffs, an overvalued currency that aids manufacturers in importing goods, and a lack of support for foreign direct investment.



Related to and intertwined with ISI is the school of structuralist economics. Conceptualized in the works of idealistic economists and financial professionals such as Hans Singer, Celso Furtado, and Octavio Paz, this school emphasizes the importance of taking into account structural features of a country or a society in economic analysis. That is, political, social, and other institutional factors.



A critical feature is the dependent relationship that emerging countries often have with developed nations. Structuralist economics theories further gained prominence through the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA or CEPAL, its acronym in Spanish). In fact, Latin American structuralism has become a synonym for the era of ISI that flourished in various Latin American countries from the 1950s to the 1980s.


   Real World Example of Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI)  

That era kicked off with the creation of ECLA in 1950, with Argentine central banker Raul Prebisch as its executive secretary. Prebish outlined an interpretation of Latin America's burgeoning transition from primary export-led growth to internally oriented urban-industrial development in a report. That report became "the founding document of Latin American structuralism" (to quote one academic paper) and a virtual manual for import substitution industrialization.



Inspired by Prebisch's call to arms, most Latin American nations went through some form of ISI in the ensuing years. They expanded the manufacturing of non-durable consumer goods, like food and beverages, and then expanded into durable goods, such as autos and appliances. Some nations, like Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, even developed domestic production of more advanced industrial products like machinery, electronics, and aircraft.



Although successful in several ways, the implementation of ISI did lead to high inflation and other economic problems. When these were exacerbated by stagnation and foreign debt crises in the 1970s, many Latin American nations sought loans from the IMF and the World Bank. At the insistence of these institutions, these countries had to drop their ISI protectionist policies and open up their markets to free trade.
What Is an Impression?  

An impression is a metric used to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of a piece of content, usually an advertisement, digital post, or web page. Impressions are also referred to as an "ad view." They are used in online advertising, which often pays on a per-impression basis. Counting impressions is essential to how web advertising is accounted for and paid for in search engine marketing, as well as measuring the performance of social media campaigns. Impressions are not a measure of whether an advertisement has been clicked on, but how many times it was displayed or had potential "eyeballs" on it, which leads to some debate as to how accurate the metric is.





Key Takeaways

Impressions are used to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of a piece of content, usually an advertisement, digital post, or a web page.Counting impressions can often fall in a gray area, such as whether this includes duplicate views, interactions from bots, or if impressions are even an effective way to measure the success of a digital marketing campaign.Technically speaking, ad servers provide a barely visible image (or "pixel") that can be found on each publisher page. When a page with that pixel image loads, that is when an impression is made.


   How Impressions Work  

Broadly, one impression is equal to each occurrence of a web page, ad, or piece of content being found and loaded. Because it is accessible to both measure and understand, it has become the most convenient and economical way to determine whether an advertisement is being seen or not. But exactly how that figure is interpreted is up for debate. Some online advertising experts believe that there is no exact way to count impressions since a count can be skewed by a single person registering the same ad in several page views, for example. There are several more ways for total impression numbers to be skewed, which leads to advertisers to view any impression figure with a bit of skepticism. In general, most advertisers and publishers decide beforehand how impressions are counted and accounted for. Advertisers may decide on whether a campaign is successful or not based on another form of reporting, such as engagement (broadly, how an ad viewer interacts with an ad).


   Impression Accounting  

Frequently, impressions are measured by cost per mille (CPM), where mille refers to 1,000 impressions (or cost per thousand). A banner ad might have a CPM of $5, meaning that the website owner receives $5 every time an ad on his website is displayed 1,000 times.



The owner of a website may be paid for each ad impression. Other advertising arrangements may only pay the website owner when a visitor clicks on the ad, or clicks on the ad and makes a purchase. Typically, advertisers pay less for an ad campaign based solely on impressions and more for campaigns based on click-throughs and conversions. The reason for this difference in pay rates is that an ad that causes its viewer to take action resulting in a sale is more valuable to the advertiser than one that does not. Still, impressions are useful when running public relations campaigns that are designed to build an image or create awareness about a company or product.



The exact way impressions are counted is somewhat technical. Ad servers provide a barely visible image (or "pixel") that can be found on each publisher page. When a page with that pixel image loads, an impression is made.


   Impression Fraud  

Several things can skew impression counts. For one, estimates have that around 60% of all web traffic is from bots. Impression counts make no distinction between a human ad viewer or a bot. Ads can also fail to load, or the incorrect ad may load. Such errors may or may not be accounted for. There is also outright fraud, with unscrupulous website developers using several methods to game the system (one estimate is that a quarter of the online advertising market is fraudulent). Nonetheless, impressions remain a popular way to measure engagement, whether in advertising, social media, or analyzing web traffic.
What Is Imprest?  

An imprest is a cash account that a business relies on to pay for small, routine expenses. Funds contained in imprests are regularly replenished, in order to maintain a fixed balance.



The term “imprest” can also refer to a monetary advance given to a person for a specific purpose.





Key Takeaways

Imprest refers to a type of cash account maintained by a company used to pay for small incidental or routine expenses.A fixed account balance is established in the imprest account and refunded as needed when money is withdrawn for items like payroll, travel, or petty cash.Because of its small and fixed nature that is easily monitored, imprest discourages unauthorized or lavish expenses.


   How Imprest Works  

The most well-known type of imprest is a petty cash account, which is used to cover smaller transactions when it’s impractical or inconvenient to cut checks. Such accounts maintain a set amount of cash on-site, which can be used to reimburse employees and pay for small expenses. Petty cash funds are typically handled by custodians who monitor the account and dispense cash to employees, who in turn furnish business-related receipts.



Imprests may also be used to cover employee payroll, dividends, employee travel, and bonuses. After these outgoing expenses are paid, the fund is typically reimbursed by capital from the company's primary bank account.



Imprests deter the use of unauthorized spending because the funds are earmarked for specific purposes. Consequently, imprests typically pay out the same amount of money on a regular basis, which ideally brings the account to a near-zero balance, before it's automatically replenished with that same set amount of money. This system makes it easier to monitor expenses, flag discrepancies, and ultimately detect fraud.


   The Imprest System  

The imprest system involves the following steps:



A petty cash fund is established, with a set amount of cash. This is recorded in the company's ledger.Any expenses paid through the petty cash fund must be documented with receipts.The fund is replenished regularly with disbursement receipts to maintain a fixed balance.The fund is monitored closely for any discrepancies between expected cash (based on documentation) and actual cash. If any discrepancies exist, they are investigated.


   The Future of Imprests  

As companies increasingly rely on electronic transactions, the imprest system is steadily falling out of favor. It's often easier to use a company credit card than an imprest, because the former offers electronic documentation of transactions, and doesn't trigger a need to replenish any outgoing funds. 




What is an imprest account used for?
Companies keep cash on hand in imprest to pay for incidentals like office supplies, small reimbursements, or other minor expenses. Similar to petty cash, imprest should not be used for material expenses such as utilities or to purchase assets for the firm.




Where does the word "imprest" come from?
The word is derived from the early Italian or medieval Latin imprestare, which meant to lend. Thus, an imprest now means a small advance of funds used for incidentals, and which must be replenished after use.




How else is the term imprest used?
In addition to funds used by a business, an imprest may also refer to money paid to someone for doing work on behalf of a government. In this case, the government advances the funds prior to the work being completed.
What Is an Impulse Wave Pattern?  

An impulse wave pattern is an indication of a strong move in a financial asset's price coinciding with the main direction of the underlying trend. Impulse waves can refer to upward movements in uptrends or downward movements in downtrends.



The term is used frequently by adherents of Elliott Wave theory, a method for analyzing and predicting price movements in the financial markets.





Key Takeaways

Impulse waves are trend-confirming patterns identified by Elliott Wave theory.Impulse waves consist of five sub-waves that make a net movement in the same direction as the trend of the next-largest degree.Elliott Wave Theory is a method of technical analysis that looks for recurrent long-term price patterns that are related to persistent changes in investor sentiment and psychology.


   Understanding Impulse Waves  

The interesting thing about impulse wave patterns in relation to the Elliott Wave theory is that they are not limited to a certain time period. A wave can last for several hours, several years, or decades.



Regardless of the time frame used, impulse waves always run in the same direction as the trend but at a one-larger degree. These impulse waves are shown in the illustration below as wave 1, wave 3, and wave 5, while collectively waves 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 form a five-wave impulse at a one-larger degree.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



Impulse waves consist of five sub-waves that make net movement in the same direction as the trend of the next-largest degree. This pattern is the most common motive wave and the easiest to spot in a market. Like all motive waves, it consists of five sub-waves: three of them are also motive waves, and two are corrective waves.



This is labeled as a 5-3-5-3-5 structure as shown above.



However, it has three rules that define its formation. These rules are unbreakable. If one of these rules is violated, then the structure is not an impulse wave and one would need to re-label the suspected impulse wave. The three rules are:



Wave 2 cannot retrace more than 100% of wave oneWave 3 can never be the shortest of waves one, three, and fiveWave 4 cannot overlap wave one


   Elliott Wave Theory  

Elliott Wave theory was formulated by R.N. Elliott in the 1930s based on his study of 75 years of stock charts covering various time periods. Elliott designed his theory to provide insights into the probable future direction of larger price movements in the equity market. The theory can be used in conjunction with other technical analysis methods to pinpoint potential opportunities.



Wave theory seeks to ascertain market price direction through the study of impulse wave and corrective wave patterns. Impulse waves consist of five smaller-degree waves net moving in the same direction as a larger trend, while corrective waves are composed of three smaller-degree waves moving in the opposite direction.



To the theory's advocates, a bull market consists of a five-wave impulse, and a bear market consists of a corrective retracement, regardless of size.



The number of waves in a five-wave impulse, the number of waves in a three-wave correction, and the number of waves in combinations thereof accord with Fibonacci numbers, a numeric sequence associated with growth and decay in life forms. Elliott noticed that wave retracements often conform to Fibonacci ratios, such as 38.2% and 61.8%, which are based on the golden ratio of 1.618.



Wave patterns are also a part of the Elliott Wave oscillator, a tool inspired by Elliott Wave theory that depicts price patterns as positive or negative above or below a fixed horizontal axis.



Elliott Wave theory continues to be a popular trading tool, thanks to Robert Prechter and his colleagues at Elliott Wave International, a market research firm formed to apply and enhance Elliott’s original work by integrating it with such current technologies as artificial intelligence.
What Is Imputed Value?  

Imputed value, also known as estimated imputation, is an assumed value given to an item when the actual value is not known or available. Imputed values are a logical or implicit value for an item or time set, wherein a "true" value has yet to be ascertained.



An imputed value would be the best guess estimate used to forecast a larger set of values or series of data points. Imputed values can pertain to the value of intangible assets owned by a firm, the opportunity cost associated with an event, or used for ascertaining the value of a historical item for which facts about its value at a past point in time are not available.





Key Takeaways

Imputed value is a calculated estimate of value produced when a direct or explicit value is unavailable or impossible to obtain.Imputed values may be given to intangible assets held by a firm, such as the value of a patent or other piece of intellectual property.Because imputed values are only estimates or forecasts, they may be subject to error. One should heed imputed values with caution when evaluating a company's financial statements.


   Understanding Imputed Value  

Imputed values can be used in a variety of situations. These include opportunity cost associated with an event, intangible assets owned by a firm, or the value of a historical item for which facts about its value at a past point in time are not available. Additionally, data points in time series data may require estimations to complete a full range of figures. So long as the imputed values are fair estimates, there are typically no issues with their use.



Imputed values may also be used in computing economic data such as gross domestic product (GDP). In order to represent a comprehensive picture of economic activity, GDP must include some goods and services that are not traded in the marketplace. Those components of the GDP are called imputations.



Examples include the services of owner-occupied housing, financial services provided without charge, personal consumption expenditures (PCE), and the treatment of employer-provided health insurance. Imputations approximate the price and quantity that would be obtained for a good or service if it was traded in the marketplace. 



Similar to imputed value is imputed cost. An imputed cost is one that is incurred by virtue of using an asset instead of investing it or undertaking an alternative course of action. An imputed cost is an invisible cost that is not incurred directly, as opposed to an explicit cost, which is incurred directly.


   Example of Imputed Value  

For example, assume that XYZ company chooses to invest in project A over project B, that choice has an opportunity cost associated with it. The actual dollar cost assigned to that opportunity cost is an imputed value since it is impossible to ascertain the actual amount of the opportunity cost by measuring it.



The value of a patent held by ABC company is an imputed cost. It can be estimated how much additional business or revenue has been brought in by owning the patent and how much the value of the company has increased as a result, but it is not possible to measure it definitively in hard dollars.
What Is Imputed Interest?  

Imputed interest is a term used in tax law to describe a situation where a lender charges no interest on a loan, but the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers the loan to have been made at an interest rate that is "imputed" or implied by market conditions. This can happen when a lender charges a lower interest rate than the market rate, or when a borrower receives a loan from a family member or friend at a below-market interest rate. In such cases, the IRS may require the lender to pay taxes on the difference between the actual interest rate and the imputed interest rate.



The IRS thus uses imputed interest to collect tax revenues on loans or securities that pay little or no interest. Imputed interest is important for discount bonds, such as zero-coupon bonds and other securities sold below face value and mature at par. The IRS uses an accretive method when calculating the imputed interest on Treasury bonds and has applicable federal rates that set a minimum interest rate in relation to imputed interest and original issue discount rules.





Key Takeaways

Imputed interest is a type of interest that is assumed to have been paid or earned, even though no actual interest payment has been made.Some loans are exempt from imputed interest, such as gift loans between members of the same family for less than $10,000.Imputed interest is calculated according to the accretive method.Imputed interest can also apply to loans from family and friends, depending on the terms and value of the loan.This is done to prevent individuals from avoiding taxes by not charging or paying interest on loans.


   Understanding Imputed Interest  

Imputed interest occurs when a taxpayer has borrowed money but the lender charges no interest or an interest rate that is much lower than the market rate. The tax treatment of such loans depends on whether the loan was an actual loan, a demand loan, or a gift from friends or family. This distinction is important because the tax authorities treat each type of loan differently with respect to imputed interest.



The IRS considers an actual loan to occur when there is a written agreement between the lender and borrower. In this case, the lender may be required to pay taxes on interest income, whether or not they actually charged a market interest rate. Submission of written records helps the IRS determine whether the loan is a conventional loan, as opposed to a gift loan.



Imputed interest may therefore apply to loans among family and friends. For example, a mother loans her son $50,000 with no interest charges. If the applicable short-term federal rate is 2 percent, the son should pay his mother $1,000 annually in interest. The IRS assumes the mother collects this amount from her son and lists it on her tax return as interest income even though she did not collect the funds.






Gift loans of less than $10,000 are exempt from imputed interest, as long as the money isn't used to buy income-producing assets.


   Applicable Federal Rates  

Because there were many low-interest or interest-free loans that went untaxed, the IRS established applicable federal rates through the Tax Act of 1984. The applicable federal rate (AFR) determines the lowest interest that one may charge on loans below a specific interest rate threshold and considers the amount of potential income generated from the interest rate as imputed income. Because of the creation of AFR, the IRS may collect tax revenue from loans that are otherwise untaxed.



Because imputed tax rates are tied to the actual interest rate environment at a given time, each month, the IRS provides various prescribed rates for federal income tax purposes. AFR rates are regularly published as revenue rulings and can be looked up on the IRS website.


   Calculating Imputed Interest on a Zero-Coupon Bond  

When calculating imputed interest on a zero-coupon bond, an investor first determines the bond’s yield to maturity (YTM). Assuming the accrual period is one year, the investor divides the face value of the bond by the price paid when it was purchased. The investor then increases the value by a power equal to one divided by the number of accrual periods before the bond matures. The investor reduces the number by one and multiplies by the number of accrual periods in one year to determine the zero-coupon bond’s YTM.



Because the adjusted purchase price of a zero-coupon bond is initially equal to its purchase price when issued, the accrued interest gained over each accrual period adds to the adjusted purchase price. The accrued interest is the initial adjusted purchase price multiplied by the YTM. This value is the imputed interest for the period.






While the concept of interest and the charging of interest on loans is a common practice in the financial world, the idea of imputed interest is a legal construct that is used to determine whether a lender is required to pay taxes on a loan that has been made at a below-market interest rate. Imputed interest is, therefore, not an actual interest rate or a real cost to the borrower, but rather a theoretical interest rate that is used for tax purposes.


   Imputed Interest Exemptions  

There are several exemptions to the rules on imputed interest, which may allow a lender to avoid paying taxes on the difference between the actual and imputed interest rates. For example, a loan between family members may be exempt from imputed interest if the loan is for a reasonable amount (typically less than $10,000) and is charged at a rate that is not significantly below the market rate, and if the loan is not used to purchase income-generating assets. Additionally, loans made by a qualified charitable organization, a political organization, or a nonprofit organization may also be exempt from imputed interest.



Loans made for the purpose of buying a primary residence may be exempt from imputed interest, as may loans made for the purpose of buying a car or other certain other personal property. Additionally, loans made for the purpose of funding a business or investment may also be exempt from imputed interest in some cases.



It's important to note that the rules and exemptions for imputed interest can vary depending on the specific circumstances of the loan and the applicable tax laws. It's always best to consult with a tax professional if you have questions about imputed interest and how it may apply to you.


   Imputed Interest on a Zero-Coupon Bond  

A zero-coupon bond is a type of bond that does not pay periodic interest payments to the bondholder. Instead, the bond is sold at a discount from its face value, and the difference between the purchase price and the face value is considered to be the return on the investment. In the case of a zero-coupon bond, the imputed interest is the difference between the purchase price of the bond and the face value. For example, if a zero-coupon bond has a face value of $1,000 and is purchased for $700, the imputed interest would be $300.



The bondholder would be required to pay taxes on this imputed interest each year, even though they did not receive any actual interest payments.


   Example of Imputed Interest  

Imputed interest is important for determining pension payouts. For example, when an employee retires from a company where they were a member of a pension plan, the company may offer the retiree a lump sum of the $500,000 set aside for them under the plan, or they may receive $5,000 a year in benefits. Assuming the applicable short-term federal rate is 2 percent, the retiree needs to determine whether they could find better imputed interest in another market by taking the lump sum and purchasing a higher-yield annuity.




Can You Deduct Imputed Interest on Your Taxes?
In most cases, imputed interest is not tax-deductible. This means that if you are required to pay taxes on the imputed interest on a loan, you cannot claim a deduction for that interest on your tax return. However, there are some exceptions to this rule. For example, if you use the loan proceeds to buy a primary residence or to fund a business or investment, you may be able to claim a deduction for the imputed interest on your taxes. Additionally, if you are a qualified charitable organization, a political organization, or a nonprofit organization, you may be exempt from the rules on imputed interest and may be able to claim a deduction for the interest you pay on your loans. It's always best to consult with a tax professional if you have questions about whether you can claim a deduction for imputed interest on your taxes.




Who Pays Imputed Interest?
In most cases, the lender is responsible for paying taxes on the imputed interest on a loan. This means that if the IRS determines that a loan should have been made at a higher interest rate than the actual rate charged by the lender, the lender may be required to pay taxes on the difference between the two rates and is responsible for reporting the imputed interest on their tax return. In some cases, the borrower may also be required to report the imputed interest and pay taxes on it, depending on the specific circumstances of the loan.




How Do You Compute Imputed Interest?
The calculation of imputed interest can vary depending on the specific circumstances of the loan and the applicable tax laws. In general, however, the imputed interest on a loan is the difference between the actual interest rate charged by the lender and the market interest rate for a similar loan. This difference is then multiplied by the loan principal to determine the amount of imputed interest.For example, if a borrower receives a loan of $10,000 at an interest rate of 3%, and the market interest rate for a similar loan is actually 4%, the imputed interest would be $100 (1% x $10,000).


   The Bottom Line  

Imputed interest is a term used in tax law to describe a situation where a lender charges no interest on a loan, but the IRS considers the loan to have been made at an interest rate that is implied by market conditions. In such cases, the lender may be required to pay taxes on the difference between the actual and imputed interest rates. There are several exemptions to these rules, including loans made for the purpose of buying a primary residence or funding a business or investment. The calculation of imputed interest is generally based on the difference between the actual interest rate and the market interest rate for a similar loan.



Correction—May 14, 2023: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that it is the lender's responsibility to pay interest on a loan. In most cases, lenders are responsible for paying taxes on the imputed interest of a loan.
What Is In-App Purchasing?  

In-app purchasing refers to the buying of goods and services from inside an application on a mobile device, such as a smartphone or tablet. In-app purchases allow developers to provide their applications for free. The developer then advertises upgrades to the paid version, paid feature unlocks, special items for sale, or even ads other apps and services to anyone who downloads the free version. This allows the developer to profit despite giving the basic app itself away for free.





Key Takeaways

In-app purchasing refers to the buying of goods and services from inside an application on a mobile device, such as a smartphone or tablet.In-app purchases allow developers to provide their applications for free.Because in-app purchases are conducted through a mobile device, unauthorized purchases can result in security issues.


   Understanding In-App Purchasing  

In-app purchasing allows application owners the ability to upsell​ application users from within the application itself, rather than through other marketing channels. For example, a game application may offer the user the ability to skip a particularly difficult level for a fee or the owner may provide consumers with the ability to view premium content that is behind a pay-wall.



The developer hopes to make enough money from these small transactions and the advertising revenue to cover the costs of creating and maintaining the app.






The most common type of in-app purchase is to pay for the ad-free version or the full version of an app.


   Special Considerations  

Application stores, such as Google Play or iTunes, allow users to download applications with in-app purchasing, but they typically let the user know that an application has this feature. Some have policies allowing refunds if they are requested soon after a purchase is made. Application stores often take a percentage of the in-app sale.



In-app purchases are part of a freemium model for monetizing mobile applications or content. Consumers making purchases through an application do not have to visit a separate website to conduct the transaction. In fact, attempting to conduct a sale by redirecting to an external website violates the terms of most application stores as it prevents them from collecting a commission. 


   Criticism of In-App Purchasing  

Because in-app purchases are conducted through a mobile device, unauthorized purchases can result in security issues. This is especially the case if the username and password used in the application are not strong or credit card information is stored in the app in an insecure manner. Many applications will email a receipt after a purchase is made, which can allow a fraudulent purchase to be stopped.



There are no overarching guidelines for in-app purchasing, but regulators have taken a keen interest in in-app purchasing. One of the primary reasons for this is that many children have access to smartphones. Many of the optimization schemes in these apps result in children making in-app purchases that their parents do not want or may not immediately notice in time to reverse.



Parents, and by extension regulators, have noticed that the optimization of these in-app purchasing ads appears to target children in particular. Advertising in a way designed to take advantage of kids for a profit tends to be frowned upon, but it is governed more by ethics and codes than specific regulations or laws.
What Is in Escrow?  

In financial transactions, the term "in escrow" indicates a temporary condition of an item, such as money or property, that has been transferred to a third party. This transfer is usually done on behalf of a buyer and seller.



"In escrow" is a type of legal holding account for items, which can't be released until predetermined conditions are satisfied. Typically, items are held in escrow until the process involving a financial transaction has been completed. Valuables held in escrow can include real estate, money, stocks, and securities.





Key Takeaways

Funds or assets held in escrow are temporarily transferred to and held by a third party, usually on behalf of a buyer and seller to facilitate a transaction."In escrow" is often used in real estate transactions whereby property, cash, and the title are held in escrow until predetermined conditions are met.Escrow is often associated with real estate transactions, but it can apply to any situation where funds will pass from one party to another.Valuables held in escrow can include valuables, real property, money, stocks, and other securities.


   Understanding in Escrow  

Escrowed items are most commonly found in real estate transactions. The property, cash, and the title to the property are often held in escrow until all specified conditions, outlined in the escrow agreement, are met, and transfer of ownership can occur.



An escrow agreement outlines the conditions and terms between the parties involved in the transaction as well as the responsibilities of each of the parties. Items placed in escrow are managed by a trustee called an escrow agent. The escrow agent, which is typically a lawyer, holds the assets until predetermined contractual obligations are fulfilled. Once the agreement terms have been satisfied, the escrow agent releases the funds or property held in escrow to the appropriate party.


   Real Estate in Escrow  

While the property is held in escrow, the buyer cannot take possession of or occupy the space. Real estate deals must clear a series of stages during the escrow process. Below are some of the typical conditions that might need to be met and why assets might be held in escrow.


  Appraisal  

An appraisal of the property must be conducted on a property before its sale. Issues could arise if the appraised value of the property is lower than the agreed-upon purchase price.



Banks will not lend money for the amount of a property if the asking price is above the appraised value. The buyer could try to find funding to cover the missing portion of the agreed purchase price for the property or ask the seller to lower the price. If the buyer can't fund the difference while the real estate is in escrow, the transaction could be terminated.


  Home Inspection  

A buyer might agree to purchase a property with the condition that the home passes a home inspection. The funds for the purchase would be held in escrow until the inspection has been completed. Once the conditions of the offer are satisfied, the buyer or seller will then be obligated to purchase or sell the property.


  Financing and Insurance  

The real estate transaction could be held in escrow whereby the sale wouldn't be completed until the buyer obtains financing or a mortgage from a bank. Also, the buyer could have difficulty securing the necessary insurance and other policies needed to complete the transaction. If the buyer doesn't get approved for the mortgage or obtain the needed insurance, the escrow agent would nullify the offer to buy.


  Title Search  

Before purchasing a home, a title search is performed, which is a process of checking public records to determine the ownership of the property. The title search helps determine if there are any liens and other claims attached to the property. An outstanding lien means that the property was used to guarantee the repayment of a loan. A clear title—meaning there are no liens—is required for any real estate transaction to go through properly.


  Zoning  

The buyer may have wanted the property for a use that does not match current zoning regulations. The seller might seek a variance while the property is in escrow to allow the buyer to proceed with their intended plans upon taking full ownership of the real estate.


  Repairs  

The purchase might have included guarantees that the seller would address needed repairs to the property. This could include the removal of landscape features such as trees or the reconstruction of part of a building. If the seller does not make good on those promises while the property is in escrow, then the deal might fall through.


   Releasing "in Escrow" Funds  

The funds in a real estate transaction can be held in escrow even on the date of the sale and won't be released until all parties—the buyer, seller, and the mortgage company—agree that all of the conditions in the escrow agreement have been satisfied.



The intention of keeping the property in escrow is to assure all parties that the mutual responsibilities outlined in the escrow agreement will be fulfilled.
What Is In-House?  

In-house refers to an activity or operation that is performed within a company, instead of relying on outsourcing. The firm uses its own employees and time to perform a business activity, such as financing or brokering.



This is the opposite of outsourcing, which involves hiring outside assistance, often through another business, to perform those activities.





Key Takeaways

In-house refers to an activity or operation conducted within a company, instead of relying on outside providers. Many larger companies use in-house legal teams, developers, marketers, or other specialized services.While it is common for some companies to outsource those divisions, a firm may maintain greater flexibility in those operations by keeping them in-house.In-house financing is common among carmakers and financial firms.There are tradeoffs to keeping some professionals in-house, since they must be kept full time even if they are not always busy.


   Understanding In-House  

The determination as to whether to keep activities in-house or to outsource often involves analyzing the various costs and associated risks. How these costs are calculated may vary depending on the size and nature of the core business.



A firm may decide to keep certain activities in-house, such as accounting, payroll, marketing, or technical support. While it can be cheaper to outsource those divisions, there are also circumstances where it pays to invest in in-house professionals.






In-house financing is provided by many retailers helping to facilitate the purchasing process for customers.



Additionally, keeping these activities in-house may allow the business to exert higher levels of control by keeping the services and personnel under direct control. There may also be fewer security risks depending on the kinds of data that would have to be supplied to an outside party should the activity be outsourced.



At times, internal employees may have a better understanding of how the business functions overall, providing them with insights into how certain activities should be handled, allowing them to function with the business’s core vision at the forefront of the decision-making process.


   In-House Services  

When dealing with customers, a firm may try to keep the entire transaction in-house. For example, in-house financing is a common practice in certain industries. This form of financing works by using the firm's resources to extend the customer's credit, with the firm potentially benefiting from any associated interest payments in exchange for assuming the risk associated with default.



For a brokerage, the firm may try to match a client's order with another customer, creating an in-house transaction. This allows the firm to benefit from both the buy- and sell-side commissions and potentially lowering other administrative costs.



In-house financing is a type of seller financing in which a firm extends customers a loan, allowing them to purchase its goods or services. In-house financing eliminates the firm's reliance on the financial sector for providing the customer with funds to complete a transaction.






Although cloud hosting is an inexpensive way to maintain an online presence, in-house hosting gives a company greater control over its online infrastructure.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of In-House Operations  

In-house business operations can offer an additional revenue stream, by offering services that the company's clients would otherwise find elsewhere. Auto companies frequently offer in-house financing at higher rates than those available from banks or credit unions.



In addition, conducting business operations in-house gives a company greater control over the execution of these operations, since it is the direct employer of the teams conducting those operations.



The main disadvantage of in-house operations is the cost of maintaining an additional team, that may be outside of the company's core business. Many companies outsource their payroll, IT, or other technical work, because the companies are too small to justify hiring full-time staff for these roles.




Pros and Cons of In-House Operations

Pros

In-house services can provide some retailers with additional revenue streams.
Companies have more control over in-house teams than they would with a contractor.



Cons

In-house operations can be more expensive and take resources away from the company's core business.
Smaller companies might not have enough work to justify hiring full-time in-house staff.





   When to Outsource vs. In-House  

In-sourcing provides a company with greater control over the execution of in-house tasks, since it is the direct employer. However, investing in specialized full-time staff can be expensive, particularly if their work is only needed intermittently. For example, most small companies would not need an in-house legal team.



For this reason, most companies keep their most key functions in-house while outsourcing roles that are highly specialized, or not directly related to their core business model. For example, payroll, web services, legal services, public relations, and online security are often contracted to outside companies. Larger companies may have the resources to justify keeping these teams in-house.


   Risks of In-House Operations  

Outsourcing involves contracting out certain business activities for completion by a third party. Often, the expectations regarding the third party's performance are outlined within a contract, specifying which tasks should be accomplished along with any associated deadlines.



The primary risks of outsourcing revolve around the involvement of a third party, which is not under the direct control of the hiring company. If certain needs are not clearly specified in the contract, the third party may not be liable for the completion of said activities. Additionally, the outside party may also have different standards, such as in the areas of data security, which could put company information at risk.






Web hosting is a good example of insourcing vs. outsourcing. Although it is cheaper and easier to outsource a company's web services to a cloud provider, some businesses prefer maintaining control over their own server infrastructure.


   Real-World Example of In-House Financing  

Ford Credit is a well-known in-house auto financing group. Ford Credit is the business of giving out auto loans for Ford car buyers at their own dealerships, rather than encouraging Ford customers to seek external financing from a bank or credit union.



In January 2017, Ford Credit partnered with AutoFi to make car buying and financing even easier through technology that allows the buyer to shop online for their car and auto loan. With this new point-of-sale platform, Ford customers can shop online through Ford dealer websites, buy and finance their car. This type of customer experience allows car buyers to spend less time at the dealership while also offering a faster sales process for Ford. Other auto companies such as General Motors also have important in-house financing arms.




What Is the Main Advantage of an In-House Approach?
A company retains greater control over operations by keeping them in-house than they would exercise by outsourcing these roles to a contractor. In addition, they also have the benefit of in-house specialists who are intimately familiar with the company's business and brand, compared to an outside company that may be less familiar.




What Is the Difference Between In-House and Outsourcing?
Outsourcing is the practice of hiring an outside company or contractor to perform work, whereas in-housing (also known as insourcing) is the practice of assigning this work to existing employees.




Is It Better to Outsource or Keep In-House?
There are benefits and disadvantages to outsourcing certain roles, as there are with keeping those operations in-house. A company has greater control over the direction and management of work by its in-house employees than it would over an outside contractor. On the other hand, outside companies may have more experience and resources with certain tasks, such as legal services. In addition, a company must pay the full salary and benefits of its in-house employees. Outsourcing those roles to another company could cost more or less than keeping those roles in-house, depending on the nature of the task.




What Does In-House Recruitment Mean?
In-house recruitment is when a company directly advertises, interviews, and hires a new employee to fill an open role. The alternative is to outsource hiring to a professional recruiting agency.
What Is In-House Financing?  

The term in-house financing refers to financing that is provided directly to consumers by retailers or other firms. It allows people to purchase and finance goods and services directly from the seller. In-house financing eliminates the firm's reliance on third-party lenders in the financial sector for providing the customer with funds to complete a transaction. It is commonly used in the automotive industry and for large purchases in the retail sector.





Key Takeaways

In-house financing is when a retailer extends a customer a loan for the purchase of its goods or services.The need for banks or other third-party lending institutions is eliminated through in-house financing.Approval for a loan is typically easier and the process simpler when financing is obtained through the retailer.The automobile industry is one of the largest industries utilizing in-house financing.With the emergence of technology firms and mobile apps, point-of-sale financing allows for immediate financing for consumers.


   Understanding In-House Financing  

While some people are able to, most don't have enough money to pay for large purchases outright in cash. That's where financing comes into play. This is a process that involves borrowing money from another party to complete the purchase. In most cases, this involves a bank or other lender. In other instances, the seller may offer financing itself. This is referred to as in-house financing.



In-house financing is provided by many automobile makers and retailers to facilitate the purchasing process for customers. The customer financing arm of the business is known as an investment center. This type of lending benefits consumers in that they are typically able to obtain a loan through the company where they may not have been able to through traditional financing means, such as via a bank.



In order to offer this kind of service, retailers must have an established lending business within their firm or partner with a single third-party credit provider to service a loan for their customers. As noted above, it is common in certain parts of the retail sector, such as large department stores and within the automotive industry.






Some auto dealers may add extra fees for in-house financing. Always read the fine print!


   Special Considerations  

With the emergence of new financial technology (fintech) companies, many borrowers now have greater in-house financing options through faster and more convenient point-of-sale (POS) credit platforms. Point-of-sale credit technology can be built around a company’s in-house credit department or generally facilitated when a company partners with a single credit provider to service its customer’s lending needs.



Point-of-sale financing simplifies the lending process for customers by allowing them to apply for credit when they are ready to buy. The better the credit score, the more likely that the customer will be approved—and often for higher credit limits. It makes credit convenient for customers since they can receive a credit decision from the retailer in minutes. It also makes it easier for retailers to close a deal.



Credit-backed sales are increasingly popular among consumers with more merchants taking on this option. This was especially true during the COVID-19 pandemic. In fact, fintech firms captured as much as $8 billion to $10 billion in revenue from traditional lenders. It's estimated that 13% to 15% of purchases will use credit-backed POS technology by 2023.






Store credit cards tend to have higher interest rates, but the rewards may be worthwhile for very frequent shoppers.


   Types of In-House Financing  
  Automotive Industry  

The automobile sales industry is a prominent user of in-house financing since its business relies on buyers taking auto loans to close the purchase of a vehicle. Offering a car buyer in-house financing helps a firm to complete more deals by accepting more customers.



Car dealers also have the benefit of setting their own standards for underwriting, which sometimes encompasses a greater number of borrowers by accepting those with a lower credit score. In many cases, these lending platforms will accept borrowers that banks or other financial intermediaries might turn down for a loan. Other industries offering in-house financing may include equipment manufacturers, appliance stores, or e-commerce retail stores.


  Medical and Dental  

Some medical and dental expenses may not be covered by insurance companies because of the types of procedures involved. These are usually elective procedures, such as plastic surgery and cosmetic dentistry. If the consumer isn't able to pay for them upfront, the provider may offer in-house financing. Like auto dealers, these service providers are able to set up their own financing terms for their clients who may be more likely to return for other services if they need them in the future.


  Retailers  

In-house financing is also very common for large retailers, especially big-box stores that offer more expensive products, such as appliances, furniture, major electronics, and building supplies. Financing options may come in the form of in-store credit cards (that can only be used at that retailer) or loans. Some of the biggest names in retail that offer this type of financing include Home Depot, Lowe's, Apple, and Ashley Furniture HomeStore. Providing the option to finance purchases in-house helps retailers retain customer loyalty.


   Example of In-House Financing  

As noted above, in-house financing is a common option for consumers who wish to purchase a vehicle. Ford Credit is one of the most well-known in-house auto financing groups. In January 2017, Ford Credit partnered with AutoFi to make car buying and financing even easier through technology that allows the buyer to shop online for their car and auto loan.



Ford customers can shop online through Ford dealer websites with this new point-of-sale platform. It allows them to buy and finance their cars. This type of customer experience allows car buyers to spend less time at the dealership while also offering a faster sales process for Ford.




How Does In-House Car Financing Work?
In-house car financing is when a car dealership lends their customers part of the purchase price for their car. This provides the dealer with an additional income stream from the customer's interest payments, while allowing the customer to buy a car that they might not have qualified for otherwise.However, because in-house lenders are smaller, they may not be able to match the interest rates of a large bank or credit union. It may be worth visiting several institutions to compare rates before considering an in-house loan.




Is Bank or in-House Financing Better for Buying a Car?
There is no clear winner between banks and dealer financing, and it may be worth comparing interest rates from both before making a decision. A car loan from a bank represents the "true" interest rate, while dealers may charge a markup or extra fees for financing a car. On the other hand, dealers specialize in auto loans and may be able to get lower rates for newer cars. Some dealers even offer promotional 0% financing for the first year on a new car.




Why Do Stores Offer in-House Financing?
Many retail stores offer in-house financing or store credit cards because these represent an additional source of revenue from their customers. While the interest rates tend to be higher than typical credit cards, they may come with rewards or perks that can be worthwhile to frequent shoppers.
What Is an In-Service Withdrawal?  

An in-service withdrawal occurs when an employee takes a distribution from a qualified, employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k) account, without leaving the employ of their company.



This may occur without a tax penalty any time after the employee reaches age 59½, or if the employee withdraws up to $10,000 to purchase their first home, declares a hardship, or establishes extreme financial need. In some cases, in-service withdrawals can be made without these events occurring.



Not every retirement plan allows in-service withdrawals, but in 2019, about 70% of those available in the US did offer this option under certain conditions.





Key Takeaways

In-service withdrawals refer to taking special distributions from a 401(k) account.These distributions occur while the employee is still employed.The distributions are normally available for hardship cases.Special rules allow some plan participants to take distributions even without hardship.


   Understanding In-Service Withdrawals  

By law, normal withdrawals from retirement plans can be made as a result of employment change, hardship and documented financial need, or once the employee has reached 59½ years of age.



In-service withdrawals are a little different. If the plan allows in-service withdrawals, then an employee can take a distribution merely for the purpose of pursuing different investment options that they deem more suitable for them. This is usually done in the form of an allowable rollover from the plan to a previously existing 401(k) account or a new traditional IRA account.



This provision can be tricky. For example, rolling over savings from a 401(k) plan to a traditional IRA is allowed by law if the money being moved is from employer contributions (either matched money or profit-sharing accumulations). The money being rolled over cannot come from pre-tax contributions unless the employee is 59½ years old or older. So the solution is to know precisely what your plan allows and what it does not. Finding out such details might be a little harder than it sounds for some employees.



It doesn't take much to imagine that any company administering a company-sponsored retirement plan has the incentive to keep participants from taking money out of their accounts early for any reason. The government agrees that employees who are saving for retirement should be very careful about withdrawing money early under any circumstances.



These two factors combine to inhibit your ability to find out the details of your plan's in-service withdrawals because the administration company doesn't exactly advertise such provisions and the government doesn't require them to do so. To find the information you need, you'll likely have to search a bit online or make a phone call to your 401(k) helpline.


   What to Ask Your Plan Administrator About In-Service Withdrawals  

If you don't like your current investment options and want to move some or all of your 401(k) money to an IRA that has better choices, you'll need to search for the FAQ pages or call and ask direct questions of the company which manages your retirement plan. Look for the answer to these four questions:



Does the plan I am enrolled in allow for in-service withdrawals?If so, what conditions apply?What type of account can I move this money into?What are the tax consequences of this withdrawal?



Since only about 30% of employer-sponsored plans in America don't offer this option, it is worth looking into if you want more investment options. Once you've determined that your plan does allow non-hardship, in-service withdrawals, you'll want to pay attention to the tax consequences of such a decision.



Typically, the distribution must be made to a Traditional IRA to avoid generating new taxes, but oftentimes, a distribution to a Roth IRA can be allowed if you are willing to pay the taxes that will come from such action.



Some people might consider paying taxes or penalties worthwhile if their investment options were good enough, but most investors and financial advisers would agree it is generally not considered a sound choice to do so. Still, it is true that individual circumstances vary and no one can say that one single choice is precisely best for all investors.



That being said, you should be very careful about your choices in this area. Many investors have lost significant money chasing after investments that suggest higher than normal rates of return, and in hindsight, paying taxes for the privilege of losing money can feel like adding salt to an open wound.


   Tax Implications of In-Service Withdrawals  

Most withdrawals made from a qualified employer-sponsored retirement plan before reaching age 59½ will come with a 10% early-withdrawal penalty tax on the amount being distributed. This is in addition to applicable federal income and state taxes. However, the 10% premature penalty tax can be waved if the in-service withdrawal or hardship distribution is used to cover medical expenses that exceed 7.5% of adjusted gross income (AGI) or if it is used to make a court-ordered payment to a divorced spouse, child or dependent. Other exemptions are defined by the IRS. 



But since non-safe harbor employer matching contributions and profit-sharing contributions can be distributed at any age, and voluntary contributions can be withdrawn at any time, in-service withdrawals can be used if you have alternative investment vehicles you clearly understand and are willing to manage.



If you can find the documentation, your plan administrator's firm should spell out the types and treatment of each eligible in-service distribution in what is called the summary plan description or the plan document itself. Tax information may not be specified there since specific tax details are set by the IRS.




What Types of Retirement Accounts Allow In-Service Withdrawals?
Today, most defined-contribution plan types (such as 401(k), 403(b)/457(b), and thrift savings plans) allow for in-service withdrawals. Depending on how the plans' rules and how it is structured, there may be various limitations or qualifications on when or how such withdrawals can be made.




When Can You Start to Take In-Service Withdrawals?
You can begin taking in-service withdrawals from a retirement account if you are still employed at age 59½. If you take it out sooner, you will be subject to a 10% early-withdrawal penalty (in addition to any deferred taxes due).




Can You Contribute to a Retirement Plan if You Are Also Taking In-Service Withdrawals?
Yes, you can so long as you do not contribute more than the annual limit (ignoring any withdrawals). Note, however, that withdrawals will be subject to income tax. In general, this strategy, while allowable, may not make much sense.
What Is In Specie?  

The phrase in specie describes the transfer of an asset in its current form rather than in the equivalent amount of cash. In specie distributions are usually made when cash isn’t readily available or when it’s simply more practical to hand over the asset rather than cash. There also are tax benefits to some in specie transactions.






Transferring money from one taxable investment account to another should be done in specie. If an investor receives the cash proceeds, for however brief a time, capital gains taxes kick in.



In specie is a Latin phrase and can be translated as "in its actual form."





Key Takeaways

In specie is the delivery of a financial asset in its current form rather than in an equivalent amount of cash.In specie transactions may involve either physical assets or financial assets.Tax implications may influence the decision to use in specie.


   Understanding In Specie  

In specie transactions may involve either physical assets or financial assets. Companies or individuals might transfer ownership of land, equipment, or inventory in their actual forms rather than paying cash. In some instances, financial assets such as stocks, bonds, warrants, or other securities may be distributed to shareholders in capital return programs.



For example, a company may distribute shares of stock to investors as a dividend when cash is in short supply. This particular type of in specie distribution is frequently made in the form of fractional shares. For example, an investor who owns 100 shares might receive 0.5, or 50 shares.



Tax considerations also factor into the decision to use in specie. Broadly speaking, taxes are collected on cash income and are due only on realized capital gains. If a company buys out another company and pays with shares of stock instead of cash, the seller does not owe taxes on the gains until those stock shares are sold.


   Real-World Example of an In-Specie Transfer  

Individual investors generally hold their securities in brokerage accounts or with financial advisors. The investor may decide to transfer the assets to another advisor or put the money into another investment, such as a trust or an individual retirement account (IRA). The investor can either liquidate the assets in order to realize the cash or simply transfer the assets to another account. The latter is an in specie transfer.



The in specie option avoids triggering tax consequences. Taking the cash, for however brief a period, would have obliged the investor to pay capital gains taxes on any appreciation in the investments.
What Is "in the Money" (ITM)?  

The phrase in the money (ITM) refers to an option that possesses intrinsic value. An option that's in the money is an option that presents a profit opportunity due to the relationship between the strike price and the prevailing market price of the underlying asset.



An in-the-money call option means the option holder can buy the security below its current market price.An in-the-money put option means the option holder can sell the security above its current market price.



Due to the expenses (such as commissions) involved with options, an option that is ITM does not necessarily mean a trader will make a profit by exercising it.



Options can also be at the money (ATM) and out of the money (OTM).





Key Takeaways

A call option is in the money (ITM) if the market price is above the strike price.A put option is in the money if the market price is below the strike price.An option can also be out of the money (OTM) or at the money (ATM).In-the-money options contracts have higher premiums than other options that are not ITM.Investors should account for the costs of buying options when figuring potential profit from an in the money option.


   Understanding Options  

Options contracts exist on many financial products, including bonds and commodities. However, options on equities are one of the most popular types of options for investors.



Options give buyers the opportunity—but not the obligation—to buy or sell the security underlying the option contract at the contract-stated strike price by the specified expiration date. The strike price is what the investor would pay for the shares. It's the execution price (or transaction value).


  Premium  

Investors pay a fee called the premium to buy an option contract. Multiple factors determine the premium's value. These factors include the current market price of the underlying security, time until the expiration date, and the value of the strike price in relationship to the security's market price.



The premium indicates the value that market participants place on any given option. An option that has value will likely have a higher premium than one that has little chance of making money for an investor.


  Intrinsic Value  

The two components of options premiums are intrinsic and extrinsic value. In-the-money options have both intrinsic and extrinsic value, while out of the money options premiums contain only extrinsic (time) value.






The options market can be extremely volatile, especially in times that move the market, such as large-scale macroeconomic events like natural disasters and economic plunges.






   In-the-Money Call Options  

Call options allow for the purchase of the underlying asset at a given price before a stated date. The amount of premium depends on whether an option is in the money or not, but can be interpreted differently, depending on the type of option involved.



Investors who purchase call options believe that the underlying asset's price will increase and close above the strike price by the option's expiration date. They are bullish on the price direction of the stock.



A call option is in the money if the stock's current market price is higher than the option's strike price. The amount that an option is in the money is called the intrinsic value. It means that the option is worth at least that amount.



A call option with a strike of $25 would be in the money if the underlying stock were trading at $30 per share. The difference between the strike price and the current market price is typically the amount of the premium for the option. So, investors looking to buy a particular in-the-money call option will pay the premium or the spread between the strike and the market price.



An investor holding a call option that's expiring in the money can exercise it and earn the difference between the strike price and market price. Whether the trade is profitable or not depends on the investor's total transaction expense.



Therefore, ITM doesn't necessarily mean the trader will make money. To make a profit, the trader needs the option's in-the-money value to increase so that it does more than cover the cost of the option's premium.







Time decay refers to the loss of value that options experience as the contract expiration date approaches. The closer an option contract gets to the expiration date, the greater the decrease in value will be. However, in-the-money options see less time decay (due to their intrinsic value) than options that are out of the money or at the money.


   In-the-Money Put Options  

A put option contract gives investors the right to sell the underlying security at the contract strike price before the expiration date.



Investors who purchase put options believe that the underlying asset's price will decrease and close below the strike price by the option's expiration date. They are bearish on the price direction of the underlying security.



An in-the-money put option means that the strike price is above the market price of the underlying security. A put option that's in the money at expiry may be worth exercising. A put option buyer is hoping the stock's price will fall far enough below the option's strike to more than cover the premium paid to buy the put.


   Pros and Cons  



Pros

An investor with a call option that is in the money (ITM) at expiry has a chance to make a profit since the market price is above the strike price.
An investor holding an in-the-money put option has a chance to earn a profit since the market price is below the strike price.



Cons

In-the-money options are more expensive than other options since investors pay for the profit already associated with the contract.
Investors must also consider premium and commission expenses to determine profitability of an in-the-money option.





   Special Considerations  
  ATM and OTM options  

When the strike price and market price of the underlying security are equal, the option is considered at the money (ATM). Options can also be out of the money (OTM), meaning they have no intrinsic value.



An OTM call option would have a higher strike price than the market price of the stock. Conversely, an OTM put option would have a lower strike price than the market price.



Since an OTM option has less value than an ITM option, it usually will have a lower premium.


  Premium Values  

In short, the amount of premium paid for an option depends in large part on the extent an option is ITM, ATM, or OTM. However, other factors can affect the premium of an option including how much the stock fluctuates (its volatility) and the time until the expiration. Higher volatility and a longer time until expiration mean a greater chance that the option could move ITM. As a result, the premium is higher.


   Example of ITM Options  

Let's say an investor holds a call option on Bank of America (BAC) stock with a strike price of $30. The shares currently trade at $33. Therefore, the option contract is in the money. The investor can buy the stock for $30 and immediately sell it for $33 for a gain of $3 per share. Since each option contract represents 100 shares, the intrinsic value is $3 x 100 = $300.



Now say the investor's cost was a premium of $3.50. They would have paid $350 ($3.50 x 100 = $350) but gained only $300. In other words, they'd lose $50 on the trade. So, in this case, even though the option is ITM, it would not make for a profitable trade.



If the stock price fell from $33 to $29, the call option with the $30 strike price is no longer ITM. It would be $1 OTM. It's important to note that while the strike price is fixed, the price of the underlying asset will fluctuate and affect the extent to which the option is in the money. An ITM option can move to ATM and OTM before its expiration date.




What Is a Strike Price?
A strike price is the price designated by an options contract as the price at which an investor has the right to buy (with a call option) or sell (with a put option) the contract's underlying security.




What Does Deep in the Money Mean?
Deep in the money refers to options that are in the money by at least $10. For a call option, that means the strike price would be more than $10 under the prevailing market price. For a put option, the strike price would be more than $10 above the market price. Due to how deeply they are in the money, the prices of these options usually move just as the price of the underlying asset moves.




How Much Is an At-the-Money Option Worth?
At-the-money options are options where the strike price is the same as the market price of the underlying security. In such an instance, no money can be made by exercising the option. Thus, the option has no intrinsic value.
What Are Incentive Stock Options (ISOs)?  

An incentive stock option (ISO) is a corporate benefit that gives an employee the right to buy shares of company stock at a discounted price with the added benefit of possible tax breaks on the profit. The profit on qualified ISOs is usually taxed at the capital gains rate, not the higher rate for ordinary income. Non-qualified stock options (NSOs) are taxed as ordinary income.



Generally, ISO stock is awarded only to top management and highly-valued employees. ISOs also are called statutory or qualified stock options.





Key Takeaways

Incentive stock options (ISOs) are popular measures of employee compensation, granting rights to company stock at a discounted price at a future date.This type of employee stock purchase plan is intended to retain key employees or managers.ISOs require a vesting period of at least two years and a holding period of more than one year before they can be sold.ISOs often have more favorable tax treatment on profits than other types of employee stock purchase plans.






   Understanding Incentive Stock Options (ISOs)  

Incentive or statutory stock options are offered by some companies to encourage employees to remain long-term with a company and contribute to its growth and development and to the subsequent rise in its stock price.



ISOs are usually issued by publicly-traded companies, or private companies planning to go public at a future date, and require a plan document that clearly outlines how many options are to be given to which employees. Those employees must exercise their options within 10 years of receiving them.



Options can serve as a form of compensation that augments salaries, or as a reward in lieu of a traditional salary raise. Stock options, like other benefits, can be used as a way to attract talent, especially if the company cannot currently afford to pay competitive base salaries.


   How Incentive Stock Options (ISOs) Work  

Stock options are issued, or "granted," at a price set by the employer company, called the "strike price." This may be approximately the price at which the shares are valued at that time.



ISOs are issued on a beginning date, known as the grant date, and then the employee exercises their right to buy the options on the exercise date. Once the options are exercised, the employee has the freedom to either sell the stock immediately or wait for a period of time before doing so. Unlike non-statutory options, the offering period for ISOs is always 10 years, after which time the options expire.







ISOs can often be exercised to purchase shares at a price below the current market price and, thus, provide an immediate profit for the employee.



Employee stock options (ESOs) typically have a vesting schedule that must be satisfied before the employee can exercise the options. The standard three-year cliff schedule is used in some cases, where the employee becomes fully vested in all of the options issued to them at that time.



Other employers use the graded vesting schedule, which allows employees to become invested in one-fifth of the options granted each year, starting in the second year from the grant. The employee is then fully vested in all of the options in the sixth year from the grant.


   Special Considerations  

When the vesting period expires, the employee can purchase the shares at the strike price, or "exercise the option." Then, the employee can sell the stock for its current value, pocketing the difference between the strike price and sale price as profit.






ISOs must be held for more than one year from the date of exercise and two years from the time of the grant to qualify for more favorable tax treatment.



Of course, there's no guarantee that the stock price will be higher than the strike price at the time the options vest. If it's lower, the employee may hold onto the options until just before the expiration date in hopes that the price will rise. ISOs usually expire after 10 years.



Clawback provisions may also exist in an ISO issue. These are conditions that allow the employer to recall the options, such as if the employee leaves the company for a reason other than death, disability, or retirement, or if the company itself becomes financially unable to meet its obligations with the options.


   Tax Treatment for Incentive Stock Options (ISOs)  

ISOs have more favorable tax treatment than non-qualified stock options (NSOs) in part because they require the holder to hold the stock for a longer time period. This is true of regular stock shares as well. Stock shares must be held for more than one year for the profit on their sale to qualify as capital gains rather than ordinary income.



In the case of ISOs, the shares must be held for more than one year from the date of exercise and two years from the time of the grant. Both conditions must be met for the profits to count as capital gains rather than earned income.



Let's look at an example. Say a company grants 100 shares of ISOs to an employee on December 1, 2019. The employee may exercise the option, or buy the 100 shares, after December 1, 2021.



The employee can sell the options at any time after one more year has passed to be eligible to treat the profit as capital gains. The taxable profit is the difference between the strike price and the price at the time of sale.


  Tax Rates  

As of 2023, the capital gains tax rates are 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on the income of the individual filing. The marginal income tax rates for individual filers, meanwhile, range from 10% to 37%, depending on income.


   Incentive Stock Options (ISOs) vs. Non-Qualified Stock Options (NSO)  

A non-qualified stock option (NSO) is a type of ESO that is taxed as ordinary income when exercised. In addition, some of the value of NSOs may be subject to earned income withholding tax as soon as they are exercised. With ISOs, on the other hand, no reporting is necessary until the profit is realized.



ISOs resemble non-statutory options in that they can be exercised in several different ways. The employee can pay cash upfront to exercise them, or they can be exercised in a cashless transaction or by using a stock swap. The profits on the sale of NSOs may be taxed as ordinary income or as some combination of ordinary income and capital gains, depending on how soon they are sold after the options are exercised.  



For the employee, the downside of the ISO is the greater risk created by the waiting period before the options can be sold. In addition, there is some risk of making a big enough profit from the sale of ISOs to trigger the federal alternative minimum tax (AMT). That usually applies only to people with very high incomes and very substantial options awards.



Outside of taxation, ISOs feature an aspect of what is called discrimination. Whereas most other types of employee stock purchase plans must be offered to all employees of a company who meet certain minimal requirements, ISOs are usually only offered to executives and/or key employees of a company. ISOs can be informally likened to non-qualified retirement plans, which are also typically geared toward those at the top of the corporate structure, as opposed to qualified plans, which must be offered to all employees.
What Is the Incidence Rate?  

The term incidence rate refers to the rate at which a new event occurs over a specified period of time. Put simply, the incidence rate is the number of new cases within a time period (the numerator) as a proportion of the number of people at risk for the disease (the denominator).



This measure is commonly used in epidemiology as a way to denote the occurrence of disease, illness, or accident. This rate only uses new cases rather than previously diagnosed or reported ones. It can also be used to determine the probability of other events, such as financial phenomena like foreclosures. The incidence rate helps experts anticipate future incidents and make plans accordingly.





Key Takeaways

The incidence rate measures how often an event, such as disease or foreclosure, is likely to occur over a particular period of time.This rate provides the capacity to anticipate future incidents and plan accordingly.Incidence is different from prevalence, which measures the total accumulation of cases.Pharmaceutical and biotech companies rely on incidence rates when they seek approval from the FDA to get their drugs to market.Companies that report positive incidence rates are good picks for investors while those with negative findings often see losses in their stocks.


   How Incidence Rates Work  

Experts commonly use incidence rates to determine the probability of an outbreak of disease, illness, or accidents in a given population. As such, it is commonly used among health experts, who often also refer to it as incidence. In the case that the incidence rate is not discussing a disease, it may cover other topics, such as foreclosures or default. The rate is typically expressed as the number of cases per person-time.



In order to determine the incidence rate of a particular event, experts take the number of new cases as a proportion of the population at risk. Both instances take a specified period of time into consideration.



Experts usually take the population at risk from census data. They may also study the progress of selected individuals. For instance, health experts generally conduct studies involving disease in individuals until they either develop the condition, die, opt out of the group, or complete the entire study. As mentioned above, only new cases are considered, which means earlier cases don't apply in the calculation.



The incidence rate provides experts with a snapshot of changes in the event's progression within a population over time. Therefore, it becomes a very important metric for tracking chronic infectious diseases. Experts can make comparisons on the probability of disease across different populations or how a financial phenomenon like foreclosure is likely to take place. Leaders can take action to remedy policies, including better regulation, or to increase options available to curb negative findings, such as health care needs.






When the denominator is the sum of the person-time of the at-risk population, it is also known as the incidence density rate or person-time incidence rate.


   How to Calculate Incidence Rates  

In order to calculate the incidence rate of a particular event, take the number of new instances of the event in question (disease, illness, accident, financial event) during a specific period of time and divide that by the total population at risk during that period of time. Experts must determine the length of time and this time period must be long enough to allow a detailed study.



The result is generally presented as a number of cases in a certain amount of the population. It's important to make sure that no information is duplicated in order to get as much of an accurate determination of the rate.



Let's say that experts want to determine the incidence rate of foreclosure in Anytown, U.S. The total number of homeowners in town is 10,000. Experts undertake the study for a full year and learn the number of new foreclosures is 200. Using the formula above, they determine that the incidence rate of foreclosure in Anytown is 0.02.


   Examples of Incidence Rate  

Let's say a county in the U.S. with a population of 500,000 may have had 20 new cases of tuberculosis in 2013. This translates to an incidence rate of four cases per 100,000 persons. This is higher than the incidence rate of TB for the entire U.S.—9,852 new TB cases in 2013—for an incidence rate of three cases per 100,000 persons.



Now let's take a look at an example to determine trends using incidence rates. Consider a study on lung cancer rates released in January 2014 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The study found that thanks to tobacco control efforts, lung cancer incidence rates from 2005 to 2009 declined by 2.6 per year among men, from 87 to 78 cases per 100,000 men. The lung cancer incidence rate for women fell 1.1 per year from 57 to 54 cases per 100,000 women.


   Incidence vs. Prevalence  

Incidence should not be confused with prevalence. Remember that incidence measures the likelihood of occurrence during a specific time period. Prevalence, on the other hand, is a measure of the actual number of cases of a condition or illness in a population at a certain point in time. Therefore, it is the total accumulation of incidences over a period of time.



Here's an example to show how the two terms are distinct. The incidence of loan foreclosures would be the number of foreclosed loans over a time period. Prevalence would be the total number or all of the incidences added up. While incidence enables an assessment to be made of the risk of contracting a disease, prevalence shows whether the disease is widespread or not.






The incidence rate can be further categorized by different characteristics such as race, gender, or age.


   Incidence Rates and Market Research  

Incidence rates are commonly used by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to determine if and when pharmaceutical companies are allowed to take their drugs to market. In order to do so, these companies are required to conduct clinical trials (over a series of phases) and apply for FDA clearance to determine the efficacy of their drugs.



Companies enlist individuals to take part in studies. These people are given the drug or a placebo during each phase. According to the FDA, "the reviewer should identify the subset of trials in phase 2 and 3 databases that will provide the best estimate of rates and develop tables of event rates based on that judgment" in order to determine the incidence rate of any adverse (side) effects. These findings are presented in tables that are reported to the FDA. Incidence rates show the rate at which reactions take place along with the severity of each one.



Companies rely on positive results and approval in order to get their drugs to market, which is usually a long, drawn-out process. Meeting these goals means good news for investors, especially if the results are really positive. But those that aren't able to achieve these milestones often see their stocks drop. These losses can be offset if drug companies are undertaking other, positive trials or if they have products on the market.




How Do You Interpret an Incidence Rate Ratio?
The incidence rate ratio refers to the ratio of two different rates of incidence. Both are required to have the same time period when calculating them individually.




What Is the Difference Between an Incidence Rate and a Prevalence Rate?
The prevalence rate is the relative proportion of total cases observed in a population over some period of time.The incidence rate is the rate of new cases observed in a population over some period of time.




How Do You Calculate Incidence Rates in Market Research?
In market research, incidence rate refers to the frequency of people who are able to take part in a particular study. This is calculated by taking the total number of people who are qualified to participate by the total number of those who responded to the call for the study, including those who didn't qualify to take part.




How Do You Calculate Person-Time Incidence Rates?
Person-time incidence rates, which are also known as incidence density rates, are determined by taking the total number of new cases of an event and dividing that by the sum of the person-time of the at-risk population.




What Is the Incidence Rate of HIV in the U.S.?
Experts indicate that the incidence rate of HIV in the U.S. remains stable. In 2021, t was reported to be 13.3 per 100,000 people.


   The Bottom Line  

Incidence rates are commonly used by experts in a variety of fields from health care to the financial industry. By studying the probability of occurrences of things like disease and foreclosure in a given population, experts can make sound decisions on the need of people in the future. This includes things like health care services and medication, or changes in regulation and financial practice standards. And if you're investing in sectors like pharmaceuticals and biotech, you'll want to take a look at a company's incidence rates to see how far your money will go—not just the company's bottom line.
What Are Incidental Expenses (IE)?  

Incidental expenses are gratuities and other minor costs that are incurred while conducting business, in addition to major expenses such as hotel fees and ticket prices.



Incidental expenses ancillary to the costs of transportation, meals, and lodging are common when an employee travels for business. An employee who takes a taxi from the airport to a hotel will incur expenses for taxis and hotels and incidental expenses such as tips to the taxi driver and hotel staff.



Other minor expenses like haircuts or toiletries are likely to be categorized as personal since they would have been needed and paid for at home anyway.



There are several key facts regarding miscellaneous business expenses and how they are reimbursed or deducted at tax time:



An employee may be reimbursed by his or her employer for miscellaneous expenses. This is a matter of company policy and should be outlined in the employee handbook.The employer can deduct miscellaneous expenses that have been reimbursed, up to a per diem maximum that varies by region.Most miscellaneous deductions for individuals, including unreimbursed business expenses, were eliminated with the tax reform act that went into effect in 2017. They remain available to only a few taxpayers such as Armed Forces Reserves members.





Key Takeaways

Incidental expenses ancillary to the costs of transportation, meals, and lodging are most common when an employee travels for business.Reimbursement of incidental expenses, if any, is a matter of company policy. "Miscellaneous" expenses are no longer deductible by most individual taxpayers but may be deductible by the company that pays them.


   Understanding Incidental Expenses  

Incidental expenses and the policies and procedures governing them are usually covered in a company’s employee handbook. Incidental expenses will be defined, categorized as business or personal, and limited in quantity, quality, or dollar amount. A per diem rate may be set.



Company procedures for reimbursement may require incidental expenses to be paid by employees out of pocket or by a company credit card, out of petty cash, or from the company's imprest account.






Per diem rates are set each year by the General Services Administration (GSA) for destinations within the Continental U.S.; non-foreign rates (e.g., Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and Guam) are set by the Department of Defense and foreign rates (anywhere outside the U.S. and its territories) are established by the State Department.



The company procedures should include rules for tracking of incidental expenses for accounting and tax purposes. Employees need to keep detailed records of every purchase.



Employees should summarize these records in an expense report backed by actual receipts evidencing payment and submit them to the company.



Incidental expenses paid by employees personally should be reimbursed by stand-alone check so that it is clear that the payments are reimbursements and not taxable income to the employee.


   Taxes and Deductions for Incidental Expenses  

The tax treatment of incidental deductions is very different for employees and for the companies they work for. In short, businesses that reimburse their employees' incidental expenses may deduct them, up to limits. Individuals and sole proprietors may deduct the costs of some meals and other direct business expenses, up to limits, but "miscellaneous" expense deductions were eliminated for the vast majority of taxpayers with the tax reform measures that went into effect in 2018.


  How Businesses Deduct Incidentals  

Businesses that reimburse employees for their travel expenses can deduct the costs.



Those costs can include “incidentals,” but the entire amount cannot exceed a federal per diem rate. This rate varies by region from about $130 to about $270.


  How Individuals Deduct Incidentals  

Basically, individuals can't deduct incidentals from their taxes, and that includes unreimbursed employee expenses, since the changes to the tax law went into effect in 2018.



Form 2106 was formerly used to report "miscellaneous" itemized deductions but those have been eliminated for most individuals. A few professionals including Armed Forces reservists, some performing artists, and some state and local officials, can still use form 2016.



Individuals and sole proprietors can still deduct other expenses, such as travel, gift, and car expenses, and such other expenses as are "ordinary and necessary" in their industries. Generally, only 50% of meal costs are deductible, using either a standard deduction or itemizing actual costs.



You can deduct up to $5 for "incidental expenses" only if you do not deduct the costs of meals.



The tax treatment of incidental expenses paid or reimbursed by businesses varies by type and taxpayer. As a general matter, incidental expenses may be deductible if they are ancillary to business expenses that are ordinary and necessary to their respective business activities, if they are locally customary and expected, and if they are reasonable in amount.


  Incidental and Ancillary  

Incidental expenses ancillary to the costs of gifts are common when a company gives gifts to its customers. A company that gives such gifts will incur incidental expenses of wrapping paper, ribbons, bows, and delivery in addition to the cost of the underlying gifts.



Incidental expenses of business gifts such as gift-wrapping, engraving, packaging, mailing, insurance, or other related costs that don't add substantial value to the gift are not counted when figuring the deduction limit for business gifts. That's a good thing since business gift deductions are limited to $25 per recipient during each tax year. Any expense above $25 of any gift given to a recipient can’t be deducted.



Incidental expenses ancillary to the cost of damaged or stolen property are common when a company experiences a business casualty or theft. If a factory burns down, the company that owns it will have to pay to repair or replace the factory and could also incur incidental expenses like medical treatment for personal injury, moving and storage costs, or rent for temporary factory space.



Incidental Expenses from a casualty or theft, such as medical treatment for personal injury, temporary housing, fuel, moving, or rentals for temporary living quarters, are not deductible as casualty losses.


  National Guard and Reserve Travel  

National Guard and Reserve members may claim an above-the-line deduction from gross income up to the federal per diem rate for meals, lodging, and incidental expenses of travel over 100 miles with an overnight stay to attend Guard or Reserve meetings. They are among the few individual taxpayers still eligible to deduct some incidentals using Form 2106.


   Tax Return Forms and Instructions for Incidentals  

IRS Publication 535 reviews common business expenses and has details of expenses that are and are not deductible. It lists other forms that might be needed for certain expenses.



Schedule C Profit or Loss From Business is the main form used by sole proprietors to record business expenses. This is attached to Form 1040.



The IRS Instructions for Schedule C detail what expenses are deductible. The instructions include a list of additional forms that may be needed if you itemize deductions, depending on what business you're in and what type of expenses you have.




How Much Do Hotels Hold on a Credit Card for Incidentals?
In addition to the price of the room, most hotels hold $50 to $200 per night on your credit card for incidentals. This credit card hold should be removed within 24 hours of the time you check out of the hotel. Only the final charge will affect your credit utilization; a credit card hold won't.




How Much Should I Budget for Incidentals on a Vacation?
For what it's worth, the federal government puts a limit of $5 as of 2023 on incidental costs deducted by businesses that reimburse these costs to employees traveling on business.Incidentals, for someone on vacation, might include tips and random out-of-pocket costs like replacing the toothbrush you left at home or buying an umbrella on a rainy day.




What Are Incidental Costs in Construction?
Incidentals are common in the construction industry. They typically include certain expenditures related to the site purchase, grading or improvement of the site, original furnishings, equipment, machinery, or apparatus, or professional design or legal fees, insurance during construction, and general administrative costs.


   The Bottom Line  

If you work for a company and travel on business, your employer may or may not reimburse you for incidental expenses like tips or unexpected small purchases. If not, you're pretty much out of luck when it comes to deducting these costs from your taxes.



If you're self-employed or a sole proprietor, you may still be able to deduct some incidental expenses, within strict limits. Your "ordinary and necessary" expenses are deductible.
What Is Income?  

Income refers to the money that a person or entity receives in exchange for their labor or products. Income may have different definitions depending on the context—for example, taxation, financial accounting, or economic analysis.



For most people, income means their total earnings in the form of wages and salaries, the return on their investments, pension distributions, and other receipts. For businesses, income means the revenues from selling services, products, and any interest and dividends received with respect to their cash accounts and reserves related to the business.



Economists have different definitions and ways of measuring income.  Whether their studies involve earnings, savings, consumption, production, public finance, capital investment, or other related topics and subtopics, their concept of income will correspond to the purpose of their research. While the measure of income on a macro level is critical to societal and policy studies, individuals are more focused on their personal and business income.





Key Takeaways


The term “income” generally refers to the amount of money, property, and other transfers of value received over a set period of time in exchange for services or products.
There is no single, standard definition: income is defined according to the context in which the concept is used.
Taxable income is the result of determining the annual total or gross income of an individual or entity and reducing that amount by the exclusions, exemptions, and deductions allowed under the tax law.
Financial regulators, businesses, and investors focus on businesses’ annual financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). 



   Understanding Income  

There are different terms for income, depending on the quantity being measured. Gross income means the total value of one's salary or payments, without accounting for any cash outflows. Net income refers to the income left over after subtracting taxes or fees. For individual earners, discretionary income is the amount they have available after paying for necessary expenses.



For the purposes of taxation, income refers to the types of revenues that are eligible for income tax. These definitions may vary by jurisdiction—salaries and sales are typically considered part of one's taxable income, but inheritances and gifts usually are not.



Although tax and accounting rules have similarities, each system has special rules reflecting its distinctive context and purposes. Generally, taxation and financial accounting measure income over a 12-month period. While financial accounting income is comprehensive, taxable income is calculated with special statutory exclusions, exemptions, and allowances that vary by tax status, income source, and individual and business decisions.






If you live and work outside the United States, you are still required to file income taxes, but you do not have to pay taxes on all of it. For the 2023 tax year, the foreign earned income exclusion covers the first $120,000 of your foreign-earned income.


   Taxable Income  

For income tax purposes, the tax code attempts to define income to reflect taxpayers’ actual economic position. The general tax framework applies to taxpayers’ personal revenue (other than tax-exempt income) from all sources and offsets such revenue with deductions for expenses and losses to determine taxable income.



In addition, public policies may offer favorable taxation for people at certain income levels or for favored economic activities. Such policies include tax exemptions for government bonds, tax-favored treatment for retirement savings, tax credits for people below a certain income level, and promoting energy efficiency through special tax credits.


   Types of Income  

Three categories of income are of principal concern to taxpayers: ordinary income, capital gain, and tax-exempt income.


  Ordinary Income  

In the United States, the tax law distinguishes ordinary income from capital investments. Ordinary income encompasses earnings, interest, regular dividends, rental income, distributions from pensions or retirement accounts, and Social Security benefits. Ordinary income is taxed at rates ranging from 10% to 37% in 2023.



Taxpayers whose net investment income exceeds specified thresholds pay an additional 3.8% net investment income tax.  


  Capital Gains  

Capital gains are the gains from selling assets that have appreciated in value. In the United States, the capital gains tax rates on assets held for more than one year are 0%, 15%, and 20%. Capital assets include personal residences and investments such as real estate, stock, bonds, and other financial instruments.  



Qualified dividends—that is, dividends distributed with respect to the U.S. and certain foreign corporate stock holdings that meet statutory holding-period requirements—also are taxed at capital gains rates.






In order to qualify for the capital gains tax rate, you must hold an asset for longer than one year before selling it. Otherwise, the gains on that asset will be taxed at the same rate as your ordinary income, which is usually higher.


  Tax-Exempt Income  

Interest paid on certain bonds issued by governmental entities is treated as tax-exempt income. Interest paid on federal bonds and Treasury securities is exempt from state and local taxation.



Interest on bonds issued by state and local governments generally is not subject to federal taxation. Municipal private activity bonds are not subject to the regular federal income tax, but they are subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. Some states and local governments also exempt interest on state and local bonds from taxation.  


   How Is Earned Income Taxed?  

Earned income is the money a person receives due to working or business activities, such as earning a salary, self-employment income, or certain government benefits. This is distinct from unearned income, such as receiving an inheritance, capital gains, or qualified dividends.



Earned income is subject to different taxes than unearned income. In the United States, earned income is subject to payroll taxes, Medicare tax, and Social Security tax, although the latter is capped at a certain level.


   Business Income: GAAP Income  

Most businesses, including all public companies, employ standard financial accounting methods and practices—i.e., generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)—to determine their income and value. Audited financial statements prepared in accordance with these rules are required for public companies. Investors assess businesses’ financial statements and use them to compare the performance of companies in the same or different industries.



GAAP calculations do not incorporate the type of public policy deviations that are embodied in the tax code. The two systems employ different timing standards for recognizing revenue and expenses. Generally, the snapshot of income and business value determined using GAAP provides a picture of business income and value that is often closer to economic reality than the results of tax accounting.




Is There a Standard Definition of Income?
The definition of income depends on the context in which the term is used. For example, the tax law uses the concepts of gross income, which includes all income in all its forms, and taxable income, which is gross income net of expenses and other adjustments. On the other hand, the standard for financial accounting—generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)—uses the term “revenue” to describe the comprehensive amount of all fees for products and services, and it reduces that amount by expenses to determine net income. In addition, the calculation of income will vary depending on the scope of the context—e.g., an individual, a household, an industry, a nation, etc.




What Is Taxable Income?
Taxable income is the total of all income from all sources and in any form, minus any tax-exempt amounts or allowable deductions. This is the amount that is subject to income taxation.




Which Categories of Income Are Tax-Exempt?
Federal, state, and local tax laws specify certain categories of income that are not subject to income taxation. Generally, interest paid on state and local government bonds is exempt from federal income tax. Federal law also exempts interest paid on some special narrow categories of federal agency debt. State tax laws exempt interest on U.S. Treasury bonds, and some states also exempt interest on state and local bonds. In addition, distributions from Roth 401(k) plans and Roth individual retirement accounts (IRAs) are tax-free. Charities and other tax-exempt organizations do not pay tax on their income, except for income from unrelated trades or businesses.       




What Is Not Considered Income?
Certain types of payments are not included in your taxable income by the IRS. They include inheritances and gifts, alimony payments, cash rebates, child support, most healthcare benefits, qualifying adoption reimbursements, and welfare payments. Scholarship payments and life insurance benefits may be taxable, in certain situations.




Is Net Income the Same As Profit?
Net income and profit are both business terms that refer to the excess of income over expenses. However, there is a fine difference: Net income is the difference between a company's total revenues and all expenses, including overhead and operational costs, taxes, depreciation and amortization of assets, and any other expenses. Profit refers to the revenue that remains after some expenses. There are several different calculations for profitability, such as gross profit and operational profit, each of which has a separate importance to analysts.


   The Bottom Line  

Income is one of the most basic measures of economic activity. For individuals and companies, it measures the net gain of their revenues as a result of working or doing business. In public policy, income represents the basis for most forms of taxation.
What Is an Income Annuity?  

An income annuity is an annuity contract that is designed to start paying income as soon as the policy is initiated. Once funded, an income annuity is annuitized immediately, although the underlying income units may be in either fixed or variable investments. As such, income payments may fluctuate over time.



An income annuity, also known as an immediate annuity, a single-premium immediate annuity (SPIA), or an immediate payment annuity, is typically purchased with a lump sum payment (premium), often by individuals who are retired or are close to retirement. These annuities may be contrasted with deferred annuities that begin paying out years later.





Key Takeaways

An income annuity is a financial product designed to swap a lump sum amount for guaranteed periodic cash flow (e.g., monthly or annual payments).An income, or immediate annuity, generally starts payment one month after the premium is paid and may continue for as long as the buyer is alive.Such annuities are especially suitable for retirees who are concerned about outliving their retirement savings.


   Understanding Income Annuities  

Investors seeking income annuities should have a clear picture of how much income will be received and for how long. Most annuities pay out until the death of the annuitant, and some pay out until the death of a spouse.



Although the insurance product may be annuitized immediately, variable investments can allow for some principal protection by participating in equity markets. Even if all income units are in fixed investments, there may be a provision allowing for a higher return if a specific benchmark index performs exceptionally well.



The return an annuity buyer gets from their income annuity is based on how long they live—greater longevity equals more payments and a better return. Payments may begin as soon as a month after a contract is signed and a premium payment is made. Income annuity payments may be monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. Many income annuities offer a death benefit.



If a cash refund option is chosen, the designated beneficiary of an annuitant who dies before receiving enough payments to equal their initial premium will receive the balance. As such, an annuitant's age, life expectancy, and health are relevant to deciding whether such an annuity is suitable.



Income annuities may be purchased for a little as a few thousand dollars. More significant income annuities may require special vetting, however. Some income annuities may be deferred to build income for use later in life.


   Who Benefits Most From Income Annuities  

The strategy behind an income annuity is to create a steady stream of income for a retiree that cannot be outlived. In effect, an immediate annuity may act as longevity insurance. A good rule of thumb is that payments backed by an income annuity should replace a retiree's wage payments until they pass away.



Another strategy utilizing an income annuity is using them to provide income to pay a retiree's expenses—such as rent or mortgage, food, and energy—assisted living facility fees, and insurance premiums, or provide the cash for any other recurring payment needs.



One disadvantage of income annuities is that once they are initiated, they cannot be rolled back or stopped. Also, payments for such annuity may be fixed and not indexed to inflation, and will thus stay the same. As such, the purchasing power of each payment will decrease over time as inflation takes its toll.
What Is the Income Approach?  

The income approach, sometimes referred to as the income capitalization approach, is a type of real estate appraisal method that allows investors to estimate the value of a property based on the income the property generates. It’s used by taking the net operating income (NOI) of the rent collected and dividing it by the capitalization rate.


   How the Income Approach Works  

The income approach is typically used for income-producing properties and is one of three popular approaches to appraising real estate. The others are the cost approach and the comparison approach. The income approach for real estate valuations is akin to the discounted cash flow (DCF) for finance. The income approach discounts the future value of rents by the capitalization rate.



When using the income approach for purchasing a rental property, an investor considers the amount of income generated and other factors to determine how much the property may sell for under current market conditions. In addition to determining whether the investor may profit from the rental property, a lender will want to know its potential risk of repayment if it extends a mortgage to the investor.






Of the three methods for appraising real estate, the income approach is considered the most involved and difficult.


   Special Considerations  

When using the income approach for purchasing a rental property, an investor must also consider the condition of the property. Potential large repairs that may be needed can substantially cut into future profits.



In addition, an investor should consider how efficiently the property is operating. For example, the landlord may be giving tenants rent reductions in exchange for completing yard work or other responsibilities. Perhaps specific tenants are facing economic difficulties that should turn around in the next few months, and the landlord does not want to evict them. If rent being collected is not greater than current expenses, the investor will most likely not purchase the property.






With the income approach, the cap rate and estimated value have an inverse relationship—lowering the cap rate increases the estimated value



An investor must also ascertain how many units on average are empty at any given time. Not receiving full rent from every unit will affect the investor’s income from the property. This is especially important if a property is in great need of repairs and many units are vacant—suggesting a low occupancy rate. If the units are not filled on a regular basis, rent collection will be lower than it could be, and purchasing the property may not be in the investor’s best interest.





Key Takeaways

The income approach is a real estate valuation method that uses the income the property generates to estimate fair value. It's calculated by dividing the net operating income by the capitalization rate. A buyer should pay special attention to the condition of the property, operating efficiency, and vacancy when using the income approach. 


   Example of the Income Approach  

With the income approach, an investor uses market sales of comparables for choosing a capitalization rate. For example, when valuing a four-unit apartment building in a specific county, the investor looks at the recent selling prices of similar properties in the same county. After calculating the capitalization rate, the investor can divide the rental property’s NOI by that rate. For example, a property with a net operating income (NOI) of $700,000 and a chosen capitalization rate of 8% is worth $8.75 million.
What Is the Income Effect?  

The income effect, in microeconomics, is the resultant change in demand for a good or service caused by an increase or decrease in a consumer's purchasing power or real income. As one's income grows, the income effect predicts that people will begin to demand more (and vice-versa).



So-called normal goods will exhibit this typical pattern. Inferior goods, on the other hand, may see their demand actually fall as income increases. An example of such an inferior good could be store-brand items: as people become wealthier they may opt instead for more expensive name brands,





Key Takeaways

The income effect describes how an increase in income can change the quantity of goods that consumers will demand.For so-called normal goods, as income rises so does the demand for them (and vice-versa).This is reflected in microeconomics via an upward shift in the downward-sloping demand curve.This effect, however, can vary depending on the availability of substitutes and the good's elasticity of demand.For inferior goods, the income effect dominates the substitution effect and leads consumers to purchase more of a good, and less of substitute goods, when the price rises.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding the Income Effect  

The income effect is a part of consumer choice theory—which relates preferences to consumption expenditures and consumer demand curves—that expresses how changes in relative market prices and incomes impact consumption patterns for consumer goods and services. For normal economic goods, when real consumer income rises, consumers will demand a greater quantity of goods for purchase.



The income effect and substitution effect are related economic concepts in consumer choice theory. The income effect expresses the impact of changes in purchasing power on consumption, while the substitution effect describes how a change in relative prices can change the pattern of consumption of related goods that can substitute for one another.



Changes in real income can result from nominal income changes, price changes, or currency fluctuations. When nominal income increases without any change to prices, this means consumers can purchase more goods at the same price, and for most goods, consumers will demand more.



If all prices fall, known as deflation and nominal income remains the same, then consumers’ nominal income can purchase more goods, and they will generally do so. These are both relatively straightforward cases. However in addition, when the relative prices of different goods change, then the purchasing power of consumer’s income relative to each good changes—then the income effect really comes into play. The characteristics of the good impact whether the income effect results in a rise or fall in demand for the good.   






When the price of a product increases relative to other similar products, consumers will tend to demand less of that product and increase their demand for the similar product as a substitute.


   Normal Goods vs. Inferior Goods  

Normal goods are those whose demand increases as people's incomes and purchasing power rise. A normal good is defined as having an income elasticity of demand coefficient that is positive, but less than one.



For normal goods, the income effect and the substitution effect both work in the same direction; a decrease in the relative price of the good will increase quantity demanded both because the good is now cheaper than substitute goods, and because the lower price means that consumers have a greater total purchasing power and can increase their overall consumption.



Inferior goods are goods for which demand actually declines as consumers' real incomes rise, or rises as incomes fall. This occurs when a good has more costly substitutes that see an increase in demand as the economy improves. For inferior goods, the income elasticity of demand is negative, and the income and substitution effects work in opposite directions.



An increase in the inferior good’s price means that consumers will want to purchase other substitute goods instead but will also want to consume less of any other substitute normal goods because of their lower real income.






Inferior goods tend to be goods that are viewed as lower quality, but can get the job done for those on a tight budget, for example, generic bologna or coarse, scratchy toilet paper. Consumers prefer a higher quality good, but need a greater income to allow them to pay the premium price.


   Example of Income Effect  

Consider a consumer who on an average day buys a cheap cheese sandwich to eat for lunch at work, but occasionally splurges on a luxurious hot dog. If the price of a cheese sandwich increases relative to hotdogs, it may make them feel like they cannot afford to splurge on a hotdog as often because the higher price of their everyday cheese sandwich decreases their real income.



In this situation, the income effect dominates the substitution effect, and the price increase raises demand for the cheese sandwich and reduces demand for a substitute normal good, a hotdog, even if the hotdog's price remains the same.




What Does the Income Effect Depict?
The income effect is a part of consumer choice theory—which relates preferences to consumption expenditures and consumer demand curves—that expresses how changes in relative market prices and incomes impact consumption patterns for consumer goods and services. In other words, it is the change in demand for a good or service caused by a change in a consumer's purchasing power resulting from a change in real income. This income change can be the result of a rise in wages etc., or because existing income is freed up by a decrease or increase in the price of a good that money is being spent on.




What Is the Difference Between the Income Effect and the Price Effect?
The difference between the income effect and the price effect is that the income effect evaluates consumer spending habits based on a change in their income. The price effect instead considers consumer spending habits based on a change in the price of a good or service.




What Is Substitution Effect?
The substitution effect is the decrease in sales for a product that can be attributed to consumers switching to cheaper alternatives when its price rises. A product may lose market share for many reasons, but the substitution effect is purely a reflection of frugality. If a brand raises its price, some consumers will select a cheaper alternative.




What Are Normal Goods?
Normal goods are those whose demand increases as people's incomes and purchasing power rise. As such, a normal good will have a positive income elasticity of demand coefficient but it will be less than one. This means that a decrease in the relative price of the good will result in an increase in quantity demanded both because the good is now cheaper than substitute goods, and because the lower price means that consumers have a greater total purchasing power and can increase their overall consumption.




What Are Inferior Goods?
Inferior goods are goods for which demand declines as consumers' real incomes rise, or rises as incomes fall. Consumers with more money may opt to buy more expensive substitutes instead of what they could afford only when incomes were lower.


   The Bottom Line  

The income effect identifies the change in consumers’ demand for goods and services based on their incomes. In general, as one's income rises, they will begin to demand more goods. Similarly, A decrease in income results in lower demand. The marginal propensity to spend and the marginal propensity to save are looked at when determining the influences of the income effect. The substitution effect also plays a role in how consumers spend their income in times of rising or declining income. For normal goods the income effect works as predicted. For inferior goods, it works in the opposite direction.
What Is Income Elasticity of Demand?  

Income elasticity of demand refers to the sensitivity of the quantity demanded for a certain good to a change in the real income of consumers who buy this good.



The formula for calculating income elasticity of demand is the percent change in quantity demanded divided by the percent change in income. With income elasticity of demand, you can tell if a particular good represents a necessity or a luxury.





Key Takeaways

Income elasticity of demand is an economic measure of how responsive the quantity demanded for a good or service is to a change in income. The formula for calculating income elasticity of demand is the percentage change in quantity demanded divided by the percentage change in income.Businesses use the measure to help predict the impact of a business cycle on sales.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Income Elasticity of Demand  

Income elasticity of demand measures the responsiveness of demand for a particular good to changes in consumer income.



The higher the income elasticity of demand for a particular good, the more demand for that good is tied to fluctuations in consumers' income. Businesses typically evaluate the income elasticity of demand for their products to help predict the impact of a business cycle on product sales.


  Inferior Goods vs. Normal Goods  

Depending on the values of the income elasticity of demand, goods can be broadly categorized as inferior and normal goods. Normal goods have a positive income elasticity of demand; as incomes rise, more goods are demanded at each price level.



Normal goods whose income elasticity of demand is between zero and one are typically referred to as necessity goods, which are products and services that consumers will buy regardless of changes in their income levels. Examples of necessity goods and services include tobacco products, haircuts, water, and electricity.



As income rises, the proportion of total consumer expenditures on necessity goods typically declines. Inferior goods have a negative income elasticity of demand; as consumers' income rises, they buy fewer inferior goods. A typical example of such a type of product is margarine, which is much cheaper than butter.



Furthermore, luxury goods are a type of normal good associated with income elasticities of demand greater than one. Consumers will buy proportionately more of a particular good compared to a percentage change in their income. Consumer discretionary products such as premium cars, boats, and jewelry represent luxury products that tend to be very sensitive to changes in consumer income. When a business cycle turns downward, demand for consumer discretionary goods tends to drop as workers become unemployed.


   Formula for Income Elasticity of Demand  

The formula for income elasticity of demand is:


















Income Elasticity of Demand


=






D


1



−



D


0






D


1



+



D


0








I


1



−



I


0






I


1



+



I


0




















where:

















D


0



=


Initial quantity demanded

















D


1



=


Final quantity demanded

















I


0



=


Initial real income

















I


1



=


Final real income







\begin{aligned}&\text{Income Elasticity of Demand} = \frac{ \frac { D_1 - D_0 }{ D_1 + D_0 } }{ \frac { I_1 - I_0 }{ I_1 + I_0 } } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&D_0 = \text{Initial quantity demanded} \\&D_1 = \text{Final quantity demanded} \\&I_0 = \text{Initial real income} \\&I_1 = \text{Final real income} \\\end{aligned}


​Income Elasticity of Demand=I1​+I0​I1​−I0​​D1​+D0​D1​−D0​​​where:D0​=Initial quantity demandedD1​=Final quantity demandedI0​=Initial real incomeI1​=Final real income​


   Example of Income Elasticity of Demand  

Consider a local car dealership that gathers data on changes in demand and consumer income for its cars for a particular year. When the average real income of its customers falls from $50,000 to $40,000, the demand for its cars plummets from 10,000 to 5,000 units sold, all other things unchanged.



The income elasticity of demand is calculated by taking a negative 50% change in demand, and dividing it by a 20% change in real income. This produces an elasticity of 2.5, which indicates local customers are particularly sensitive to changes in their income when it comes to buying cars.


   Types of Income Elasticity of Demand  

There are five types of income elasticity of demand:



High: A rise in income comes with bigger increases in the quantity demanded.Unitary: The rise in income is proportionate to the increase in the quantity demanded.Low: A jump in income is less than proportionate to the increase in the quantity demanded.Zero: The quantity bought/demanded is the same even if income changesNegative: An increase in income comes with a decrease in the quantity demanded.




How Do You Interpret Income Elasticity of Demand?
Income elasticity of demand describes the sensitivity to changes in consumer income relative to the amount of a good that consumers demand. Highly elastic goods will see their quantity demanded change rapidly with income changes, while inelastic goods will see the same quantity demanded even as income changes.




What Does an Income Elasticity of Demand of 1.50 Mean?
Since the value is positive, the good is elastic. It implies that for every 1% increase in income, people will demand an increase of 1.5% in the number of goods. Thus, if the average income is $100,000 and at that level of income people desire 70 meals out a year, they would demand 71 meals a year if income rose to $101,000 (1.5% of 70=1.05 meals more).




How Does Income Elasticity of Demand Differ From Price Elasticity of Demand?
Price elasticity of demand measures the change in percentage of demand caused by a percent change in price, rather than a percent change in income.




Can Income Elasticity of Demand Be Negative?
Yes, for example with certain "inferior" goods, the more money people have the less likely they are to buy cheaper products in favor of higher quality ones.




What Is Something That Is Inelastic to Changes in Income?
Inelastic goods tend to have the same demand regardless of income. Certain staples and basics such as gasoline or milk would not change with income—you'll still only need one gallon a week even if your income doubles.


   The Bottom Line  

Income elasticity of demand is the change in quantity demanded of a good or service in relation to the change in real income of a consumer that buys that good or service. Income elasticity of demand will denote whether a product is an essential item or a luxury item.



The higher the inelasticity of demand for a good or service, the more sensitive the demand for it is to fluctuations in consumer income. If a good or service has a high inelasticity of demand, it will experience a decline in demand when the real income of consumers decreases. If real income increases, it will see an increase in demand. If a good or service has a low inelasticity of demand, its demand will not significantly change regardless of what happens to the real income of consumers.



Correction—March 7, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly defined an income elasticity of demand of 1.5 in an example. It has been edited to reflect that an elasticity of demand of 1.5 refers to an increase of 1.5 in the percentage of the quantity demanded, not an increase of 1.5 units.
What Does Income From Operations Mean?  

Income from operations (IFO) is also known as operating income or EBIT. Income from operations is the profit realized from a business' own operations. Income from operations is generated from running the primary business and excludes income from other sources. For example, this would exclude income generated from selling the property of a manufacturing company.


   Understanding Income From Operations (IFO)  

Income from operations is the same as operating income. By only looking at the profit generated in normal business operations, it makes it easier to understand the potential future profitability of the company. To calculate operating income, start with revenue from operations, then subtract the cost of goods sold and other operating expenses such as the cost of labor. Interest earned or paid should not be included. Taxes paid should not be deducted either. Do not include any gains or losses from investments or the purchase or sale of business assets. Income from operations only involves revenue and expenses involved in the day-to-day run of the business.


   Example of Income From Operations  

For example, if a car company spends $100,000 building and selling cars then sells them for $110,000, it has $10,000 in income from operations. Because this is income generated only from normal operations, an investor could assume that similar income will be generated every year as long as operations continue.



As another example, if Bob sells apples, he could take the revenue he earned from selling the apples, then subtract the costs incurred for care and picking of the apple trees while the apples were growing, then subtract anything he paid to folks to care for, pick, or sell the apples. The amount left over would be the operating income from Bob's apple business.
What Is an Income Fund?  

An income fund is a type of mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) that emphasizes current income, either on a monthly or quarterly basis, as opposed to capital gains or appreciation. Such funds usually hold a variety of government, municipal, and corporate debt obligations, preferred stock, money market instruments, and dividend-paying stocks.





Key Takeaways

Income funds are mutual funds or ETFs that prioritize current income, often in the form of interest or dividend-paying investments.Income funds may invest in bonds or other fixed-income securities as well as preferred shares and dividend stocks.Income funds are often considered lower risk than funds that prioritize capital gains.


   The Basics of Income Funds  

Share prices of income funds are not fixed; they tend to fall when interest rates are rising and to increase when interest rates are falling. Generally, the bonds included in the portfolios of these funds are investment-grade. The other securities are of sufficient credit quality to assure the preservation of capital.



There are two popular types of high-risk funds that also focus mainly on income: high-yield bond funds that invest primarily in corporate junk bonds and bank loan funds that invest in floating-rate loans issued by banks or other financial institutions.



Income funds come in several varieties. The primary differentiation involves the types of securities they invest in to generate income.


   Money Market Funds  

Money market funds generally invest in certificates of deposit (CDs), commercial paper, and short-term Treasury bills. These funds are designed to be very safe investments aiming to maintain a low share price at all times, but they also tend to offer relatively low yields. While these funds don't carry the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance that bank products do, money market funds have traditionally provided a high degree of safety.


   Bond Funds  

Bond funds typically invest in corporate and government bonds. Government bond funds carry virtually no default risk and, therefore, can act as a safe haven for investors in times of uncertainty, but normally offer lower yields than comparable corporate bond funds. Corporate bonds carry the additional risk that the issuer may not be able to make principal or interest payments. As a result, they tend to pay higher interest rates to account for the additional risk. Corporate bond funds can be split into investment-grade bond funds and below-investment-grade, or junk, bond funds.


   Equity Income Funds  

Many companies pay dividends on their stocks. Funds invested primarily in stocks that pay regular dividends are known as equity income funds. These types of funds are especially popular among retirement-age investors that look to live off of the predictable monthly income generated from their portfolios. Historically, dividends have provided a significant percentage of a stock's total long-term return.


   Other Income Funds  

Other income-producing funds include those focused on real estate investment trusts (REITs), master limited partnerships (MLPs), and preferred stocks.


   Example of an Income Fund  

The T. Rowe Price Equity Income Fund has $17.51 billion in net assets as of Q1 2021 and seeks a high rate of growth through high dividend-paying stocks in combination with capital appreciation. The fund, which distributes payouts quarterly, paid a dividend of $0.18 per share on Dec. 14, 2020. The fund has performed relatively in line with its benchmark. An investment of $10,000 in the T. Rowe Price Equity Income Fund at inception in 1985 would be worth around $24,5100 as of Feb. 28, 2021. The Lipper Equity Income Funds Average result for the same amount over the same period would be about $25,150.
What Is Income in Respect of a Decedent?  

Income in respect of a decedent (IRD) refers to untaxed income that a decedent had earned or had a right to receive during their lifetime. IRD is taxed to the individual beneficiary or entity that inherits this income.



However, IRD also counts toward the decedent’s estate for federal estate tax purposes, potentially drawing a double tax hit. Fortunately, the beneficiary may be able to take a tax deduction from the estate tax paid on IRD. The beneficiary must declare IRD as income for the year in which they received it.





Key Takeaways

Income in respect of a decedent (IRD) refers to untaxed income that a decedent had earned or had a right to receive during their lifetime.IRD is taxed as if the decedent is still living. Beneficiaries are responsible for paying taxes on IRD income under most circumstances. 


   Understanding IRD  

IRD is defined in Internal Revenue Code, section 691. Sources of income include the following:



Uncollected salariesWagesBonusesCommissionsVacation paySick payUncollected rentRetirement income



Other sources are:



Payments for cropsInterest and dividends accruedDistributions from certain deferred compensation and stock option plansAccounts receivable of a sole proprietorGains from the sale of property (if the sale is deemed to occur before death, but proceeds are not collected until after death) 






IRD is also any income from sales commissions and IRA distributions owed to the decedent at the time of their death.


   How IRD Is Taxed  

IRD is taxed in the same way it would have been taxed upon the decedent if they were still alive. For example, capital gains are taxed as capital gains, and uncollected compensation is taxed as ordinary income on the beneficiary’s tax return for the year they received it. There is no step-up in basis for IRDs.


   How IRD Works for IRAs and 401(k)s   

Other common examples of IRD are distributions from tax-deferred qualified retirement plans such as 401(k)s and traditional individual retirement accounts (IRAs) that are passed on to the account holder’s beneficiary. If an individual dies leaving behind a $1 million IRA to his beneficiary, the beneficiary will be responsible for paying taxes on any distributions made from the account.



The beneficiary may have to start taking required minimum distributions (RMD)s at a certain point. A living spouse who is the sole beneficiary has certain rights not granted to another type of beneficiary. For example, a spouse can rollover the decedent’s IRA assets into their own IRA and postpone RMDs until age 73. Either way, each beneficiary has specific RMD rules to follow and is liable for applicable taxes. 



The age for RMDs used to be 70½, but as a result of the passage of the Setting Every Community Up For Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act in December 2019, it was raised to 72. Then, in December 2022, the passage of the SECURE 2.0 Act raised the age to 73.



If the decedent died on or after reaching the age of RMDs, their RMD for the year of death will factor into their estate. If this were to push the decedent’s estate beyond the federal exclusion ($12.06 million in 2022 and $12.92 million in 2023), an estate tax will kick in. 



To try to minimize this impact, individuals and married couples devise estate-planning strategies that involve transferring assets to trusts. One option is a credit shelter trust, which postpones estate taxes until the death of the surviving spouse.  




How Do I Report IRD?
If you as beneficiary received such income, you'll report it on your personal income tax return for the year that you received it.




What's the Difference Between Inheritance and IRD?
Inheritance is property bequeathed to you by a decedent. Income in respect of a decedent, or IRD, is income that was owed to the decedent but wasn't received by them due to their death. Instead, that income may go to the beneficiary. For example, a required minimum distribution from an IRA (that you are to inherit) that was to be made to the decedent the year the decedent passed away will go to you. While you don't normally owe taxes on inheritance, you will owe taxes on IRD that you receive.




How Is a Beneficiary Taxed on IRD That's a Required Minimum Distribution?
Just as the decedent would have been. For example, an RMD from a traditional IRA would have been reported by the decedent as regular income and taxed as such. The beneficiary will report the RMD in the same way and will owe tax that corresponds to their income tax bracket.


   The Bottom Line  

IRD is income that is owed to an individual who dies before receiving it. If a beneficiary receives this money, they will owe taxes on it.



If the IRD generates a tax liability for the decedent's estate, a beneficiary may be able to claim a deduction for estate taxes connected to the IRD amount.
What Is Income Inequality?  

Income inequality refers to how unevenly income is distributed throughout a population. The less equal the distribution, the greater the income inequality. Income inequality is often accompanied by wealth inequality, which is the uneven distribution of wealth.



Populations can be divided up in different ways to show different levels and forms of income inequality, such as income inequality by gender or race. Different measures, such as the Gini Index, can be used to analyze the level of income inequality in a population.





Key Takeaways

Income inequality can result in a lack of opportunities for better standards of living and stable financial futures, and political and social upheavals.Income inequality studies help to show the disparity of income among different population segments.When analyzing income inequality, researchers study distributions based on gender, ethnicity, geographic location, and occupation.Case studies and analyses of income inequality, income disparity, and income distributions are provided regularly by a variety of top sources.The Gini Index is a popular way to compare income inequalities universally across the globe.


   Understanding Income Inequality  

Income inequality, or the imbalance of income earned by a group people, exists in countries throughout the world. In the U.S., these differences in income have become pronounced over the past fifty years. Income inequality is not the same as wealth inequality; the former involves salaries/wages while the latter involves net worth.


  Causes of Income Inequality  

Some of the factors that affect income inequality include:



Globalization: The increase in trade among nations resulted in the move of manufacturing and other jobs by corporations in the U.S. to countries where labor costs were cheaper. For working-class and middle-class Americans, this meant that secure, even generational, jobs and income disappeared.



Advances in Technology: While a boon in many ways, certain workplace technological advancements, such as automation, have led to the loss of jobs for blue-collar workers and lower wages for less educated workers.



Gender and Race Bias: Income disparities have always been clearly visible for women and people of color. It's widely acknowledged that, for example, male employees typically earn more than female employees in the same job positions. Likewise, white males earn more than non-white males.



Education: Workers with less than a high-school education experience less growth in wages than those with college educations and post graduate degrees. The announcements of multi-million dollar salaries and bonuses (even in troubling economic times) going to C-Suite executives drives this income disparity home.



Economic Conditions: When economic conditions weaken, financial turmoil, unemployment, slowing business investment, and more can affect incomes.



Taxation: Although high-income earners pay a larger percentage of their income in taxes than lower-income earners, federal taxation has not put the brakes on increasing income inequality. That may be due to certain tax policies, e.g., those related to corporate taxation, the capital gains tax rates, and income tax cuts, that benefit those with higher income more than those with lower income.


  Consequences of Income Inequality  

Some degree of income inequality is to be expected because of basic differences in talent, effort, and simple chance. However, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), too much income inequality could "erode social cohesion, lead to political polarization, and ultimately lower economic growth."



Political upheaval and the disappearance of social, educational, and economic opportunities to improve standards of living and financial futures can also be consequences of income disparity.


  Analysis of Income Inequality  

Income inequality and income disparity can be analyzed through a variety of segmentations. Income distributions by demographic segmentation form the basis for studying income inequality and income disparity.



The different types of income segmentations studied when analyzing income inequality may include:



GenderEthnicityGeographic locationOccupationHistorical income


   How to Measure Income Inequality  

One way to measure income inequality is to compare the income of a large group of high earners (for example, the top 10%) to the national median or average. Another approach compares the income of a lower-earning group (say, the bottom 10%) to the median or average.



Other researchers have begun looking at tax records of those with the highest incomes to draw conclusions about these most affluent slices of society.



A frequently used tool for measuring income inequality is the Gini Index. It was developed by Italian statistician Corrado Gini in the early 1900s to help quantify and more easily compare income inequality levels across countries of the world. The index can range from 0 to 100, with a higher level indicating greater income inequality among a country’s population and a lower level indicating less.



The latest available data from the World Bank shows South Africa reporting one of the highest income inequality dispersions with a Gini Index level of 63.0. The United States has a Gini Index level of 39.7. The Slovak Republic has the World Bank’s lowest Gini Index reading at 23.2.


   How to Reduce Income Inequality  

Dispersions of income inequality are an ongoing area of analysis for both local and global governing institutions. The IMF and World Bank have a goal to help improve the income of the lowest 10% of earners in all countries through their missions relating to financial stability, long-term economic development, and poverty reduction.



Globally, new innovations in financial technologies and production are helping to improve the banking services for the world’s lowest-income earners, as a worldwide initiative for financial inclusion is underway.



In addition, income inequality will be addressed more successfully when political, economic, and social leaders can agree on basic approaches to its improvement:



Governments should step in when the free market is ineffective in increasing income.Governmental policies that promote income inequality must be acknowledged.Fiscal actions can improve income disparities.Universal health care could provide some increase in income equality.Improving the stability of other social programs such as Social Security and Medicaid could also relieve cost concerns for an enormous number of individuals.Better access to educational opportunities could improve socio-economic mobility.


   Income Inequality in the United States  

Income inequality in the U.S. has been increasing since the 1970s. Throughout the 20th century and up to the present, this inequality has been exacerbated by government tax and labor policies and ongoing discrimination by race and gender. A weakening middle class has also contributed to income inequality.



The organizations below conduct research and produce analysis reports on various examples of income inequality, income disparity, and income distributions in the U.S.


  Urban Institute  

In an analysis of 50 years of economic data, the Urban Institute showed that the poorest got poorer while the richest got much richer.



Between 1963 and 2016:



The poorest 10% of Americans went from having zero assets to being $1,000 in debt.
Families in the middle-income segment more than doubled their prior average wealth.
Families in the top 10% had more than five times their prior wealth.
Families in the top 1% had more than seven times their prior wealth.



The Urban Institute also researches the racial and ethnic wealth gap in the U.S. The organization reported that White families in 1963 had amassed a median wealth of approximately $45,000 more than families of color. By 2019, the median wealth for White families increased to approximately $153,000 more than Latinx families and $165,000 more than Black families.


  Federal Reserve  

The Federal Reserve provides a quarterly Distributional Financial Accounts report. This report shows wealth distributions for U.S. households. As of the fourth quarter of 2022, the Federal Reserve showed the following distributions of wealth across the U.S.






  Economic Policy Institute  

The Economic Policy Institute released a 2018 report showing a general trend toward increasing incomes of the top earners following the 2008 recession. Between 2009 and 2015, the Economic Policy Institute shows that the incomes of those in the top 1% grew faster than the incomes of the other 99% in 43 states and Washington D.C.



There can be many factors associated with this trend, including salary stagnation for wage-earning Americans, tax cuts for the richest Americans, a loss of manufacturing jobs, and a soaring stock market that inflated the worth of corporate executives and hedge fund managers.



Post-recession, companies are also investing heavily to hire and keep workers with specialized skills in fields such as engineering and healthcare. This has caused reductions or new automation takeovers in other functions, pushing down wages for workers in less competitive jobs.



Furthermore, EPI data tracks wages by segment on a regular basis. As of 2022, it showed the following averages for Whites, Blacks, and Hispanics.






  Institute for Women’s Policy Research  

Income inequality is an economic concept that tends to hit some segments of populations harder than others, with significant wage gaps often identified for women, Blacks, and Hispanics working in the U.S. 



According to a study of incomes for full-time workers by the Institute for Women's Policy Research, in 2021 women of all races and ethnicities were paid an average of 83.1% of the salaries paid to men. When both part- and full-time incomes are included, women earn just 77.3 cents for each dollar a man earned.



The same report also broke down earnings by race and gender. It noted that, compared to the median weekly earnings of White men working full-time, Hispanic women earned 58.4% of that amount, Black women earned 63.1%, and White women earned 79.6%.


  Pew Research Center  

Data from the Pew Research Center also identifies income inequalities by gender. In 2022, according to its latest analysis of hourly earnings of full- and part-time employees, women earned an average of 82% of what men earned. This is not much of an improvement over the pay gap in 2002, when women earned 80% as much as men.






An income gap refers to the difference in income earned between demographic segments.




Why Is Income Inequality a Problem?
It's a serious problem because the lack of financial stability for large portions of a population can promote potentially destructive social and economic upheaval generally, as well as financial hardships and lower standards of living, in particular.




What Are 3 Effects of Income Inequality
Financial hardship for many, persistent poverty, and a dispirited populace that could be ripe for social and political unrest are just a few of the effects of income inequality.




How Can We Fix Income Inequality?
To reduce income inequality, governments and private sectors must address its various causes, including discrimination, unfair taxation, wage stagnation, and more that lead to large imbalances in compensation.


   The Bottom Line  

Income inequality is the disparity of incomes across a population. Some income inequality is always to be expected because people bring different degrees of talent, effort, and luck to their endeavors. But large imbalances in income have been caused and maintained by discrimination, taxation policies, the downfall of labor unions, troublesome economic conditions such as slow growth and high inflation, and more.



Countries must address income inequality to combat the disproportionate prosperity, financial hardship, and loss of social and economic opportunities that can lead to social discontent and political instability.
What Is Per Capita Income?  

Per capita income is a measure of the amount of money earned per person in a nation or geographic region. Per capita income is used to determine the average per-person income for an area and to evaluate the standard of living and quality of life of the population. Per capita income for a nation is calculated by dividing the country's national income by its population.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Per Capita Income  

Per capita income counts each man, woman, and child, even newborn babies, as a member of the population. This stands in contrast to other common measurements of an area's prosperity, such as household income, which counts all people residing under one roof as a household, and family income, which counts as a family those related by birth, marriage, or adoption who live under the same roof.


  Per Capita Income in the U.S.  

The United States Census Bureau takes a survey of income per capita every ten years and revises its estimates every September. The census takes the total income for the previous year for everyone 15 years and older and calculates the median average of the data. The census includes earned income (including wages, salaries, self-employment income), interest income, dividends as well as income from estates and trusts, and government transfers (Social Security, public assistance, welfare, survivor and disability benefits). Not included are employer-paid healthcare, money borrowed, insurance payments, gifts, food stamps, public housing, capital gains, medical care, or tax refunds. 



According to 2020 Census data, the national per capita income for the year was $39,052 in 2020. We can see, from the U.S. Census Bureau, that the per capita income is lower than the median household income of $67,521 in 2020.



Each metric has its advantages. Per capita income is helpful when analyzing a large number of people, such as the population of the United States, which stands at more than 330 million. Median household income is helpful when determining the level of income disparity and poverty in a certain area as the median number eliminates outlier income figures that could skew the data set.





Key Takeaways

Per capita income is a measure of the amount of money earned per person in a nation or geographic region.Per capita income includes all individuals, not just adults of working age. Per capita income as a metric has limitations that include its inability to account for inflation, income disparity, poverty, wealth, or savings.


   Uses of Per Capita Income  

Perhaps the most common use of income per capita is to ascertain an area's wealth or lack of wealth. For example, income per capita is one metric the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) uses to rank the wealthiest counties in the United States, the other being median household income.



Per capita income is also useful in assessing an area's affordability. It can be used in conjunction with data on real estate prices, for instance, to help determine if average homes are out of reach for the average family. Notoriously expensive areas such as Manhattan and San Francisco maintain extremely high ratios of average home price to income per capita.



Businesses can also use per capita income when considering opening a store in a town or region. If a town's population has a high per capita income, the company might have a better chance at generating revenue from selling their goods since the people would have more spending money versus a town with a low per capita income.


   Limitations of Per Capita Income  

Although per capita income is a popular metric, it does have some limitations.


  Livings Standards  

Since per capita income uses the overall income of a population and divides it by the total number of people, it doesn't always provide an accurate representation of the standard of living. In other words, the data can be skewed, whereby it doesn't account for income inequality.



For example, let's say a town has a total population of 50 people who are earning $500,000 per year, and 1,000 people earning $25,000 per year. We calculate the per capita income as ($500,000 * 50) + (1,000 * $25,000) to arrive at $50,000,000 in total income. When we divide $50,000,000 / 1,050 (total population), the per capita income is $47,619 for the town.



However, the per capita income doesn't give us a true picture of the living conditions for all of those living in the town. Imagine if federal aid or public assistance was provided to towns based on per capita income. The town, in our example, might not receive the necessary aid such as housing and food assistance if the income threshold for aid was $47,000 or less.


  Inflation  

Per capita income doesn't reflect inflation in an economy, which is the rate at which prices rise over time. For example, if the per capita income for a nation rose from $50,000 per year to $55,000 the next year, it would register as a 10% increase in annual income for the population. However, if inflation for the same period was 4%, income would only be up by 6% in real terms. Inflation erodes the purchasing power of the consumer and limits any increases in income. As a result, per capita income can overstate income for a population.


  International Comparisons  

The cost of living differences can be inaccurate when making international comparisons since exchange rates are not included in the calculation. Critics of per capita income suggest that adjusting for purchasing power parity (PPP) is more accurate, whereby PPP helps to nullify the exchange rate difference between countries. Also, other economies use bartering and other non-monetary activity, which is not considered in calculating per capita income.


  Savings and Wealth  

Per capita income doesn't include an individuals savings or wealth. For example, a wealthy person might have a low annual income from not working but draws from savings to maintain a high-quality standard of living. The per capita metric would reflect the wealthy person as a low-income earner.


  Children  

Per capita includes children in the total population, but children don't earn any income. Countries with many children would have a skewed result since they would have more people dividing up the income versus countries with fewer children.


  Economic Welfare  

The welfare of the people isn't necessarily captured with per capita income. For example, the quality of work conditions, the number of hours worked, education level, and health benefits are not included in per capita income calculations. As a result, the overall welfare of the community may not be accurately reflected.



It's important to consider that per capita income is only one metric and should be used in conjunction with other income measurements, such as the median income, income by regions, and the percentage of residents living in poverty.
What Is an Income Property?  

An income property refers to a piece of real estate that is purchased or developed primarily in order to earn income by renting or leasing it out to others, with a secondary goal of price appreciation. Income properties, which are a subset of investment properties, may be either residential or commercial.



Investors must take several factors into consideration—such as interest rates and the housing market environment—before purchasing an income property, as there can be unique risks associated with this kind of investment.





Key Takeaways

An income property is purchased or developed to earn income by renting or leasing it out to others or through price appreciation.Income properties may be both commercial and residential.Owners should have a financial cushion to pay for repairs, maintenance, and other costs such as property taxes in case of emergency.Although they may generate income, owners should consider the risks including interest rates, housing market conditions, and disruptive tenants.


   Understanding Income Properties  

Income properties can be a good investment for a variety of reasons. It offers an alternative to standard market investments in stocks and bonds. It also offers the investor the security of real property with many investment diversification benefits. Investing in real estate for income requires a broad range of considerations, including interest rates and the state of the housing market, among others.



A real estate property can be an excellent long-term investment that may even provide a source of income in retirement. But income properties require a great deal of analysis to ensure that steady cash flow is available throughout the life of the loan and beyond. Determining a base rate of income to rentals is often important in order to determine the desired rate of return (RoR). One way to do this is by analyzing the current rental rate on similar properties in the area while factoring in the monthly payments required for the mortgage.



Because the costs to maintain an income property may be high, property owners should consider having a financial cushion on which to fall back in cases of emergency. This includes being able to pay for repairs, regular maintenance, or other costs they are liable for on the building like property taxes and utilities. Managing the cash flow and ensuring that it exceeds the cost of borrowing and expenses helps to increase the return on the owner's investment.



As mentioned above, income properties can be both commercial and residential. Income-producing commercial real estate is mainly used for business purposes such as office buildings, retail spaces, hotels, or mixed-use properties. Residential properties, on the other hand, are used primarily for personal use by people other than the owner. Residential income properties may be single or multifamily homes, condominiums, townhomes, apartments, or seasonal homes such as cottages.


   Special Considerations  

Income properties may be part of primary residences or additional properties owned by an investor. In some cases, the homeowner rents out a portion of their own home—say, their basement or the upper level of the property—in order to produce income while maintaining a residence there. This is called an owner-occupied income property, meaning both the owner/landlord and the tenant live in the same property.



A non-owner-occupied property is one that isn't occupied by the owner and is purely retained for income-producing purposes. This means the property is only used by the tenants or lessees.






Residential income properties are commonly referred to as non-owner occupied.


  Income Property Mortgages  

An investor typically needs to be approved for a mortgage loan to purchase a property used to generate income. Investors interested in income-producing real estate generally need to have high credit scores and steady incomes to prove they can make monthly installment payments. For many investors, the most common type of loan for a real estate property will be a conventional bank loan.



In order to qualify, the investor needs to make a formal credit application. The bank analyzes information about the borrower through its underwriting process. An underwriter provides a loan offer with a specified interest rate, principal value, and duration based on the underwriting analysis.






Most lenders want investors to have high credit scores and steady income before they approve an income property mortgage. Income property mortgages are often harder to qualify for than mortgages geared toward owner-occupied and single-family residences.


  Flipping  

Flipping is now a very common investment strategy for many real estate investors. With a fix and flip property, the income property owner believes the resale value after renovations will cover the cost of interest on the loan and renovation expenses, generating an immediate positive return when sold. This type of income property investing includes higher risks than conventional income property ownership, but it provides for a lump sum payout at the time of resale rather than over a prolonged period of time.



Several resources for fix-and-flip investors are available in the real estate market such as a fix-and-flip loan. These loans are really popular with online debt crowdfunding platforms willing to take on some of the higher risks of fix and flip investments. These loans are generally offered for shorter time periods with higher interest rates than conventional loans. With a fix-and-flip loan, the income property is used as collateral, and the owner must be prepared to buy and renovate a property to resell it within a short period of time.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Income Properties  

Just like any other investment, there are distinct benefits and pitfalls to owning income properties. As mentioned above, they are great investment opportunities that can provide diversity to someone's portfolio. This helps spread the risk across different investment vehicles. Investors are also able to generate income, providing security and savings for their retirement.



But owning an income property requires a lot of time, effort, money, and patience. For instance, dealing with tenants can be difficult at times. This can lead to additional repairs, trips to the home, and court costs if the owner needs to pursue an eviction. Furthermore, if the owner isn't able to manage the property themselves, they may have to spend additional money to hire a property management company to do the work for them.
What Is Income Smoothing?  

Income smoothing uses accounting techniques to level out fluctuations in net income from one period to the next. Companies indulge in this practice because investors are generally willing to pay a premium for stocks with steady and predictable earnings streams as opposed to stocks whose earnings are subject to more volatile patterns, which can be regarded as riskier.



Income smoothing is not illegal if the process follows generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Talented accountants are able to adjust financial books in an above-board way to ensure the legality of income smoothing. However, many times income smoothing is done under fraudulent methods.





Key Takeaways

Income smoothing is the act of using accounting methods to level out fluctuations in net income from different reporting periods.The process of income smoothing involves moving revenues and expenses from one accounting period to another.Though legal if performed within the guidelines of GAAP, income smoothing can be done fraudulently.Reasons for income smoothing include reducing taxes, attracting investors, and as part of a business strategy.


   Understanding Income Smoothing  

The goal of income smoothing is to reduce the fluctuations in earnings from one period to another to portray a company as if it has steady earnings. It's intended to smooth out periods of high income vs. periods of low income or periods with high expenses vs. periods of low expenses. Accountants do this by moving around revenues and expenses in a legal fashion.



Examples of income smoothing techniques include deferring revenue during a good year if the following year is expected to be a challenging one or delaying the recognition of expenses in a difficult year because performance is expected to improve in the near future.



Companies might also delay expenses in specific years with plans to raise funding from venture capital or private equity investors. Having a high EBITDA thanks to income smoothing might translate into high valuation through EBITDA multiple calculation methods.



While deliberately slowing revenue recognition in good years may seem counterintuitive, in reality, entities with predictable financial results generally enjoy a lower cost of financing. So it often makes sense for a business to engage in some level of accounting management. But it's a fine line between taking what the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows and outright deception.



Income smoothing does not rely on "creative" accounting or misstatements which would constitute outright fraud, but rather on the latitude provided in the interpretation of GAAP. By managing expectations fairly and ethically, businesses that employ a touch of income smoothing do not generally raise a red flag.


   Reasons for Income Smoothing  

There are many reasons why a company would choose to engage in income smoothing. These may include decreasing its taxes, attracting new investors, or as part of a strategic business move.


  Reduce Taxes  

Depending on the country, companies pay a progressive corporate tax rate; meaning that the higher the income earned, the higher the taxes paid. To avoid this, companies may increase provisions set aside for losses or increase donations to charities; both of which would provide tax benefits.


  Attract Investors  

Investors look for stability in their investments. If a company's financials show volatile earnings, an investor may be turned off by the risk and uncertainty of investing in this company. A firm that can show consistent returns from year to year is more likely to attract investors who feel more at ease when they see steady returns over a longer time period.


  Business Strategy  

A business strategy a company can use when they have high profits is to increase expenses. In this case, it might increase bonuses paid out to employees or hire more workers to increase the cost of payroll. If income was expected to be lower for the year, they could employ the strategy in reverse; laying off workers or reducing bonuses to reduce expenses. These moves not only smooth out income but allow a company to operate more efficiently depending on the circumstances.


   Example of Income Smoothing  

An often-cited example of income smoothing is that of altering the allowance for doubtful accounts to change bad debt expense from one reporting period to another. For example, a client expects not to receive payment for certain goods over two accounting periods; $1,000 in the first reporting period and $5,000 in the second reporting period.



If the first reporting period is expected to have a high income, the company may include the total amount of $6,000 as an allowance for doubtful accounts in that reporting period. This would increase the bad debt expense on the income statement by $6,000 and reduce net income by $6,000. This would thereby smooth out a high-income period by reducing income. It's important for companies to use judgment and legal accounting methods when adjusting any accounts.
What Is an Income Statement?  

An income statement is one of the three important financial statements used for reporting a company’s financial performance over a specific accounting period. The other two key statements are the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.



The income statement focuses on the revenue, expenses, gains, and losses reported by a company during a particular period. Also known as the profit and loss (P&L) statement or the statement of revenue and expense, an income statement provides valuable insights into a company’s operations, the efficiency of its management, underperforming sectors, and its performance relative to industry peers.





Key Takeaways

An income statement is one of the three major financial statements, along with the balance sheet and the cash flow statement, that report a company’s financial performance over a specific accounting period.The income statement focuses on the revenue, expenses, gains, and losses of a company during a particular period.An income statement provides valuable insights into a company’s operations, the efficiency of its management, underperforming sectors, and its performance relative to industry peers.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Understanding the Income Statement  

The income statement is an integral part of the company performance reports that must be submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While a balance sheet provides the snapshot of a company’s financials as of a particular date, the income statement reports income through a specific period, usually a quarter or a year, and its heading indicates the duration, which may read as “For the (fiscal) year/quarter ended June 30, 2021.”












Theresa Chiechi © Investopedia 2022



The income statement focuses on four key items: revenue, expenses, gains, and losses. It does not differentiate between cash and non-cash receipts (sales in cash vs. sales on credit) or cash vs. non-cash payments/disbursements (purchases in cash vs. purchases on credit). It starts with the details of sales and then works down to compute net income and eventually earnings per share (EPS). Essentially, it gives an account of how the net revenue realized by the company gets transformed into net earnings (profit or loss).


   Revenue and Gains  

The following are covered in the income statement, though its format may vary, depending upon the local regulatory requirements, the diversified scope of the business, and the associated operating activities:


  Operating Revenue  

Revenue realized through primary activities is often referred to as operating revenue. For a company manufacturing a product, or for a wholesaler, distributor, or retailer involved in the business of selling that product, the revenue from primary activities refers to revenue achieved from the sale of the product. Similarly, for a company (or its franchisees) in the business of offering services, revenue from primary activities refers to the revenue or fees earned in exchange for offering those services.


  Non-Operating Revenue  

Revenue realized through secondary, noncore business activities is often referred to as nonoperating, recurring revenue. This revenue is sourced from the earnings that are outside the purchase and sale of goods and services and may include income from interest earned on business capital parked in the bank, rental income from business property, income from strategic partnerships like royalty payment receipts, or income from an advertisement display placed on business property.


  Gains  

Also called other income, gains indicate the net money made from other activities, like the sale of long-term assets. These include the net income realized from one-time nonbusiness activities, such as a company selling its old transportation van, unused land, or a subsidiary company.



Revenue should not be confused with receipts. Payment is usually accounted for in the period when sales are made or services are delivered. Receipts are the cash received and are accounted for when the money is received.



A customer may take goods/services from a company on Sept. 28, which will lead to the revenue accounted for in September. The customer may be given a 30-day payment window due to his excellent credit and reputation, allowing until Oct. 28 to make the payment, which is when the receipts are accounted for.


   Expenses and Losses  

A business's cost to continue operating and turning a profit is known as an expense. Some of these expenses may be written off on a tax return if they meet Internal Revenue Service (IRS) guidelines.


  Primary-Activity Expenses  

These are all expenses incurred for earning the average operating revenue linked to the primary activity of the business. They include the cost of goods sold (COGS); selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses; depreciation or amortization; and research and development (R&D) expenses. Typical items that make up the list are employee wages, sales commissions, and expenses for utilities such as electricity and transportation.


  Secondary-Activity Expenses  

These are all expenses linked to noncore business activities, like interest paid on loan money.


  Losses as Expenses  

These are all expenses that go toward a loss-making sale of long-term assets, one-time or any other unusual costs, or expenses toward lawsuits.



While primary revenue and expenses offer insights into how well the company’s core business is performing, the secondary revenue and fees account for the company’s involvement and expertise in managing ad hoc, non-core activities. Compared with the income from the sale of manufactured goods, a substantially high-interest income from money lying in the bank indicates that the business may not be using the available cash to its full potential by expanding the production capacity, or that it is facing challenges in increasing its market share amid competition.



Recurring rental income gained by hosting billboards at the company factory along a highway indicates that management is capitalizing upon the available resources and assets for additional profitability.


   Income Statement Structure  

Mathematically, net income is calculated based on the following:



Net Income = (Revenue + Gains) - (Expenses + Losses)



To understand the above formula with some real numbers, let’s assume that a fictitious sports merchandise business, which additionally provides training, is reporting its income statement for a recent hypothetical quarter.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022



It received $25,800 from the sale of sports goods and $5,000 from training services. It spent various amounts listed for the given activities that total of $10,650. It realized net gains of $2,000 from the sale of an old van, and it incurred losses worth $800 for settling a dispute raised by a consumer. The net income comes to $21,350 for the given quarter. The above example is the simplest form of income statement that any standard business can generate. It is called the single-step income statement as it is based on a simple calculation that sums up revenue and gains and subtracts expenses and losses.



However, real-world companies often operate on a global scale, have diversified business segments offering a mix of products and services, and frequently get involved in mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. Such a wide array of operations, diversified set of expenses, various business activities, and the need for reporting in a standard format per regulatory compliance leads to multiple and complex accounting entries in the income statement.



Listed companies follow the multiple-step income statement, which segregates the operating revenue, operating expenses, and gains from the nonoperating revenue, nonoperating expenses, and losses, and offers many more details through the income statement produced this way.



Essentially, the different measures of profitability in a multiple-step income statement are reported at four different levels in a business's operations: gross, operating, pretax, and after-tax. As we’ll see shortly in the following example, this segregation helps in identifying how the income and profitability are moving/changing from one level to the other. For instance, high gross profit but lower operating income indicates higher expenses, while higher pretax profit and lower post-tax profit indicate loss of earnings to taxes and other one-time, unusual expenses.



Let’s look at an example based on the 2021 annual income statements of two large, publicly listed, multinational companies from different sectors: technology (Microsoft) and retail (Walmart).


   Reading Income Statements  

The focus in this standard format is to calculate the profit/income at each subhead of revenue and operating expenses and then account for mandatory taxes, interest, and other nonrecurring, one-time events to arrive at the net income that applies to common stock. Though calculations involve simple additions and subtractions, the order in which the various entries appear in the statement and their relationships often get repetitive and complicated. Let’s take a deep dive into these numbers for a better understanding.


  Revenue Section  

The first section, titled Revenue, indicates that Microsoft’s gross (annual) profit, or gross margin, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, was $115.86 billion. It was arrived at by deducting the cost of revenue ($52.23 billion) from the total revenue ($168.09 billion) realized by the technology giant during this fiscal year. Just over 30% of Microsoft’s total sales went toward costs for revenue generation, while a similar figure for Walmart in its fiscal year 2021 was about 75% ($429 billion/$572.75 billion). It indicates that Walmart incurred much higher cost than Microsoft to generate equivalent sales.


  Operating Expenses  

The next section, called Operating Expenses, again takes into account Microsoft’s cost of revenue ($52.23 billion) and total revenue ($168.09 billion) for the fiscal year to arrive at the reported figures. As Microsoft spent $20.72 billion on R&D and $25.23 billion on SG&A expenses, total operating expenses are computed by summing all these figures ($52.23 billion + $20.72 billion + $25.23 billion = $98.18 billion).



Reducing total operating expenses from total revenue leads to operating income (or loss) of $69.92 billion ($168.09 billion - $98.18 billion). This figure represents the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for its core business activities and is again used later to derive the net income.



A comparison of the line items indicates that Walmart did not spend anything on R&D and had higher SG&A and total operating expenses than Microsoft.


  Income From Continuing Operations  

The next section, titled Income from Continuing Operations, adds net other income or expenses (like one-time earnings), interest-linked expenses, and applicable taxes to arrive at the net income from continuing operations ($61.27 billion) for Microsoft, which is nearly 60% higher than that of Walmart ($13.67 billion).



After discounting for any nonrecurring events, it’s possible to arrive at the value of net income applicable to common shares. Microsoft had a much higher net income of $61.27 billion compared with Walmart’s $13.67 billion.



Earnings per share are computed by dividing the net income figure by the number of weighted average shares outstanding. With 7.55 billion outstanding shares for Microsoft, its 2021 EPS came to $8.12 per share ($61.27 billion ÷ 7.55 billion). With Walmart having 2.79 billion outstanding shares that fiscal year, its EPS came to $4.90 per share ($13.67 billion ÷ 2.79 billion).



Microsoft had a lower cost for generating equivalent revenue, higher net income from continuing operations, and higher net income applicable to common shares compared with Walmart.


   Uses of Income Statements  

Though the primary purpose of an income statement is to convey details of profitability and business activities of the company to the stakeholders, it also provides detailed insights into the company’s internal activities for comparison across different businesses and sectors. By understanding the income and expense components of the statement, an investor can appreciate what makes a company profitable.



Based on income statements, management can make decisions like expanding to new geographies, pushing sales, expanding production capacity, increasing the use of or the outright sale of assets, or shutting down a department or product line. Competitors also may use them to gain insights about the success parameters of a company and focus areas such as lifting R&D spending.



Creditors may find income statements of limited use, as they are more concerned about a company’s future cash flows than its past profitability. Research analysts use the income statement to compare year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter performance. One can infer, for example, whether a company’s efforts at reducing the cost of sales helped it improve profits over time, or whether management kept tabs on operating expenses without compromising on profitability.




What Are the Four Key Elements of an Income Statement?
(1) Revenue, (2) expenses, (3) gains, and (4) losses. An income statement is not a balance sheet or a cash flow statement.




What Is the Difference Between Operating Revenue and Non-Operating Revenue?
Operating revenue is realized through a business' primary activity, such as selling its products. Non-operating revenue comes from ancillary sources such as interest income from capital held in a bank or income from rental of business property.




What Insights Should You Look for in an Income Statement?
The income and expense components can help an investor learn what makes a company profitable (or not). Competitors can use them to measure how their company compares on various measures. Research analysts use them to compare performance year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.


   The Bottom Line  

An income statement provides valuable insights into various aspects of a business. It includes readings on a company’s operations, the efficiency of its management, the possible leaky areas that may be eroding profits, and whether the company is performing in line with industry peers.
What Is an Income Stock?  

An income stock is a security that pays regular, often steadily increasing, dividends.





Key Takeaways

Income stocks are stocks that offer regular and steady income, usually in the form of dividends, over a period of time with low exposure to risk.Income stocks usually offer a high yield that may generate the majority of the security's overall returns. The ideal income stock would have very low volatility, a dividend yield higher than the prevailing 10-year Treasury note rate, and a modest level of annual profit growth.Income stocks are different from growth stocks, which have higher volatility and risks associated with their performance.


   Understanding an Income Stock  

Income stocks usually offer a high yield that may generate the majority of the security's overall returns. While there is no specific breakpoint for classification, most income stocks have lower levels of volatility than the overall stock market, and offer sustainable, higher-than-average dividend yields.



Income stocks may have limited future growth options, thereby requiring a lower level of ongoing capital investment. Any excess cash flow from profits can be directed back to investors on a regular basis. Income stocks can come from any industry, but investors commonly find them within real estate (through real estate investment trusts, or REITs), energy sectors, utilities, natural resources, and financial institutions.



Many conservative investors seek income stocks because they want some exposure to corporate profit growth. At the same time, these stocks have steady streams of revenue that allow for a low risk and consistent source of revenue, perhaps for investors who are older and do not have regular salaries anymore.



The ideal income stock would have very low volatility (as measured by its beta), a dividend yield higher than the prevailing 10-year Treasury note (T-note) rate, and a modest level of annual profit growth. Ideal income stocks would also show a history of increasing dividends on a regular basis so as to keep up with inflation, which eats away at future cash payments.


   Example of an Income Stock  

Retail behemoth Walmart Inc. is an example of an income stock. As its stock price has risen over the last thirty years, the Arkansas-based company has consistently increased its dividend payout.



The company's dividend yield peaked at 3.32% in 2015 and, as of July 16, 2021, is at 1.55%, which is superior to the yield on the 10-year T-note. It has achieved this yield despite the threat of e-commerce and increased competition from Amazon, which has taken away its market share.


   Income Stocks vs. Growth Stocks  

While many conservative investors target income stocks, those able and/or with the desire to take more risks are perhaps better off pursuing growth stocks. In contrast with income stocks, growth stocks usually do not pay dividends. Instead, company management often prefers to reinvest retained earnings into capital projects to boost future revenues and profit.



For example, a recently public technology firm might choose to hire a new team of engineers or put all their efforts for one or two quarters into a new product rollout, which not only requires technical expertise but also marketing and sales power, along with significant customer experience to reply to questions and concerns and help with troubleshooting.



While growth stocks can bring significant capital gains, they generally also carry more risk than income stocks. With growth stocks, shareholders must rely on the company's investments paying off to generate a return on their investment (ROI). If the company's growth is not as high as expected, shareholders may end up losing their money as market confidence wanes and share prices drop.
What Is Income Tax?  

The term “income tax” refers to a type of tax governments impose on income businesses and individuals within their jurisdiction generate. By law, taxpayers must file an income tax return annually to determine their tax obligations.



Income taxes are a source of revenue for governments. They are used to fund public services, pay government obligations, and provide goods for citizens. In addition to the federal government, many states and local jurisdictions also levy income taxes.



Certain investments, like housing authority bonds, are exempt from income taxes in some cases.





Key Takeaways

Income tax is a type of tax governments impose on income generated by businesses and individuals within their jurisdiction.Income tax is used to fund public services, pay government obligations, and provide goods for citizens.The federal government and many states, as well as local jurisdictions, levy their own income taxes.Personal income tax is a type of income tax levied on an individual’s wages, salaries, and other types of income.Business income taxes apply to corporations, partnerships, small businesses, and the self-employed.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   How Income Tax Works  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) collects taxes and enforces tax law in the United States. The IRS employs a complex set of rules and regulations regarding reportable and taxable income, deductions, credits, etc. The agency collects taxes on all forms of income, such as wages, salaries, commissions, investments, and business earnings.



The personal income tax that the government collects can help fund government programs and services, such as Social Security, national security, schools, and roads.


   History of Income Tax  

The United States imposed the nation’s first income tax in 1862 to help finance the Civil War. After the war, the tax was repealed, but it was reinstated after passage of the Revenue Act of 1913. That same year, Form 1040 was introduced.



Most countries, including the U.S., employ a progressive income tax system in which higher-income earners pay a higher tax rate compared with their lower-income counterparts. The idea behind progressive tax is that those who earn high incomes can afford to pay more tax. In 2022, federal income tax rates range from 10% to 37%.


   Types of Income Tax  
  Individual Income Tax  

Individual income tax is also referred to as personal income tax. This type of income tax is levied on an individual’s wages, salaries, and other types of income. This tax is usually a tax that the state imposes. Because of exemptions, deductions, and credits, most individuals do not pay taxes on all of their income.



The IRS offers a series of income tax deductions and tax credits taxpayers can use to reduce their taxable income. While a deduction can lower your taxable income and the tax rate used to calculate your tax, a tax credit reduces your income tax obligation.



The IRS offers tax deductions for healthcare expenses, investments, and certain education expenses. For example, if a taxpayer earns $100,000 in income and qualifies for $20,000 in deductions, the taxable income reduces to $80,000 ($100,000 - $20,000 = $80,000).



Tax credits help reduce the taxpayer’s tax obligation or amount owed. They were created primarily for middle-income and lower-income households. To illustrate, if an individual owes $20,000 in taxes but qualifies for $4,500 in credits, their tax obligation reduces to $15,500 ($20,000 - $4,500 = $15,500).






Taxable income is your adjusted gross income (AGI) minus any itemized deductions or your standard deduction.


  Business Income Tax  

Businesses also pay income taxes on their earnings; the IRS taxes income from corporations, partnerships, self-employed contractors, and small businesses. Depending on the business structure, the corporation, its owners, or shareholders report their business income and then deduct their operating and capital expenses. Generally, the difference between their business income and their operating and capital expenses is considered their taxable business income.


  State and Local Income Tax  

Most U.S. states also levy personal income taxes. But eight states don’t impose personal income taxes on residents: Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming. Tennessee repealed its Hall tax, which taxed dividends and interest, on Jan. 1, 2021.



New Hampshire also has no state tax on income, but residents must pay a 5% tax on any dividends and interest that they earn. The state passed a bill in 2018 that would phase out the state 5% tax on interest and dividends on Jan. 1, 2024. This will bring the number of states with no income tax to nine by 2024.



Keep in mind, though, that it may not necessarily be cheaper to live in a state that does not levy income taxes. This is because states often make up the lost revenue with other taxes or reduced services. What's more, other factors determine the affordability of living in a state, including healthcare, cost of living, and job opportunities. For instance, Florida residents pay a 6% sales tax on goods and services, while the state sales tax in Tennessee is 7%.






If you don’t have a complicated tax situation, a tax calculator can give you an idea of how much income tax you might owe.



To further complicate matters, states continually tinker with their tax systems in ways both large and small, making it impossible to predict what sort of tax burden their residents will face in the years to come.



In the 2022 U.S. midterm elections, for example, Massachusetts voters narrowly approved (51.9% voted yes) an additional 4% tax on taxable income over $1 million—a so-called Millionaires Tax. California voters, meanwhile, rejected a measure that would have raised their state's highest marginal tax bracket from 13.3% to 15.05% to raise money to subsidize the electric vehicle industry.




What Percent of Income Is Taxed?
The percent of your income that is taxed depends on how much you earn and your filing status. In theory, the more you earn, the more you pay. The federal income tax rate ranges from 10% to 37%.




How Can I Calculate Income Tax?
To calculate income tax, you’ll need to add up all sources of taxable income earned in a tax year. The next step is calculating your adjusted gross income (AGI). Once you have done this, subtract any deductions for which you are eligible from your AGI.




Which States Have No Income Tax?
Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming do not collect state income taxes. New Hampshire doesn’t tax earned wages, but it does tax income earned from interest and dividends. At the end of 2023, New Hampshire will begin phasing out these taxes, and all personal income in the state will be tax free by 2027.


   The Bottom Line  

All taxpayers pay federal income tax. Depending on where you live, you may have to pay state and local income taxes, too. The U.S. has a progressive income tax system, which means that higher-income earners pay a higher tax rate than those with lower incomes. Most taxpayers do not pay taxes on all of their income, thanks to exemptions and deductions.
What Is Income Tax Payable?  

"Income tax payable" is a liability reported for financial accounting purposes that indicatesthe amount that an organization expects to pay in income taxes within 12 months. It is reported in the current liabilities section of a company's balance sheet.



The calculation of income tax payable is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), taking into account the tax rates in the laws of the jurisdictions where the organization is subject to tax.  United States taxpayers are subject to federal, state, and local tax laws as well as the tax laws of any other countries where they operate and realize income. 





Key Takeaways

The rules for determining the amount of taxes owed government tax authorities for a year and the financial accounting rules for reporting taxes on financial statements differ.For US companies, the taxes reflected on financial statements include federal, state and local taxes as well as taxes imposed by other jurisdictions where the companies operate and realize income.Income tax payable is the financial accounting term for a current tax liability reported on a company's balance sheet.The balance-sheet amount for income tax payable equals the amount of taxes due to be paid to government tax agencies within 12 months.Income taxes to be paid in a future year are reported on the balance sheet as deferred income tax liabilities.


   Understanding Income Tax Payable  

Generally, the taxes owed under applicable tax laws for most events reported in thefinancial statements for a year are included in the amount reported as income tax payable on an organization’s balance sheet. Income tax payable is shown as a current liability to the extent of the amount that will be resolved, i.e., paid, within 12 months. Tax liabilities that have accrued ina year, but whose payment is due in a later year, are shown on a balance sheet as deferred income tax liabilities.



Some rules in the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that govern financial accounting for an event producing income or loss differ from the tax-law requirements for reporting the same event on tax returns. The two systems' different depreciation and amortization rules are common causes of timing differences. These differences in reporting for the two systems—particularly with respect to the timing of tax liabilities — are reflected on an organization’s financial statements.



For example, the total US tax liability for a 2022 event resulting in income of $300, determined using the 2022 corporate federal income tax rate of 21%, is $63.  GAAP generally provides that 100% of the $300 in income from an event, as well as the total corporate tax liability of $63, must be recognized in the organization’s income statement for the year when the event occurred, i.e., 2022.



The tax law, however, may spread recognition of income or a tax liability, over, say, three years. This timing difference will be reflected in the financial statements. For the example, if $300 of GAAP income for 2022 is spread over three years for tax purposes, the 2022 balance sheet will treat the taxes due the IRS for 2022 as a current liability, i.e., a current income tax payable of $21. The remaining amount due the IRS in the future will be reported as a deferred tax liability of $42. Thus, a deferred tax liability arises when there is a difference between the current income tax liability reported on an organization’s balance sheet and the income tax expense reported on its income statement.


   Income Tax Payable vs. Income Tax Expense  

Balance sheets report the actual amount of taxes owed to the IRS, categorized either ascurrent tax liabilities, i.e., income tax payable, or deferred income tax liabilities, which are noncurrent, longer-term liabilities. However, income tax expense is reported on an organization’s income statements. This amount usually appears as the last expense item and is a deduction taken from pre-tax profit in determining net income, or profit. For a US corporate taxpayer, GAAP determines the amount of income tax expense for financial reporting purposes by applying the current corporate tax rate, 21% in 2022, to the amount designated as profit before income taxes on the income statement.



Taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll taxes, property taxes, and sales taxes, maybe identified on financial statements as separate tax categories. Or, they may be included in a comprehensive tally of tax expense on an income statement and of tax liabilities on a balance sheet.



Upon completing its federal income tax return, an organization knows the actual amount of taxes owed to the US government with respect to its tax year. The taxes actually owed for the year are reflected as liabilities on the balance sheet as current income tax liabilities. Taxes due in future years are listed as deferred income tax liabilities. If the corporation also owes state, local and foreign income taxes, its balance sheet will reflect those liabilities as well.




What Does the Term Income Tax Payable Mean?
“Income tax payable” is a financial accounting term for the current liability reported on an organization’s balance sheet. It indicates the taxes that the organization expects to pay within 12 months.  




What Does Income Tax Expense Represent?
“Income tax expense” is the financial accounting term for the taxes that an organizationowes with respect to its pre-tax profit. The amount is determined in accordance with GAAP by applying to the organization’s pre-tax profit the tax rate applicable under relevant laws. It appears on an organization’s income statement.    




Why Do Taxes Owed to the IRS and Tax Amounts on Financial Statements Differ?
The rules determining these amounts and their purposes differ. The amount of taxes to be paid to the IRS (or to the appropriate state, local or foreign tax agency) is determined by the tax laws applicable to a taxpayer’s income. These actual tax liabilities are determined annually.The tax amounts reported on financial statements are determined in accordance with GAAP. On an income statement, they constitute an expense in the calculation of profit or loss for a specific period. On balance sheets, the tax amounts indicate liabilities that affect the organization’s value. Taxes due within 12 months are current liabilities and are designated as income tax payable; taxes to be paid in the later periods are designated as deferred tax liabilities.


  The Bottom Line  

Financial accounting rules for reporting tax liabilities and the tax code’s rules for determining the amount of taxes actually owed to the IRS with respect to the same event can differ. GAAP accounting principles and the US tax code do not treat all items in the same way in calculating the tax amounts reported on financial statements and the tax liabilities reported on tax returns, respectively. Accordingly, the amount of taxes owed on an organization’s tax return may not match the tax expense on its income statement. Moreover, for financial statements, the variation in the accounting rules and purposes for determining tax expense and tax liabilities can result in differences in those amounts on income statements and balance sheets.   



"Income tax payable" refers specifically to an amount reported on financial statements: a liability reported in the current liabilities section of a company's balance sheet that indicates the amount that an organization expects to pay in income taxes within 12 months.
What is an Incontestability Clause?  

An incontestability clause in most life insurance policies prevents the provider from voiding coverage due to a misstatement by the insured after a specific amount of time has passed. A typical incontestability clause specifies that a contract will not be voidable after two or three years due to a misstatement.



Incontestability clauses help protect insured people from firms who may try to avoid paying benefits in the event of a claim. While this provision benefits the insured, it cannot protect against outright fraud.





Key Takeaways

Most life insurance policies include an incontestability clause.An incontestability clause prevents providers from voiding coverage if the insured misstates information after a contestability period, such as two or three years.The clock starts to run on the contestability period the moment the life insurance policy is purchased.


   How an Incontestability Clause Works  

The incontestability clause in life insurance policies is one of the strongest protections for a policyholder or beneficiary. While many other legal rules for insurance favor the insurance companies, this rule is notably and strongly on the side of the consumer.



Conventional rules for contracts stipulate that if false or incomplete information was provided by one party when making the contract, then the second party has the right to void, or cancel, the agreement. The incontestability clause forbids insurance companies from doing this.






Lying to an insurance company with an intention to deceive can result in the cancellation of coverage or even criminal charges.


   Three Common Exceptions to the Incontestability Clause  

In most states, if the insured person misstates age or gender when applying for life insurance, the insurance company may not void the policy, but it can adjust death benefits to reflect the policyholder’s true age.Some states allow insurance companies to include a provision, stating that a one- or two-year contestability period must be completed within the lifetime of the insured. In this scenario, a life insurance company can refuse to pay benefits if a policyholder was so unwell when they applied for coverage that they died before the contestability period was over.Some states also allow the insurance company to void a policy if deliberate fraud is proven.


   How Incontestability Clauses Help Consumers  

Errors are easy to make when applying for life insurance. An insurance company will often require a complete medical history before the policy is approved. If an applicant forgets a single detail, the insurance company has potential grounds to deny paying life insurance benefits later on.



Reputable insurance companies originally introduced the incontestability clause in the late 1800s to build consumer trust. By promising to pay full benefits after the policy has been in place for two years (even if there were errors in the original application), these insurance companies tried to clean up the industry’s image. The effort was successful, and early in the 20th century, state governments began to pass laws requiring the incontestability clause.



Today, the clock immediately begins to run on the contestability period as soon as a life insurance policy is purchased. If, after two years, the insurance company hasn't found an error in the original application, benefits are assured.



Even within that period, it’s not easy for the company to rescind a policy. Under most state laws, the insurance company must file suit in court to nullify a contract. Sending a notice to the policyholder is not enough.




What's an incontestability clause?
It's a consumer protection that prevents insurance companies from ending coverage due to a misstatement by the insured after several years have passed.




How does it protect consumers?
Errors are easy to make when applying for life insurance. Conventional rules for contracts stipulate that if false or incomplete information was provided by one party when making the contract, then the second party has the right to void, or cancel, the agreement.  An insurance company will often require a complete medical history before the policy is approved. If an applicant forgets a single detail, the insurance company has potential grounds to deny paying life insurance benefits later on. The incontestability clause prevents this from happening.




What are a few exceptions?
Misstating age or gender permits the insurance company, in most states, to adjust death benefits to reflect the policyholder’s true status. A life insurance company can refuse to pay benefits if a policyholder was so unwell when they applied for coverage that they died before the contestability period was over. In some states, an insurer can void a policy if deliberate fraud is proven.
What Is Incorporation?  

Incorporation is the legal process used to form a corporate entity or company. A corporation is the resulting legal entity that separates the firm's assets and income from its owners and investors.



Corporations can be created in nearly all countries in the world and are usually identified as such by the use of terms such as "Inc." or "Limited (Ltd.)" in their names. It is the process of legally declaring a corporate entity as separate from its owners.





Key Takeaways

Incorporation is the way that a business is formally organized and officially brought into existence.The process of incorporation involves writing up a document known as the articles of incorporation and enumerating the firm's shareholders.In a corporation, the assets and cash flows of the business entity are kept separate from those of the owners and investors, which is called limited liability.Though incorporation, a company's tax liability is also treated differently that that of a sole proprietorship or partnership.Incorporating makes it easier for a business to sells shares, raise capital, and divest ownership from a portion of the business.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Incorporation  

Incorporation is the broad term to describe a business registered with a state to become a separate legal entity. That business entity often is owned by shareholders (even if it is a single-member owned corporation) that may also be overseen by a board of directors.



A company does not need to be incorporated to operate a business. Business owners may elect to operate as a sole proprietorship or a partnership instead. These two legal business formations treat company debt and taxes differently than compared to an incorporated entity.



Another primary difference between legal entities and one of the most important reasons a company may want to incorporate is for the advantage of issuing stock. When a company incorporates, it gains the ability to share ownership of the company by issues shares of stock. Whereas a sole proprietorship or partnership is usually only owned by those operating the company, incorporating allows a business owner to sell an ownership stake in part of the business.



A business may also choose to incorporate as a corporation of a limited liability company. The filing requirements for either depend on the state the business is filing in, though each type of incorporated entity will have its own separate form.


   The Creation and Organization of Corporations  

Incorporation involves drafting "articles of incorporation," which lists the primary purpose of the business and its location, along with the number of shares and class of stock being issued if any. A closed corporation, for instance, would not issue stock. Companies are owned by their shareholders. Small companies can have a single shareholder, while very large and often publicly traded companies can have several thousand shareholders.



As a rule, the shareholders are only responsible for the payment of their own shares. As owners, the shareholders are entitled to receive the profits of the company, usually in the form of dividends. The shareholders also elect the directors of the company.



The directors of the company are responsible for day-to-day activities. They owe a duty of care to the company and must act in its best interest. They are usually elected annually. Smaller companies can have a single director, while larger ones often have a board comprised of a dozen or more directors. Except in cases of fraud or specific tax statutes, the directors do not have personal liability for the company's debts.






According to the U.S. Census Bureau, roughly 50,000 corporations submit business licenses each month. In November 2022, just over 47,000 applications from corporations were submit.


   How to Incorporate a Business  

There are many steps to incorporating a business, each with its own degree of importance. Below are the following decisions and actions a business owner must take to incorporate.


  Decide Where to Operate and Comply With Local Laws  

Prior to incorporating, a business should ensure it is adhering to local business licensing and zoning laws. This includes having the appropriate permits or licenses to operate, though not all businesses may require these.



By extension, this may have implications in to where you operate and ultimately decide to incorporate. It's sometimes best to incorporate in the state that the business is operating in as there are different types of applications and filing requirements to file elsewhere. For example, incorporating in a different state may require you to file a foreign corporation. On the other hand, filing in a different state may reduce the fees and reporting requirements needed to establish and maintain the corporation.






Many companies choose to incorporate in the state of Delaware as the state does not impose income tax on entities that do not do business in the state.


  Choosing a Business Structure  

One of the more fundamental, important decisions to make is to establish the business structure. The most common forms of business are a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, and S corporation. An LLC is also a common business structure allowed by state statute.



A business owner should choose the business structure that makes the most strategic and operational sense for the long-term. As mentioned above, incorporated entities can issue stock, a very easy way for owners to sell part of the business for personal profit. There are also very considerable tax and liability considerations to be had based on the business structure chosen.



For those unaware of the best course of action, it's usually recommended to consult a business attorney to discuss business structure options. In this article, more of the specific benefits and advantages of incorporating a business are discussed below.


  Select a Unique Name  

To incorporate, your business name can not be the exact same name as another corporation in your local area. You also want a unique name to avoid trademark infringement and branding confusion. When selecting that unique name, consider that incorporated businesses often end in incorporation abbreviations (i.e. "Inc.").



There are online directories that can be used to search existing business names. These directories allow users to input intended names to see whether they are available. Some states may offer business owners going through the incorporation process the option to reserve an available name for a period between 60 and 120 days depending on the state.


  Select Registered Agent  

A registered agent is a person who has the right and ability to accept paperwork and mail on behalf of the company. States will require that a company name a local registered agent, as the state will need a contact of someone who will handle official business as items arise.



The registered agent does not need to be the business owner. For example, a company's business attorney can serve as a registered agent as long as they have an office within the state the business is being incorporated in. Should the registered agent move out of the state in which the business is incorporated in, the company will need to choose a new agent. There are also online legal services that can act as your registered agent (in return for a fee).


  Draft and File the Articles of Incorporation  

As discussed above, the articles of incorporation include many important aspects of a company including the business name, location, information on public or private shares, the information of the registered agent, and the name of the incorporator. Each state has its own filing requirements for the articles of incorporation. There will be a filing fee to submit the article of incorporation with the state; in most cases, this is several hundred dollars.


  Draft Corporate Bylaws  

In addition to drafting the articles of incorporation, companies must draft bylaws to outline how your compensation is structured, how shares are issued, what voting rights are, and how the board of directors operate.



The corporate bylaws are a more detailed set of instructions on how to operate a business. Very often, a company may refer back to its bylaws to better clarify the best course of action to take as it runs. Some states won't require a copy of these, but they may be required by other entities (i.e. financial institutions may require bylaws when setting up a bank account). In addition, bylaws may be revised to meet the adapting nature of a business.


  Host Board Meetings  

At the first initial board meeting, the board members will be tasked with performing an important series of actions. At that first meeting, the board members should formally vote to adopt the articles of incorporation and bylaws, authorize and issue shares of stock, elect officers, and make other operational decisions. It is also important that the meeting minutes are taken as certain entities may require a copy of notes as needed.


  Complete Additional Requirements  

There are other operational tasks a business owner should take as it becomes incorporated. Though independent of the actual incorporation process, companies should apply for an employer identification number, create a bank account, file federal taxes, announce the creation of your corporation (if applicable), and file annual reports as needed.






Though incorporation could technically be achieved all in a single day, it usually takes around two months (roughly six weeks) to complete the entire process.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Incorporation  
  Pros of Incorporation  

Incorporation effectively creates a protective bubble of limited liability, often called a corporate veil, around a company's shareholders and directors. As such, incorporated businesses can take the risks that make growth possible without exposing the shareholders, owners, and directors to personal financial liability outside of their original investments in the company.



Because an incorporated business can issue and trade shares, this allows for easy transfer of ownership to another party. Whereas a sole proprietorship must sell the entire company to financially profit from disposing of company equity, owners of a company can still retain primary ownership but sell part of their shares for personal profit. In addition, shares traded on public exchanges are much more liquid markets compared to other means of selling a business.



An incorporated business may achieve a lower tax rate than on personal income. Incorporated businesses often receive more lenient tax restrictions on loss carryforwards and may receive more favorable tax treatment for allowable deductions.


  Cons of Incorporation  

The primary drawback of an incorporated business is the operating constraints to maintain its incorporated status. Companies must adhere to their bylaws and must ensure it meets filing, reporting, and other ongoing requirements. An argument can be made that since an incorporated entity's tax filing is separate from any individual's, there is also an administrative burden angle when preparing multiple tax returns.



An incorporated business is usually at risk of double taxation. Consider an example of a corporation being assessed net income tax. Then, with after-tax proceeds, it makes a taxable distribution to a shareholder. This shareholder now has taxable income on funds that have already been assessed a tax liability.



Operating an incorporated may be more expensive based on the filing, reporting, and administrative fees. Companies must often meet public reporting requirements (such as getting their financial statements audited). There are also ongoing fees and regulatory charges to maintain their status on an exchange.



Last, an incorporated business may be considered less flexible in some ways compared to other forms of business. Once incorporated, a business must operate in accordance to its bylaws and articles of incorporation. In addition, it usually now has an entire board of individuals overseeing operations. It may be more difficult for the executives at an incorporated business to dramatically change business strategy or operational considerations.




Incorporation Pros and Cons

Pros

Protects owners from personal liability as the corporation is responsible for its own debts
May be much easier to raise capital as shares can more easily be sold
May be easier for owners to personally profit by selling partial stake in company as opposed to needing to sell full ownership
May receive some favorable tax treatment compared to other business structures



Cons

Often requires greater investment of time to meet reporting, filing, and regulatory requirements
May expose some funds to double taxation where both the corporation and shareholders are taxes on the same funds
May be a more expensive type of business structure due to fees and legal costs
Is usually less flexible compared to other structures as the company is bound by its bylaws and board







Is an LLC Better Than a Corporation?
The main difference between an LLC and a corporation is that an LLC is often owned by a smaller collection of individuals compared to a corporation. Each company has personal limited liability, though an LLC may be a cheaper option to form.




When Should You Start a Corporation?
Administratively, there are many benefits to changing a legal entity's status effective January 1; this change is the cleanest from a tax perspective. Operationally, it may make more sense to convert a company to a corporation when it is ready to raise more capital and make it easier for investors to infuse capital into the company.




Do I Need to Pay Myself After I Incorporate?
There are tax considerations to make regarding paying yourself a wage or salary as business owner as opposed to taking a draw or equity distribution. You are not required to do either when you incorporate. Should you incorporate as a multi-member LLC, you may need to make extra considerations on what you're able to pay yourself and when you're able to pay yourself.




Can an Individual Be a Corporation?
Also referred to as a single-member LLC, an individual can elect to be be taxed as an S-corporation as long as they file a Form 2553 and make the election for this tax treatment during an appropriately time part of the year (not right at the beginning of the tax year). You may also consider a OPC (one person corporation) that designates the single stockholder as a person, trust, or estate.


   The Bottom Line  

For more complex companies looking to raise more capital, have the owners avoid personal liability, and gain certain tax incentives, companies can opt to incorporate and operate using a different operating structure. Though incorporating is more expensive and requires more time to handle administrative manners, there are long-term, strategic advantages to moving on from being a sole proprietor or partnership.
What Are Incoterms?  

To facilitate commerce around the world, the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) publishes a set of Incoterms, officially known as international commercial terms. Globally recognized, Incoterms prevent confusion in foreign trade contracts by clarifying the obligations of buyers and sellers.



Parties involved in domestic and international trade commonly use Incoterms as a kind of shorthand to help understand one another and the exact terms of their business arrangements. Some Incoterms apply to any means of transportation, while others apply strictly to transportation across water.





Key Takeaways

International commercial terms—Incoterms for short—clarify the rules and terms that buyers and sellers use in international and domestic trade contracts. The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) developed Incoterms in 1936 and updates them periodically to conform to changing trade practices.Examples of Incoterms for modes of transportation include Delivered at Terminal (DAT), Delivered Duty Paid (DDP), and Ex Works (EXW).Incoterms were updated for 2020, and although only one term changed, there are notable differences in security costs.The terms are standardized, but certain buyers and sellers prefer individual terms over others. As such, which terms will be used is a matter of negotiation.


   Understanding Incoterms  

The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) developed Incoterms in 1936 and updates them periodically to conform to changing trade practices. The ICC’s mission is to promote open markets and ensure global economic prosperity through trade.



Because the ICC is a networked business organization that reaches more than 45 million companies in more than 100 countries, it is seen as having unparalleled expertise in establishing rules to guide international trade. While adherence to its Incoterms is voluntary, the ICC-established rules are commonly used by buyers and sellers as a regular part of trade transactions.



Incoterms provide a universal set of rules and guidelines that help facilitate trade. In essence, they provide a common language that traders can use to set the terms for their trades. Buyers and sellers can use Incoterms in a variety of activities necessary to conduct business. Typical activities that call for the use of Incoterms include filling out a purchase order, labeling a shipment for transport, completing a certificate of origin, or documenting a free carrier agreement (FCA).






Because the ICC regularly updates Incoterms, contracts should specify which version they are using (e.g., Incoterms 2020). Also, be aware that trade terms used in different countries may appear identical on the surface, but they can have different meanings when used domestically.


   Incoterms Rules for Any Mode of Transport  

Some common examples of Incoterms rules for any mode of transportation include Delivered Duty Paid (DDP), Delivered at Place (DAP), and Ex Works (EXW). The seven Incoterms for any mode of transport are:



EXW: Ex WorksFCA: Free CarrierCPT: Carriage Paid toCIP: Carriage and Insurance Paid toDAP: Delivered at PlaceDPU: Delivered at Place UnloadedDDP: Delivered Duty Paid



DPU, for example, indicates the seller delivers the goods to a terminal and assumes all the risk and transportation costs until the goods have arrived and been unloaded. After that, the buyer assumes the risk and transportation costs of the goods from the terminal to the final destination.



DDP indicates the seller assumes all the risk and transportation costs. The seller must also clear the goods for export at the shipping port and for import at the destination. Moreover, the seller must pay export and import duties for goods shipped under DDP.



Under Incoterm Ex Works (EXW), the seller is only required to make the goods available for pickup at the seller’s business location or another specified location. Under EXW, the buyer assumes all the risk and transportation costs.



In 2010, the two main categories of Incoterms were updated and classified by modes of transport. The first classification applies to any mode of transport, while the second classification only applies to sea and inland waterway transport.


   Incoterms Rules for Sea and Inland Waterway Transport  

The ICC has specific Incoterms rules for inland waterway and sea transport, such as Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF) and Free on Board (FOB). The Incoterms for sea and inland waterway transport are:



FAS: Free Alongside Ship
FOB: Free on Board
CFR: Cost and Freight
CIF: Cost, Insurance, and Freight



Free on Board (FOB) shipment terms, for example, indicate the seller delivers the goods on board a designated vessel named by the buyer. The buyer or seller may assume all the risk and transportation costs depending on whether the goods are sold under the FOB shipping point or FOB destination point.



Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF) terms indicate the seller must deliver the goods to a designated port and load them on a specified vessel, assuming responsibility for paying all transportation, insurance, and loading costs. After that, the buyer assumes the cost and risk associated with transporting the cargo from the designated port to its warehouse or business.


   What Do Incoterms Not Cover?  

There are specific instances that Incoterms will not cover. Incoterms do not:



Address all the conditions of a sale Identify the goods being sold nor list the contract priceReference the method or timing of payment negotiated between the seller and buyer   Determine when the title, or ownership of the goods, passes from the seller to the buyer  Specify which documents must be provided by the seller to the buyer to facilitate the customs clearance process in the buyer’s country  Address liability for the failure to provide the goods in conformity with the contract of sale, delayed delivery, or dispute resolution mechanisms



Due to the omission of certain sale conditions, working only with Incoterms can be constricting. All parties involved in any contract should make sure that the applicable instances above are addressed before signing the contract; this ensures a smooth business transaction, as many legal matters can arise when the parties are working only with Incoterms.


   Incoterms 2010 vs. Incoterms 2020  

Although the 2010 Incoterms were updated in 2020, there are no significant differences in the naming conventions between the two. There was only one change in terminology: the 2010 term Delivered at Terminal (DAT) was clarified to the 2020 term Delivered at Place Unloaded (DPU). This was done to include all places of unloading, not just those in terminals. In both instances, there are 11 terms.



Things become more involved when you move past the terms themselves. For example, the amount of freight insurance required under the CIP term has been increased. However, this does not have an effect on the CIF term.



Incoterms 2020 covers situations where either the buyer or seller transports goods using their own vehicles. In 2010, it was assumed that these services were provided by a third-party carrier. And there is a change in the way that the FCA rule is used in conjunction with a letter of credit.



In addition, security-related cost responsibilities have changed. These can be associated with export clearance processes as well as the import clearance process. The Incoterms revision clarified that the most common cost headings are those associated with transport that are the responsibility of the arranging party. Security costs associated with export clearance will be borne by the seller other than for Ex Works cases. Security costs associated with import will be borne by the buyer, except for DDP cases.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Incoterms  

The single greatest advantage of using Incoterms is the standardization and specificity of complicated international trade aspects. Having a system that eliminates ambiguity between nations has made trading much simpler, especially when negotiating terms. This saves time and money that would have previously been spent on lawyers, who would draft terms basically breaking down Incoterms into different languages.



A notable disadvantage of Incoterms is that buyers and sellers often have different preferences when using them. Sellers, for example, may choose CIF because they understand their shipments better than buyers do. Buyers, in contrast, may prefer FOB for the same reasons. However, the terms themselves are not the issue, and it becomes more a matter of negotiation over which terms to use vs. the clarity of the terms themselves.





Pros

Easily understood terms
International standardization
Updated and clarified by an international body (ICC)



Cons 

Differences between buyer and seller preferences when choosing terms
Certain terms can expose one party to inflated costs







Can I still use Incoterms 2010 after Jan. 1, 2020?
Yes, it is still acceptable to use the 2010 Incoterms. However, both buyer and seller should agree in writing to use either the 2010 or 2020 Incoterms version.




What are the 11 Incoterms?
The 11 Incoterms are Ex Works (EXW); Free Carrier (FCA); Carriage Paid to (CPT); Carriage and Insurance Paid to (CIP); Delivered at Place (DAP); Delivered at Place Unloaded (DPU); Delivered Duty Paid (DDP); Free Alongside Ship (FAS); Free on Board (FOB); Cost and Freight (CFR); and Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF).




Why are Incoterms used?
Incoterms are used to clarify business terms in international trade. The many benefits of Incoterms outweigh the negatives for most transactions, which is why many trade agreements are facilitated using Incoterms. There are still preferences between parties, and the terms themselves must be negotiated before an agreement is finalized.


   The Bottom Line  

Incoterms are helpful terms used to facilitate international trade. They are separated by modes of transport between any mode, and those specifically involving water transport. The terms categorize responsibility between the buyer and seller, but there are some aspects of trade that the terms do not cover, such as the goods being sold or future liability responsibilities. For this reason, Incoterms should be used to help clarify agreements, but they should not be the entirety of the agreement.
What Is Incremental Analysis?  

Incremental analysis is a decision-making technique used in business to determine the true cost difference between alternatives. Also called the relevant cost approach, marginal analysis, or differential analysis, incremental analysis disregards any sunk cost or past cost. Incremental analysis is useful for business strategy including the decision to self-produce or outsource a function.


   Incremental Analysis Explained  

Incremental analysis is a problem-solving approach that applies accounting information to decision making. Incremental analysis can identify the potential outcomes of one alternative compared to another.


   Relevant Versus Non-Relevant Costs  

Analysis models include only relevant costs, and these costs are typically broken into variable costs and fixed costs. Incremental analysis considers opportunity costs—the missed opportunity when choosing one alternative over another—to make sure the company pursues the most favorable option.



Non-relevant sunk costs are expenses already incurred. Because the sunk costs will remain regardless of any decision, these expenses are not included in incremental analysis. Relevant costs are also called incremental costs because they are only incurred when an activity of relevance has been increased or initiated.


   Types of Incremental Analysis Decisions  

Incremental analysis helps companies decide whether or not to accept a special order. This special order is typically lower than its normal selling price. Incremental analysis also assists with allocating limited resources to several product lines to ensure a scarce asset is used to maximum benefit.



Decisions on whether to produce or buy goods, scrap a project, or rebuild an asset call for incremental analysis on the opportunity costs. Incremental also analysis provides insight into whether a good should continue to be produced or sold at a certain point in the manufacturing process.






Companies use incremental analysis to decide whether to accept additional business, make or buy products, sell or process products further, eliminate a product or service, and decide how to allocate resources.


   Example of Incremental Analysis  

As an example of incremental analysis, assume a company sells an item for $300. The company pays $125 for labor, $50 for materials, and $25 for variable overhead selling expenses.



The company also allocates $50 per item for fixed overhead costs. The company is not operating at capacity and will not be required to invest in equipment or overtime to accept a special order it receives. Then, a special order requests the purchase of 15 items for $225 each.





Key Takeaways

Incremental analysis helps to determine the cost implications of two alternatives.It is also known as the relevant cost approach, marginal analysis, or differential analysis.Non-relevant sunk costs, or past costs, are not included in the analysis.Incremental analysis also assists with allocating limited resources to product lines to ensure a scarce asset is used to maximum benefit.



The sum of all variable costs and fixed costs per item is $250. However, the $50 of allocated fixed overhead costs are a sunk cost and are already spent. The company has excess capacity and should only consider the relevant costs. Therefore, the cost to produce the special order is $200 per item ($125 + $50 + $25) and the profit per item is $25 ($225 - $200).



While the company is still able to make a profit on this special order, the company must consider the ramifications of operating at full capacity. If no excess capacity is present, additional expenses to consider include investment in new fixed assets, overtime labor costs, and the opportunity cost of lost sales.






Incremental analysis only focuses on the differences between two courses of action. These different aspects—not similarities—form the basis of the comparison.
What Is the Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR)?  

The incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) is a frequently used tool that explains the relationship between the level of investment made in the economy and the subsequent increase in the gross domestic product (GDP). ICOR indicates the additional unit of capital or investment needed to produce an additional unit of output.





Key Takeaways

The incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) explains the relationship between the level of investment made in the economy and the consequent increase in GDP.ICOR is a metric that assesses the marginal amount of investment capital necessary for a country or other entity to generate the next unit of production.A lower ICOR is preferred as it indicates a country's production is more efficient.Some critics of ICOR have suggested that the use of ICOR is limited as it favors developing countries that can increase infrastructure and technology use as opposed to developed countries, which are operating at the highest level possible.


   Understanding the Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR)  

ICOR is a metric that assesses the marginal amount of investment capital necessary for a country or other entity to generate the next unit of production.



Overall, a higher ICOR value is not preferred because it indicates that the entity's production is inefficient. The measure is used predominantly in determining a country's level of production efficiency.



Some critics of ICOR have suggested that its uses are restricted because there is a limit to how efficient countries can become based on available technology. For example, a developing country can theoretically increase its GDP by a greater margin with a set amount of resources than its developed counterpart can.



This is because the developed country is already operating with the highest level of technology and infrastructure whereas a developing country has room to improve. Any further improvements in a developed country would have to come from more costly research and development (R&D), whereas the developing country can implement existing technology to better its situation.



ICOR can be calculated as:



﻿




I


C


O


R


=




Annual Investment




Annual Increase in GDP





ICOR=\frac{\text{Annual Investment}}{\text{Annual Increase in GDP}}


ICOR=Annual Increase in GDPAnnual Investment​﻿



For example, suppose that Country X has an incremental capital output ratio (ICOR) of 10. This implies that $10 worth of capital investment is necessary to generate $1 of extra production. Furthermore, if country X's ICOR was 12 last year, this implies that Country X has become more efficient in its use of capital.


   Limitations of the Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR)  

For advanced economies, accurately estimating ICOR is subject to many issues. A primary complaint of critics is its inability to adjust to the new economy—an economy ever-more-driven by intangible assets—such as design, branding, research and development (R&D), and software—which are difficult to measure or record.



Intangible assets are more challenging to factor into investment levels and GDP than tangible assets, like machinery, buildings, and computers.



On-demand options, such as software-as-a-service (SaaS), have greatly driven down the need for investments in fixed assets. This can be extended even further with the rise of "as-a-service" models for nearly everything. It all adds up to businesses increasing their production levels with items that are now expensed, and not capitalized, and thus, considered an investment.


   Example of the Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR)  

Between 1947 and 2017, the Indian economy was premised on the concept of planning and carried out through the Five-Year Plans. The 12th Five-Year Plan of the Government of India was India's final Five-Year Plan.



The Planning Commission of India determined the required rate of investment that would be needed to achieve different growth outcomes in the 12th Five-Year Plan. For a growth rate of 8%, the investment rate at market price would need to be at 30.5%, while for a growth rate of 9.5%, an investment rate of 35.8% would be required.﻿﻿



Investment rates in India dropped from the level of 36.8% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in the year 2007 to 2008 to 30.8% from 2012 to 2013. The rate of growth during the same period fell from 9.6% to 6.2%.﻿﻿



Clearly, the drop in India’s growth during this period was more dramatic and steeper than the fall in the investment rates. Therefore, there must have been reasons beyond savings and investment rates that would explain the drop in the rate of growth in the Indian economy. Otherwise, the economy is getting increasingly inefficient: In 2019, India's GDP growth rate was 4.23% and its rate of investments as a percentage of GDP was 30.21%.﻿﻿
What is Incremental Cost of Capital?  

Incremental cost of capital is a capital budgeting term that refers to the average cost a company incurs to issue one additional unit of debt or equity. The incremental cost of capital varies according to how many additional units of debt or equity a company wishes to issue. Being able to accurately calculate cost of capital and the incremental effects of issuing more equity or debt can help businesses reduce their overall financing costs.


   Understanding Incremental Cost of Capital  

The cost of capital refers to the cost of funds a company needs to finance its operations. A company's cost of capital depends on the mode of financing used - it refers to the cost of equity if the business is financed via equity, or to the cost of debt if it is financed via debt issuance. Companies often use a combination of debt and equity issuance to finance their operations. As such, the overall cost of capital is derived from a weighted average of all capital sources, widely known as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).



As the cost of capital represents a hurdle rate that a company must overcome before it can generate value, it is extensively used in the capital budgeting process to determine whether the company should proceed with a project via debt or equity financing. The "incremental" aspect of incremental cost of capital refers to how a company's balance sheet is effected by issuing additional equity and debt. With each new issuance of debt a company may see its borrowing costs increase as seen it the coupon it has to pay investors to buy its debt. The coupon is a reflection of a company's creditworthiness (or risk) as well as market conditions. Incremental cost of capital is the weighted-average cost of new debt and equity issuances during a financial reporting period.





Key Takeaways

The incremental cost of capital estimates how adding more debt or equity will affect a company's balance sheet.Knowing the incremental costs of capital allows a company to assess whether a project is a good idea given the effect it will have on overall borrowing costs.Investors watch for changes in the incremental cost of capital, as a rise can be a sign that a company is leveraging itself too much.


   How the Incremental Cost of Capital Affects a Stock  

When a company's incremental cost of capital rises, investors take it as a warning that a company has a riskier capital structure. Investors begin to wonder whether the company may have issued too much debt given their current cash flow and balance sheet. A turning point in the rise of a company's incremental cost of capital happens when investors avoid a company's debt due to worries over risk. Companies may then react by tapping the capital markets for equity funding. Unfortunately, this can result in investors pulling back from the company's shares due to worries over the debt load or even dilution depending on how additional capital is to be raised.


   Incremental Cost of Capital and Composite Cost of Capital  

Incremental cost of capital is related to composite cost of capital, which is a company's cost to borrow money given the proportional amounts of each type of debt and equity a company has taken on. Composite cost of capital may also be known as weighted average cost of capital. The WACC calculation is frequently used to determine the cost of capital, where it weights the cost of debt and equity according to the company's capital structure. A high composite cost of capital indicates that a company has high borrowing costs; a low composite cost of capital signifies low borrowing costs.
What is Incremental Cash Flow?  

Incremental cash flow is the additional operating cash flow that an organization receives from taking on a new project. A positive incremental cash flow means that the company's cash flow will increase with the acceptance of the project. A positive incremental cash flow is a good indication that an organization should invest in a project.





Key Takeaways


Incremental cash flow is the potential increase or decrease in a company's cash flow related to the acceptance of a new project or investment in a new asset.
Positive incremental cash flow is a good sign that the investment is more profitable to the company than the expenses it will incur.
Incremental cash flow can be a good tool to assess whether to invest in a new project or asset, but it should not be the only resource for assessing the new venture.













Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Incremental Cash Flow  

There are several components that must be identified when looking at incremental cash flows: the initial outlay, cash flows from taking on the project, terminal cost or value, and the scale and timing of the project. Incremental cash flow is the net cash flow from all cash inflows and outflows over a specific time and between two or more business choices.



For example, a business may project the net effects on the cash flow statement of investing in a new business line or expanding an existing business line. The project with the highest incremental cash flow may be chosen as the better investment option. Incremental cash flow projections are required for calculating a project's net present value (NPV), internal rate of return (IRR), and payback period. Projecting incremental cash flows may also be helpful in the decision of whether to invest in certain assets that will appear on the balance sheet.


   Example of Incremental Cash Flow  

As a simple example, assume that a business is looking to develop a new product line and has two alternatives, Line A and Line B. Over the next year, Line A is projected to have revenues of $200,000 and expenses of $50,000. Line B is expected to have revenues of $325,000 and expenses of $190,000. Line A would require an initial cash outlay of $35,000, and Line B would require an initial cash outlay of $25,000.



To calculate each project's net incremental cash flow for the first year, an analyst would use the following formula:



﻿















ICF


=


 Revenues 


−


 Expenses 


−


 Initial Cost
















where:








\begin{aligned} &\text{ICF}=\text{ Revenues }-\text{ Expenses }-\text{ Initial Cost}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{ICF}=\text{Incremental cash flow} \end{aligned}


​ICF= Revenues − Expenses − Initial Costwhere:​﻿



In this example, the incremental cash flows for each project would be:



﻿















LA ICF


=


$


2


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


5


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


3


5


,


0


0


0


=


$


1


1


5


,


0


0


0
















LB ICF


=


$


3


2


5


,


0


0


0


−


$


1


9


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


2


5


,


0


0


0


=


$


1


1


0


,


0


0


0
















where:
















LA


=


 Line A incremental cash flow








\begin{aligned} &\text{LA ICF}= \$200,000 - \$50,000 - \$35,000 = \$115,000\\ &\text{LB ICF}= \$325,000 - \$190,000 - \$25,000 = \$110,000\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{LA} =\text{ Line A incremental cash flow}\\ &\text{LB} =\text{ Line B incremental cash flow} \end{aligned}


​LA ICF=$200,000−$50,000−$35,000=$115,000LB ICF=$325,000−$190,000−$25,000=$110,000where:LA= Line A incremental cash flow​﻿



Even though Line B generates more revenue than Line A, its resulting incremental cash flow is $5,000 less than Line A's due to its larger expenses and initial investment. If only using incremental cash flows as the determinant for choosing a project, Line A is the better option.


   Limitations of Incremental Cash Flow  

The simple example above explains the idea, but in practice, incremental cash flows are extremely difficult to project. Besides the potential variables within a business that could affect incremental cash flows, many external variables are difficult or impossible to project. Market conditions, regulatory policies, and legal policies may impact incremental cash flow in unpredictable and unexpected ways. Another challenge is distinguishing between cash flows from the project and cash flows from other business operations. Without proper distinction, project selection can be made based on inaccurate or flawed data.
What Is Incremental Cost?  

Incremental cost is the total cost incurred due to an additional unit of product being produced. Incremental cost is calculated by analyzing the additional expenses involved in the production process, such as raw materials, for one additional unit of production. Understanding incremental costs can help companies boost production efficiency and profitability.





Key Takeaways

Incremental cost is the amount of money it would cost a company to make an additional unit of product.Companies can use incremental cost analysis to help determine the profitability of their business segments.A company can lose money if incremental cost exceeds incremental revenue.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Incremental Cost  

Since incremental costs are the costs of manufacturing one more unit, the costs would not be incurred if production didn't increase. Incremental costs are usually lower than a unit average cost to produce incremental costs. Incremental costs are always comprised of variable costs, which are the costs that fluctuate with production volumes. Incremental costs might include the following: 



Raw materials such as inventoryUtilities, such as the additional electricity needed to power the equipment  Wages or direct labor that's only involved in productionShipping and packaging 



In other words, incremental costs are solely dependent on production volume. Conversely, fixed costs, such as rent and overhead, are omitted from incremental cost analysis because these costs typically don't change with production volumes. Also, fixed costs can be difficult to attribute to any one business segment. Incremental costs are often referred to as marginal costs.


   Benefits to Incremental Cost Analysis  

Understanding incremental costs can help a company improve its efficiency and save money. Incremental costs are also useful for deciding whether to manufacture a good or purchase it elsewhere. Understanding the additional costs of increasing production of a good is helpful when determining the retail price of the product. Companies look to analyze the incremental costs of production to maximize production levels and profitability. Only the relevant incremental costs that can be directly tied to the business segment are considered when evaluating the profitability of a business segment.



Analyzing production volumes and the incremental costs can help companies achieve economies of scale to optimize production. Economies of scale occurs when increasing production leads to lower costs since the costs are spread out over a larger number of goods being produced. In other words, the average cost per unit declines as production increases. The fixed costs don't usually change when incremental costs are added, meaning the cost of the equipment doesn't fluctuate with production volumes.



Incremental costs are relevant in making short-term decisions or choosing between two alternatives, such as whether to accept a special order. If a reduced price is established for a special order, then it's critical that the revenue received from the special order at least covers the incremental costs. Otherwise, the special order results in a net loss.






Incremental cost is also known as marginal cost.


   Incremental Cost vs. Incremental Revenue  

Incremental costs help to determine the profit maximization point for a company or when marginal costs equal marginal revenues. If a business is earning more incremental revenue (or marginal revenue) per product than the incremental cost of manufacturing or buying that product, the business earns a profit.



Alternatively, once incremental costs exceed incremental revenue for a unit, the company takes a loss for each item produced. Therefore, knowing the incremental cost of additional units of production and comparing it to the selling price of these goods assists in meeting profit goals.


   Example of Incremental Cost  

Let's say, as an example, a company is considering increasing their production of goods but needs to understand the incremental costs involved. Below are the current production levels as well as the added costs of the additional units.



10,000 units has a total cost of $300,000 or $30 per unit ($300,000 / $10,000)12,000 units has a total cost of $330,000 or $27.50 per unit ($330,000 / $12,000)



As a result, the total incremental cost to produce the additional 2,000 units is $30,000 or ($330,000 - $300,000). 



The incremental cost per unit equals $15 ($30,000 / 2,000 units).



The reason there's a lower incremental cost per unit is due to certain costs, such as fixed costs remaining constant. Although a portion of fixed costs can increase as production increases, usually, the cost per unit declines since the company isn't buying additional equipment or fixed costs to produce the added volume.
What Is an Incumbency Certificate?  

An incumbency certificate (also called a certificate of incumbency or a form of incumbency) is an official document issued by a corporation or a limited liability company (LLC) that lists the names of its current directors, officers, and, occasionally, key shareholders. It specifies who holds which positions within the organization and is most frequently used to confirm the identity of individuals who are authorized to enter into legally binding transactions on the company’s behalf. Outside of the United States, it may also be known as a register of directors, certificate of officers, or secretary certificate.





Key Takeaways

An incumbency certificate records the identities of a firm’s current directors, officers, and, sometimes, key shareholders.An incumbency certificate will often be required by a financial institution when opening an account to guarantee that the people who claim to be the authorized signatory of a company are actually authorized.Contracts for transactions involving companies usually require an incumbency certificate to determine who can legally bind the company in the contracts.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   What Information Is on an Incumbency Certificate?  

Whatever the name used, incumbency certificates essentially provide the same information: all relevant particulars regarding the company’s directors, officers, and key shareholders. These can vary but can include the incumbent’s name, position, status (either elected or appointed), and term of office. It also usually includes a signature sample for comparison purposes.



A typical incumbency certificate may be worded as follows:



“The undersigned, X, Secretary of ABC Inc. (the ‘Company’), hereby certifies that the persons named below do hold the position set forth opposite his or her name with the Company, that the signature appearing opposite each such person’s name is the true signature of such person, and that they are duly authorized to...”



This mention would then be followed by a list of the directors and officers, the date, and the secretary’s signature.


   How to Issue an Incumbency Certificate  

An incumbency certificate is issued by the corporate secretary, often bears the corporate seal, and may be notarized by a notary public. Because the secretary is the officer in charge of keeping company records, the incumbency certificate is an official act of the company, and third parties can reasonably rely on its accuracy.


   When to Use an Incumbency Certificate  

An incumbency certificate can be requested by a financial institution when the company applies to open a bank account or initiates a major transaction. Also, the certificate could be requested by an attorney or anyone else who wants to confirm the legality and stated position of a director or an officer within the corporation.



Anyone who is involved in a transaction with a company and needs to confirm the stated position of an officer within it may request an incumbency certificate. In practice, it is often required by a bank or other financial institution when opening an account to ensure that the person who claims to be the authorized signatory of a company is indeed authorized.



Similarly, when attorneys are drafting contracts for transactions involving companies, they usually require an official incumbency certificate to determine who can legally bind the company in the contracts.


   Example of an Incumbency Certificate  

Although they may take various forms, a typical boilerplate incumbency certificate will look similar to the following:


  CERTIFICATE OF INCUMBENCY  

The undersigned, Secretary/Assistant Secretary of __________________________, a __________________ corporation (hereinafter “Corporation”), hereby certifies as follows:



1. That he/she is the duly elected, qualified and acting Secretary/Assistant Secretary of the Corporation and is charged with maintaining the records, minutes, and seal of the Corporation.



2. That pursuant to the Corporation’s Bylaws, as amended, the following named person(s) was/were designated and appointed to the office(s) indicated below, and that said person(s) does/do continue to hold such office(s) at this time, and the signature(s) set forth opposite the name(s) are genuine signatures.


  NAME, SIGNATURE, and TITLE  

__________________________ __________________________ __________________________ __________________________ __________________________ __________________________ __________________________ __________________________



3. That pursuant to the Corporation’s Bylaws, as amended, and certain resolutions adopted by the Corporation’s Board of Directors, the person(s) designated to serve in the above-titled capacity was/were given sufficient authority to act on behalf of and to bind the Corporation with respect to transactions involving the leasing of equipment, including without limitation the sale and leaseback of such equipment, and that the execution by said person(s) of documents related to such transactions, including without limitation Master Lease Agreements and Equipment Schedules thereto, constitute a legally binding and enforceable obligation of the Corporation.



4. That pursuant to the Corporation’s Bylaws, as amended, the undersigned has the power and authority to execute this certificate on behalf of the Corporation and that he/she has so executed this certificate and set the seal of the Corporation this __________ day of _______________, 20_____.



Signature: ______________________________________ (SEAL)



Name: _________________________________________



Title: __________________________________________




What is a form of incumbency?
A form of incumbency is just another name for “incumbency certificate.” It provides necessary information as to a company’s directors and officers, and, sometimes, its key shareholders.




Who signs an incumbency certificate?
An incumbency certificate is issued by the company’s corporate secretary, who must sign it. If the secretary’s incumbency must be certified, it is co-signed by one of the company officers. It also often includes the signatures of the directors, officers, and key shareholders listed on it to signify that their signatures are genuine.




Is a certificate of incumbency the same as a corporate resolution?
A corporate resolution, according to Cornell Law School’s Legal Information Institute, is “a written legal document, issued by the board of directors of a corporation, documenting a binding decision made on behalf of the corporation.” Thus, an incumbency certificate is an example of a corporate resolution, but not all corporate resolutions are incumbency certificates.


   The Bottom Line  

An incumbency certificate is a valuable tool for identifying who is legally allowed to represent a company in a business transaction. A form of corporate resolution, it is considered an official act of the company because it is issued by the company’s corporate secretary, allowing those doing business with the company to rely on its accuracy. It makes business transactions safe.
What Is an Incumbent?  

The term "incumbent" refers to an individual who currently holds a set of responsibilities within a specific office as part of a corporation or within a branch of the government. As the incumbent, this person has an obligation to the position or office they hold. All incumbents of an organization such as directors and officers are listed on an incumbency certificate. An incumbent may also refer to the obligation itself or to the sense of duty surrounding the accomplishment of a particular task or objective.





Key Takeaways

The term incumbent has many different meanings, though normally refers to an individual who currently holds responsibilities within a corporation or a branch of the government.In business, an incumbent may also refer to a leader, specifically the leader of a company or a company that holds a large portion of the industry's market share.Incumbents also refer to business relationships, and in politics, the incumbent is an individual who currently holds office.Companies list their leaders on an incumbency certificate. These leaders include current directors, officers, and may also include main shareholders.In political elections, incumbents most often win re-election rather than the challenger winning the position.


   Understanding Incumbents  

The word "incumbent" has several different meanings depending on the context in which it's used. It most commonly refers to a person with a position in a specific office whether they are part of a company or an elected official. This person has certain responsibilities that come with their position. Business leaders such as chief executive officers (CEOs) are incumbents of a company, while a senator is a political incumbent.



The term "incumbent" can also be used to describe the duties a particular individual is required to perform or the obligation they must satisfy. It can also refer to a company that is powerful with a large portion of its industry's market share. Further, the term incumbent can be related to various business standings and relationships.



As noted above, companies list their leaders on an incumbency certificate. These leaders include current directors, officers, and may also include main shareholders. This certificate is considered an official company act just like an annual report. As such, third parties including shareholders are able to rely on it being accurate.


   Examples of Incumbents  
  In Business  

An incumbent in business most commonly refers to a leader in the industry. While it may normally refer to a person, that isn't always the case. It can also be used to describe a company or a product as well. A company may, for instance, possess the largest market share or may have additional sway within the industry.






In business, market-leading companies should have the "incumbent's advantage," which is a deeper insight into the needs of customers than competitors, a stronger understanding of profitability in regards to meeting those needs, and that the knowledge of their needs and the profitability is less open to imitation than the uniqueness of their product or service.



As such, incumbents in an industry may change in response to changes in the market. For example, Blackberry producer Research in Motion was once considered an incumbent of the smartphone market up until Apple's iPhone replaced it as the incumbent based on worldwide sales.



An incumbent can also refer to business relationships such as those between a supplier providing materials to a different business. The supplier currently in use is considered the incumbent due to the associations of the supplier holding the position. If a new supplier wants to take over the duties of the current supplier, the new supplier is a challenger to the current supplier’s incumbency.


  In Politics  

When referring to a position in politics, the incumbent is the individual who currently holds the office or position. While the term applies to the person holding the position at all times, it is more commonly used during elections as a way to differentiate two candidates in cases where the current position holder is running for a second term. The person running against the incumbent is often referred to as the challenger.



Holding the incumbent position may be seen as advantageous depending on the current sentiment of the associated constituents. If the constituents feel current circumstances are acceptable, there may be a higher inclination to vote for the incumbent. If the constituents disapprove of the situation resulting from the incumbent's policies or actions, they may be less inclined to vote for them.



Incumbents are not required to attempt to maintain the position they currently hold, though they do maintain the title until the day they step down from office. If a new position is created, and no one has stepped into the position prior to the first election, there is no incumbent for the position.


   Special Considerations  

Certain offices in the U.S. government have term limits when an incumbent must be up for re-election. Some of these have life term limits, meaning that once the full term limit has been met, an individual cannot run for that office again.



In the U.S., the president has a term limit of four years where they can be re-elected to serve another four years. A president can serve a maximum of eight years in their lifetime.






The 22nd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was passed in 1947 and ratified in 1951. It limits the term of the president to two terms in office for a total of eight years.



Members of Congress are split into senators and members of the House of Representatives. Senators serve six-year terms and then are up for re-election while members of the House serve two-year terms and then are up for re-election. Neither the Senate nor the House has life term limits, meaning that they can serve again and again.



The purpose of having term limits is to prevent one individual from exerting so much control over a nation over an extended period of time, as well as giving the citizens the right to change their leadership if they are no longer happy with who is elected. This is a crucial point to the democratic framework of the United States.



Many critics have argued that government representatives spend a significant portion of their time on re-election campaigns and working to get re-elected rather than on the actual responsibilities of the role—or rather, that re-election takes away time from the responsibilities. Many arguments have been made to adjust term limits, the election process, and how candidates receive donations.




Which Incumbent Presidents Lost Their Second Term?
The incumbent presidents that lost their second term are William Taft, Herbert Hoover, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, George Bush Sr., Benjamin Harrison, Martin Van Buren, John Quincy Adam, John Adams, and Donald Trump.




What Advantages Does the Incumbent Candidate Have?
The advantages that an incumbent candidate has include being a known quantity. Their name is known, their personality, their beliefs, and their opinions, the knowledge of running a successful campaign, an air of success, established donors, the risk aversion of voters, and control over certain areas of the government.




Do Incumbents Win Re-Election More Often?
Yes, incumbents win re-election more often. In 2020, 93% of incumbents across the nation won re-election in general elections. In fact, the incumbent win rate was at 90% or above in all states except for California, New Hampshire, Ohio, and West Virginia.


   The Bottom Line  

An incumbent is an individual that holds a specific position with known responsibilities. Most commonly, an incumbent refers to a person holding a current office in politics; however, it also applies to certain positions in a corporation, relationships in business, as well as a company that is the market leader of an industry.
What Is Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR)?  

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) is a type of reserve account used in the insurance industry as the provision for claims and/or events that have transpired, but have not yet been reported to an insurance company.



In IBNR situations, an actuary will estimate potential damages, and the insurance company may decide to set up reserves to allocate funds for the expected losses. To an actuary, these types of events and losses are said to have been incurred but not reported.





Key Takeaways

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) is a reserve account used by insurance companies to compensate for claims that have not yet been reported.Incurred but not reported (IBNR) is most often associated with delayed reporting due to bureaucratic red tape and processing lag.Because incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims represent latent liabilities, companies must calculate a proper estimate of funds to hold in reserve.


   How Incurred But Not Reported (IBNR) Works  

IBNR is frequently used by insurance companies, particularly along the East and Gulf Coasts of the United States (where hurricanes and other natural disasters are common). After a storm hits, actuaries estimate the potential damage to infrastructure and the claims that may be anticipated. Based on this analysis, money is then set aside (in a reserve) to pay for claims. Again, in this example, the actual losses have been incurred, but have not officially been reported.



There are numerous scenarios that can conspire and make it necessary for insurance companies to maintain funding provisions for IBNR claims.



For example, the potential impact of slowly developing occupational disease claims on workers' compensation claims. Such examples include silicosis, asbestosis, and certain cancers determined to be related to occupational exposures. Defective product or product liability claims often have delayed reporting, such as lead-based paint, asbestos insulation, and defective drywall.



Poor environmental practices can also result in delayed reporting of environmental liability claims. Finally, short-term workers compensation injuries and healthcare claims to a group healthcare plan can experience delayed reporting.






It is very important to understand how insurance carriers use IBNR to calculate your account’s performance.



Delayed reporting impacts several types of insurance coverages, which require an IBNR calculation. These include workers' compensation, environmental/pollution, healthcare, general liability, and products liability.


  How IBNR Is Calculated  

Determining the right and proper formula for calculating an appropriate IBNR has always been one of the toughest challenges of the insurance industry. Insurance claim variables are non-normally distributed, which makes estimating them problematic–and not getting it right is not without consequence. Inaccurate estimates can project an incorrect view of an insurer’s health and may result in action being taken that could be detrimental to the company.



At a minimum, an actuary would likely use this client data to calculate IBNR:



Claim amountClaim numberClaim paid datesClaim settlement expenseClass of businessIntimation dateLoss datePolicy from datePolicy numberPolicy to dateProduct typeReinsurance paid – a share of the claim amountReinsurance paid – a share of claim settlement expenses
What Is Indemnity Insurance?  

The term indemnity insurance refers to an insurance policy that compensates an insured party for certain unexpected damages or losses up to a certain limit—usually the amount of the loss itself. Insurance companies provide coverage in exchange for premiums paid by the insured parties.



These policies are commonly designed to protect professionals and business owners when they are found to be at fault for a specific event such as misjudgment or malpractice. They generally take the form of a letter of indemnity.





Key Takeaways

Indemnity insurance is a type of insurance policy where the insurance company guarantees compensation for losses or damages sustained by a policyholder. Indemnity insurance is designed to protect professionals and business owners when found to be at fault for a specific event such as misjudgment.Certain professionals must carry indemnity insurance including those involved in financial and legal services, such as financial advisors, insurance agents, accountants, mortgage brokers, and attorneys.Medical malpractice, professional liability, and errors and omissions insurance are examples of indemnity insurance.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Indemnity Insurance Works  

Indemnity is a comprehensive form of insurance compensation for damages or loss. In a legal sense, it may also refer to an exemption from liability for damages. The insurer promises to make the insured party whole again for any covered loss in exchange for premiums the policyholder pays.



Indemnity insurance is a supplemental form of liability insurance specific to certain professionals or service providers. Insurance professionals provide counsel, expertise, or specialized services. Also referred to as professional liability insurance, indemnity insurance is nothing like general liability or other forms of commercial liability insurance that protect businesses against claims of bodily harm or property damage.



Indemnity insurance protects against claims arising from possible negligence or failure to perform that result in a client’s financial loss or legal entanglement. A client who suffers a loss can file a civil claim. In response, the professional’s indemnity insurance will pay litigation costs as well as any damages awarded by the court.



As with any other form of insurance, indemnity insurance covers the costs of an indemnity claim including but not limited to court costs, fees, and settlements. The amount covered by insurance depends on the specific agreement, and the cost of the insurance depends on many factors including the history of indemnity claims.



Typical examples of indemnity insurance include professional insurance policies like malpractice insurance and errors and omissions insurance (E&O). These special insurance policies indemnify or reimburse professionals against claims made as they conduct their business.


   Special Considerations  

Certain professionals are strongly advised to carry indemnity insurance. These professionals include those involved in financial and legal services, such as financial advisors, insurance agents, accountants, mortgage brokers, and attorneys. When dispensing financial or legal advice, these professionals are potentially liable for negligence or inadequate performance despite the intent of goodwill.



In the financial industry, a professional who provides financial advice that results in the purchase of an insurance or investment product can purchase errors and omissions insurance, to protect themselves, if the advice given causes damages. For example, accountants may be found negligent for advising a client on tax matters that in turn result in a penalty or additional taxes.






Indemnity insurance also covers court costs, fees, and settlements in addition to an indemnity claim.



In the medical field, malpractice insurance is a form of professional indemnity insurance. Malpractice insurance protects medical practitioners from civil claims arising from negligence that results in physical or mental harm to patients. Medical malpractice insurance is required in some states, but optional in most.



Many executives purchase indemnity insurance to protect their deferred compensation plans against company claims or bankruptcy. Other professions, such as contractors, consultants, and maintenance professionals, carry indemnity insurance as a practical matter due to their exposure to failure to perform claims.



Professional indemnity insurance provides a critical layer of protection for service providers. Often these professionals might also need other forms of liability coverage such as general liability insurance or product liability coverage. Those purchasing indemnity policies can also add endorsements. An endorsement is an add-on that expands or enhances the coverage in some way.


   Indemnity Insurance vs. Life Insurance  

Both indemnity and life insurance policies provide coverage for losses to an insured party in exchange for premiums up to a certain limit. Life insurance, though, provides a lump-sum payout to the named beneficiaries when an insured party dies. Unlike indemnity insurance, the payout, referred to as a death benefit, is the full amount of the policy—not for the amount of a claim itself.



Here's a simple example of how life insurance works. Let's say Mr. Brown takes out a life $250,000 life insurance policy and names his wife as the beneficiary. He pays monthly premiums on the policy to the insurance company. A decade later, Mr. Brown dies in a car accident.



After processing the paperwork, the insurance company issues Mr. Brown's wife a payout for the policy amount—$250,000. She may also receive extra money since he died in an accident if the policy has a clause with an accidental death benefit, or if a rider for one was added.




What Is Professional Indemnity Insurance?
Professional indemnity insurance is a type of insurance that protects a business owner or professional if a client alleges that the business behaved negligently or failed to perform work adequately. This is different from general liability insurance, the type of insurance that protects a business in the event of an accidental injury on its premises.




What Is Hospital Indemnity Insurance?
Hospital indemnity insurance is a type of supplemental insurance that pays for hospitalization costs that are not covered by other insurance. This type of insurance is frequently taken out by businesses in case their employees are injured on the job.




What Is a Fixed Indemnity Insurance Plan?
Fixed indemnity insurance is a type of health insurance that pays out a fixed benefit for each healthcare event, regardless of the actual costs insured. A fixed indemnity plan might pay a certain amount of money for each hospital admission, or a certain amount for each day of hospitalization. These plans are exempt from the Affordable Care Act.


   The Bottom Line  

Indemnity insurance represents an important protection for businesses and professionals. In the event that a customer is dissatisfied with the company's work, this type of insurance will pay for the insured's legal defense and defray any settlement costs. This type of insurance is frequently used by doctors, lawyers, and other experts to protect against claims of negligence or malpractice.
What Is an Indenture?  

Indenture refers to a legal and binding agreement, contract, or document between two or more parties. Traditionally, these documents featured indented sides or perforated edges.



Historically, indenture has also referred to a contract binding one person to work for another for a set period of time (indentured servant), particularly European immigrants. In modern-day finance, the word indenture most commonly appears in bond agreements, real estate deals, and some aspects of bankruptcies.





Key Takeaways

An indenture is a legal and binding contract usually associated with bond agreements, real estate, or bankruptcy.An indenture provides detailed information on terms, clauses, and covenants.There can be a few different types of indentures and many different types of indenture clauses.


   Indenture Explained  

Indenture is a term that originated in England. In the U.S., there can be several types of indentures, all typically involved with debt agreements, real estate, or bankruptcy.


   Types of Indentures  

Below are some of the common types of indentures and clauses that may be associated with indenture contracts.


  Real Estate Indenture  

In real estate, an indenture is a deed in which two parties agree to continuing obligations. For example, one party may agree to maintain a property and the other may agree to make payments on it.


  Bankruptcy Indenture  

In bankruptcy law, an indenture may be referenced as proof of a claim on property. Indentures in general provide details on collateralized property, constituting the claim a lender has against a debtor, usually secured with a lien on the debtor's property.


  Credit Indentures  

A credit indenture is the underlying contract agreement that details all of the provisions and clauses associated with a credit offering. In unsecured, uncollateralized bond offerings, these indentures can also be called debentures.



Typically a credit indenture is used for the sake of bond issuers and bondholders. It specifies the important features of a bond, such as its maturity date, the timing of interest payments, method of interest calculation, callability, and convertible features, if applicable. A bond indenture also contains all the terms and conditions applicable to the bond issue. Other critical information included in the indenture are the financial covenants that govern the issuer and the formulas for calculating whether the issuer is within the covenants (usually ratios based on corporate financials). Should a conflict arise between the issuer and bondholder, the indenture is the reference document utilized for conflict resolution.



In the fixed-income market, an indenture is hardly ever referred to when times are normal. But the indenture becomes the go-to document when certain events take place, such as if the issuer is in danger of violating a bond covenant. The indenture is then scrutinized closely to make sure there is no ambiguity in calculating the financial ratios that determine whether the issuer is abiding by the covenants.


  Other Common Credit Indenture Terms  

In a credit offering, a closed-end indenture clause may be used to detail any collateral involved that provides backing for the offering. Closed-end indentures include collateral as well as provisions that ensure the collateral may only be assigned to one specific offering.



Other terms that may also be associated with credit indenture clauses can include open-end indenture, subordinated, callable, convertible, and non-convertible.



In some credit indentures, a trustee may be hired by a bond issuer. When a trustee is involved, a trust indenture will also be needed. A trust indenture is similar to a bond indenture, except it also details the trustee’s responsibilities in overseeing all of a bond issue’s terms.



An indenture trustee handles fiduciary duties related to credit issuance. These professionals monitor interest payments, redemptions, and investor communications. They may also lead trust departments at institutions. Essentially, their role is to oversee and administer all of the terms, clauses, and covenants of an indenture issued by a company or government agency.
What Is Indentured Servitude?  

Indentured servitude is a form of labor where an individual is under contract to work without a salary to repay an indenture or loan within a certain timeframe. Indentured servitude was popular in the United States in the 1600s as many European immigrants worked in exchange for the price of passage to America.



Today, indentured servitude is illegal in the U.S. and banned in nearly all countries.





Key Takeaways

Indentured servitude is a form of labor where an individual is under contract to work without a salary to repay an indenture or loan.Indentured servitude was popular in the United States in the 1600s as many individuals worked in exchange for the price of passage to America.Indentured servants could be sold, loaned, or inherited, at least during the duration of their contract terms.Today, indentured servitude is illegal in the United States and most other countries. An illegal form of indentured servitude still exists as "debt bondage," a form of human trafficking.


   Understanding Indentured Servitude  

Indentured servitude served as a type of barter system for many immigrants. An individual who sought a new life in America, but who could not afford the steamship fare from another country, may contract with a wealthy U.S. landowner to perform a type of work for a fixed period in exchange for the price of the boat ticket.






Approximately 300,000 European workers immigrated to the American colonies in the 1600s as indentured servants, and indentured servitude continued throughout much of the 1700s.



Indentured servitude in the U.S. began in the early 1600s in Virginia, not long after the settlement of Jamestown. Many early American settlers sought cheap labor to help manage their large estates and farms, and commonly agreed to fund the passage of European immigrants to Virginia in exchange for their labor.



Other parts of the world also engaged in indentured servitude at the same time that it was occurring in the United States. Many citizens left Europe for the Caribbean to work as indentured servants on sugar plantations.


  Contract Terms  

Contracts stipulated that the worker would repay the loan to the lender by performing a certain kind of labor for a set period. Skilled laborers were usually indentured for four or five years, but unskilled workers often needed to remain for seven or more years.



The indentured servitude system allowed landowners to provide only food and shelter for indentured servants, as opposed to wages. Some landowners offered their servants basic medical care, but typically labor contracts did not provide for this.


  Duties  

Some indentured servants served as cooks, gardeners, housekeepers, field workers, or general laborers while others learned specific trades such as blacksmithing, plastering, and bricklaying, which they often parlayed into future careers.






Most workers who became indentured servants were males, generally in their late teens and early twenties, but women also entered into these agreements and often worked as household employees or domestic servants.


  Controversy  

Although some indentured servants completed their contracts and received land, livestock, tools, and other necessities, many others did not live to pay off their contracts because they perished from diseases or work-related accidents or fled before completing their terms of service.



Indentured servants enjoyed little personal freedom and some contracts allowed landowners to extend the work period for servants who were accused of behavior that was deemed improper.


   History of Indentured Servitude  

Indentured servitude was historically used to pay an apprentice who agreed to work for free for a master tradesman to learn a trade but evolved as a way for an individual to pay the cost of transportation to the American colonies. Workers were commonly bought and sold when they arrived at their destinations. Great Britain used indentured servitude as a punishment for captured prisoners of war in rebellions and civil wars. 



Until the late 18th century, indentured servitude was common in America and a common way for Europeans to immigrate to the colonies. The system was also used to exploit Asian immigrants who were used mainly to construct roads and railway systems.



Over one-half of all European immigrants to the American colonies between the 1630s and the American Revolution came under indentures. Many young children were taken from England to the American colonies as indentured servants, often kidnapped off the streets and sent off as merchandise to be sold as servants in the New World.



Both the American and British governments passed laws that helped the decline of indentured servitude. The United Kingdom's Passenger Vessels Act of 1803 regulated travel conditions aboard ships to make transportation more expensive and an American law passed in 1833 abolished the imprisonment of debtors, which made prosecuting runaway servants difficult.



The 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibited most forms of involuntary labor, except as punishment for a crime. Although it does not specifically refer to indentured servitude, the Supreme Court has interpreted the amendment to include compulsory labor in repayment of debt.



However, informal debt bondage continued in the form of sharecropping and black codes. Though officially free, tenant farmers were unable to leave until they had repaid debts to the owners of the land where they worked. Since these debts tended to grow over time, the sharecropping system effectively replaced chattel slavery with an informal system of debt bondage.



Outside the United States, indentured servitude was prevalent in the British colonies, which relied on migrant labor to staff its sugar plantations after the abolition of slavery. Around 500,000 indentured laborers were transferred to the Caribbean between 1837 and 1917, when the practice was officially abolished.





Headright System

Virginia and Maryland operated under the "headright system" where incentives, such as 50 acres of land, were provided for planters to import workers. This system was used by wealthy plantation aristocrats to increase their land holdings.


   Indentured Servitude vs. Slavery  

Immigrants often entered indentured servitude contracts of their own free will, as opposed to slaves, who did not. Both slaves and indentured servants could be sold, loaned, or inherited.



The treatment of indentured servants differed greatly from one master to another. Some masters considered their indentured servants as personal property and made these individuals work difficult jobs before their contracts expired.



Others treated slaves more humanely than their indentured servants because slaves were regarded as a lifetime investment and servants would leave within a few years.



Indentured servants did have limited rights including access to the courts and entitlement to own land. However, masters retained their right to prohibit their servants from marrying and had the authority to sell them to another master at any time.


   Indentured Servitude Today  

A modern form of indentured servitude still exists in the form of debt bondage, also known as bonded labor, where people work for low (or no) wages in repayment of a debt. This may be for a debt that the worker agreed to work off as a condition for receiving a loan or advance, or a debt that was inherited.



Although prohibited by U.S. law, unethical employers may take advantage of a person's migrant status to compel work in repayment of a debt. If such conditions violate labor laws or other rights, this may be considered a form of human trafficking.



People in debt bondage may endure slavery-like conditions, like being forced to stay on the employer's premises, denied access to the authorities, or being subject to physical or psychological abuse. There are no exact figures, but the U.N. estimates that around 21 million people are subject to some form of forced labor. Debt bondage is the most prevalent type.




What Were Freedom Dues for Indentured Servants?
After serving their time as servants and paid with meals and housing, indentured servants were given "freedom dues" which often included a piece of land and supplies.




What Were the Jobs of Indentured Servants?
Indentured servants often served as field workers, gardeners, cooks, and laborers.




What Is the Meaning of Indenture?
An indenture is a contract and for indentured servants, these contracts contained "indented" marks along the sides of the document. When the document was finalized, two copies were made. One copy was placed over the other and the edges of the pages were defaced or marked with indented characters. Servants were often uneducated and could be cheated so marking the two original copies helped to ensure a lasting means of authenticating the contract.


   The Bottom Line  

Indentured servitude is a labor contract where an individual will work to repay an indenture or loan over some time, commonly several years. Indentured servitude was popular in American colonies as many worked in exchange for the price of passage to America. Following the Civil War, the 13th Amendment made indentured servitude illegal in the United States.
What Is an Independent Contractor?  

An independent contractor is a self-employed person or entity contracted to perform work for—or provide services to—another entity as a non-employee. As a result, independent contractors must pay their own Social Security and Medicare taxes.



In addition, an entity that uses the services of an independent contractor is not required to provide them with employment benefits, such as health insurance and employer-sponsored retirement accounts that the entity may otherwise provide to its employees. The payer must correctly classify each payee as either an independent contractor or an employee. Another term for an independent contractor is “freelancer.”





Key Takeaways

Independent contractors are not employees, nor are they eligible for employee benefits.They do not have taxes withheld from their paychecks but instead must pay estimated income taxes in advance through quarterly payments.Freelancers can reduce their gross income through the use of allowed business deductions, thus lowering their tax bills.Independent contractors must arrange for their own insurance and retirement.The category for independent contractors is very broad. 


   Understanding Independent Contractors  

Doctors, dentists, veterinarians, lawyers, and many other professionals who provide independent services are classified as independent contractors by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



However, the category also includes contractors, subcontractors, writers, software designers, auctioneers, actors, musicians, and many others who provide independent services to the general public. Independent contractors have become increasingly prevalent in the rise of what has been dubbed the “gig economy.”



Independent contractors must keep track of their earnings and include every payment received from clients. Clients are legally obliged to issue 1099-MISC forms to their contractors if the amount they paid warrants that expense. If an independent contractor earns more than $600 from a single payer, that payer is required to issue the contractor a 1099 form detailing their earnings for the year.






Independent contractors must decide how much freedom they need versus how much risk they are willing to assume.


   How To Pay Taxes as an Independent Contractor  

In the United States, independent contractors are considered sole proprietors or single-member limited liability companies (LLCs). They must report all their income and expenses on Schedule C of Form 1040 or Schedule E if they have profits or losses from rental properties. Further, they must submit self-employment taxes to the IRS, usually every quarter, using Form 1040-ES.



However, as sole proprietors, independent contractors do not necessarily pay taxes on their gross earnings. Applicable business expenses can reduce their overall tax obligation. The difference between gross earnings and business expenses is the net income, on which taxes are due.



For the tax year 2022, independent contractors pay 12.4% in Social Security contributions on the first $147,000 ($160,200 in 2023) of net income and 2.9% in Medicare taxes on all net income. Single filers must pay an additional 0.9% Medicare tax on self-employment income that exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing jointly).



Some independent contractors may also need to pay state sales taxes for producing products, but it can depend on the type of product being made.


   Pros and Cons of Being an Independent Contractor  

The pros of being an independent contractor generally relate to the greater freedom they enjoy. They can set their hours, pursue work they love, and decide what work they will and will not accept. Those who can work from home may save money on transportation and the wardrobe needed to work in an office.



They may also get the home office tax deduction that allows them to deduct the business portion of their bills for such things as insurance, rent, repairs, security systems, and utilities and services.



They have complete control over building their business, from hiring and firing to choosing clients. Unlike employees who have a set annual salary, there's no limit on how much money they can earn. Finally, they can enjoy a sense of pride and accomplishment in building a successful business enterprise that belongs to no one but them.



The cons of being an independent contractor are related to the risk of going bankrupt and the opportunity cost of a regular career. They aren't supported by a regular salary when business is terrible, and their income is unpredictable and highly volatile month over and year over year.



This income fluctuation undermines them vis-a-vis banks and lenders for mortgages, car loans, and other types of loans. They are responsible for all business costs—no reimbursable expense reports for them—and if working alone, they lack the support and camaraderie of coworkers.



Independent contractors are not eligible for employer-provided healthcare plans, so they must completely fund their healthcare. They must also pay both the employee and the employer parts of Social Security and Medicare taxes. They are not eligible for employer-sponsored 401(k) plans or matching contributions from those who employ them.





Pros

Independent contractors can set their own hours and choose their own work.
They are not limited by an annual salary as to how much money they can earn.
Often they can save money by working from home.



Cons

Independent contractors are responsible for all of their business expenses.
They must fund their own healthcare.
They aren’t eligible for unemployment insurance or workers’ compensation.





   Example of an Independent Contractor  

One example of an independent contractor would be an interior designer who works for themselves and has a roster of clients who hire them to decorate their homes. The interior designer might even work on a contract for an architecture firm that employs them to work closely with their clients throughout the building process of a new home.






While they have access to alternative retirement plans, such as a SEP IRA, SIMPLE IRA, and solo 401(k), they must fund these all by themselves, and they have no access to unemployment insurance or workers’ compensation payments.



The designer, an independent contractor, would work out how many hours, payment, and ideas with the architects (who they are contracted to work with) on the project but might work closely with the client during the decorating process. At the same time, the interior designer might be working for other clients and working on various homes simultaneously, versus being an in-house designer and only working for clients of the architecture firm.




How Do You Become an Independent Contractor?
You can become an independent contractor by working for yourself. Many freelancers in a gig-centric economy transition to independent contractors who work on a contractual basis to provide goods or services. Independent contractors may have a registered legal business name, earn any necessary certifications or licenses, and pay their estimated taxes quarterly to the IRS.




What Is the Difference Between an Independent Contractor and Self-Employed?
An independent contractor is the same thing as being a self-employed worker. An independent contractor could be a dentist who owns their own business, for example, which would be different than someone who knits hats and occasionally sells them at holiday fairs, which would be more like a freelancer, as they usually provide a good or service on a contractual basis.




How Do You Fill out a W9 as an Independent Contractor?
If you are an independent contractor and hired by a company or person to perform a service, chances are they will ask you to fill out a W-9 form. You must verify information, including name, address, and tax identification number. All the pages of the W-9 are available on the IRS website, which also provides step-by-step directions on how to fill it out.




How Do You Fill out a 1099-MISC Form for an Independent Contractor?
Form 1099-MISC is available on the IRS website for anyone who needs it. There are 18 boxes to fill out on the form, plus you must include the payee's name, address, a tax identification number for both the payee and recipient, plus the recipient's name and address. In addition, the IRS provides step-by-step instructions on how to fill it out.




How Do You Pay an Independent Contractor?
You pay an independent contractor just like you would pay any freelancer either by the hour, by the project, or by a flat fee. You can pay an independent contractor by check, Venmo, PayPal, or cash.


   The Bottom Line  

Working as an independent contractor can be a great way to earn a living for people who desire flexibility, don't mind inconsistent earnings, and who can manage their time while potentially juggling multiple clients.



In addition, independent contractors must be comfortable with filing their taxes quarterly with the IRS and paying for their own insurance, plus retirement savings. For some, the freedom to choose projects, and the flexibility of working for themselves, make the challenges worth it.
What Is an Index?  

A financial index produces a numeric score based on inputs such as a variety of asset prices. It can be used to track the performance of a group of assets in a standardized way. Indexes typically measure the performance of a basket of securities intended to replicate a certain area of the market.



These could be constructed as a broad-based index that captures the entire market, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index or Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), or more specialized such as indexes that track a particular industry or segment such as the Russell 2000 Index, which tracks only small-cap stocks.





Key Takeaways

An index measures the price performance of a basket of securities using a standardized metric and methodology.Indexes in financial markets are often used as benchmarks to evaluate an investment's performance against.Some of the most important indexes in the U.S. markets are the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average.Passive index investing has become a popular low-cost way to replicate the returns of popular indices such as the S&P 500 Index or Dow Jones Industrial Average.Benchmarking your investment strategy against the appropriate index is key to understanding a portfolio's performance.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Indexes  

Indexes are also created to measure other financial or economic data such as interest rates, inflation, or manufacturing output. Indexes often serve as benchmarks against which to evaluate the performance of a portfolio's returns. One popular investment strategy, known as indexing, is to try to replicate such an index in a passive manner rather than trying to outperform it.



Indexes in finance are typically used to track a statistical measure of change in various security prices. In finance, it typically refers to a statistical measure of change in a securities market. In the case of financial markets, stock and bond market indexes consist of a hypothetical portfolio of securities representing a particular market or a segment of it. (You cannot invest directly in an index.) The S&P 500 Index and the Bloomberg US Aggregate Bond Index are common benchmarks for the U.S. stock and bond markets, respectively. In reference to mortgages, it refers to a benchmark interest rate created by a third party.



Each index related to the stock and bond markets has its own calculation methodology. In most cases, the relative change of an index is more important than the actual numeric value representing the index. For example, if the FTSE 100 Index is at 6,670.40, that number tells investors the index is nearly seven times its base level of 1,000. However, to assess how the index has changed from the previous day, investors must look at the amount the index has fallen, often expressed as a percentage.


   Index Investing  

Indexes are also often used as benchmarks against which to measure the performance of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). For instance, many mutual funds compare their returns to the return in the S&P 500 Index to give investors a sense of how much more or less the managers are earning on their money than they would make in an index fund.



"Indexing" is a form of passive fund management. Instead of a fund portfolio manager actively stock picking and market timing—that is, choosing securities to invest in and strategizing when to buy and sell them—the fund manager builds a portfolio wherein the holdings mirror the securities of a particular index. The idea is that by mimicking the profile of the index—the stock market as a whole, or a broad segment of it—the fund will match its performance as well.



Since you cannot invest directly in an index, index funds are created to track their performance. These funds incorporate securities that closely mimic those found in an index, thereby allowing an investor to bet on its performance, for a fee. An example of a popular index fund is the Vanguard S&P 500 ETF (VOO), which closely mirrors the S&P 500 Index.



When putting together mutual funds and ETFs, fund sponsors attempt to create portfolios mirroring the components of a certain index. This allows an investor to buy a security likely to rise and fall in tandem with the stock market as a whole or with a segment of the market.


   Index Examples  

The S&P 500 Index is one of the world's best-known indexes and one of the most commonly used benchmarks for the stock market. It includes 80% of the total stocks traded in the United States. Conversely, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is also well known, but represents stock values from just 30 of the nation's publicly traded companies. Other prominent indexes include the Nasdaq 100 Index, Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and the Bloomberg US Aggregate Bond Index.



Like mutual funds, indexed annuities are tied to a trading index. However, rather than the fund sponsor trying to put together an investment portfolio likely to closely mimic the index in question, these securities feature a rate of return that follows a particular index but typically have caps on the returns they provide. For example, if an investor buys an annuity indexed to the Dow Jones and it has a cap of 10%, its rate of return will be between 0 and 10%, depending on the annual changes to that index. Indexed annuities allow investors to buy securities that grow along with broad market segments or the total market.



Adjustable-rate mortgages feature interest rates that adjust over the life of the loan. The adjustable interest rate is determined by adding a margin to an index. One of the most popular indexes on which mortgages are based is the London Inter-bank Offer Rate (LIBOR). For example, if a mortgage indexed to the LIBOR has a 2% margin and the LIBOR is 3%, the interest rate on the loan is 5%.




What Is an Index Fund?
An index fund is a mutual fund or ETF that seeks to replicate the performance of an index, often by constructing its portfolio to mirror that of the index itself. Index investing is considered a passive strategy since it does not involve any stock picking or active management. Studies show that over time, indexing strategies tend to perform better than stock picking strategies. Because they are passive index funds also tend to have lower fees and tax exposure.




What Are Different Ways to Construct an Index?
Indexes can be built in a number of ways, often with consideration to how to weight the various components of the index. The three main ways include:A market-cap, or capitalization-weighted index puts more weight in the index to those components that have the largest market capitalization (market value), such as the S&P 500A price-weighted index puts more weight to those components with the highest prices (such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average)An equal-weighted index allocates each component with the same weights (this is sometimes called an unweighted index)




Why Are Indexes Useful?
Indexes are useful for providing valid benchmarks against which to measure investment performance for a given strategy or portfolio. By understanding how a strategy does relative to a benchmark, one can understand its true performance.Indexes also provide investors with a simplified snapshot of a large market sector, without having to examine every single asset in that index. For example, it would be impractical for an ordinary investor to study hundreds of different stock prices in order to understand the changing fortunes of different technology companies. A sector-specific index can show the average trend for the sector.




What Are Some Major Stock Indexes?
In the United States, the three leading stock indexes are the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the S&P 500, the Nasdaq Composite, and the Russell 2000. For international markets, the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 (FTSE 100) Index and the Nikkei 225 Index are popular proxies for the British and Japanese stock markets, respectively. Most countries with stock exchanges publish at least one index for their major stocks.




What Are Some Bond Indexes?
While stock market indexes may most often come to mind, indexes are also constructed around other asset classes. In the bond market, for example, the Bloomberg Aggregate Bond Index tracks the investment grade bond market, while the Emerging Market Bond Index looks at government bonds of emerging market economies.


   The Bottom Line  

Market indexes provide a broad representation of how markets are performing. These indexes serve as benchmarks to gauge the movement and performance of market segments. Investors also use indexes as a basis for portfolio or passive index investing. In the U.S. such representative indexes include the large-cap S&P 500 and the technology-heavy Nasdaq 100.
What Are Index Funds?  

An index fund is a type of mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) with a portfolio constructed to match or track the components of a financial market index, such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S&P 500). An index mutual fund is said to provide broad market exposure, low operating expenses, and low portfolio turnover. These funds follow their benchmark index regardless of the state of the markets. 



Index funds are generally considered ideal core portfolio holdings for retirement accounts, such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and 401(k) accounts. Legendary investor Warren Buffett has recommended index funds as a haven for savings for the later years of life. Rather than picking out individual stocks for investment, he has said, it makes more sense for the average investor to buy all of the S&P 500 companies at the low cost that an index fund offers.





Key Takeaways

An index fund is a portfolio of stocks or bonds designed to mimic the composition and performance of a financial market index.Index funds have lower expenses and fees than actively managed funds.Index funds follow a passive investment strategy.Index funds seek to match the risk and return of the market based on the theory that in the long term, the market will outperform any single investment.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   How an Index Fund Works  

“Indexing” is a form of passive fund management. Instead of a fund portfolio manager actively stock picking and market timing—that is, choosing securities to invest in and strategizing when to buy and sell them—the fund manager builds a portfolio whose holdings mirror the securities of a particular index. The idea is that by mimicking the profile of the index—the stock market as a whole, or a broad segment of it—the fund will match its performance as well.



There is an index and an index fund for nearly every financial market in existence. In the United States, the most popular index funds track the S&P 500. But several other indexes are widely used as well, including:



Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index, the largest U.S. equities index
MSCI EAFE Index, consisting of foreign stocks from Europe, Australasia, and the Far East
Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, which follows the total bond market
Nasdaq Composite Index, made up of 3,000 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange
Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), consisting of 30 large-cap companies



An index fund tracking the DJIA, for example, would invest in the same 30 large and publicly owned companies that comprise that index.



Portfolios of index funds only change substantially when their benchmark indexes change. If the fund is following a weighted index, its managers may periodically rebalance the percentage of different securities to reflect the weight of their presence in the benchmark. Weighting is a method that balances out the influence of any single holding in an index or a portfolio.






Many index ETFs replicate market indexes in much the same way that index mutual funds do, and they may be more liquid and/or cost-effective for some investors.


   Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds  

Investing in an index fund is a form of passive investing. The opposite strategy is active investing, as realized in actively managed mutual funds—the ones with the securities-picking, market-timing portfolio that managers described above.


  Lower Costs  

One primary advantage that index funds have over their actively managed counterparts is the lower management expense ratio. A fund’s expense ratio—also known as the management expense ratio—includes all of the operating expenses such as the payment to advisors and managers, transaction fees, taxes, and accounting fees.



Because the index fund managers are simply replicating the performance of a benchmark index, they do not need the services of research analysts and others who assist in the stock-selection process. Index fund managers trade holdings less often, incurring fewer transaction fees and commissions. In contrast, actively managed funds have larger staffs and conduct more transactions, driving up the cost of doing business.



The extra costs of fund management are reflected in the fund’s expense ratio and get passed on to investors. As a result, cheap index funds often cost less than 0.65%—0.17% to 0.40% is typical, with some firms offering even lower expense ratios of 0.05% or less—compared to the much higher fees that actively managed funds command, typically 0.77% up to 1.36%.



Expense ratios directly impact the overall performance of a fund. Actively managed funds, with their often-higher expense ratios, are automatically at a disadvantage to index funds and struggle to keep up with their benchmarks in terms of overall return.



If you have an online brokerage account, check its mutual fund or ETF screener to see which index funds are available to you.





Pros

Lower risk through diversification
Low expense ratios
Strong long-term returns
Ideal for passive, buy-and-hold investors
Lower taxes for investors



Cons

Vulnerable to market swings and crashes
Lack of flexibility
No human element
Limited gains





  Better Returns?  

Advocates argue that passive funds have been successful in outperforming most actively managed mutual funds. Indeed, a majority of mutual funds fail to beat their benchmark or broad market indexes. For instance, during the five-year period ending Dec. 31, 2022, approximately 87% of large-cap U.S. funds generated a return that was less than that of the S&P 500, according to SPIVA Scorecard data from S&P Dow Jones Indices.



On the other hand, passively managed funds do not attempt to beat the market. Their strategy instead seeks to match the overall risk and return of the market, on the theory that the market always wins.



Passive management leading to positive performance tends to be true over the long term. With shorter time spans, active mutual funds do better. The SPIVA Scorecard indicates that in a span of one year, only about 51% of large-cap mutual funds underperformed the S&P 500. In other words, approximately half of them beat it in the short term. Also, in other categories, actively managed money rules. As an example, more than 35% of midcap mutual funds beat their S&P MidCap 400 Growth Index benchmark in the course of a year.


   Example of an Index Fund  

Index funds have been around since the 1970s. The popularity of passive investing, the appeal of low fees, and a long-running bull market have combined to send them soaring in the 2010s. For 2021, according to Morningstar Research, investors poured more than $400 billion into index funds across all asset classes. For the same period, actively managed funds experienced $188 billion in outflows.



The one fund that started it all, founded by Vanguard chair John Bogle in 1976, remains one of the best for its overall long-term performance and low cost. The Vanguard 500 Index Fund has tracked the S&P 500 faithfully, in composition and performance. As of Q4 2022, Vanguard’s Admiral Shares (VFIAX) posted an average 10-year cumulative return of 216.49% vs. the S&P 500’s 217.61%, exhibiting a very small tracking error. The expense ratio is 0.04%, and its minimum investment is $3,000.




How Do Index Exchange-Traded Funds (Index ETFs) Work?
Index funds may be structured as exchange-traded funds (index ETFs). These products are essentially portfolios of stocks that are managed by a professional financial firm, in which each share represents a small ownership stake in the entire portfolio. For index funds, the goal of the financial firm is not to outperform the underlying index but simply to match its performance. If, for example, a particular stock makes up 1% of the index, then the firm managing the index fund will seek to mimic that same composition by making 1% of its portfolio consist of that stock.




Do Index Funds Have Fees?
Yes, index funds have fees, but they are generally much lower than those of competing products. Many index funds offer fees of less than 0.4%, whereas active funds often charge fees of more than 0.77%. This difference in fees can have a large effect on investors’ returns when compounded over longer time frames. This is one of the main reasons why index funds have become such a popular investment option in recent years.




Are Index Funds Better Than Stocks?
Index funds track portfolios composed of many stocks. As a result, investors benefit from the positive effects of diversification, such as increasing the expected return of the portfolio while minimizing the overall risk. While any individual stock may see its price drop steeply, if it is just a relatively small component of a larger index, it would not be as damaging.




Are Index Funds Good Investments?
Most experts agree that index funds are very good investments for long-term investors. They are low-cost options for obtaining a well-diversified portfolio that passively tracks an index. Be sure to compare different index funds or ETFs to be sure you are tracking the best index for your goals and at the lowest cost.
What Are Index Futures?  

The term index futures refers to futures contracts that allow traders to buy or sell a contract that is derived from a financial index today to be settled at a future date. Originally intended for institutional investors, index futures are now open to individual investors as well. Traders use these contracts to speculate on the price direction indexes, such as the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). They also use index futures to hedge their equity positions against losses.





Key Takeaways

Index futures are contracts to buy or sell a financial index at a set price today, to be settled at a date in the future.These contracts were originally meant solely for institutional investors but are now open to anyone.Portfolio managers use index futures to hedge their equity positions against a loss in stocks.Speculators can also use index futures to bet on the market's direction.Some of the most popular index futures are based on equities, including the E-mini S&P 500, E-mini Nasdaq-100 and E-mini Dow. International markets also have index futures.


   Understanding Index Futures  

An index tracks the price of an asset or a group of assets, such as equities, commodities, and currencies. A futures contract is a type of derivative that obligates traders to buy or sell the underlying asset on a set day at a predetermined price. An index future, therefore, is a legal contract that obligates traders to buy or sell a contract that is derived from a stock market index by a certain date at a predetermined price.



Index futures, which are also called stock or equity market index futures, function just like any other futures contract. They give investors the power and obligation to deliver the cash value of the contract based on an underlying index at a specified future date at an agreed-upon price. Unless the contract is unwound before expiration through an offsetting trade, the trader is obligated to deliver the cash value on expiry.



Traders use index futures to hedge or speculate against future price changes in the underlying equity index. For example, the S&P 500 Index tracks the stock prices of 500 of the largest companies traded in the U.S. An investor could buy or sell index futures on the S&P 500 to hedge or speculate on gains or losses of the index.






Index futures do not predict future index performance.


   Types of Index Futures  

Some of the most popular index futures are based on equities, which means investors hedge their bets on the individual index named in the contract.



For instance, traders can invest in the S&P 500 index by purchasing E-mini S&P 500 futures contracts. Investors can also trade futures for the Dow Jones and Nasdaq 100 Index. There are the E-mini Dow and E-mini Nasdaq-100 futures contracts, or their smaller variants the Micro E-mini Dow and Micro E-mini Nasdaq-100.



Outside of the U.S., there are futures available for the DAX Stock Index of 30 major German companies and the Swiss Market Index, both of which trade on the Eurex. In Hong Kong, Hang Seng Index (HSI) futures allow traders to speculate on that market's major index.



Products may use different multiples to determine the contract price. For example, the E-mini S&P 500 futures contract, which trades on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), has a value of $50 times the value of the index. So if the index trades at 3,400 points, the market value of the contract would be 3,400 x $50 or $170,000.






The CME delisted the standard-sized S&P 500 index futures and options contracts in September 2021. These contracts were priced at $250 times the level of the S&P 500. That means if the index traded at 3,400 points, then the market value of the contract would be 3,400 x $250 or $850,000.


   Index Futures and Margins  

Futures contracts don't require the buyer to put up the entire value of the contract when entering a trade. Instead, they only require the buyer to maintain a fraction of the contract amount in their account. This is called the initial margin.



Index futures prices can fluctuate significantly until the contract expires. Therefore, traders must have enough money in their accounts to cover a potential loss, which is called the maintenance margin. The maintenance margin sets the minimum amount of funds an account must hold to satisfy any future claims.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) requires a minimum of 25% of the total trade value as the minimum account balance, although some brokerages will demand greater than 25%. And as the value of the trade climbs before expiration, the broker can demand additional funds be deposited into the account. This is called a margin call.



It's important to note that index futures contracts are legally binding agreements between the buyer and seller. Futures differ from an option because a futures contract is considered an obligation. An option, on the other hand, is considered a right the holder may or may not exercise.


   Profits and Losses from Index Futures  

An index futures contract states the holder agrees to purchase an index at a particular price on a specified future date. Index futures typically settle quarterly in March, June, September, and December. There are usually several annual contracts as well.



Equity index futures are cash-settled. This means that there's no delivery of the underlying asset at the end of the contract. If the price of the index is higher than the agreed-upon contract price at the expiry date, the buyer makes a profit while the seller (who is known as the future writer) suffers a loss. In the opposite scenario, the buyer suffers a loss while the seller makes a profit.



For example, if the Dow closes at 16,000 at the end of September, the holder with a September futures contract one year earlier at 15,760 ends up reaping a profit.



Profits are determined by the difference between the entry and exit prices of the contract. As with any speculative trade, there are risks the market could move against the position. As mentioned earlier, the trading account must meet margin requirements and could receive a margin call to cover any risk of further losses. The trader must understand that many factors can drive market index prices, including macroeconomic conditions such as economic growth and corporate earnings.


   Index Futures for Hedging  

Portfolio managers often buy equity index futures as a hedge against potential losses. If the manager has positions in a large number of stocks, index futures can help hedge the risk of declining stock prices by selling equity index futures.



Since many stocks tend to move in the same general direction, the portfolio manager could sell or short an index futures contract in case stocks prices decline. In the event of a market downturn, the stocks within the portfolio would fall in value, but the sold index futures contracts would gain in value, offsetting the losses from the stocks.



The fund manager could hedge all of the downside risks of the portfolio, or only partially offset it. The downside of hedging is that this reduces profits if the hedge isn't required. So if the investor from the previous section with a September futures contract shorts index futures and the market rises, the index futures decline in value. The losses from the hedge would offset gains in the portfolio as the stock market rises.


   Speculation on Index Futures  

Speculation is an advanced trading strategy that is not suited for many investors. However, experienced traders tend to use index futures to speculate on the direction of an index. Instead of buying individual stocks or assets, a trader can bet on the direction of a group of assets by purchasing or selling index futures.



For example, to replicate the S&P 500 Index, investors would need to buy all 500 stocks in the index. Instead, index futures can be used to bet on the direction of all 500 stocks, with one contract creating the same effect of owning all 500 stocks in the S&P 500.





Pros

Index futures can hedge against declines in similar holdings
Brokerage accounts require only a fraction of the contract's value held as a margin
Index futures allow for speculation on the index price movement
Helps businesses lock in commodity prices for commodity futures



Cons

Unnecessary or wrong direction hedges will damage any portfolio gains
Brokers can demand additional funds to maintain the account's margin amount
Index futures speculation is a high-risk undertaking
Unforeseen factors may cause the index to move opposite from the desired direction





   Index Futures vs. Commodities Futures Contracts  

By their nature, stock index futures operate differently than futures contracts. These contracts allow traders to buy or sell a specified amount of a commodity at an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon date in the future. Contracts are normally exchanged for tangible goods such as cotton, soybeans, sugar, crude oil, gold, and what.



Investors generally trade commodity futures as a way to hedge or speculate on the price of the underlying commodity. Unlike index futures, which are cash-settled, long position holders of commodities futures contracts will need to take physical delivery if the position has not been closed out ahead of expiry.



Businesses frequently use commodity futures to lock in prices for the raw materials they need for production.


   Examples of Index Futures  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how investors can speculate using index futures. Let's say an investor decides to speculate on the S&P 500. They buy the futures contract when the index trades at 2,000 points, resulting in a contract value of $100,000 ($50 x 2,000). The E-mini S&P 500 futures are priced at $50 multiplied by the index value.



Because index futures contracts don't require the investor to put up the full 100%, they need only to maintain a small percentage in a brokerage account.



Scenario 1: The S&P 500 Index falls to 1,900 points. The futures contract is now worth $95,000 ($50 x 1,900). The investor loses $5,000.Scenario 2: The S&P 500 Index rises to 2,100 points. The futures contract is now worth $105,000 ($50 x 2,100). The investor earns a $5,000 profit.




How Do You Trade Index Futures?
Index futures are derivatives that give you the right and the obligation to buy or sell stock market indexes at a specified date in the future at an agreed-upon price. You may trade futures for indexes like the S&P 500, Dow Jones, Nasdaq 100 as well as foreign market indexes, such as the FTSE 100 or the Hang Seng. In order to trade index futures, you'll need to open an account with a brokerage firm. Once your account is open, choose the index you want to trade and decide whether you want to go long (you believe the price will increase) or short (you believe the price will decrease). Be sure you keep an eye on your contract as it nears the expiration date.




Can Index Futures be Used to Predict Market Performance?
Index futures are generally considered a bet—not a predictor. Traders who invest in equity index futures bet or speculate on the index moving in a particular direction. Investors who take long positions speculate that the index's price will increase while those who take short positions bet that the price will drop. Various factors can move markets, which means they can go in any direction. As such, there is no fail-safe predictor for the market, including index futures.




Is Index Futures Trading Riskier Than Stock Trading?
Index futures are neither riskier or less riskier than stocks. That's because their prices depend on the prices of the underlying index. The risk comes from speculative positions taken by investors who use leverage to make their trades. But they are also used as a hedging tool, which can reduce an investor's overall risk.
What Is Index Investing?  

Index investing is a passive investment technique that attempts to generate returns similar to a broad market index. Investors use this buy-and-hold strategy to replicate the performance of a specific index—generally an equity or fixed-income index—by purchasing the component securities of the index, or investing in an index mutual fund or exchange traded fund (ETF) that itself closely tracks the underlying index.



There are several advantages of index investing. For one, empirical research finds index investing tends to outperform active management over a long time frame. Taking a hands-off approach to investing eliminates many of the biases and uncertainties that arise in a stock-picking strategy.



Index investing, as well as other passive strategies, may be contrasted with active investment.





Key Takeaways

Index investing is a passive investment strategy that seeks to replicate the returns of a benchmark index.Indexing offers greater diversification, as well as lower expenses and fees, than actively managed strategies.Indexing seeks to match the risk and return of the overall market, on the theory that over the long-term the market will outperform any stock picker.Complete index investing involves purchasing all of an index's components at their given portfolio weights, while less-intensive strategies involve only owning the largest index weights or a sampling of important components.


   How Index Investing Works  

Index investing is an effective strategy to manage risk and gain consistent returns. Proponents of the strategy eschew active investing because modern financial theory claims it's impossible to "beat the market" once trading costs and taxes are taken into account.



Since index investing takes a passive approach, index funds usually have lower management fees and expense ratios (ERs) than actively managed funds. The simplicity of tracking the market without a portfolio manager allows providers to maintain modest fees. Index funds also tend to be more tax-efficient than active funds because they make less frequent trades.



More importantly, index investing is an effective method of diversifying against risks. An index fund consists of a broad basket of assets instead of a few investments. This serves to minimize unsystematic risk related to a specific company or industry without decreasing expected returns.



For many index investors, the S&P 500 is the most common benchmark to evaluate performance against, as it gauges the health of the U.S. economy. Other widely followed index funds track the performance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and the corporate bond sector.






Active U.S. equity funds have experienced outflows every year from 2015 to 2020, according to Morningstar, with most of that withdrawn money being plowed into passive funds.


   Index Investing Methods  

Purchasing every stock in an index at its given component weight is the most complete way to ensure that a portfolio will achieve the same risk and return profile as the benchmark itself. However, depending on the index, this can be time-consuming and quite costly to implement.



For instance, to replicate the S&P 500 index, an investor would need to accumulate positions in each of the 500 companies that are inside the index. For the Russell 2000, there would need to be 2000 different positions. Depending on commissions paid to a broker, this can become cost-prohibitive.



More cost-effective ways to track an index involve only owning the most heavily-weighted index components or sampling a certain proportion, say 20%, of the index's holdings. The most cost-effective way to own an index these days is to seek out an index mutual fund or ETF that does all of that work for you, combining the entire index essentially into a single security or share.


   Limitations of Index Investing  

Despite gaining immense popularity in recent years, there are some limitations to index investing. Many index funds are formed on a market capitalization basis, meaning the top holdings have an outsized weight on broad market movements. So, if, say, giants such as Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) and Meta Platforms Inc. (META), formerly Facebook Inc., experience a weak quarter it would have a noticeable impact on the entire index.



This entirely passive strategy neglects a subset of the investment universe focused on market factors such as value, momentum, and quality. These factors now constitute a corner of investing called smart-beta, which attempts to deliver better risk-adjusted returns than a market-cap-weighted index. Smart-beta funds offer the same benefits of a passive strategy, with the additional upside of active management, otherwise known as alpha.


   Real World Example of Index Investing  

Index mutual funds have been around since the 1970s. The one fund that started it all, founded by Vanguard Chair John Bogle in 1976, remains one of the best for its overall long-term performance and low cost.



Over the years, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund has tracked the S&P 500 faithfully, in composition and performance. For its Admiral Shares, the expense ratio is 0.04%, and its minimum investment is $3,000.
What Is an Index-Linked Bond?  

An index-linked bond is a bond in which payment of interest income on the principal is related to a specific price index, usually the Consumer Price Index (CPI). This feature provides protection to investors by shielding them from changes in the underlying index. The bond's cash flows are adjusted to ensure that the holder of the bond receives a known real rate of return. An index-linked bond is also known as a real return bond in Canada, Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) in the U.S., and a linker in the U.K.





Key Takeaways

Index-linked bonds—also called Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities in the U.S.—pay interest that is linked to an underlying index, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Index-linked bonds are issued by governments to help mitigate the impact of inflation, paying a real yield plus accrued inflation. These bonds are beneficial to investors because they are less volatile than normal bonds and the risk involved with uncertainty is reduced.


   How an Index-Linked Bond Works  

A bond investor holds a bond with a fixed interest rate. The interest payments, known as coupons, are usually paid semi-annually and represent the bondholder’s return on investing in the bond. However, as time goes by, inflation also increases, thereby, eroding the value of the investor’s annual return. This is unlike returns on equity and property, in which dividend and rental income increase with inflation. To mitigate the impact of inflation, index-linked bonds are issued by the government.



An index-linked bond is a bond which has its coupon payments adjusted for inflation by linking the payments to some inflation indicator, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI) or Retail Price Index (RPI). These interest-bearing investments typically pay investors a real yield plus accrued inflation, providing a hedge against inflation. The yield, payment, and principal amount are calculated in real terms, not nominal numbers. One can think of the CPI as the exchange rate that converts the return on a bond investment to a real return.



An indexed-linked bond is valuable to investors because the real value of the bond is known from purchase and the risk involved with uncertainty is eliminated. These bonds are also less volatile than nominal bonds and help investors maintain their purchasing power.






Index-linked bonds provide a real yield plus inflation, with everything—yield, payment, principal—calculated in real terms, not nominal.


   Example of an Index-Linked Bond  

Consider two investors—one purchases a regular bond and another buys an index-linked bond. Both bonds are issued and purchased for $100 during July 2019, having the same terms—4% coupon rate, 1 year to maturity, and $100 face value. The CPI level at the time of issuance is 204.



The regular bond pays an annual interest of 4%, or $4 ($100 x 4%), and the principal amount of $100 is repaid at maturity. At maturity, the principal and the interest payment due, that is, $100 + $4 = $104, will be credited to the bondholder.



Assuming the CPI level in July 2020 is 207, the interest and principal value must be adjusted for inflation with the index-linked bond. Coupon payments are calculated using an inflation-adjusted principal amount, and an indexation factor is used to determine the inflation-adjusted principal amount. For a given date, the indexation factor is defined as the CPI value for the given date divided by the CPI at the original issue date of the bond. The indexation factor in our example is 1.0147 (207/204). Therefore, the inflation rate is 1.47%, and the bondholder will receive $105.53 ($104 x 1.0147) when it matures.



The annual interest rate on the bond is 5.53% [(($105.53 - $100)/$100) x 100%]. The investor’s approximate real return rate is 4.06% (5.53% - 1.47%), calculated as the nominal rate less the inflation rate.
What Is an Index Option?  

An index option is a financial derivative that gives the holder the right (but not the obligation) to buy or sell the value of an underlying index, such as the S&P 500 index, at the stated exercise price. No actual stocks are bought or sold. Often, an index option will utilize an index futures contract as its underlying asset.



Index options are always cash-settled and are typically European-style options, meaning they settle only on the date of maturity and have no provision for early exercise.





Key Takeaways

Index options are options contracts that utilize a benchmark index, or a futures contract based on that index, as its underlying instrument.Index options are typically European style and settle in cash for the value of the index at expiration.Like all options, index options will give the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to either go long (for a call) or short (for a put) the value of the index at a pre-specified strike price.


   Understanding an Index Option  

Index call and put options are popular tools used to trade the general direction of an underlying index while putting very little capital at risk. The profit potential for index call options is unlimited, while the risk is limited to the premium paid for the option. For index put options, the risk is also limited to the premium paid, while the potential profit is capped at the index level, less the premium paid, as the index can never go below zero.



Beyond potentially profiting from general index-level movements, index options can be used to diversify a portfolio when an investor is unwilling to invest directly in the index's underlying stocks. Index options can also be used to hedge specific risks in a portfolio. Note that while American-style options can be exercised at any time before expiry, index options tend to be European-style and can be exercised only on the expiration date.



Rather than tracking an index directly, most index options actually utilize an index futures contract as the underlying security. An option on an S&P 500 futures contract, therefore, can be thought of as a second derivative of the S&P 500 index since the futures are themselves derivatives of the index.



As such, there are more variables to consider as both the option and the futures contract have expiration dates and their own risk/reward profiles. With such index options, the contract has a multiplier that determines the overall premium, or price paid. Usually, the multiplier is 100. The S&P 500, however, has a 250x multiplier.


   Index Option Example  

Imagine a hypothetical index called Index X, which currently has a level of 500. Assume an investor decides to purchase a call option on Index X with a strike price of 505. If this 505 call option is priced at $11, the entire contract costs $1,100—or $11 x a 100 multiplier.



It is important to note the underlying asset in this contract is not any individual stock or set of stocks, but rather the cash level of the index adjusted by the multiplier. In this example, it is $50,000, or 500 x $100. Instead of investing $50,000 in the stocks of the index, an investor can buy the option at $1,100 and utilize the remaining $48,900 elsewhere.



The risk associated with this trade is limited to $1,100. The break-even point of an index call option trade is the strike price plus the premium paid. In this example, that is 516, or 505 plus 11. At any level above 516, this particular trade becomes profitable.



If the index level is 530 at expiration, the owner of this call option would exercise it and receive $2,500 in cash from the other side of the trade, or (530 – 505) x $100. Less the initial premium paid, this trade results in a profit of $1,400.
What Is Indexation?  

Indexation is a system or technique used by organizations or governments to connect prices and asset values. This is done by linking adjustments made to the value of a good, price of a service, or another specified value to a predetermined price or composite index. Indexation requires identifying a price index and determining whether linking the value to the price index will accomplish the organization's goals. Indexation is most commonly used with wages in a high-inflation environment. Indexation is also known as escalating.





Key Takeaways

Indexation means adjusting a price, wage, or other value based on the changes in another price or composite indicator of prices. Indexation can be done to adjust for the effects of inflation, cost of living, or input prices over time, or to adjust for different prices and costs in different geographic areas.Indexation is often used to escalate wages in inflationary environments where failure to negotiate regular wage increases would lead to ongoing real wage cuts for workers.


   Understanding Indexation  

Indexing a given price or payment to other prices can serve two main purposes. It can be used either to maintain a stable relative price between two or more goods or services or to maintain a stable real price of a good or service relative to the purchasing power of a currency unit. Indexation is a pre-specified process, meaning that all parties involved are typically aware of how the link works.



In the first, and simpler, case, this is done by specifying the desired target ratio of two prices and adjusting one price when the other changes in order to maintain the ratio. For example, an ice cream stand might index the sale price of ice cream cones to the wholesale price that they pay for ice cream in order to maintain a steady profit margin by keeping the price of cones served constant, relative to the cost of bulk ice cream. That way if the wholesale price of the input doubles, so does the output price and the business remains profitable.



In the second case, a price or asset value is linked to a price level of a basket of goods, which is usually set equal to 100 at a given point in time. Price indexes are commonly published by official government agencies, often for the specific purpose of convenient use in the indexation of prices, wages, and transfer payments. 



Businesses may use this type of indexation to match an employee's salary increases to the inflation rate, meaning that an increase in the consumer price level over a period of time will lead to an increase in salary. This particular type of indexation is called a cost of living increase (COLA). 



In the above example, the use of indexation, in theory, can mitigate the impact of inflation against a worker's standard of living. Without this kind of indexation, most workers would effectively be getting a real wage cut each year as inflation cuts into the purchasing power of their nominal wages. There are still possibilities for economic changes to force some disparity between salaries and the pace of inflation.



Governments might similarly use indexation as a way to potentially alleviate the negative effects inflation can have on the recipients of transfer payments and entitlements. Social Security payments, for example, are indexed to the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index.



In addition to indexation over time, prices and wages can be indexed over different geographic areas. For example, because rents and costs of living vary from place to place, a company with employees in multiple states or cities might need to link compensation in different areas to local prices. This can be done either by indexing pay to the prevailing wages paid by other businesses in those areas or by using an index such as the Regional Price Parities published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. 



Various assets and values might be subject to indexation. Some countries might apply indexation on certain types of tax payments at varying periods. For instance, it might be applied to debt mutual funds that have been held for a certain minimum amount of time before being sold. In such a case, the original purchase price is adjusted for inflation when calculating long-term capital gains that will be taxed when those debt funds are sold. This can lead to a discount on taxes after the transaction for the seller of such assets.



Indexation might also be applied to pension funds to reassure participants that their assets will keep pace with inflation. That way, the value of those assets do not erode as time passes.



Life insurance companies might offer their clients policies that include terms for indexation, which may promise a payout that is adjusted for inflation. However, the premiums for such plans can be higher with annual increases. Such a product may raise concerns about consumers overspending on premiums, especially for periods when inflation is minimal and below the rate of increase that is charged for indexation.
What Is an Indexed Annuity?  

An indexed annuity is a type of annuity contract that pays an interest rate based on the performance of a specified market index, such as the S&P 500. It differs from fixed annuities, which pay a fixed rate of interest, and variable annuities, which base their interest rate on a portfolio of securities chosen by the annuity owner. Indexed annuities are sometimes referred to as equity-indexed or fixed-indexed annuities.





Key Takeaways

An indexed annuity pays a rate of interest based on a particular market index, such as the S&P 500.Indexed annuities give buyers an opportunity to benefit when the financial markets perform well, unlike fixed annuities, which pay a set interest rate regardless.However, certain provisions in these contracts can limit the potential upside to only a portion of the market's rise.


   How Indexed Annuities Work  

Indexed annuities offer their owners, or annuitants, the opportunity to earn higher yields than fixed annuities when the financial markets perform well. Typically, they also provide some protection against market declines.



The rate on an indexed annuity is calculated based on the year-over-year gain in the index or its average monthly gain over a 12-month period.



While indexed annuities are linked to the performance of a specific index, the annuitant won't necessarily reap the full benefit of any rise in that index. One reason is that indexed annuities often set limits on the potential gain at a certain percentage, commonly referred to as the "participation rate." The participation rate can be as high as 100%, meaning the account is credited with all of the gain, or as low as 25%. Most indexed annuities offer a participation rate between 80% and 90%—at least in the early years of the contract.



If the stock index gained 15%, for example, an 80% participation rate translates to a credited yield of 12%. Many indexed annuities offer a high participation rate for the first year or two, after which the rate adjusts downward.


  Yields and rate caps  

Most indexed annuity contracts also include a yield or rate cap that can further limit the amount that's credited to the accumulation account. A 7% rate cap, for example, limits the credited yield to 7% no matter how much the stock index has gained. Rate caps typically range from a high of 15% to as low as 4% and are subject to change.



In the example above, the 15% gain reduced by an 80% participation rate to 12% would be further reduced to 7% if the annuity contract specifies a 7% rate cap.






If you're shopping for an indexed annuity, ask about its "participation rate" and rate caps. Both can reduce your potential gains from any rise in the markets.



In years when the stock index declines, the insurance company credits the account with a minimum rate of return. A typical minimum rate guarantee is about 2%. Some can be as low as 0% or as high as 3%.


  Adjusted values  

At specific intervals, the insurer will adjust the value of the account to include any gain that occurred in that time frame. The principal, which the insurer guarantees, never declines in value unless the account owner takes a withdrawal. Insurers use several different methods to adjust the account's value, such as a year-over-year reset or a point-to-point reset, which incorporates two or more years' worth of returns.



As with other types of annuities, the owner can begin receiving regular income by annuitizing the contract and directing the insurer to start the payout phase.
What Is Indexing?  

Indexing, broadly, refers to the use of some benchmark indicator or measure as a reference or yardstick. In finance and economics, indexing is used as a statistical measure for tracking economic data such as inflation, unemployment, gross domestic product (GDP) growth, productivity, and market returns.



Indexing may also refer to passive investment strategies that replicate benchmark indexes. Index investing has become increasingly popular over the past decades.





Key Takeaways

Indexing is the practice of compiling economic data into a single metric or comparing data to such a metric.There are many indexes in finance that reflect on economic activity or summarize market activity.In economics, indexes can directly impact people's livelihoods, for example in the form of cost-of-living adjustments that are indexed to inflation.In investing, indexes become performance benchmarks against which portfolios and fund managers are measured.Indexing is also used to refer to passively investing in market indexes to replicate broad market returns rather than actively selecting individual stocks.


   Understanding Indexing  

Indexing is used in the financial market as a statistical measure for tracking economic data. Indexes created by economists provide some of the market’s leading indicators for economic trends. Economic indexes closely followed in the financial markets include the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), the Institute for Supply Management’s Manufacturing Index (ISM), and the Composite Index of Leading Economic Indicators. These indexes are tracked to measure changes over time.



Statistical indexes may also be used as a gauge for linking values. The cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is a statistical measure obtained through analysis of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that indexes prices to inflation. Many pension plans and insurance policies use COLA and the Consumer Price Index as a measure for retirement benefit payout adjustments with the adjustment using inflation-based indexing measures.


   Indexing in Financial Markets  

An index is a method to track the performance of a group of assets in a standardized way. Indexes typically measure the performance of a basket of securities intended to replicate a certain area of the market.



These could be a broad-based index that captures the entire market, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index or Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). Indexes can also be more specialized, such as indexes that track a particular industry or segment. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a price-weighted index, which means it gives greater weight to stocks in the index with a higher price. The S&P 500 Index is a market capitalization-weighted index, which means it gives greater weight to stocks in the S&P 500 Index with a higher market capitalization.



Index providers have numerous methodologies for constructing investment market indexes. Investors and market participants use these indexes as benchmarks on performance. If a fund manager is underperforming the S&P 500 over the long term, for example, it will be hard to entice investors into the fund.



Indexes also exist that track bond markets, commodities, and derivatives.


   Indexing and Passive Investing  

Indexing is broadly known in the investment industry as a passive investment strategy for gaining targeted exposure to a specified market segment. The majority of active investment managers typically do not consistently beat index benchmarks. Moreover, investing in a targeted segment of the market for capital appreciation or as a long-term investment can be expensive given the trading costs associated with buying individual securities. Therefore, indexing is a popular option for many investors.



An investor can achieve the same risk and return of a target index by investing in an index fund. Most index funds have low expense ratios and work well in a passively managed portfolio. Index funds can be constructed using individual stocks and bonds to replicate the target indexes. They can also be managed as a fund of funds with mutual funds or exchange-traded funds as their base holdings.






Most brokerages will offer index funds that are benchmarked against the major stock market indexes. These can be mutual funds or exchange-traded funds.



Since index investing takes a passive approach, index funds usually have lower management fees and expense ratios (ERs) than actively managed funds. The simplicity of tracking the market without a portfolio manager allows providers to maintain modest fees. Index funds also tend to be more tax-efficient than active funds because they make less-frequent trades.


   Indexing and Tracker Funds  

More-complex indexing strategies may seek to replicate the holdings and returns of a customized index. Customized index-tracking funds have evolved as a low-cost investment option for investing in a screened subset of securities. Tracking funds are based on a range of filters, including:



FundamentalsDividendsGrowth characteristics



These tracker funds are essentially trying to take the best of the best within a category of stocks. For example, a fund may pull from the best energy companies within the broader indexes that track the energy industry.




How Is Indexing Used In Investing?
In investing, indexing is a passive investment strategy. You create a portfolio that tracks a common market index, such as the S&P 500 with the goal of mimicking the index's performance. As a strategy, indexing offers broad diversification, as well as lower expenses, than investing strategies that are actively managed.




What Is a Broad Market Index?
A broad market index tracks the performance of a large group of stocks. This large group is chosen to represent the entire stock market. A broad market index adds significant diversification to any portfolio. Examples of broad-based indexes include the S&P 500 Index and the Russell 3000 Index.




Is Indexing a Smart Way to Invest?
Indexing is a good investment strategy for many people. It creates a diversified portfolio, and it usually requires lower fees and expenses than an actively managed fund. It also mimics the broader stock market, which over the long run will generally perform better than any single person picking stocks.


   The Bottom Line  

Indexing refers to compiling economic data into a single metric. It can also mean comparing data to such a metric in order to measure its change or performance. In economics, there are many indexes that summarize or reflect economic and market activity. For example, cost-of-living adjustments to Social Security payments are indexed to inflation.



In investing, indexes are benchmarks that are used to measure the performance of fund managers and portfolios. It can also refer to a passive investing strategy that aims to mimic broad market returns rather than picking individual stocks.
What Is the Indian Rupee (INR)?  

The Indian rupee (INR) is the currency of India. INR is the International Organization for Standardization currency code for the Indian rupee, for which the currency symbol is ₹.





Key Takeaways

The Indian rupee is the currency of India; INR is its currency code, and the currency symbol is ₹.Since India is a cash-based economy, fake currency has been circulated by those engaged in illegal behavior.To prevent fraud, the Reserve Bank of India has changed and updated the rupee notes with new security features over the years.Various factors can impact the exchange rate of the Indian rupee, including trade flows, investment flows, and oil prices.


   Understanding the Indian Rupee (INR)  

The Indian rupee derives its name from the rupiya, a silver coin first issued by Sultan Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century.


  Coins  

Coins in India are issued in denominations of 50 paise, one rupee, two rupees, five rupees, and ten rupees. A paise is 1/100th of a rupee. Coins worth 50 paise are called small coins, while coins equal or above one rupee are known as rupee coins.


  Banknotes  

Paper currency or banknotes are issued in denominations of 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, and 2,000 rupees. On the reverse side of paper rupees, denominations are printed in 15 languages, while denominations are printed in Hindi and English on the front side.



The banknotes are updated frequently with new designs, including distinct differences from old Mahatma Gandhi Series of banknotes to the new ones of the same name. The notes include various themes of India's rich heritage.


   Security and Counterfeiting of the Rupee  

India is a cash-based economy, which has resulted in fake currency being circulated by those engaged in illegal behavior. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has had to change and update rupee notes with new security features over the years. Fake notes, which might appear similar to legal notes, are counterfeited by money launderers and terrorists. Typically, the high denominations are usually the most counterfeited notes.



In 2016, the Indian government announced the demonetization of all ₹500 and ₹1,000 banknotes of the Mahatma Gandhi Series, claiming it would hamstring the underground economy, making the use of illegal and counterfeit cash in funding illegal activity and terrorism much more difficult. The 500 note has been replaced by one in the new Mahatma Gandhi Series with enhanced security features.


   Special Considerations: Capital and Convertibility Controls  

The rupee has been subject to various capital controls and convertibility restrictions over the years. For example, it is illegal for foreign nationals to import or export rupees, and Indian nationals may only import and export rupees in limited amounts.



The current account, which is comprised of the country's savings, investment flows, and the net trade in goods and services has no currency conversion restrictions (aside from trade barriers).



The capital account measures foreign reserves, business, and institutional flows. The Indian government relaxes and tightens restrictions on foreign investment, putting caps or removing them periodically to maintain a healthy and balanced capital account.



In recent years, the government relaxed foreign investment flow restrictions to boost the weakening currency exchange rate and encourage business investment in the country. Foreign institutional investors and local companies can bring money in and take money out of the country but need to check with the Reserve Bank of India for the current rules and regulations.


   The Rupee's Value in Modern Times  

In the 19th century, large increases in the quantity of silver production caused a precipitous drop in silver's value, leading to a steep decline in the rupee's value. From 1927 to 1946, the rupee was pegged to the British pound. It was then pegged to the U.S. dollar until 1975. Currently, it mostly floats on the foreign exchange market, with the Reserve Bank of India actively trading the currency to manage its value.



Various factors can impact the exchange rate of the currency, including trade flows, investment flows, and oil prices. India imports oil and a rise in prices can cause inflation and force the RBI to intervene to support the economy.


   Examples of the Indian Rupee (INR)  

Below are the images of the current coins and banknotes, along with their denominations, that are currently in circulation for the Indian rupee as listed on the website for the Reserve Bank of India.



Please check with the central bank's website for any updates and changes.















Example of Coins and Banknotes for the Indian Rupee.
Investopedia
What Is an Indication of Interest (IOI)?  

An indication of interest (IOI) is an underwriting expression showing a conditional, non-binding interest in buying a security that is currently in registration—awaiting approval by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The investor's broker is required to provide the investor with a preliminary prospectus. However, IOIs in the mergers and acquisitions world have similar intent but are done differently.





Key Takeaways

Indications of interest (IOIs) are nonbinding agreements to acquire a company or buy a security once available.These securities are expressed during IPO registration.For investments, stockbrokers put the IOI in place.Even though these are nonbinding, IOIs constitute serious inquiries only.Expressing interest in an IOI does not provide any guarantee of the security once it reaches the IPO.


   How an Indication of Interest (IOI) Works  

In the securities and investing world, an indication of interest (IOI) is typically expressed in advance of an IPO (initial public offering). It demonstrates a conditional, non-binding interest in buying a security that is currently awaiting regulatory approval (securities in the U.S. must be cleared by the SEC). The IOI is non-binding because it is illegal to sell a security while still in the registration process. The investor's stockbroker is required to provide the investor with a preliminary prospectus. The IOI remains open-ended and is not a commitment to buy.



An IOI comprises expressions of trading interest that contain one or more of the following elements: the security name, whether the participant is buying or selling, the number of shares, capacity, and/or price of the purchase or sale. Firms and broker-dealers have the ability to electronically communicate or advertise proprietary or client trading interest in the form of IOIs to the marketplace, either through their own systems or through dedicated trading platforms.



Indications of interest for IPOs are usually accepted on a first-come, first-served basis. Because the demand for securities may exceed the supply available to distribute, placing an indication of interest does not guarantee you'll be able to buy into an IPO.






An IOI is not a legal obligation to purchase, but it will give the investor a general idea of how the company is doing financially. This will help the decision process of buying in or not.


   Special Considerations   

In the world of mergers and acquisitions, an indication of interest is similar in intent to an IOI for an initial public offering, but with different components. Once again, it is a non-binding agreement, but this kind of IOI usually comes in the form of a prepared letter written by a buyer and addressed to the seller. The purpose is to communicate a genuine interest in purchasing a company. Among other things, an IOI should provide guidance on a target valuation for the acquisition target company, and it should also outline the general conditions for completing a deal. Elements of a typical IOI for mergers and acquisitions often include, but are not limited to:



Approximate price range; can be expressed in a dollar value range (e.g., $10 million to 15 million) or stated as a multiple of EBITDA (e.g., 3 to 5x EBITDA). Buyer’s general availability of funds and sources of financing.Management retention plan and the role of the equity owner(s) post-transaction.Necessary due diligence items and a rough estimate of the due diligence timeline.Potential proposed elements of the transaction structure (asset vs equity, leveraged transaction, cash vs equity, etc.).Timeframe to close the transaction.


   Indication of Interest (IOI) vs. Letter of Intent (LOI)  

An indication of interest (IOI) is an informal notice of an investor's interest in purchasing or acquiring an asset. It is non-binding and less definitive than a letter of intent (LOI). The indication of interest includes value ranges and less specific details of the transaction. The IOI, coming before the LOI, begins the negotiation process.



At the end of negotiations, the formal Letter of Intent (LOI) is created, defining the specific details of the transaction. Like the IOI, it is not a legally binding agreement; rather, it expresses the investor's commitment to purchase a security and serves as the foundation for the formal contract.



Upon review, if the seller accepts the terms of the LOI, an agreement can be made. Upon execution, the seller enters an exclusive agreement with the buyer, prohibiting them from engaging with other buyers for a period.






Either party to a transaction can terminate negotiations since IOIs and LOIs are non-binding.


   Example of an Indication of Interest  

In May 2008, Blackbaud's CEO Marc Chardon submitted a revised IOI to Richard LaBarbera, President and CEO of Kintera, Inc., expressing interest in acquiring 100% of his company. In the notice, he asked for a time-bound exclusive deal in exchange for a higher all-cash offer.



Details included in the IOI included the purchase price of $1.12 per share, its commitment to an all-cash offer, approvals and closing conditions, a management retention plan, and an estimated closing date of July 1, 2008. In its management retention plan, it proposed that Kintera's CEO and some executives and senior managers would receive employment agreements.



In addition, the IOI outlines the exclusivity conditions. It states that until the purchase agreement is executed or when the purchaser terminates negotiations, Kintera may not enter into an agreement with a third party regarding an acquisition, discuss or negotiate with a third party, provide information about Kintera to a third party, solicit proposals, or allow representatives of the company to engage in any of these prohibited activities.



The end of the notice listed the binding provisions, including the notice's termination date (May 21, 2008) and statements about the IOI being a non-binding precursor to an agreement.




What Is an Actionable Indication of Interest?
An actionable indication of interest is an IOI that provides specific details about the purchase. Such details include the security's symbol, a price comparable to or exceeding the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO), size, etc.




Who Can Cancel an Indication of Interest?
The buyer submitting the notice can cancel the indication of interest (IOI). If left unconfirmed beyond the confirmation period, it will cancel automatically.




What Is a Natural Indication of Interest?
A natural indication of interest occurs when IOI originates with the customer, rather than a firm. FINRA further defines it as referring "either to customer interest a firm represents on an agency basis or to proprietary interest that was established to facilitate a customer order or as part of an execution of a customer order on a riskless principal basis."


   The Bottom Line  

An indication of interest (IOI) is a brief letter or notice that expresses a buyer's interest in buying a security in registration or a company's interest in acquiring another company. For investments, the IOI precedes the IPO, and in finance, it precedes the letter of intent (LOI). Although it is not a formal agreement, it carries weight as it communicates the serious interest of the buyer.
What Is Indicative Net Asset Value (iNAV)?  

Indicative net asset value (iNAV) is a measure of the intraday net asset value (NAV) of an investment. INAV is reported approximately every 15 seconds. It gives investors a measure of the value of the investment throughout the day.





Key Takeaways

Indicative net asset value (iNAV) is a measure of the intraday net asset value (NAV) of an investment.Indicative net asset value (iNAV) is reported approximately every 15 seconds by a calculation agent, typically the exchange that the investment is trading on.Indicative net asset value (iNAV) can be reported for both closed-end mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).To come up with the indicative net asset value (iNAV), the calculation agent will use the established price of all securities in the portfolio to generate the total asset value; then the fund’s liabilities are subtracted from total assets and the remainder is divided by the number of shares. 


   Understanding Indicative Net Asset Value (iNAV)  

The iNAV is reported by a calculation agent, typically the exchange that the investment is trading on. An iNAV can be reported for both closed-end mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



The iNAV uses the same methodology as a fund’s accounting NAV. The calculation agent will use the established price of all securities in the portfolio to generate the total asset value. The fund’s liabilities are subtracted from total assets and the remainder is divided by the number of shares. Calculation agents have access to fund data for generating the iNAV every 15 seconds throughout the day. In some cases, the iNAV may also be given its own ticker for tracking purposes.


   Indicative Net Asset Value (iNAV) vs. Net Asset Value (NAV)  

The iNAV is a tool that helps to keep funds trading near their par value. With iNAV reports every 15 seconds, it represents a nearly real-time view of the value of a fund. Reporting an iNAV can help a fund to avoid significant premium and discount trading.



Closed-end funds and ETFs calculate net asset values because of their status as a mutual fund investment under the Investment Company Act of 1940. While they calculate a daily net asset value, the funds trade on the open market like stocks, with transactions occurring at the market price.



The accounting NAV is a function of their registered status and a requirement of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). An investment's accounting NAV is calculated at the end of each trading day.


   Special Considerations  
  Premium and Discounts  

Since closed-end funds and ETFs trade on an exchange, they will often offer a premium or discount to their NAV. The iNAV can help to keep funds trading more closely to their accounting value (although deviations still occur).



Premiums and discounts can occur for many reasons, and they are often a consistent trend for many funds. A premium may occur when investors are bullish on a fund’s underlying holdings or have a positive outlook on the fund’s management. Discounts generally occur when investors are bearish on the fund or skeptical of the fund’s management. Supply, demand, and timing of financial market reporting can also affect the fund’s exchange trading price.
What Is an Indicator?  

Indicators are statistics used to measure current conditions as well as to forecast financial or economic trends.



In the world of investing, indicators typically refer to technical chart patterns deriving from the price, volume, or open interest of a given security. Common technical indicators include moving averages, moving average convergence divergence (MACD), relative strength index (RSI), and on-balance-volume (OBV).



In economics, indicators usually refer to pieces of economic data used to measure the overall health of the economy and predict its direction. They include the Consumer Price Index (CPI), Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and unemployment figures.






Indicators are statistics used to measure current conditions as well as to forecast financial or economic trends.Economic indicators are statistical metrics used to measure the growth or contraction of the economy as a whole or sectors within the economy.In the context of technical analysis, an indicator is a mathematical calculation based on a security's price or volume, with the results used to predict future prices.A key performance indicator refers to a quantifiable measurement used to measure a company's success against a specific target or objective.Commonly used indicators of a company's profitability include gross margin, operating margin, net margin, and return on equity (ROE).


   Understanding Indicators  

Indicators can be broadly categorized into economic indicators and technical indicators.



Economic indicators are statistical metrics used to measure the growth or contraction of the economy as a whole or sectors within the economy. In fundamental analysis, economic indicators that quantify current economic and industry conditions are used to provide insight into the future profitability potential of public companies.



Technical indicators are used extensively in technical analysis to predict changes in stock trends or price patterns in any traded asset.


   Economic Indicators  

There are many economic indicators created by different sources in both the private and public sectors.



For example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which is the research arm of the U.S. Department of Labor, compiles data on prices, employment and unemployment, compensation and work conditions, and productivity. The price report contains information about inflation, import and export prices, and consumer spending.



The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) is a not-for-profit professional association for supply management and purchasing professionals.



It has published its ISM Manufacturing Report on Business monthly since 1931. The report contains a composite index, the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), which contains information on manufacturing and non-manufacturing orders. The index is a closely watched barometer of economic activity.



The U.S. Department of Commerce uses ISM data in its evaluation of the economy.



For most of the 21st century, housing and real estate have been leading economic indicators. There are several metrics used to measure housing growth including the S&P/Case-Shiller Index, which measures house sale prices, and the NAHB/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index, which is a survey of home builders that measures the market appetite for new homes.



Other economic indicators include interest rates, the money supply, and consumer sentiment.






Beware of leaning too heavily on economic indicators to make investment decisions. Economic data is usually far from perfect and still needs to be analyzed and interpreted correctly.


   Technical Indicators  

In the context of technical analysis, an indicator is a mathematical calculation based on a security's price or volume. The result is used to predict future prices.



Common technical analysis indicators are the moving average convergence-divergence (MACD) indicator and the relative strength index (RSI).



The MACD is based on the assumption that the tendency of the price of a traded asset is to revert to a trend line.



The RSI compares the size of recent gains to recent losses to determine the asset's price momentum, either up or down. Using tools like the MACD and the RSI, technical traders will analyze assets' price charts looking for patterns that will indicate when to buy or sell the asset under consideration.


   Examples of Indicators  
  Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

One of the most common economic indicators is the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is simply the weighted price average of a basket of consumer goods and services. Changes in CPI are used to measure changes in the cost of living and to identify periods of inflation or deflation.



At the time of writing (Summer 2021), investors are becoming increasingly concerned that rising inflation will finally upend the bull run in the stock market. In April 2021, the CPI increased 0.8%, making it the biggest 12-month increase since September 2008.


  Moving Average (MA)  

Moving average (MA) is a technical indicator used to identify the general direction, or trend, of a given stock. Its purpose is to smoothen historical price data by generating a constantly updated average price.



If the MA is moving in a positive (negative) direction, that's a bullish (bearish) sign for the stock.



At the time of writing, Amazon stock recently broke through its 50-day moving average, suggesting that it's an attractive pick from a technical standpoint.


   Indicator FAQs  
  What Is a Common Indicator of a Phishing Attempt?  

Emails that are completely unsolicited, contain several typos, require urgent action, and demand unusual actions from you are all indicators of a phishing attempt.


  What Economic Indicator Describes Generally Declining Prices?  

A steadily declining CPI is an indicator of generally declining prices.


  What Is a Key Performance Indicator?  

A key performance indicator refers to a quantifiable measurement used to measure a company's success against a specific target or objective. Common KPIs include net profit, sales, and customer retention rate.


  What Is an RSI Indicator?  

The relative strength index (RSI) is a technical analysis indicator that compares the size of recent gains to recent losses. RSI is used to determine the asset's price momentum, either up or down.


  What Is the Genuine Progress Indicator?  

Genuine progress indicator (GPI) is a metric used to gauge a country's rate of economic growth. It is often considered a more reliable measure of economic progress than the more widely used gross domestic product (GDP) figure.


  What Are Indicators of a Company's Profitability?  

Commonly used indicators of a company's profitability include gross margin, operating margin, net margin, and return on equity (ROE).
What Is an Indifference Curve?  

An indifference curve is a chart showing various combinations of two goods or commodities that consumers can choose. At any point on the curve, the combination of the two will leave the consumer equally well off or equally satisfied—hence indifferent.



For instance, if you like both hot dogs and hamburgers, you may be indifferent to buying either 20 hot dogs and no hamburgers, 45 hamburgers and no hot dogs, or some combination of the two—for example, 14 hot dogs and 20 hamburgers (see point “A” in the chart below). Either combination provides the same utility.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019





Key Takeaways

An indifference curve shows a combination of two goods in various quantities that provides equal satisfaction (utility) to an individual.It is used in economics to describe the point where individuals have no particular preference for either one good or another based on their relative quantities.Along the curve, a consumer thus has an equal preference for the various combinations of goods shown.Typically, indifference curves are shown convex to the origin, and no two indifference curves ever intersect.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Indifference Curves  

Standard indifference curve analysis operates using a simple two-dimensional chart. Each axis represents one type of economic good. Along the indifference curve, a consumer will have no preference between any of the combinations of goods represented by points on the curve. This is because the combination of goods on an indifference curve provides the same level of utility to the consumer.



For example, a young boy might be indifferent between possessing two comic books and one toy truck, or four toy trucks and one comic book, so both of these combinations would be points on an indifference curve of the young boy.



Indifference curves are heuristic devices used in contemporary microeconomics to demonstrate consumer preference and the limitations of a budget. Economists have adopted the principles of indifference curves in the study of welfare economics.






Some economists argue that the concept of indifference is hypothetical, and therefore incompatible with real-life economic actions taken by consumers. Every action indicates a preference, not indifference. Furthermore, people’s relative preferences have been found to change over time and depending on their social context.


   Indifference Curve Analysis  

Indifference curves operate under many assumptions. For example, each indifference curve is typically convex to the origin, and no two indifference curves ever intersect. Consumers are always assumed to be more satisfied when achieving bundles of goods on indifference curves that are farther from the origin.



As income increases, an individual will typically shift their consumption level because they can afford more commodities. The result is that they will end up on an indifference curve that is farther from the origin—hence better off.



Many core principles of microeconomics appear in indifference curve analysis, including:



Individual choice
Marginal utility theory
Income
Substitution effects
The subjective theory of value



Indifference curve analysis emphasizes marginal rates of substitution (MRS) and opportunity costs. Indifference curve analysis typically assumes that all other variables are constant or stable.



Most economic textbooks build upon indifference curves to introduce the optimal choice of goods for any consumer based on that consumer’s income. Classic analysis suggests that the optimal consumption bundle takes place at the point where a consumer’s indifference curve is tangent with their budget constraint.





Marginal Rate of Substitution (MRS)

The slope of the indifference curve is known as the marginal rate of substitution (MRS). The MRS is the rate at which the consumer is willing to give up (or substitute) one good for another. For example, a consumer who values apples will be slower to give them up for oranges, and the slope will reflect this rate of substitution.


   Criticisms and Complications of the Indifference Curve  

Indifference curves, like many aspects of contemporary economics, have been criticized for oversimplifying or making unrealistic assumptions about human behavior. For example, consumer preferences might change between two different points in time, rendering specific indifference curves practically useless.



Other critics note that it is theoretically possible to have concave indifference curves or even circular curves that are either convex or concave to the origin at various points.




What Does an Indifference Curve Explain?
An indifference curve is used by economists to explain the tradeoffs that people consider when they encounter two goods that they wish to buy. Because people are constrained by a limited budget, they cannot purchase everything. Instead, a cost-benefit analysis must be considered. Indifference curves visually depict this tradeoff by showing which quantities of two goods provide the same utility to a consumer (i.e., where they remain indifferent).




What Is the Formula for an Indifference Curve?
The formula used in economics for constructing an indifference curve is:𝑈(𝑡, 𝑦)=𝑐where:c stands for the utility level achieved on the curve and is constant.t and y are the quantities of two different goods, t and y.Different values of c correspond to different indifference curves, so if we increase our expected utility, we obtain a new indifference curve that is plotted above and to the right of the previous one.




What Are the Properties of Indifference Curves?
Indifference curves assume that individuals have stable and ordered preferences and seek to maximize their utility. As a result, indifference curves will have these four properties:The indifference curve is downward-sloping.The slope of the indifference curve is convex.Curves plotted higher and farther to the right correspond with higher levels of utility.Various indifference curves can never cross or overlap.


   The Bottom Line  

An indifference curve is a tool used in economics and business. Each point on the curve is a different combination of two goods in various quantities. Theoretically, any point on the curve will provide equal satisfaction (utility) to an individual. Consumers are thus "indifferent" to which combination they choose over another. Typically, indifference curves are shown convex to the origin, and no two indifference curves ever intersect.



Indifference curves have been criticized for making unrealistic assumptions about consumer behavior. Some economists argue that every choice indicates a preference for one combination over another, not indifference to the outcome. Others note that consumer preferences can change over time, which would make a given indifference curve useless for any analysis.
What Is an Indirect Loan?  

An indirect loan can refer to an installment loan in which the lender – either the original issuer of the debt or the current holder of the debt – does not have a direct relationship with the borrower.



Indirect loans can be obtained through a third party with the help of an intermediary. Loans trading in the secondary market may also be considered indirect loans.



By allowing borrowers to obtain financing through third-party relationships, indirect loans can help to improve funding availability and risk management. Often applicants who don't qualify for a direct loan can opt for an indirect loan instead. Indirect loans tend to be more expensive – carry higher interest rates, that is – than direct loans are.





Key Takeaways

With an indirect loan, the lender does not have a direct relationship with the borrower, who has borrowed from a third party, arranged by an intermediary.Indirect loans are often used in the auto industry, with dealers helping buyers facilitate funding through their network of financial institutions and other lenders.Indirect loans are typically more expensive than direct loans, as they are often used by borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for a loan.


   Understanding an Indirect Loan (Dealer Financing)  

Many dealerships, merchants and retailers that handle big-ticket items, such as cars or recreational vehicles, will work with a variety of third-party lenders to help their customers obtain installment financing for purchases. Dealerships often have lending networks that include a variety of financial institutions willing to support the dealership’s sales. Oftentimes, these lenders may be able to approve a wider range of borrowers due to their network relationship with the dealer.



In the indirect loan process, a borrower submits a credit application through the dealership. The application is then sent to the dealership’s financing network, allowing the borrower to receive multiple offers. The borrower can then choose the best loan for their situation. The dealership also benefits, in that, by helping the customer receive financing, it makes the sale. Because the interest rate on the dealer is likely to be higher than from a credit union or bank, it's always best for buyers to check other financing options before agreeing to finance their car through a dealer.



While this sort of indirect loan is often known as "dealer financing," it's actually the dealer's network financial institutions that are approving the loan (based on the borrower’s credit profile), setting its terms and rates, and collecting the payments.






Although an indirect loan is offered through a dealer or retailer, the consumer is actually borrowing from a separate financial institution.


   How an Indirect Loan Works (Secondary Market)  

Loans not originated directly by the lender that holds them can be considered indirect loans. When a lender sells a loan they are no longer responsible for it or receive any interest income from it. Instead, everything is transferred to a new owner, who assumes the burden of administering the loan and collects the repayments.



Read any indirect loan contract very carefully: If the dealer cannot sell the loan the buyer signed to a lender, it may have the right to cancel the contract within a specified period of time and require the buyer to return the car. The buyer is then entitled to get back the down payment and trade-in (or the value of the trade-in) if a trade-in was involved. In this situation, the dealer may try to pressure a car buyer to sign another contract on less favorable terms, but the buyer is not required to sign it.


   Indirect Loan Examples  

Auto dealerships are one of the most common businesses involved with indirect loans; in fact, some authorities even call indirect loans a type of car loan.



Many consumers use dealer-financed loans for the convenience of being able to apply on-premises and to easily compare offers. On the downside, obtaining an auto loan directly from a bank or credit union on his own gives the buyer more leverage to negotiate, as well as the freedom to shop around among other lenders. And the interest rates might be better. But if a buyer has a spotty credit history or low credit score, an indirect loan may be their best option.



Loans actively trade on the secondary markets as well – specifically, a pool of loans that have been combined rather than individual loans. Often a bank or credit union sells its consumer loans or mortgages; doing so allows lenders to acquire new capital, reduce administrative costs and manage their level of risk.



In the home-lending market, for example, the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac) support the secondary trading of mortgages through their loan programs. These two government-sponsored enterprises buy home-backed loans from lenders, package them and then re-sell them, in order to facilitate liquidity and increased availability of funds across the lending market.
What Is the Indirect Method?  

The indirect method is one of two accounting treatments used to generate a cash flow statement. The indirect method uses increases and decreases in balance sheet line items to modify the operating section of the cash flow statement from the accrual method to the cash method of accounting.



The other option for completing a cash flow statement is the direct method, which lists actual cash inflows and outflows made during the reporting period. The indirect method is more commonly used in practice, especially among larger firms.





Key Takeaways

Under the indirect method, the cash flow statement begins with net income on an accrual basis and subsequently adds and subtracts non-cash items to reconcile to actual cash flows from operations.The indirect method is often easier to use than the direct method since most larger businesses already use accrual accounting.The complexity and time required to list every cash disbursement—as required by the direct method—makes the indirect method preferred and more commonly used.


   Understanding the Indirect Method  

The cash flow statement primarily centers on the sources and uses of cash by a company, and it is closely monitored by investors, creditors, and other stakeholders. It offers information on cash generated from various activities and depicts the effects of changes in asset and liability accounts on a company's cash position.



The indirect method presents the statement of cash flows beginning with net income or loss, with subsequent additions to or deductions from that amount for non-cash revenue and expense items, resulting in cash flow from operating activities.






The indirect method is simpler than the direct method to prepare because most companies keep their records on an accrual basis.


   Example of the Indirect Method  

Under the accrual method of accounting, revenue is recognized when earned, not necessarily when cash is received. If a customer buys a $500 widget on credit, the sale has been made but the cash has not yet been received. The revenue is still recognized in the month of the sale.



The indirect method of the cash flow statement attempts to revert the record to the cash method to depict actual cash inflows and outflows during the period. In this example, at the time of sale, a debit would have been made to accounts receivable and a credit to sales revenue in the amount of $500. The debit increases accounts receivable, which is then displayed on the balance sheet.



Under the indirect method, the cash flows statement will present net income on the first line. The following lines will show increases and decreases in asset and liability accounts, and these items will be added to or subtracted from net income based on the cash impact of the item.



In this example, no cash had been received but $500 in revenue had been recognized. Therefore, net income was overstated by this amount on a cash basis. The offset was sitting in the accounts receivable line item on the balance sheet. There would need to be a reduction from net income on the cash flow statement in the amount of the $500 increase to accounts receivable due to this sale. It would be displayed as "Increase in Accounts Receivable (500)."


   Indirect Method vs. Direct Method  

The cash flow statement is divided into three categories—cash flows from operating activities, cash flows from investing activities, and cash flows from financing activities. Although total cash generated from operating activities is the same under the direct and indirect methods, the information is presented in a different format.



Under the direct method, the cash flow from operating activities is presented as actual cash inflows and outflows on a cash basis, without starting from net income on an accrued basis. The investing and financing sections of the statement of cash flows are prepared in the same way for both the indirect and direct methods.



Many accountants prefer the indirect method because it is simple to prepare the cash flow statement using information from the other two common financial statements, the income statement and balance sheet. Most companies use the accrual method of accounting, so the income statement and balance sheet will have figures consistent with this method.



However, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) prefers companies use the direct method as it offers a clearer picture of cash flows in and out of a business. However, if the direct method is used, it is still recommended to do a reconciliation of the cash flow statement to the balance sheet.
What Is an Indirect Quote?  

The term indirect quote is a currency quotation in the foreign exchange market that expresses the variable amount of foreign currency required to buy or sell one unit of the domestic currency. An indirect quote is also known as a “quantity quotation,” since it expresses the quantity of foreign currency required to buy units of the domestic currency. In other words, the domestic currency is the base currency in an indirect quote, while the foreign currency is the counter currency.





Key Takeaways

An indirect quote in the foreign exchange markets expresses the amount of foreign currency required to buy or sell one unit of the domestic currency.An indirect quote is also known as a “quantity quotation,” since it expresses the quantity of foreign currency required to buy a unit of the domestic currency.The opposite of an indirect quote is a direct quote which expresses the price of one unit of a foreign currency in terms of variable number of units of the domestic currency.


   Understanding Indirect Quotes  

An indirect quote is the opposite, or reciprocal, of a direct quote, also known as a “price quotation,” which expresses the price of one unit of a foreign currency in terms of a variable number of units of the domestic currency.



As the U.S. dollar (USD) is the dominant currency in global foreign exchange markets, the convention is to generally use direct quotes that have the U.S. dollar as the base currency and other currencies—like the Canadian dollar (CAD), Japanese yen (JPY) and Indian rupee (INR)—as the counter currency. Exceptions to this rule are the euro and Commonwealth currencies like the British pound (GBP), Australian dollar (AUD) and New Zealand dollar (NZD), which are typically quoted in indirect form (for example GBP 1 = USD 1.30).



Consider the example of the CAD, which we assume is trading at 1.2500 to the U.S. dollar. In Canada, the indirect form of this quote would be C$1 = US$0.8000 (i.e. 1/1.2500). However, the conventional quotation in foreign exchange markets is 1.2500, which is an indirect quote from the U.S. perspective because it shows how much of a foreign currency (CAD) is required to get 1 USD. Conversely, USD 0.8000 would be a direct quote.



In an indirect quote, a lower exchange rate implies that the domestic currency is depreciating, or becoming weaker. Continuing with the above example, if the USD/CAD quotation now changes to US$1 = C$1.2300 (indirect quote), then that means the USD (domestic currency) has gotten weaker as less CAD would be needed to get 1 USD. The direct quote, which is 0.8130 (1/1.2300), shows that 1 CAD will get you USD 0.8130, as opposed to 0.8000.


   Currency Crosses  

What about cross-currency rates, which express the price of one currency in terms of a currency other than the U.S. dollar? A trader or investors should first ascertain which type of quotation is being used—direct or indirect—to price the cross-rate accurately.



For example, if USD/JPY is quoted at 100, and USD/CAD is quoted at 1.2700, what is the quotation of CAD/JPY from both the Canadian and Japanese perspectives.



CAD/JPY (conventional quote) = USD/JPY ÷ USD/CAD



So, if domestic currency is CAD then



1 CAD (indirect) = 100 ÷ 1.2700 = 78.74 JPY



and



if domestic currency is JPY then



So, 1 JPY (indirect) = 1.2700 ÷ 100 = 0.0127 CAD
What Is an Indirect Tax?  

An indirect tax is collected by one entity in the supply chain, such as a manufacturer or retailer, and paid to the government; however, the tax is passed onto the consumer by the manufacturer or retailer as part of the purchase price of a good or service. The consumer is ultimately paying the tax by paying more for the product.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding an Indirect Tax  

Indirect taxes are defined by contrasting them with direct taxes. Indirect taxes can be defined as taxation on an individual or entity, which is ultimately paid for by another person. The body that collects the tax will then remit it to the government. But in the case of direct taxes, the person immediately paying the tax is the person that the government is seeking to tax.



Excise duties on fuel, liquor, and cigarettes are all considered examples of indirect taxes. By contrast, income tax is the clearest example of a direct tax, since the person earning the income is the one immediately paying the tax. Admission fees to a national park are another clear example of direct taxation.



Some indirect taxes are also referred to as consumption taxes, such as a value-added tax (VAT).  


   Regressive Nature of an Indirect Tax  

Indirect taxes are commonly used and imposed by the government in order to generate revenue. They are essentially fees that are levied equally upon taxpayers, no matter their income, so rich or poor, everyone has to pay them.



But many consider them to be regressive taxes as they can bear a heavy burden on people with lower incomes who end up paying the same amount of tax as those who make a higher income.



For example, the import duty on a television from Japan will be the same amount, no matter the income of the consumer purchasing the television. And because this levy has nothing to do with a person's income, that means someone who earns $25,000 a year will have to pay the same duty on the same television as someone who earns $150,000; clearly, a bigger burden on the former. 



There are also concerns that indirect taxes can be used to further a particular government policy by taxing certain industries and not others. For this reason, some economists argue that indirect taxes lead to an inefficient marketplace and alter market prices from their equilibrium price.


   Common Indirect Taxes  

The most common example of an indirect tax is import duties. The duty is paid by the importer of a good at the time it enters the country. If the importer goes on to resell the good to a consumer, the cost of the duty, in effect, is hidden in the price that the consumer pays. The consumer is likely to be unaware of this, but they will nonetheless be indirectly paying the import duty.



Essentially, any taxes or fees imposed by the government at the manufacturing or production level is an indirect tax. In recent years, many countries have imposed fees on carbon emissions to manufacturers. These are indirect taxes since their costs are passed along to consumers.



Sales taxes can be direct or indirect. If they are imposed only on the final supply to a consumer, they are direct. If they are imposed as value-added taxes (VATs) along the production process, then they are indirect.
What Is an IRA?  

An individual retirement account (IRA) is a long-term savings account that individuals with earned income can use to save for the future while enjoying certain tax advantages. The IRA is designed primarily for self-employed people who do not have access to workplace retirement accounts such as the 401(k), which is available only through employers.



You can open an IRA through a bank, an investment company, an online brokerage, or a personal broker.





Key Takeaways

Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) are retirement savings accounts with tax advantages.Types of IRAs include traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) IRAs, and Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE) IRAs.Money held in an IRA usually can’t be withdrawn before age 59½ without incurring a hefty tax penalty of 10% of the amount withdrawn.There are annual income limitations that apply to deducting contributions to traditional IRAs and contributing to Roth IRAs.






The age for taking required minimum distributions (RMDs) has been raised to 73 from 72 as of Jan. 1, 2023. That’s for withdrawals from traditional IRA and 401(k) accounts as well as SIMPLE and SEP IRAs. (Roth account owners aren’t subject to RMDs.) The penalty for failing to take an RMD has also been lowered, but it’s still severe at 10% to 25% of the amount not withdrawn.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How Does an IRA Work?  

Anyone with earned income can open and contribute to an IRA, including those who have a 401(k) account through an employer. The only limitation is on the total that you can contribute to your retirement accounts in a single year.



When you open an IRA, you can choose to invest in a wide range of financial products, including stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and mutual funds.



There are even self-directed IRAs (SDIRAs) that permit investors to make all the investing decisions. SDIRAs offer access to a broader selection of investments, including real estate and commodities. Only the riskiest investments are off-limits.



There are several kinds of IRAs, including traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) IRAs, and Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE) IRAs. Each has different rules regarding eligibility, taxation, and withdrawals.



Individual taxpayers can establish traditional and Roth IRAs. Small business owners and self-employed individuals can set up SEP and SIMPLE IRAs. An IRA must be opened with an institution that has received Internal Revenue Service (IRS) approval to offer these accounts. Choices include banks, brokerage companies, federally insured credit unions, and savings and loan associations.



Because IRAs are meant for retirement savings, there is usually an early withdrawal penalty of 10% if you take money out before age 59½. However, there are some notable exceptions—withdrawals for educational expenses and first-time home purchases, among others.



If your IRA is a traditional account rather than a Roth account, you will also owe income tax on an early withdrawal. A Roth account is funded with post-tax money, so no further taxes are due when the money is withdrawn.





What Counts As Income?

You can only contribute to an IRA if you have earned income. Income from interest and dividends, Social Security benefits, or child support does not count.


   What Are the Different Types of IRAs and Their Rules?  

The following is a breakdown of the various types of IRAs and the rules regarding each one.


  Traditional IRA  

In most cases, contributions to traditional IRAs are tax deductible. So, if you put $4,000 into an IRA, your taxable income for the year decreases by that amount.



Your money grows tax-deferred in a traditional IRA. When you withdraw the money after retiring, it is taxed at your ordinary income tax rate for that year.


  Contribution Limits for 2022 and 2023  

For 2022, the maximum annual individual contribution to traditional IRAs is $6,000. If you are age 50 or older, you can also contribute a catch-up contribution of $1,000 for a total of $7,000.



For 2023, the maximum annual individual contribution is $6,500. The catch-up contribution continues to be $1,000 for those 50 and over.



If you don’t have a retirement plan at work, your traditional IRA contributions are fully deductible. But if you (or your spouse, if you are married) have a retirement plan at work, such as a 401(k) or 403(b), your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) determines whether, and how much of, your traditional IRA contributions can be deducted.



If You Have a Retirement Plan at Work



For 2022, if you are single or file as head of household and have a retirement plan at work, your traditional IRA contributions are fully deductible if your MAGI is below $68,000. For 2023, your MAGI must be below $73,000.



If you are married and filing jointly, for 2022, your traditional IRA contributions are fully deductible if your MAGI is below $109,000. For 2023, your MAGI must be below $116,000. From there, the deductibility of your contributions starts to phase out as your MAGI increases.






It is possible to have both a Roth IRA and a traditional IRA, or several IRAs at different institutions. However, the total annual contribution to all of your IRAs cannot exceed $6,000 (or $7,000 for those age 50 or older) for 2022 and $6,500 (or $7,500 for those age 50 or older) for 2023.



For 2022, the income range that phases out the deductibility of traditional IRA contributions for married couples is $109,000 to $129,000. For 2023, it's $116,000 to $136,000.



For single taxpayers or heads of households, the phase out range is $68,000 to $78,000. For 2023, it's $73,000 to $83,000.



If You Don't Have a Plan at Work but Your Spouse Does



If you contribute to an IRA and aren't covered by a workplace plan but are married to someone who is, the income phase-out range in 2022 is $204,000 to $214,000. For 2023, it's $218,000 to $228,000.



Use this chart to see where you fit.











Deduction Limits If You Have a Retirement Plan at Work




Filing Status
2022 MAGI
2023 MAGI
Deduction


Single or Head of Household
 
 
 


 
$68,000 or less
$73,000 or less
Full deduction up to your contribution level


 
More than $68,000 but less than $78,000
More than $73,000 but less than $83,000
Partial deduction


 
$78,000 or more
$83,000 or more
No deduction


Married Filing Jointly
 
 
 


 
$109,000 or less
$116,000 or less
Full deduction up to your contribution level


 
More than $109,000 but less than $129,000
More than $116,000 but less than $136,000
Partial deduction


 
$129,000 or more
$136,000 or more
No deduction


Married Filing Separately
 
 
 


 
Less than $10,000
Less than $10,000
Partial deduction


 
$10,000 or more
$10,000 or more
No deduction





  Roth IRA  

Roth IRA contributions are not tax deductible in the year in which you make them. But the distributions are tax-free. That means you contribute to a Roth IRA using after-tax dollars and pay no taxes even on your investment gains.



Also, Roth IRAs do not have required minimum distributions (RMDs). If you don’t need the money, you don’t have to take it out of your account. You can contribute to a Roth IRA as long as you have eligible earned income, no matter how old you are.



Roth IRA contribution limits for the 2022 and 2023 tax years are the same as they are for traditional IRAs. However, there is a catch: There are income limitations on contributions to a Roth IRA.



The phase-out range for single filers is $129,000 to $144,000 for 2022 and $138,000 to $153,000 for 2023. For married couples filing joint taxes, the phase-out range is $204,000 to $214,000 in 2022 and $218,000 to $228,000 in 2023.











Income Limits for Contributing to a Roth IRA




Filing Status
2022 MAGI
2023 MAGI
Contributions


Single or Head of Household
 
 
 


 
Less than $129,000
Less than $138,000
Up to the limit


 
$129,000 to less than $144,000
$138,000 to less than $153,000
Reduced amount


 
$144,000 or more
$153,000 or more
Zero


Married Filing Jointly or Qualifying Widow(er)
 
 
 


 
Less than $204,000
Less than $218,000
Up to the limit


 
$204,000 to less than $214,000
$218,000 to less than $228,000
Reduced amount


 
$214,000 or more
$228,000 or more
Zero


Married Filing Separately
 
 
 


 
Less than $10,000
Less than $10,000
Reduced amount


 
$10,000 or more
$10,000 or more
Zero





  SEP IRA  

Self-employed individuals such as independent contractors, freelancers, and small-business owners can set up SEP IRAs.



A SEP IRA adheres to the same tax rules for withdrawals as a traditional IRA. For 2022, SEP IRA contributions are limited to 25% of compensation or $61,000, whichever is less. For 2023, the maximum allowed contribution is $66,000.



Business owners who set up SEP IRAs for their employees are able to deduct the contributions that they make on behalf of employees. However, the employees cannot contribute to their own accounts, and the IRS taxes their withdrawals as income.


  SIMPLE IRA  

The SIMPLE IRA is also intended for small businesses and self-employed individuals. This type of IRA follows the same tax rules for withdrawals as a traditional IRA.



Unlike SEP IRAs, SIMPLE IRAs allow employees to make contributions to their accounts, and the employer is required to make contributions as well. All the contributions are tax deductible, potentially pushing the business or employee into a lower tax bracket.



The SIMPLE IRA employee contribution limit is $14,000 in 2022 and the catch-up limit (for workers ages 50 and older) is $3,000. For 2023, the contribution limit is $15,500 and the maximum catch-up amount is $3,500.





Wash-Sale Rule and IRAs

In 2008, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2008-5, which states that IRA transactions can trigger the wash-sale rule. Should shares be sold in a non-retirement account, followed by the purchase of substantially identical shares in an IRA within a 30-day period, the investor cannot claim tax losses for the sale. The investment’s basis in the individual’s IRA won’t increase, either.


   What Are Required Minimum Distributions (RMDs)?  

Required minimum distributions (RMDs) are withdrawals that owners of traditional IRA and 401(k) accounts must take every year after they reach a certain age. The age has been revised upwards a couple of times. As of Jan. 1, 2023, an account holder must begin taking money out in the year he or she turns age 73, rising to 75 in 2033.



The amount a person must withdraw is based on the account size and the person's life expectancy, so the IRS has a worksheet to calculate the amount. Failure to take the minimum triggers a severe tax penalty. In 2023, that penalty is 25% of the balance of the account. That's half the previous penalty but still expensive enough to keep us on our toes. This penalty can be reduced to 10% in many cases, however, if the taxpayer takes corrective action early.


   Comparing IRA Options  

Use the chart below to get a better sense of how the different IRAs work.



Note: To view the full chart, use the slider at the bottom to see the column at the far right.













Comparing IRA Types




  IRA Type
Contribution Limit (2022)
Tax-Deductible Contributions?
Tax-Free Distributions?
Subject to Required Minimum Distributions Beginning at Age 72?
Who Can Establish


  Traditional
$6,000; $7,000 if age 50 or older ($6,500; $7,500 if age 50 or older in 2023)
Yes, but individual deduction amounts are based on income, filing status, and retirement plan coverage through your employer
No
Yes
  Individual taxpayers and couples


Roth
$6,000; $7,000 if age 50 or older ($6,500; $7,500 if age 50 or older in 2023)
No
Yes
Not in the account holder’s lifetime (heirs of Roth accounts are subject to RMDs)
  Individual taxpayers and couples, subject to MAGI limitations


SEP
The lesser of 25% of compensation or $61,000 ($65,000 in 2023)
Business deductions for employee contributions are limited to the lesser of your total contributions or 25% of employees’ compensation.   Self-employed individuals must use a special formula to calculate the amount of contributions that they can deduct.
No
Yes
Small business owners and self-employed individuals


SIMPLE
  $14,000; $17,000 if age 50 or older ($15,500; $19,000 if ago 50 or older)
All contributions made to employees’ SIMPLE IRAs by the plan owner are tax deductible—self-employed individuals can also deduct contributions made to their own SIMPLE IRA
No
Yes
Small business owners and self-employed individuals







What Are the Advantages of an Individual Retirement Account (IRA)?
An individual retirement account (IRA) offers a tax-advantaged way to save for retirement. Depending on what type of IRA you use, an IRA can reduce your tax bill either when you make contributions or when you take withdrawals in retirement. Investment gains are tax deferred (for a traditional IRA) or tax-free (for a Roth IRA).That means contributing money towards your retirement either reduces your income taxes for the year or eliminates the taxes from your retirement money.IRAs are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) a government-run agency that provides protection when a financial institution fails. The FDIC covers customer deposits—up to $250,000 per account in most cases—that are held at FDIC-insured banks or savings and loan associations.




How Can I Start a Roth IRA or a Traditional IRA?
You can open your IRA at most banks, credit unions, online brokers, or other financial services providers. Fidelity, Charles Schwab, and E*Trade are all brokers that provide IRAs.Opening an account is as easy as visiting a bank branch or website and filling in a form.




When Can I Withdraw From an IRA?
The best time to withdraw from an IRA is at age 60 and beyond.If you withdraw before age 59½, you will incur a 10% early withdrawal penalty, in addition to taxes on the withdrawal. There are some exceptions to this penalty for medical expenses, disabilities, first-time home purchases, and other unusual life events.Generally speaking, the longer you can wait before taking distributions, the more time that money has to grow.




How Is a 401(k) Plan Different From an IRA?
Both 401(k) plans and IRAs provide tax advantages to employees investing for their retirement.A 401(k) plan is only available through an employer. Contributions are automatically deducted from the employee’s paycheck. Some companies match part of employee contributions.401(k) plans have higher contribution limits/An IRA can be set up by anyone who has earned income, regardless of whether they have a 401(k) plan at work.Most 401(k) plans offer a limited choice of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). An IRA can offer a wider range of funds, stocks, and other securities.


   The Bottom Line  

IRAs are retirement savings accounts that offer tax advantages. They work a bit like a 401(k), but they don’t require an employer to sponsor them. There are several types of IRAs: traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, SEP IRAs, and SIMPLE IRAs. There are annual income limitations on deducting contributions to traditional IRAs and contributing to Roth IRAs, so there is a limit on how much tax you can avoid by investing in an IRA.



IRAs are meant to be long-term retirement savings accounts. If you take money out early, you defeat that purpose by diminishing your retirement assets. That’s why money held in an IRA usually can’t be withdrawn before age 59½ without incurring a hefty tax penalty of 10% of the amount withdrawn (in addition to normal taxes owed).
An industrial bank is a state-chartered, financial institution, usually owned by a commercial firm, that is not regulated by a federal banking agency. Industrial banks accept customer deposits and provide loans for consumers and small businesses.



Industrial banks are also known as industrial loan companies (ILCs). Industrial banks are only chartered by a few states; the state of Utah provides the majority of charters for industrial banks in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

An industrial bank–also referred to as an industrial loan company (ILC)–is a state-chartered, financial institution, usually owned by a commercial firm, that is not regulated by a federal banking agency.Industrial banks are only chartered by a few states; the state of Utah provides the majority of charters for industrial banks in the U.S.Industrial banks have become controversial because they allow nonfinancial companies to offer banking services without oversight by the Federal Reserve.


   Understanding Industrial Banks  

Industrial banks were originally founded in the early 1900s in order to provide low-to-moderate-income industrial workers who were unable to qualify for credit at traditional lending institutions with a means to access capital.



Industrial banks are regulated by state regulators and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). Because of their distinct corporate structure, industrial banks can be owned by companies. They are not subject to some of the regulations that govern traditional institutions and do not have to comply with the Bank Holding Company Act. In addition, industrial banks do not face supervision by the Federal Reserve. As a result of this lack of regulatory restrictions, many financial technology companies and investment companies have started to apply for industrial bank charters.



While industrial banks have limited banking powers nationwide, they generally maintain the same powers and privileges as a traditional commercial bank. Industrial banks are controversial amongst those who support a more stalwart division between banks and commercial firms. Criticisms of industrial banks claim that they provide companies with the privileges, but not the supervision, of a bank charter.


   Criticism of Industrial Banks  

In 2005, Walmart Inc. filed an application to form a new industrial bank for the purpose of reducing credit and debit card transaction fees. This triggered widespread opposition and protests from commercial banks and financial regulators. The FDIC eventually placed a temporary moratorium on industrial bank applications in 2006. At the same time, state-level legislation was passed that would block any prospective industrial banks from opening branches in different jurisdictions.



Walmart Inc. withdrew its application in 2007 before the FDIC could make any decision regarding the status of their application. Opponents of Walmart’s application claimed that the company's engagement in the business of banking posed a threat to the banking system and to the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund.



In early 2019, lobbyists from the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA) distributed a policy paper that called for a moratorium on providing federal deposit insurance to industrial banks. Their actions were motivated by a new wave of fintech companies, including payment processor Square Inc., that have submitted applications for state bank charters. A bank charter would allow Square Inc. to provide loans and other financial services directly to its merchants. However, ICBA claims that industrial bank charters are a loophole that Congress needs to address. Not only would fintech companies who receive bank charters be exempt from supervision by the Federal Reserve, but they also wouldn't be required to disclose any nonbanking-related commercial activities.



In November 2019, Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana introduced a bill, called the "Eliminating Corporate Shadow Banking Act of 2019," that would effectively end the ability of nonfinancial companies to form industrial banks. The ICBA has expressed its support for Sen. Kennedy's bill, claiming that it would close the loophole of industrial banks, create a safer financial system, and help maintain the separation of banking and commerce.
What Is the Industrial Goods Sector?  

The industrial goods sector includes stocks of companies that mainly produce capital goods used in manufacturing, resource extraction, and construction.



Businesses in the industrial goods sector make and sell machinery, equipment, and supplies that are used to produce other goods rather than sold directly to consumers.





Key Takeaways

The industrial goods sector is a category made up of companies that make or sell machinery, equipment, or supplies used in manufacturing and construction. The industrial goods sector normally declines during economic recessions and rises during expansions, though its various subsectors can perform differently from one another.Some of the largest companies in the world can be found in this sector, and the Dow Jones Industrial Index has historically been weighted heavily to industrial stocks.


   Understanding the Industrial Goods Sector  

The industrial goods sector includes companies involved with aerospace and defense, industrial machinery, tools, lumber production, construction, waste management, manufactured housing, and cement and metal fabrication. Performance in the industrial goods sector is largely driven by supply and demand for building construction in the residential, commercial, and industrial real estate segments, as well as the demand for manufactured products.



When the economy contracts during recessions, activity in this sector drops because companies postpone expansion and produce fewer goods. However, with this sector covering a wide range of subsectors, there is usually at least one area of growth in the industrial goods sector. The industrial goods sector goes through life cycles that see different subsectors in growth phases.



The major stages of the growth cycle are accelerating growth, decelerating growth, accelerating decline, and decelerating decline. Investors do well when they pay attention to the industry trends and progression of the growth cycle. Companies in the accelerating growth and decelerating decline phases have the best performance and are given higher multiples due to their upcoming growth.



Many of the subsectors go through bullish growth cycles lasting for years before seeing a retraction. For example, the aerospace and homebuilding sectors have both gone through these cycles. Other areas, such as industrial conglomerates and waste management, have provided steady streams of revenue generation.


   Tracking Industrial Goods Statistics  

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a valuable resource for investors and analysts at the sector level. The industrial goods sector is listed as a whole and broken down by subsector in reports. The BLS provides information such as employment, union membership, growth projections, hourly wages, and fatalities/injuries. Investors can interpret these statistics to determine growth cycles.



The U.S. Census Bureau publishes monthly data on new orders of capital goods, broken down into various subsectors, which can provide powerful insights into long- and short-term trends in the industrial goods sector.


   Large Industrial Goods Companies  

The industrial goods sector includes some of the largest companies in the United States. General Electric, Honeywell, Union Pacific, Caterpillar, 3M, Dow Chemical, and Boeing are included.



Indeed, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) ) is a widely-watched benchmark index in the U.S. containing 30 blue-chip stocks, weighted heavily to the industrial goods sector. When the index initially launched in 1896, it included only 12 companies. Those companies were primarily in the industrial sector, including the railroads, cotton, gas, sugar, tobacco, and oil.



In the early 20th century, the performance of industrial companies was typically tied to the overall growth rate in the economy. That cemented the relationship between the Dow's performance and that of the overall economy. Even today, for many investors a strong-performing Dow equals a strong economy (while a weak-performing Dow indicates a slowing economy).


   Ways to Invest in Industrial Goods  

The MSCI USA Industrials Index is the common benchmark for the industry. This index gained an average of 10.5% annually from 2010 to 2015. Investors can invest in individual industrial goods stocks or look to mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Fund offerings cover the entire industrial goods sector and some cover subsectors of the industry as well, such as aerospace. The Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund and Vanguard Industrials ETF are two of the largest funds tracking the sector.
What Is Industrial Organization?  

Industrial organization is a field of economics dealing with the strategic behavior of firms, regulatory policy, antitrust policy and market competition. Industrial organization applies the economic theory of price to industries. Economists and other academics who study industrial organization seek to increase understanding of the methods by which industries operate, improve industries' contributions to economic welfare, and improve government policy in relation to these industries.



The "industrial" in industrial organization refers to any large-scale business activity, such as tourism or agriculture—not just manufacturing. Industrial organization is also sometimes referred to as "industrial economy."





Key Takeaways

Industrial organization is an analysis of factors, operational or otherwise, that contribute to a firm's overall strategy and product placement.It involves a study of different areas, from market power to product differentiation to industrial policy, that affect a firm's operations.


   Understanding Industrial Organization  

The study of industrial organization builds on the theory of the firm, a set of economic theories that describe, explain and attempt to predict the nature of a firm in terms of its existence, behavior, structure and its relationship to the market.



In a 1989 paper, economists Bengt Holmstrom and Jean Tirole posed two simple questions for a theory of the firm. The first question was why do firms exist, meaning what is the need that they fill in society or an economic system. The second question succeeds the first and relates to determining the scale and scope of their operations.



Answers to these two questions form the basis of Industrial organization economics. Above all, industrial organization focuses on how markets and industries compete with one another by factoring in real-world complications, such as government intervention in the marketplace, transaction costs, barriers to entry and more.



Some believe that since microeconomics focuses on markets and how they operate, industrial organization is a subset of it. Rather, industrial organization is defined by its emphasis on market interactions, such as price competition, product placing, advertising, research and development and more.



More pertinently, the study of oligopolies (where a handful of big players dominate a market) gives industrial organization its reason for being (whereas microeconomics focuses on perfect competition or extreme monopolies).



According to a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) white paper, it is easier to give an example of industrial organization than it is to define it, though the white paper's authors still managed to come up with this description: the "economics of imperfect competition." The imperfect competition referenced in this description gives rise to several questions relating to the success or failure of a product or an organization. By analyzing the factors that contributed to success or failure, industrial organization attempts to answer these questions.


   Industrial Organization Areas of Study  

Below is a sample listing of topics that the study of industrial organization can focus on:



Market power
Product differentiation
Price discrimination
Durable goods and experience goods
Secondary markets and their relationship with primary markets
Collusion
Signaling
Mergers and acquisitions
Antitrust and competition
Industrial policy


   Industrial Organization and Policy  

Several organizations exist to promote research and collaboration on the study of industrial organization. One such organization is the Industrial Organization Society (IOS), founded in 1972 by Stanley Boyle and Willard Mueller to promote research on antitrust policy, regulatory policy, and competition and market power in real-world markets. The Review of Industrial Organization is the official journal of the IOS. Along with Northeastern University, the IOS has sponsored an annual International Industrial Organization Conference since 2003.


   Example of Industrial Organization  

As mentioned earlier, industrial organization is concerned with analyzing industries and determining answers related to their development.



For example, consider the smartphone industry. Apple Inc. (AAPL)) was the first company to manufacture smartphones in an attractive design and load it with features for the average consumer. But the product's price - $499 for 4GB and $599 for 8GB - was prohibitively expensive. To ensure mainstream adoption without denting its profit margins, the Cupertino company tied up with network providers to defray the cost of a smartphone over a period of time.



Apple's sales were on an upward curve until Google and Samsung came along. They exploited the demand for smartphones by offering cheaper versions, packed with similar features, into the market. The competition turned out to be good for the overall industry and, over time, the device's market expanded beyond the United States. It encompasses major markets in developed and developing countries. The number of smartphone manufacturers has also exploded.



This fairly simple account of the smartphone industry's growth gives rise to several questions.



Here are some:



Why were Apple's phones expensive?What innovation did Samsung and Google undertake in the manufacturing process to make phones cheaper?How and why did network providers agree to the partnership with smartphone manufacturers?How did Apple attempt to defend its turf and why did it fail?What regulation contributed to the smartphone industry's success?



Industrial organization studies such questions and attempts to answer them.
What Is the Industrial Production Index (IPI)?  

The industrial production index (IPI) is a monthly economic indicator measuring real output in the manufacturing, mining, electric, and gas industries, relative to a base year.



It is published in the middle of every month by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and reported on by the Conference Board, a member-driven economic think tank. The FRB also releases revisions to previous estimates at the end of every March.





Key Takeaways

The industrial production index (IPI) measures levels of production and capacity in the manufacturing, mining, electric, and gas industries, relative to a base year.The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) publishes the IPI in the middle of every month, and revisions to previous estimates at the end of every March.The composite index is an important macroeconomic indicator for economists and investors.Industry-level data, meanwhile, is useful for managers and investors within specific lines of business.


   How Does the Industrial Production Index (IPI) Work?  

The industrial production index (IPI) measures levels of production in the manufacturing, mining—including oil and gas field drilling services—and electrical and gas utilities sectors. It also measures capacity, an estimate of the production levels that could be sustainably maintained; and capacity utilization, the ratio of actual output to capacity.


  Calculating the IPI  

Industrial production and capacity levels are expressed as an index level relative to a base year—currently 2012. In other words, they do not express absolute production volumes or values, but the percentage change in production relative to 2012.



The source data is varied, including physical inputs and outputs such as tons of steel; inflation-adjusted sales figures; and, in some cases, hours logged by production workers. The FRB obtains this data from industry associations and government agencies and aggregates them into an index using the Fisher-ideal formula.






The indices are available in seasonally adjusted and unadjusted formats.



Within the overall IPI, there are a number of sub-indices providing a detailed look at the output of highly specific industries. Examples of a few of the dozens of industries for which monthly production data is available include: residential gas sales, ice cream and frozen dessert, carpet and rug mills, spring and wire products, pig iron, audio and video equipment, and paper.


   Benefits of the Industrial Production Index (IPI)  

Industry-level data are useful for managers and investors within specific lines of business, while the composite index is an important macroeconomic indicator for economists and investors—fluctuations within the industrial sector account for most of the variation in overall economic growth.



At the same time, IPI differs from the most popular measure of economic output, gross domestic product (GDP): GDP measures the price paid by the end-user, so it includes value-added in the retail sector, which IPI ignores. It is also important to note that the industrial sector makes up a low and falling share of the U.S. economy—less than 20% of GDP as of 2016. 



Capacity utilization is a useful indicator of the strength of demand. Low capacity utilization, or overcapacity, signals weak demand. Policymakers could read this as a signal that fiscal or monetary stimulus is needed. Investors, meanwhile, could interpret it as a sign of a coming downturn, or—depending on the signals from Washington—as a sign of coming stimulus.



High capacity utilization, on the other hand, can act as a warning that the economy is overheating, suggesting the risk of price rises and asset bubbles. Policymakers could react to those threats with interest rate rises or fiscal austerity. Alternatively, they could let the business cycle take its course, likely resulting in an eventual recession.


   Historical Data  

Below is the seasonally-adjusted IPI for the 50 years to October 2017. Data is available going back to January 1919.
What Are Industrial Revenue Bonds—IRBs?  

Industrial revenue bonds (IRB) are municipal debt securities issued by a government agency on behalf of a private sector company and intended to build or acquire factories or other heavy equipment and tools.



IRBs were formerly called Industrial Development Bonds (IDB).





key takeaways

Industrial revenue bonds (IRBs) are a type of municipal bond, issued by a state or local government on behalf of a private company for a specific project.An IRB is a variety of revenue bond, specifically a private activity bond.IRBs raise capital to fund the development of a manufacturing facility or equipment that will benefit the community at large; bondholders are repaid by the revenue the project generates.As with other munis, IRBs generate tax-free interest income.


   Understanding Industrial Revenue Bonds—IRBs  

Municipal bonds (aka munis) are tax-exempt debt obligations issued by a state, city, or county to raise money for major capital projects, such as infrastructure or new schools. Investors expect a timely and periodic stream of interest income on these bonds and, upon maturity, repayment of their principal. The source of funds used for interest payments and principal depends on whether the muni bond is a general obligation bond or a revenue bond.



A general obligation bond makes its repayments from the general funds of the municipal issuer; they're backed by the full faith and credit of the issuer, which may increase taxes in order to meet its payment obligations.
A revenue bond is a municipal bond that is backed by the revenues generated from a specific project or related revenue source (like the tolls collected from a new highway).



One type of revenue bond is the private activity bond (PAB), which is issued by the municipality on behalf of private organizations (either for-profit or non-profit) to finance particular projects. Although a private entity is doing the work, the project is one that will benefit the community in some way: a hospital, airport, or sports stadium.



An industrial revenue bond (IRB) is a variety of PAB—one issued by the state or local government on behalf of a for-profit company. The municipality's aim is to improve the economic and employment conditions of its region, and, via the IRB, is willing to help fund a project and issue to tax breaks to the entity undertaking it.


   How Industrial Revenue Bonds—IRBs Work  

Municipalities issue IRBs to assist a company that might otherwise be unable to obtain financing for its industrial venture or unwilling to undertake the project on its own. The proceeds from the bond are used to fund the acquisition, construction/reconstruction, expansion, or improvement of property that qualifies as a manufacturing facility or equipment. As with PABs in general, the IRB's underlying borrower—the for-profit company—agrees to reimburse the issuer, which pays the interest and principal on the securities solely from the revenue stream of the borrowers' projects.



A private company’s project qualifies for an IRB if it involves manufacturing, waste disposal/recovery, or wastewater treatment. Also, to qualify, total capital expenditures at the project site for the three years prior and subsequent to the issuance of the bonds must be $20 million or less.



Other IRB provisions include:



the maximum amount of bonds that may be issued or outstanding is $10 million
at least 95% of the bond proceeds must be spent on qualifying costs
not more than 2% of the proceeds may be used for costs of issuance
total IRBs outstanding at the company may not exceed $40 million
the weighted average maturity of the bonds cannot exceed 120% of the average economic life of the facilities to be financed
bond proceeds cannot be used to acquire used equipment, except as part of the acquisition of an entire facility
no more than 25% of the proceeds can be used to acquire land



As these provisions suggest, IRBs tend to be small-issue manufacturing bonds.






Many IDBs are sold as variable rate demand obligation bonds (VRDO) secured by a bank letter of credit with a long-term credit rating of at least A3 from Moody's Investors Service, or an A- from Standard & Poor's or Fitch Ratings.


   Tax Treatment of Industrial Revenue Bonds—IRBs  

As with other munis, the interest IRBs pay is exempt from both federal and state income taxes. As a result, these bonds carry lower nominal interest rates than comparable conventional debt obligations.



IRBs are subject to IRS statutes. Since the project is legally owned by a governmental entity, however, the company developing the project obtains the status of a state or local government (for this project). The property being developed thus becomes exempt from many taxes, especially property taxes, until the bonds mature. If the company defaults on the lease payments, the bond trustee forecloses and sells the company’s assets to repay bondholders.
What Was the Industrial Revolution?  

The Industrial Revolution was a period of major mechanization and innovation that began in Great Britain during the mid-18th century and early 19th century and later spread throughout much of the world. The British Industrial Revolution was dominated by the exploitation of coal and iron.



The American Industrial Revolution, sometimes referred to as the Second Industrial Revolution, began in the 1870s and continued through World War II. The era saw the mechanization of agriculture and manufacturing and the introduction of new modes of transportation including steamships, the automobile, and airplanes.





Key Takeaways

The first Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the 1700s and 1800s and was a time of significant innovation.The American Industrial Revolution followed in the late 19th century and was an engine of economic growth in the U.S.The Industrial Revolution led to inventions that included the assembly line, telegraph, steam engine, sewing machine, and internal combustion engine.Working for businesses during the Industrial Revolution paid better wages than agricultural work.The increase in the number of factories and migration to the cities led to pollution, deplorable working and living conditions, and child labor.


   How Did the Industrial Revolution Impact Society?  

Although the Industrial Revolution occurred approximately 200 years ago, it is a period that left a profound impact on how people lived and the way businesses operated. Arguably, the factory systems developed during the Industrial Revolution are responsible for creating capitalism and the modern cities of today.



Before this period, most households made their living farming and lived primarily in small, rural communities. With the advent of factories during the 18th century, people began working for companies located in urban areas for the first time. Often the wages were low, and conditions were harsh. However, working for such businesses still paid a better living wage than farming.



Production efficiency improved during the Industrial Revolution with inventions such as the steam engine. The steam engine dramatically reduced the time it took to manufacture products. More efficient production subsequently reduced prices for products, primarily due to lower labor costs, opening the marketing doors to a new level of customers.



The Industrial Revolution developed in conjunction with the capitalist economies. Under capitalism, business owners (capitalists) began to organize labor centrally into factories and introduced a division of labor to increase output and profitability. Compared to the craft and guild systems that preceded it, capitalist production incentivized technological change and innovation at an unprecedented rate.






The Industrial Revolution was driven, in part, by the adoption of coal as an energy source. Before the use of coal, wood was the primary energy source; coal provided three times more energy than wood, and Britain had large coal deposits.


   What Were the Effects of the Industrial Revolution on Tariffs?  

The Industrial Revolution was not always organic or directed alone by free market forces. The United States government, for instance, helped domestic industry at the time by instituting tariffs—taxes on foreign imported goods—so that products like steel made by U.S. companies were cheaper than foreign imports. Cheaper steel prices encouraged the development of infrastructure such as railroads and bridges during the American Industrial Revolution.


   Advantages of Industrialization  

The Industrial Revolution created an increase in employment opportunities. Wages at factories were higher than what individuals were making as farmers. As factories became widespread, additional managers and employees were required to operate them, increasing the supply of jobs and overall wages.



Since most of the factories and large companies were located near cities, populations migrated to urban areas searching for jobs, often overwhelming the available housing supply. This led to significant improvements in city planning.



Increased innovation also led to higher levels of education, often resulting in several groundbreaking inventions still used today. These inventions include the sewing machine, X-ray, lightbulb, calculator, and anesthesia.



Due to the Industrial Revolution's advancements, the nation saw the first combustible engine, incandescent light bulb, and modern assembly line used in manufacturing. The Industrial Revolution changed how people worked, the technologies available to them, and in turn where they lived. It made life comfortable for many though living conditions for workers remained abhorrent, which eventually fueled the rise of labor unions that led to improved working conditions and fair wages.


   Disadvantages of Industrialization  

Although there were numerous advancements during the Industrial Revolution, rapid progress caused many issues. As workers left their farms to work in factories for higher wages, it led to a shortage of food production.



The sharp increase in the number of factories caused an increase in urban pollution. Pollution wasn't contained only in the factories; as people flocked to the cities, living conditions became deplorable as the urban resources were overwhelmed.



Sewage flowed in the streets in some cities while manufacturers dumped waste from factories into rivers. Water supplies were not tested and protected as they are today. As a result, regulations, and laws were enacted to protect the population.



The Industrial Revolution provided an incentive to increase profits, and as a result, working conditions in factories deteriorated. Long hours, inadequate remuneration, and minimal breaks became the norm. Child labor was a significant issue. Health issues arose for many of the factory workers giving rise to the labor movement throughout the U.S.





Pros

Advancements in production
Growth in innovations and inventions
Workers earned higher wages
Improvements in transportation networks



Cons

Deplorable working conditions and child labor
Unsanitary living conditions and pollution
Food shortages





   What Key Innovations Took Place During the Industrial Revolution?  

The first cotton mill was built after Samuel Slater brought Britain's manufacturing technology to the United States. The mill was powered by water bringing jobs and commerce to the Northeast. In the following years, many factories and mills were built using the same technologies.



In 1869, the first transcontinental railroad was completed and was a major accomplishment for the U.S. since it allowed the transportation of goods, people, and raw materials nationwide.



Also, during the American Industrial Revolution, Samuel Morse created the telegraph, which sent electric signals over a wire allowing the nation to communicate. Andrew Carnegie built the first steel mills in the U.S. while Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone.




How Is the Industrial Revolution Best Defined?
The Industrial Revolution shifted societies from an agrarian economy to a manufacturing economy where products were no longer made solely by hand but by machines. This led to increased production and efficiency, lower prices, more goods, improved wages, and migration from rural areas to urban areas.




When Was the Industrial Revolution?
The first Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the mid-to-late 1700s when innovation led to goods being produced in large quantities due to machine manufacturing. This spread around the globe, and the Second Industrial Revolution began in the U.S. in the late 1800s that saw further advancements in technology that drove greater efficiency.




What 3 Things Played a Role in the Industrial Revolution?
Technological changes, such as the use of iron and steel, new energy sources such as coal and steam, and the factory system, led to a division of labor and specialization, which increased efficiency.




What Were the Most Important Inventions of the Industrial Revolution?
Among the most important inventions of the first Industrial Revolution include the steam engine, the spinning jenny, cotton gin, and the telegraph. This was followed by the second Industrial Revolution, which saw the advent of the internal combustion engine, controlled electricity, and the lightbulb.
What Is Industrialization?  

Industrialization is the process of transforming the economy of a nation or region from a focus on agriculture to a reliance on manufacturing. Mechanized methods of mass production are an essential component of this transition.



The positive characteristics of industrialization include economic growth, a more efficient division of labor, and a growth spurt in technological innovation.





Key Takeaways

Industrialization is a transformation away from an agricultural- or resource-based economy, toward an economy based on mechanized manufacturing.Industrialization is usually associated with a greater average income and improved living standards. Early industrialization occurred in Europe and North America during the 18th and 19th centuries, and later in other parts of the world.Numerous strategies for industrialization have been pursued over time, with varying levels of success.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Industrialization  

Industrialization can be driven by a combination of factors including government policy, labor-saving inventions, entrepreneurial ambitions, and a demand for goods and services. It has profound implications for the population, causing a wave of migration from small farms to cities and towns where jobs can be found.



The most dramatic example in recent history is that of China, where government policy changes in the late 20th century led to the nation's transition from an economy based on subsistence farming to a global manufacturing powerhouse.


  The Industrial Revolution  

In the western world, Industrialization is most commonly associated with the Industrial Revolution in Europe that began in the late 18th century and the subsequent burst of industrialization in the U.S. through the 19th century.



In Europe, the era was characterized by a surge in local manufacturing of goods for export, made possible by a growing population of consumers. Great Britain played an outsized role in the process through technological innovations such as steam-powered machinery.



Industrialization quickly spread to the United States, the epicenter of laissez-faire capitalism. Inventions including the cotton mill and steam power made possible the establishment of mill towns such as Lowell, MA, and Pawtucket, RI.


  Later Periods of Industrialization  

World War II created an unprecedented demand for certain manufactured goods, leading to a buildup of production capacity. Post-war prosperity provided further catalysts that kept capacity utilization high and stimulated further growth.



Innovation, specialization, and wealth creation were the causes and effects of industrialization in this period.


  The Asian Tigers  

The late 20th century was marked by rapid industrialization in other parts of the world, notably Asia. The Asian Tigers (Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore) all participated in economic growth based on manufacturing for global customers.



China experienced its own industrial revolution after moving away from a strict communist model.


   Effects of Industrialization  

The innovations of the 19th century allowed for the mass production of commercial goods. As manufacturing activities grew, transportation, finance, and communications industries all expanded to support the new production capacity.



It also led to increased labor specialization and allowed cities to support larger populations, motivating a rapid demographic shift. People left rural areas in large numbers, seeking jobs in budding industries.



The Industrial Revolution led to unprecedented expansion in wealth and financial well-being for some. A larger middle class emerged as consumer demand for more goods and services grew and business creation boomed to feed the demand.


   Modes of Industrialization  

Different strategies and methods of industrialization have been followed over time, with varying degrees of success.



The Industrial Revolution in Europe and the United States initially took place under mercantilist and protectionist government policies that fostered the early growth of industry. These later adopted a laissez-faire or free-market approach that encouraged foreign trade, providing new outlets for industrial output.



In the post-Second World War era, developing nations across Latin America and Africa adopted a strategy of import-substituting industrialization, which involved protectionist barriers to trade coupled with direct subsidization or nationalization of domestic industries.



Nearly at the same time, parts of Europe and several East Asian economies pursued an alternative strategy of export-led growth. This strategy emphasized the deliberate pursuit of foreign trade to build exporting industries and depended in part on maintaining a weak currency to make exports more attractive to foreign buyers.



In general, export-led growth has outperformed import-substituting industrialization.


  Socialist Industrialization  

The socialist nations of the 20th century repeatedly embarked on centrally planned programs of industrialization. These include the first and second five-year plans in the Soviet Union and the Great Leap Forward in China.



While these efforts did re-orient the respective economies toward a more industrial base and an increase in output of industrial commodities, they were also accompanied by harsh government repression, deteriorating living and working conditions for workers, and even widespread starvation.


   Examples of Industrialization  

Industrialization is dependent on growth and innovation in at least four industries.


  Manufacturing  

Industrialization began with the invention of machines that greatly increased the manufacture of goods.



One such invention was the cotton gin, patented by Eli Whitney in 1794. Whether hand-cranked or steam-powered, the machine made it possible to greatly increase the speed with which cotton fluff could be separated from its seeds before being woven into cloth.



Another was the spinning jenny, a contraption that could multiply the number of spindles that a single spinner could handle at the same time to weave cotton or wool.



Perhaps the key invention of them all was the steam engine, an improved version of which was invented by Scottish engineer James Watt in 1763. Coal-powered steam engines drove the Industrial Revolution.


  Mining  

Many of the great inventions of the 19th century were developed to serve the mining industry.



The first working steam engine was devised to help remove flood water from coal and tin mines, where they often disrupted production.The first use for the steam-powered locomotive was to transport ore from mines.Dynamite was patented in 1867 and was first used to blow up rocks that obstructed mining activities.


  Transportation  

The 19th century was a period of unparalleled innovation in ways to transport goods from and to marketplaces. Among them:



The steam locomotive. The prototype, known as Stephenson's Rocket and introduced in 1829, served for the next 150 years as a template for the production of vehicles to haul raw materials and finished products.The steamboat. The transport of goods and people was greatly expanded and speeded up with the introduction of the steamboat, which adapted steam technology to river craft.


  Retailing  

Before contactless payments and self-service checkouts, there were innovations in retailing that were designed to appeal to 19th century shoppers.



The department store. The first "store for everything" was John Wanamaker's, a six-story retail wonderland that rose in the heart of Philadelphia in 1887.The Sears catalog. It wasn't the first catalog but it was the first to reach practically every consumer in America with a vast range of goods, from children's clothing to prefabricated houses.




How Does Industrialization Impact Society?
Industrialization creates jobs that draw people from farms and villages to cities where manufacturing takes place. However hard those jobs were, they were often preferable to the precarious existence of a small farming family.The result is a new generation of urban consumers. Businesses of all kinds spring up to provide goods and services to these consumers. Over time, a larger middle class of artisans and shopkeepers emerges.A large working class also emerges, and conditions were often much harsher for them. The evolution of labor unions is a direct result of the conditions faced by the powerless workers of the Industrial Revolution.




What Is Industrial Activity?
Industrial activity is any business process that is necessary to create a manufactured product. The activity may be related to the sourcing, processing, assembly, repair, or dismantling of a manufactured product.




What Is Non-Industrial?
Non-industrial may be most often seen in zoning regulations or discussions regarding zoning regulations.This is a wide category that may include everything except manufacturing activities and manufacturing sourcing such as mining.Non-industrial land use includes retail and services businesses, entertainment and recreation sites, parking lots, and residential neighborhoods.


   The Bottom Line  

For better or worse, industrialization created the modern world as we know it. You would have to search far and wide to find a place on Earth that has not been affected by industrialization, and those places probably will be soon.



The Industrial Revolution in Europe and the United States brought the world into the modern era. Other regions, particularly in Asia, made the transition later. The process continues into the 21st century.
What Is an Industry?  

An industry is a group of companies that are related based on their primary business activities. In modern economies, there are dozens of industry classifications. Industry classifications are typically grouped into larger categories called sectors.



Individual companies are generally classified into an industry based on their largest sources of revenue. For example, while an automobile manufacturer might have a financing division that contributes 10% to the firm's overall revenues, the company would be classified in the automaker industry by most classification systems.





Key Takeaways

Similar companies are grouped together into industries, and there are a number of different industries, such as department stores and shoemakers.Industry grouping is based on the primary product that a company makes or sells. Meanwhile, industries are grouped together into sectors.The North American Industry Classification System is the standard classification system used by government agencies to organize companies into sectors or industries.Alternatively, the Global Industry Classification Standard assigned every company an economic sector and industry group. Companies within a similar industry will often perform similarly due to macroeconomic conditions helping or hurting all companies the same across the industry. 












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding an Industry  

Similar businesses are grouped into industries based on the primary product produced or sold. This effectively creates industry groups, which can then be used to isolate businesses from those who participate in different activities. Investors and economists often study industries to better understand the factors and limitations of corporate profit growth. Companies operating in the same industry can also be compared to each other to evaluate the relative attractiveness of a company within that industry.






Stocks of companies operating within the same industry tend to have similar stock price movements. This is due to call companies within a given industry facing the same headwinds, challenges, and broad triumphs.


   Special Considerations  

Stocks within the same industry often rise and fall as a group because the same macroeconomic factors impact all members of an industry. These macroeconomic factors can include changes in market sentiment on the part of investors—such as those based on a response to a particular event or piece of news—as well as changes directed specifically towards the specific industry, such as new regulations or increased raw material costs.



However, events relating to just one particular business can cause the associated stock to rise or fall separately from others within the same industry. This can be the result of certain events, including a differentiating product release, a corporate scandal in the news, or a change in leadership structures.


   Industries vs. Sectors  

While both sectors and industries are classification systems used to group similar types of business operations, sectors are broader than industries.



For example, retail trade is a sector within the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), and within that sector are industries, such as health and personal care stores, clothing stores, and shoe stores. Rite Aid Corporation and Gap, Inc. are members of the same consumer goods sector, but each would be listed in a different industry based on the specifics of the products they produce or sell. Rite Aid Corporation is classified within the health and personal care stores (NAICS Code 44610), while Gap, Inc. is classified within both the clothing stores industry (NAICS Code 448130) and clothing accessories industry (NAICS 448150).



It's important to note that a single company can reside in two different industries or two different sectors. In addition to being within the consumer goods sector, Rite Aid is considered part of the personal services sector as well within the photofinishing laboratories industry. Because they develop photographs in addition to selling consumer goods, they are assigned multiple NAICS codes (NAICS Code 812921 for their photo department).



The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), developed by the United States, Canada, and Mexico, is the standard upon which government agencies classify businesses when compiling statistical data. In the NAICS hierarchy, companies that use similar production processes are categorized in the same industry.






The NAICS is reviewed and revised every five years, and the latest edition was released in 2022. This latest edition of industry codes best reflects company classifications, especially in industries that have undergone large changes since 2017.


  Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  

The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) is also a commonly referenced classification system. GICS assigns every public company to an economic sector and industry group that best defines its business. The GICS was developed jointly by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) and Standard & Poor's (S&P) in 1999. It was created to be an efficient investment tool to capture the breadth, depth, and evolution of industry sectors. The GICS methodology is used by the MSCI indexes, investors, analysts, and economists to compare and contrast competing companies.



The GICS is a four-tiered, hierarchical industry classification system. According to the GICS hierarchy, there are 11 economic sectors. These sectors are further divided into 24 industry groups, 69 industries, and 158 sub-industries. Each stock has a code to identify it at all four of these levels. For example, "materials" is an economic sector. Within materials, there are different industries: chemicals, construction materials, containers & packaging, metals & mining, and paper and forest products.




What Is an Example of an Industry?
The NAICS classified 'Finance and Insurance' as its own top-level sector. Within this sector, there are a variety of groups such as credit intermediaries, financial investment companies, insurance carriers, funds, trusts, and other financial vehicles. A specific NAICS industry is Commercial Banking, and it is assigned its own classification code (522110).




What Is the Difference Between an Industry and a Sector?
A sector is often a more broad term than industry. In the example above, the sector for both companies was the consumer goods sector. However, this sector can be broken into many different consumables such as clothes or personal health. Therefore, sectors are often further divided into industries that further group similar companies based on an even lower level of detail regarding their products and operations.




What Is the Difference Between an Industry and a Business?
An industry is a more broad term than often compasses multiple businesses. A single business can operate in any industry. When a collection of individual businesses operate in a similar manner and produce similar output, they may be grouped together and classified within the same industry.




How Many Different Industries Are There?
Different classification systems will group and report industries differently. The NAICS has historically grouped companies into roughly 20 sectors, roughly 100 subsectors, and over 1,000 six-digit NAICS industry codes.
What Is the Industry Life Cycle?  

The industry life cycle refers to the evolution of an industry or business through four stages based on the business characteristics commonly displayed in each phase. The four phases of an industry life cycle are the introduction, growth, maturity, and decline stages. Industries are born when new products are developed, with significant uncertainty regarding market size, product specifications, and main competitors. Consolidation and failure whittle down an established industry as it grows, and the remaining competitors minimize expenses as growth slows and demand eventually wanes.





Key Takeaways

The industry life cycle refers to the evolution of an industry or business based on its stages of growth and decline.The four phases of the industry life cycle are the introduction, growth, maturity, and decline phases.The industry life cycle ends with the decline phase, a period when the industry or business is unable to sustain growth.


   Understanding the Industry Life Cycle  

There is no universal definition for the various stages of the industry life cycle, but commonly, it can be organized into introduction, growth, maturity, and decline. The relative length of each phase can also vary substantially among industries. The standard model typically deals with manufactured goods, but today's service economy can function somewhat differently, especially in the realm of Internet communications technology.


   Industry Life Cycle Phases  
  Introduction Phase  

The introduction, or startup, phase involves the development and early marketing of a new product or service. Innovators often create new businesses to enable the production and proliferation of the new offering. Information on the products and industry participants are often limited, so demand tends to be unclear. Consumers of the goods and services need to learn more about them, while the new providers are still developing and honing the offering. The industry tends to be highly fragmented in this stage. Participants tend to be unprofitable because expenses are incurred to develop and market the offering while revenues are still low.


  Growth Phase  

Consumers in the new industry have come to understand the value of the new offering, and demand grows rapidly. A handful of important players usually become apparent, and they compete to establish a share of the new market. Immediate profits usually are not a top priority as companies spend on research and development or marketing. Business processes are improved, and geographical expansion is common. Once the new product has demonstrated viability, larger companies in adjacent industries tend to enter the market through acquisitions or internal development.


  Maturity Phase  

The maturity phase begins with a shakeout period, during which growth slows, focus shifts toward expense reduction, and consolidation occurs. Some firms achieve economies of scale, hampering the sustainability of smaller competitors. As maturity is achieved, barriers to entry become higher, and the competitive landscape becomes more clear. Market share, cash flow, and profitability become the primary goals of the remaining companies now that growth is relatively less important. Price competition becomes much more relevant as product differentiation declines with consolidation.


  Decline Phase  

The decline phase marks the end of an industry's ability to support growth. Obsolescence and evolving end markets negatively impact demand, leading to declining revenues. This creates margin pressure, forcing weaker competitors out of the industry. Further consolidation is common as participants seek synergies and further gains from scale. Decline often signals the end of viability for the incumbent business model, pushing industry participants into adjacent markets. The decline phase can be delayed with large-scale product improvements or repurposing, but these tend to prolong the same process.
What Is Industry Life Cycle Analysis?  

Industry life cycle analysis is part of the fundamental analysis of a company involving the examination of the stage an industry is in at a given point in time. There are four stages in an industry life cycle: expansion, peak, contraction, trough. An analyst will determine where a company sits in the cycle and use this information to project future financial performance and estimate forward valuations (e.g., forward price-earnings ratios).





Key Takeaways

Industry life cycle refers to the stages of growth, consolidation, and eventual extinction of an industry.It mirrors an economic cycle and consists of four main stages: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough.It is used to analyze a company's stock, depending on the stage that it is in during a life cycle.


   Understanding Industry Life Cycle Analysis  

Though not necessarily the case, the life cycle of a particular industry will follow the general economic cycle. An industry life cycle may lead or lag an economic cycle. It also can vary from an economic cycle's phases in terms of expansion or contraction percentages or duration of peak and trough stages.



Expansion: During an expansion phase in open and competitive markets, an industry will experience revenue and profit growth. It will draw in more competitors to meet the growing demand for that industry's goods or services.
Peak: The peak occurs when growth drops to zero; demand in the cycle has been met and prevailing economic conditions do not encourage additional purchases. Industry profits flatten out.
Contraction: The contraction phase of the life cycle begins at some point after the peak arrives. It is characterized by falling profits as current period sales are lower relative to prior period sales (when demand was on the rise). The contraction phase could be concomitant with a recession in the economy or merely a reflection that short-term demand in the industry has been exhausted. During the contraction phase, the industry undergoes production capacity adjustments. Marginal players get shaken out and stronger companies lower their production volumes. Industry profits decrease.
Trough: This adjustment process, combined with a firming of the economy observed in employment and personal income numbers and the consumer confidence index, leads to the trough phase of the industry life cycle. At this stage, lower levels of industry demand are matched by the output capacity. 



As the economy gathers strength, the industry life cycle begins again with the expansion phase. As mentioned at the outset, an industry life cycle is typically tied to the economic cycle. The entertainment and leisure industry is an example of such an industry. The technology industry, on the other hand, has exhibited life cycle movements at variance with the economic cycle. For instance, tech industry profits have boomed even in times of no economic growth.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Using Industry Life Cycle in Analysis  

Analysts and traders often use industry life cycle analysis to measure the relative strength and weakness of a particular company's stock. A company's future growth prospects may be bright (or dim) depending on the stage that it is in during an industry life cycle. Porter's five economic forces change as an industry matures.



For example, rivalry is most intense between companies in a sector during the growth stage. Startups slash prices and ship products as quickly as possible in a bid to garner as many customers as possible. During this time, the threat of new entrants eating into an existing company's market share is high.



The scenario changes in the maturity stage. Less competitive startups and inferior products are weeded out or acquired. The risk of new entrants is low and the industry's product is mature enough to be accepted in mainstream society. Startups become established firms during this stage but their future growth prospects are limited in existing markets. They must search out new avenues and markets for profits or risk extinction.


   Example of Industry Life Cycle Analysis  

There was a boom in social media during the early 2000s due to the success of Myspace, a social networking site that surpassed Google as the most visited place on the internet in 2006. Sites like Orkut (a Google venture) and Bebo competed to gain users in a crowded landscape. Facebook (now Meta), which started in 2004, was also gaining traction among universities and was considered the second most popular social media site. There were signs of consolidation when Myspace was acquired by Rupert Murdoch's Newscorp. Ltd for $580 million in 2005.



But that valuation turned out to be inflated after Facebook overtook MySpace in rankings. MySpace eventually petered into insignificance after Facebook became a social media behemoth. With the exception of a few, like X platform (formerly Twitter), other social media sites also fell by the wayside. The social media sites that survived made a thumping debut on the stock market. Their valuations were considered high in comparison to their revenues, mainly because investors expected significant growth in the future as social media became popular throughout the world.



By May 2019, however, Facebook's valuation had declined and the company warned of plateauing growth figures in the future. Snap Inc., another social media company, was in a similar situation. Both companies responded by expanding the scope of their operations to include other products, such as cameras and drones, in their portfolio.



As of December 2021, Facebook has just changed its corporate parent name to Meta Platforms. The company has rebranded and is developing new products and technology. These developments resulted in both analysts and the company itself seeing Meta's valuation increase again.




Is the Industry Life Cycle the Same As the Economic Cycle?
The phases ofan industry life cycle have the same names as the general economic cycle: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough. These phases may overlap, with an industry's peak occurring at the same time as an economic peak, and an industry's trough at the same as an economic trough. However, whether or not this happens often depends on the industry itself. Some industries may see their peaks at the same time as the overall economy experiences a trough, or they may be in an expansion phase when the economic cycle is at a peak.




What Is the Product Life Cycle?
The product life cycle has to do with how specific products or services are developed and offered to the public. This cycle has five phases: development, introduction, growth, maturity, and decline. This is separate from the industry life cycle since many products are developed within a single industry, or even within a single company.




What Are the 3 Main Parts of Industry Analysis?
Performing overall industry analysis requires looking at three things: the overall appeal (or attractiveness) of an industry, both to customers and investors; the factors that determine an individual company's success or failure within an industry; and the wider economic, political, and social forces that influence an industry.


   The Bottom Line  

The industry life cycle is the stages of growth and decline that an industry goes through as it is created, expands, and eventually becomes extinct. This mirrors the four main stages of the economic cycle: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough.



Industry life cycle analysis is used to analyze a company's stock. Researchers, analysts, and investors can look at the overall stage of an industry's life cycle to understand why a company's stock is valued the way it currently is and whether that is likely to change in the future.
What Is an Inefficient Market?  

According to economic theory, an inefficient market is one in which an asset's prices do not accurately reflect its true value, which may occur for several reasons. Inefficiencies often lead to deadweight losses. In reality, most markets do display some level of inefficiencies, and in the extreme case an inefficient market can be an example of a market failure.



The efficient market hypothesis (EMH) holds that in an efficiently working market, asset prices always accurately reflect the asset's true value. For example, all publicly available information about a stock should be fully reflected in its current market price. With an inefficient market, in contrast, all the publicly available information is not reflected in the price, suggesting that bargains are available or that prices could be over-valued.





Key Takeaways

An inefficient market is one that does not succeed in incorporating all available information into a true reflection of an asset's fair price.Market inefficiencies exist due to information asymmetries, transaction costs, market psychology, and human emotion, among other reasons.As a result, some assets may be over- or under-valued in the market, creating opportunities for excess profits.The presence of inefficient markets in the world somewhat undermines economic theory, and in particular the efficient market hypothesis (EMH).


   Understanding Inefficient Markets  

Before looking at inefficient markets, we must first lay out what economic theory proposes an efficient market must look like. The efficient markets hypothesis, or EMH, takes on three forms: weak, semi-strong, and strong. The weak form asserts that an efficient market reflects all historical publicly available information about the stock, including past returns. The semi-strong form asserts that an efficient market reflects historical as well as current publicly available information. And, according to the strong form, an efficient market reflects all current and historical publicly available information as well as non-public information.



Proponents of the EMH believe that the market's high degree of efficiency makes outperforming the market difficult. Most investors would, therefore, be well-advised to invest in passively managed vehicles such as index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETF), which don't attempt to beat the market. EMH skeptics, on the other hand, believe that savvy investors can outperform the market, and therefore actively managed strategies are the best option.



Thus, in an inefficient market, some investors can make excess returns while others can lose more than expected, given their level of risk exposure. If the market were entirely efficient, these opportunities and threats would not exist for any reasonable length of time, since market prices would quickly move to match a security's true value as it changed.



The EMH has several problems in reality. First, the hypothesis assumes all investors perceive all available information in precisely the same manner. The different methods for analyzing and valuing stocks pose some problems for the validity of the EMH. If one investor looks for undervalued market opportunities while another evaluates a stock on the basis of its growth potential, these two investors will already have arrived at a different assessment of the stock's fair market value. Therefore, one argument against the EMH points out that, since investors value stocks differently, it is impossible to determine what a stock should be worth under an efficient market.



While many financial markets appear reasonably efficient, events such as market-wide crashes and the dotcom bubble of the late '90s seem to reveal some sort of market inefficiency.


   Example: Active Portfolio Management  

If markets are truly efficient, then there is no hope to beat the market as an investor or trader. The EMH states that no single investor is ever able to attain greater profitability than another with the same amount of invested funds under the efficient market hypothesis. Since they both have the same information, they can only achieve identical returns. But consider the wide range of investment returns attained by the entire universe of investors, investment funds, and so forth. If no investor had any clear advantage over another, would there be a range of yearly returns in the mutual fund industry, from significant losses to 50% profits or more? According to the EMH, if one investor is profitable, it means every investor is profitable. But this is far from true.



Regarding passively managed versus actively-managed vehicles, the inefficiency of markets reveals itself. For example, large-cap stocks are widely held and closely followed. New information about these stocks is immediately reflected in the price. News of a product recall by General Motors, for example, is likely to immediately result in a drop in GM's stock price. In other parts of the market, however, particularly small caps, some companies may not be as widely held and closely followed. News, whether good or bad, may not hit the stock price for hours, days, or longer. This inefficiency makes it more likely that an investor will be able to purchase a small-cap stock at a bargain price before the rest of the market become aware of and digests the new information.



Likewise, technical analysis is a style of trading that is completely predicated on the concept of using past data to anticipate future price movements. Technical analysis uses patterns in market data from the past to identify trends and make predictions for the future. As a result, EMH is conceptually opposed to technical analysis. Proponents of EMH are also of the belief that it's pointless to search for undervalued stocks or predict trends in the market through fundamental analysis.
What Is the Infant-Industry Theory?  

The infant-industry theory states that new industries in developing countries need protection against competitive pressures until they mature and develop economies of scale that can rival their competitors'. The infant industry argument is often cited as a rationale for protectionism and was developed by Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List.





Key Takeaways

The infant-industry theory states that new industries in developing countries need protection against competitive pressures until they mature.This theory, first developed in the early 19th century by Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List, is often a justification for protectionist trade policies.Developing nation's governments may enact measures such as import duties, tariffs, quotas, and exchange rate controls to give the infant-industry time to develop and stabilize.


   Understanding the Infant-Industry Theory  

The infant-industry theory is the supposition that emerging domestic industries need protection against international competition until they become mature and stable. In economics, an infant-industry is one that is new and in its early stages of development and, thus, not yet capable of competing against established industry competitors.



The infant-industry theory, first developed in the early 19th century by Alexander Hamilton and Friedrich List, is often a justification for protectionist trade policies. The basic idea is that young, emerging industries in underdeveloped nations need protection from more established industries, usually from foreign nations.



In response to these arguments, governments may enact import duties, tariffs, quotas, and exchange rate controls to prevent international competitors from matching or beating the prices of an infant industry, thereby giving the infant industry time to develop and stabilize.


   Special Considerations  

According to a paper in the Journal of International Economics, titled "When and how should infant industries be protected?" the infant-industry theory was later improved on by the economist and philosopher John Stuart Mill, who said that infant industries should only be protected if they can mature and then become viable without protection. Charles Francis Bastable then added a simple condition that the cumulative net benefits provided by the protected industry must exceed the cumulative costs of protecting the industry.



Infant-industry theorists argue that industries in developing sectors of the economy need to be protected to keep international competitors from damaging or destroying the domestic infant industry. Infant industries, they argue, don't have the economies of scale that older competitors in other countries may have and should be protected, just until they have built an economy of similar scale. 



The infant-industry theory holds that once the emerging industry is stable enough to compete internationally, any protective measures introduced, such as tariffs, are intended to be removed. In practice, this is not always the case because the various protections that were imposed may be difficult to remove.
What Is an Inferior Good?  

An inferior good is an economic term that describes a good whose demand drops when people's incomes rise. These goods fall out of favor as incomes and the economy improve as consumers begin buying more costly substitutes instead.





Key Takeaways

An inferior good is one whose demand drops when people's incomes rise.When incomes are low or the economy contracts, inferior goods become a more affordable substitute for a more expensive good.Inferior goods may refer to the brand of products purchased, items purchased, or instance of how something occurs (i.e. taking a bus vs. driving a new car).Inferior goods are the opposite of normal goods, whose demand increases even when incomes increase.Inferior goods also oppose luxury goods, items of higher quality often sold at a premium that are not needed.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Inferior Goods  

In economics, the demand for inferior goods decreases as income increases or the economy improves. When this happens, consumers will be more willing to spend on more costly substitutes. Some of the reasons behind this shift may include quality or a change to a consumer's socio-economic status.



Inferior goods, which are the opposite of normal goods, are anything a consumer would demand less of if they had a higher level of real income. They may also be associated with those who typically fall into a lower socio-economic class.



Conversely, the demand for inferior goods increases when incomes fall or the economy contracts. When this happens, inferior goods become a more affordable substitute for more expensive goods.






The term "inferior good" refers to affordability, rather than quality, even though some inferior goods may be of lower quality.


   Inferior Good Examples  

There are many examples of inferior goods. Some of us may be more familiar with some of the everyday inferior goods we come into contact with, including instant noodles, hamburgers, canned goods, and frozen dinners. When people have less money, they tend to buy these kinds of products. But when their incomes rise, they often give these up for more expensive items.


  Food  

Groceries are among the most common examples of inferior products because food is a necessity that must always be acquired. However, the level at which consumers by food may vary. As opposed to eating a steak for dinner, an individual may opt for an inferior product such as canned meat or frozen food.



In addition, the way individuals consume food may be classified differently. Individuals may be less likely to eat out, especially at fancier restaurants, in favor of inferior methods of having food prepared such as preparing the meal at home on their own. One method is simply a superior substitute for the other.


  Transportation/Travel  

We can also turn to transportation as an example of an inferior good. When people's incomes are low, they may opt to ride public transport. When their incomes rise, they may stop riding the bus and, instead, take taxis or even buy cars. In addition, buying a vehicle may be classified on different tiers, as a used Honda may be considered inferior to a new Tesla.



Along with everyday transportation, many aspects of travel may be considered a superior or inferior goods. Consider the hotel you may stay at based on how your personal finances are doing. You may also choose to attend different entertainment events or fly first class as opposed to opting to cheaper, inferior travel options.


  Brands  

A McDonald’s coffee may be an inferior good compared to a Starbucks coffee. When a consumer's income drops, they may substitute their daily Starbucks java for the more affordable McDonald’s brew. On the other hand, when a consumer's income rises, they may substitute their McDonald's coffee for the more expensive Starbucks coffee.



Other examples of an inferior good are no-name grocery store products such as cereal or peanut butter. Consumers may use these cheaper generic brand products when their incomes are lower, and make the switch to name-brand products when their incomes increase. Grocery store brand products provide an insightful example of how inferior goods are not necessarily of lower quality. Many of these goods come from the same product line as the more expensive name-brand goods.


   Inferior Goods and Consumer Behavior  

Demand for inferior goods is commonly dictated by consumer behavior. Typically, demand for inferior goods is mainly driven by people with lower incomes or when there's a contraction in the economy. But that isn't always the case. Some customers may not change their behavior and continue to purchase inferior goods.



Consider a consumer who gets a raise from their employer. Despite the rise in income, they may continue to buy McDonald's coffee because they prefer it over Starbucks' brew, or they may find a no-name grocery product better than the more expensive name-brand counterpart. In this case, it's just a matter of personal preference.



Inferior goods aren't always the same in different parts of the world. For example, something as simple as fast food may be considered an inferior good in the U.S., but it may be deemed a normal good for people in developing nations. A normal good is one whose demand increases when people's incomes start to increase, giving it a positive income elasticity of demand.






Inferior goods are associated with a negative income elasticity, while normal goods are related to a positive income elasticity.


   Other Types of Goods  
  Giffen Goods  

Giffen goods are rare forms of inferior goods that have no ready substitute or alternative, such as bread, rice, and potatoes. The only difference between Giffen goods and traditional inferior goods is that demand for the former increases even when their prices rise, regardless of a consumer's income.



Many Giffen goods are considered staples, especially in areas where people live in a lower socio-economic class. When the prices of Giffen goods increase, consumers have no choice but to spend a larger amount of money on them. So they may spend more money on rice because that's all they can afford to buy—even if the price keeps rising. Products such as meat, on the other hand, become luxuries, as they are far too unaffordable and out of reach.


  Normal Goods  

An inferior good is the opposite of a normal good. Normal goods experience an increase in demand when incomes increase. Normal goods are also called necessary goods. An example is organic bananas. If a consumer's income is low, they may buy regular bananas. If their incomes rise and they have a few extra dollars to spend each month, they may choose to buy organic bananas. Other examples include clothing, water, and beer, and alcohol.


  Luxury Goods  

Luxury goods are the third category. They are not deemed essentials or necessities to live. These goods are highly desired and can be purchased when a consumer's income rises. In other words, the ability to purchase luxury goods is dependent on a consumer's wealth or assets. Luxury items include cleaning and cooking services, handbags and luggage, certain automobiles, and haute couture.


  Veblen Goods  

Another differing type of good is a Veblen good. A Veblen good is an item whose increase in price may actually result in higher sales. These types of goods are often a subset of a luxury good, and this type of good often defies many traditional concepts of economics. For example, consider a piece of artwork that sells for $100. Should the artwork actually be valued at $1 million, theory holds that more investors would be interest as there is greater potential value.




Do Inferior Goods Have an Inferior Quality?
Not necessarily. "Inferior good" is an economic term that refers to an item that becomes less desirable as the income of consumers increases. In other words, inferior goods are those whose price elasticity is negative, but this doesn't always involve a lower quality. As consumers’ incomes increase, they tend to decrease their purchases of inferior goods, opting for normal goods or luxury goods instead.




What Are Some Examples of Inferior Goods?
Typical examples of inferior goods include “store-brand” grocery products, instant noodles, and certain canned or frozen foods. Although some people have a specific preference for these items, most buyers would prefer buying more expensive alternatives if they had the income to do so. Therefore, when incomes rise, demand for these items tends to decrease accordingly.




What Is the Difference Between a Giffen Good and an Inferior Good?
The term Giffen goods, named after the Scottish economist Sir Robert Griffin, refers to goods whose demand increases even if prices rise, largely because there are few substitutes or alternatives for them. A classic example of a Giffen Good would be a basic food staple, such as rice. If consumers have no choice but to purchase the staple, they will continue to do so, even if it becomes more expensive. In fact, because these purchases will consume a greater share of their income, demand for Giffen goods will actually increase with higher prices: The limits on disposable income make slightly higher options even more out of reach.




Are Inferior Goods Bad?
Inferior goods aren't necessarily bad; they simply represent a more economical way of achieving the same goal. Instead of a catered fancy meal, it is not bad to make a simple meal at home. Inferior goods represent items that simply in less demand as people have more disposable income.


   The Bottom Line  

An inferior good is an item that is often a substitute product whose demand drops when people's income increases. During economic prosperity, consumers may be more likely to invest in more luxury goods. If a consumer's income drops, they are more likely to resort to activities such as buying lower quality items, generic brands, avoiding traveling, or changing eating habits.
Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   What Is Inflation?  

Inflation is a rise in prices, which can be translated as the decline of purchasing power over time. The rate at which purchasing power drops can be reflected in the average price increase of a basket of selected goods and services over some period of time. The rise in prices, which is often expressed as a percentage, means that a unit of currency effectively buys less than it did in prior periods. Inflation can be contrasted with deflation, which occurs when prices decline and purchasing power increases.





Key Takeaways

Inflation is the rate at which prices for goods and services rise.Inflation is sometimes classified into three types: demand-pull inflation, cost-push inflation, and built-in inflation.The most commonly used inflation indexes are the Consumer Price Index and the Wholesale Price Index.Inflation can be viewed positively or negatively depending on the individual viewpoint and rate of change.Those with tangible assets, like property or stocked commodities, may like to see some inflation as that raises the value of their assets.


   Understanding Inflation  

While it is easy to measure the price changes of individual products over time, human needs extend beyond just one or two products. Individuals need a big and diversified set of products as well as a host of services for living a comfortable life. They include commodities like food grains, metal, fuel, utilities like electricity and transportation, and services like healthcare, entertainment, and labor.



Inflation aims to measure the overall impact of price changes for a diversified set of products and services. It allows for a single value representation of the increase in the price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time.



Prices rise, which means that one unit of money buys fewer goods and services. This loss of purchasing power impacts the cost of living for the common public which ultimately leads to a deceleration in economic growth. The consensus view among economists is that sustained inflation occurs when a nation's money supply growth outpaces economic growth.





3.7%

The change in the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) over the 12-month period ending Aug. 2023. Prices rose 0.6% on a seasonally adjusted basis in August from the previous month.












Investopedia / Julie Bang



To combat this, the monetary authority (in most cases, the central bank) takes the necessary steps to manage the money supply and credit to keep inflation within permissible limits and keep the economy running smoothly.



Theoretically, monetarism is a popular theory that explains the relationship between inflation and the money supply of an economy. For example, following the Spanish conquest of the Aztec and Inca empires, massive amounts of gold and especially silver flowed into the Spanish and other European economies. Since the money supply rapidly increased, the value of money fell, contributing to rapidly rising prices.



Inflation is measured in a variety of ways depending on the types of goods and services. It is the opposite of deflation, which indicates a general decline in prices when the inflation rate falls below 0%. Keep in mind that deflation shouldn't be confused with disinflation, which is a related term referring to a slowing down in the (positive) rate of inflation.


   Causes of Inflation  

An increase in the supply of money is the root of inflation, though this can play out through different mechanisms in the economy. A country's money supply can be increased by the monetary authorities by:



Printing and giving away more money to citizensLegally devaluing (reducing the value of) the legal tender currencyLoaning new money into existence as reserve account credits through the banking system by purchasing government bonds from banks on the secondary market (the most common method)



In all of these cases, the money ends up losing its purchasing power. The mechanisms of how this drives inflation can be classified into three types: demand-pull inflation, cost-push inflation, and built-in inflation.


  Demand-Pull Effect  

Demand-pull inflation occurs when an increase in the supply of money and credit stimulates the overall demand for goods and services to increase more rapidly than the economy's production capacity. This increases demand and leads to price rises.



When people have more money, it leads to positive consumer sentiment. This, in turn, leads to higher spending, which pulls prices higher. It creates a demand-supply gap with higher demand and less flexible supply, which results in higher prices.












 Melissa Ling {Copyright} Investopedia, 2019


  Cost-Push Effect  

Cost-push inflation is a result of the increase in prices working through the production process inputs. When additions to the supply of money and credit are channeled into a commodity or other asset markets, costs for all kinds of intermediate goods rise. This is especially evident when there's a negative economic shock to the supply of key commodities.



These developments lead to higher costs for the finished product or service and work their way into rising consumer prices. For instance, when the money supply is expanded, it creates a speculative boom in oil prices. This means that the cost of energy can rise and contribute to rising consumer prices, which is reflected in various measures of inflation.


  Built-in Inflation  

Built-in inflation is related to adaptive expectations or the idea that people expect current inflation rates to continue in the future. As the price of goods and services rises, people may expect a continuous rise in the future at a similar rate. As such, workers may demand more costs or wages to maintain their standard of living. Their increased wages result in a higher cost of goods and services, and this wage-price spiral continues as one factor induces the other and vice-versa.


   Types of Price Indexes  

Depending upon the selected set of goods and services used, multiple types of baskets of goods are calculated and tracked as price indexes. The most commonly used price indexes are the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Wholesale Price Index (WPI).


  The Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

The CPI is a measure that examines the weighted average of prices of a basket of goods and services that are of primary consumer needs. They include transportation, food, and medical care.



CPI is calculated by taking price changes for each item in the predetermined basket of goods and averaging them based on their relative weight in the whole basket. The prices in consideration are the retail prices of each item, as available for purchase by the individual citizens.



Changes in the CPI are used to assess price changes associated with the cost of living, making it one of the most frequently used statistics for identifying periods of inflation or deflation. In the U.S., the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports the CPI on a monthly basis and has calculated it as far back as 1913.






The CPI-U, which was introduced in 1978, represents the buying habits of approximately 88% of the non-institutional population of the United States.


  The Wholesale Price Index (WPI)  

The WPI is another popular measure of inflation. It measures and tracks the changes in the price of goods in the stages before the retail level.



While WPI items vary from one country to another, they mostly include items at the producer or wholesale level. For example, it includes cotton prices for raw cotton, cotton yarn, cotton gray goods, and cotton clothing.



Although many countries and organizations use WPI, many other countries, including the U.S., use a similar variant called the producer price index (PPI).


  The Producer Price Index (PPI)  

The PPI is a family of indexes that measures the average change in selling prices received by domestic producers of intermediate goods and services over time. The PPI measures price changes from the perspective of the seller and differs from the CPI which measures price changes from the perspective of the buyer.



In all variants, it is possible that the rise in the price of one component (say oil) cancels out the price decline in another (say wheat) to a certain extent. Overall, each index represents the average weighted price change for the given constituents which may apply at the overall economy, sector, or commodity level.


   The Formula for Measuring Inflation  

The above-mentioned variants of price indexes can be used to calculate the value of inflation between two particular months (or years). While a lot of ready-made inflation calculators are already available on various financial portals and websites, it is always better to be aware of the underlying methodology to ensure accuracy with a clear understanding of the calculations. Mathematically,



Percent Inflation Rate = (Final CPI Index Value ÷ Initial CPI Value) x 100



Say you wish to know how the purchasing power of $10,000 changed between September 1975 and September 2018. One can find price index data on various portals in a tabular form. From that table, pick up the corresponding CPI figures for the given two months. For September 1975, it was 54.6 (initial CPI value) and for September 2018, it was 252.439 (final CPI value).



Plugging in the formula yields:



Percent Inflation Rate = (252.439 ÷ 54.6) x 100 = (4.6234) x 100 = 462.34%



Since you wish to know how much $10,000 from September 1975 would worth be in September 2018, multiply the inflation rate by the amount to get the changed dollar value:



Change in Dollar Value = 4.6234 x $10,000 = $46,234.25



This means that $10,000 in September 1975 will be worth $46,234.25. Essentially, if you purchased a basket of goods and services (as included in the CPI definition) worth $10,000 in 1975, the same basket would cost you $46,234.25 in September 2018.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Inflation  

Inflation can be construed as either a good or a bad thing, depending upon which side one takes, and how rapidly the change occurs.


  Advantages  

Individuals with tangible assets (like property or stocked commodities) priced in their home currency may like to see some inflation as that raises the price of their assets, which they can sell at a higher rate.



Inflation often leads to speculation by businesses in risky projects and by individuals who invest in company stocks because they expect better returns than inflation.



An optimum level of inflation is often promoted to encourage spending to a certain extent instead of saving. If the purchasing power of money falls over time, then there may be a greater incentive to spend now instead of saving and spending later. It may increase spending, which may boost economic activities in a country. A balanced approach is thought to keep the inflation value in an optimum and desirable range.


  Disadvantages  

Buyers of such assets may not be happy with inflation, as they will be required to shell out more money. People who hold assets valued in their home currency, such as cash or bonds, may not like inflation, as it erodes the real value of their holdings. As such, investors looking to protect their portfolios from inflation should consider inflation-hedged asset classes, such as gold, commodities, and real estate investment trusts (REITs). Inflation-indexed bonds are another popular option for investors to profit from inflation.



High and variable rates of inflation can impose major costs on an economy. Businesses, workers, and consumers must all account for the effects of generally rising prices in their buying, selling, and planning decisions.



This introduces an additional source of uncertainty into the economy, because they may guess wrong about the rate of future inflation. Time and resources expended on researching, estimating, and adjusting economic behavior are expected to rise to the general level of prices. That's opposed to real economic fundamentals, which inevitably represent a cost to the economy as a whole.



Even a low, stable, and easily predictable rate of inflation, which some consider otherwise optimal, may lead to serious problems in the economy. That's because of how, where, and when the new money enters the economy.



Whenever new money and credit enter the economy, it is always into the hands of specific individuals or business firms. The process of price level adjustments to the new money supply proceeds as they then spend the new money and it circulates from hand to hand and account to account through the economy.



Inflation does drive up some prices first and drives up other prices later. This sequential change in purchasing power and prices (known as the Cantillon effect) means that the process of inflation not only increases the general price level over time. But it also distorts relative prices, wages, and rates of return along the way.



Economists, in general, understand that distortions of relative prices away from their economic equilibrium are not good for the economy, and Austrian economists even believe this process to be a major driver of cycles of recession in the economy.





Pros

Leads to higher resale value of assets
Optimum levels of inflation encourage spending



Cons

Buyers have to pay more for products and services
Impose higher prices on the economy
Drives some prices up first and others later





   Controlling Inflation  

A country’s financial regulator shoulders the important responsibility of keeping inflation in check. It is done by implementing measures through monetary policy, which refers to the actions of a central bank or other committees that determine the size and rate of growth of the money supply.



In the U.S., the Fed's monetary policy goals include moderate long-term interest rates, price stability, and maximum employment. Each of these goals is intended to promote a stable financial environment. The Federal Reserve clearly communicates long-term inflation goals in order to keep a steady long-term rate of inflation, which is thought to be beneficial to the economy.



Price stability or a relatively constant level of inflation allows businesses to plan for the future since they know what to expect. The Fed believes that this will promote maximum employment, which is determined by non-monetary factors that fluctuate over time and are therefore subject to change.



For this reason, the Fed doesn't set a specific goal for maximum employment, and it is largely determined by employers' assessments. Maximum employment does not mean zero unemployment, as at any given time there is a certain level of volatility as people vacate and start new jobs.






Hyperinflation is often described as a period of inflation of 50% or more per month.



Monetary authorities also take exceptional measures in extreme conditions of the economy. For instance, following the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S. Fed kept the interest rates near zero and pursued a bond-buying program called quantitative easing (QE).



Some critics of the program alleged it would cause a spike in inflation in the U.S. dollar, but inflation peaked in 2007 and declined steadily over the next eight years. There are many complex reasons why QE didn't lead to inflation or hyperinflation, though the simplest explanation is that the recession itself was a very prominent deflationary environment, and quantitative easing supported its effects.



Consequently, U.S. policymakers have attempted to keep inflation steady at around 2% per year. The European Central Bank (ECB) has also pursued aggressive quantitative easing to counter deflation in the eurozone, and some places have experienced negative interest rates. That's due to fears that deflation could take hold in the eurozone and lead to economic stagnation. 



Moreover, countries that experience higher rates of growth can absorb higher rates of inflation. India's target is around 4% (with an upper tolerance of 6% and a lower tolerance of 2%), while Brazil aims for 3.25% (with an upper tolerance of 4.75% and a lower tolerance of 1.75%).


   Hedging Against Inflation  

Stocks are considered to be the best hedge against inflation, as the rise in stock prices is inclusive of the effects of inflation. Since additions to the money supply in virtually all modern economies occur as bank credit injections through the financial system, much of the immediate effect on prices happens in financial assets that are priced in their home currency, such as stocks.



Special financial instruments exist that one can use to safeguard investments against inflation. They include Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS), low-risk treasury security that is indexed to inflation where the principal amount invested is increased by the percentage of inflation.



One can also opt for a TIPS mutual fund or TIPS-based exchange-traded fund (ETF). To get access to stocks, ETFs, and other funds that can help to avoid the dangers of inflation, you'll likely need a brokerage account. Choosing a stockbroker can be a tedious process due to the variety among them.



Gold is also considered to be a hedge against inflation, although this doesn't always appear to be the case looking backward.






   Extreme Examples of Inflation  

Since all world currencies are fiat money, the money supply could increase rapidly for political reasons, resulting in rapid price level increases. The most famous example is the hyperinflation that struck the German Weimar Republic in the early 1920s.



The nations that were victorious in World War I demanded reparations from Germany, which could not be paid in German paper currency, as this was of suspect value due to government borrowing. Germany attempted to print paper notes, buy foreign currency with them, and use that to pay their debts. 



This policy led to the rapid devaluation of the German mark along with the hyperinflation that accompanied the development. German consumers responded to the cycle by trying to spend their money as fast as possible, understanding that it would be worth less and less the longer they waited. More and more money flooded the economy, and its value plummeted to the point where people would paper their walls with practically worthless bills. Similar situations occurred in Peru in 1990 and in Zimbabwe between 2007 and 2008.




What Causes Inflation?
There are three main causes of inflation: demand-pull inflation, cost-push inflation, and built-in inflation.Demand-pull inflation refers to situations where there are not enough products or services being produced to keep up with demand, causing their prices to increase.Cost-push inflation, on the other hand, occurs when the cost of producing products and services rises, forcing businesses to raise their prices.Built-in inflation (which is sometimes referred to as a wage-price spiral) occurs when workers demand higher wages to keep up with rising living costs. This in turn causes businesses to raise their prices in order to offset their rising wage costs, leading to a self-reinforcing loop of wage and price increases.




Is Inflation Good or Bad?
Too much inflation is generally considered bad for an economy, while too little inflation is also considered harmful. Many economists advocate for a middle ground of low to moderate inflation, of around 2% per year.Generally speaking, higher inflation harms savers because it erodes the purchasing power of the money they have saved; however, it can benefit borrowers because the inflation-adjusted value of their outstanding debts shrinks over time.




What Are the Effects of Inflation?
Inflation can affect the economy in several ways. For example, if inflation causes a nation’s currency to decline, this can benefit exporters by making their goods more affordable when priced in the currency of foreign nations.On the other hand, this could harm importers by making foreign-made goods more expensive. Higher inflation can also encourage spending, as consumers will aim to purchase goods quickly before their prices rise further. Savers, on the other hand, could see the real value of their savings erode, limiting their ability to spend or invest in the future.




Why Is Inflation So High Right Now?
In 2022, inflation rates in the U.S. and around the world rose to their highest levels since the early 1980s. While there is no single reason for this rapid rise in global prices, a series of events worked together to boost inflation to such high levels.The COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020 led to lockdowns and other restrictive measures that greatly disrupted global supply chains, from factory closures to bottlenecks at maritime ports. At the same time, governments issued stimulus checks and increased unemployment benefits to help blunt the financial impact of these measures on individuals and small businesses. When COVID-19 vaccines became widespread and the economy rapidly bounced back, demand (fueled in part by stimulus money and low interest rates) quickly outpaced supply, which still struggled to get back to pre-COVID levels.Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 led to a series of economic sanctions and trade restrictions on Russia, limiting the world's supply of oil and gas since Russia is a large producer of fossil fuels. At the same time, food prices rose as Ukraine's large grain harvests could not be exported. As fuel and food prices rose, it led to similar increases down the value chains.


   The Bottom Line  

Inflation is a rise in prices, which results in the decline of purchasing power over time. Inflation is natural and the U.S. government targets an annual inflation rate of 2%; however, inflation can be dangerous when it increases too much, too fast. Inflation makes items more expensive, especially if wages do not rise by the same levels of inflation. Additionally, inflation erodes the value of some assets, especially cash. Governments and central banks seek to control inflation through monetary policy.
What Is Inflation Accounting?  

Inflation accounting is a special technique used to factor in the impact that soaring or plummeting costs of goods in some regions of the world have on the reported figures of international companies. Financial statements are adjusted according to price indexes, rather than relying solely on a cost accounting basis, to paint a clearer picture of a firm’s financial position in inflationary environments. This method is also sometimes referred to as price level accounting.





Key Takeaways

Inflation accounting is the practice of adjusting financial statements according to price indexes.Numbers are restated to reflect current values in hyperinflationary business environments.International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) defines hyperinflation as prices, interest, and wages linked to a price index rising 100% or more cumulatively over three years.IFRS and U.S. GAAP have different requirements for inflation accounting.


   How Inflation Accounting Works  

When a company operates in a country where there is a significant amount of price inflation or deflation, historical information on financial statements is no longer relevant. To counter this issue, in certain cases, companies are permitted to use inflation-adjusted figures, restating numbers to reflect current economic values.



International Accounting Standard (IAS) 29 adopted by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is the guide for entities whose functional currency is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy. IFRS defines hyperinflation as prices, interest, and wages linked to a price index rising 100% or more cumulatively over three years.



Companies that fall under this category may be required to update their statements periodically in order to make them relevant to current economic and financial conditions, supplementing cost-based financial statements with regular price-level adjusted statements. 


   Inflation Accounting Methods  

There are two main methods used in inflation accounting—current purchasing power (CPP) and current cost accounting (CCA).


  Current Purchasing Power (CPP)  

Under the CPP method, monetary items and nonmonetary items are separated. The accounting adjustment for monetary items is subject to the recording of a net gain or loss. Nonmonetary items (those that do not carry a fixed value) are updated into figures with an inflation conversion factor equivalent to the consumer price index (CPI) at the end of the period divided by CPI at the date of transaction.


  Current Cost Accounting (CCA)  

The CCA approach values assets at their fair market value (FMV) rather than historical cost, the price incurred during the purchase of the fixed asset. Under the CCA method, both monetary and nonmonetary items are restated to current values.


   Special Considerations  

Requirements for inflation accounting differ between IFRS and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Both IFRS and GAAP have been treating Argentina as “hyperinflationary” since 2018 because cumulative inflation there over the prior three years has exceeded 100%. However, the requirements they impose on companies operating in the country vary.



IFRS permitted international businesses with subsidiaries in Argentina to continue using the peso for their accounts, provided they restate them to adjust for inflation. In contrast, U.S. firms with activities in Argentina are being forced to use the dollar as their functional currency, costing them in foreign exchange losses.



Insurance company Assurant Inc. warned in its 2021 annual report that “management has classified Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary in accordance with GAAP accounting requirements and, as a result, the functional currency of our Argentina subsidiaries was changed from the local currency to U.S. dollars and their non-U.S. dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities were subject to remeasurement resulting in losses.”


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Inflation Accounting  

Inflation accounting comes with many benefits. Chief among them, matching current revenues with current costs provides a much more realistic breakdown of profitability.



On the flip side, providing adjusted figures can confuse investors and give companies the opportunity to flag numbers that shine it in a better light. The process of adjusting accounts to factor in price changes can result in financial statements being constantly restated and altered.




What Are CPP and CCA Short for in Inflation Accounting?
CPP stands for current purchasing power; CCA stands for current cost accounting. These are the two main methods used to adjust financial statement figures in inflation accounting.




How Do You Calculate Inflation?
The percent inflation rate is calculated as the CPI at the end of the period divided by the CPI at the beginning of the period multiplied by 100.For example, let's assume you wanted to calculate the inflation rate between January 2006 and January 2022. According to the Consumer Price Index table, January 2022 has a CPI of 281.148 and January 2006 has a CPI of 198.300. The formula to calculate the percent inflation rate is therefore 281.148 / 198.300 × 100 = 141.77%.




What Does IFRS Define as Hyperinflation?
According to IFRS, hyperinflation is when prices, interest, and wages linked to a price index rise 100% or more cumulatively over three years.
What Is the Inflation-Adjusted Return?  

The inflation-adjusted return is the measure of return that takes into account the time period's inflation rate. The purpose of the inflation-adjusted return metric is to reveal the return on an investment after removing the effects of inflation.



Removing the effects of inflation from the return of an investment allows the investor to see the true earning potential of the security without external economic forces. The inflation-adjusted return is also known as the real rate of return or required rate of return adjusted for inflation.





Key Takeaways

The inflation-adjusted return accounts for the effect of inflation on an investment's performance over time.Also known as the real return, the inflation-adjusted return provides a more realistic comparison of an investment's performance.Inflation will lower the size of a positive return and increase the magnitude of a loss.


   Understanding Inflation-Adjusted Return  

The inflation-adjusted return is useful for comparing investments, especially between different countries. That's because each country's inflation rate is accounted for in the return. In this scenario, without adjusting for inflation across international borders, an investor may get vastly different results when analyzing an investment's performance. The inflation-adjusted return serves as a more realistic measure of an investment's return when compared to other investments.



For example, assume a bond investment is reported to have earned 2% in the previous year. This appears like a gain. However, suppose that inflation last year was 2.5%. Essentially, this means the investment did not keep up with inflation, and it effectively lost 0.5%.



Assume also a stock that returned 12% last year when inflation was running at 3%. An approximate estimate of the real rate of return is 9%, or the 12% reported return less the inflation amount (3%).


   Calculating the Inflation-Adjusted Return  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Calculating the inflation-adjusted return requires three basic steps. First, the return on the investment must be calculated. Second, the inflation for the period must be calculated. And third, the inflation amount must be geometrically backed out of the investment's return.






Inflation and returns compound, meaning if you don't use the correct formula and simply subtract the rate of inflation from the nominal return, the result you get won't be fully accurate.


   Example of Inflation-Adjusted Return  

Assume an investor purchases a stock on January 1 of a given year for $75,000. At the end of the year, on December 31, the investor sells the stock for $90,000. During the course of the year, the investor received $2,500 in dividends. At the beginning of the year, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was at 700. On December 31, the CPI was at a level of 721.



The first step is to calculate the investment's return using the following formula:



Return = (Ending price - Beginning price + Dividends) / (Beginning price) = ($90,000 - $75,000 + $2,500) / $75,000 = 23.3% percent.



The second step is to calculate the level of inflation over the period using the following formula:



Inflation = (Ending CPI level - Beginning CPI level) / Beginning CPI level = (721 - 700) / 700 = 3 percent



The third step is to geometrically back out the inflation amount using the following formula:



Inflation-adjusted return = (1 + Stock Return) / (1 + Inflation) - 1 = (1.233 / 1.03) - 1 = 19.7 percent



Since inflation and returns compound, it is necessary to use the formula in step three. An investor who simply takes a linear estimate by subtracting 3% from 23.3%, would arrive at an inflation-adjusted return of 20.3%, which in this example is 0.6% too high.


   Nominal Return vs. Inflation-Adjusted Return  

Using inflation-adjusted returns is often a good idea because they put things into a very real-world perspective. Focusing on how investments are doing over the long term can often present a better picture when it comes to its past performance (rather than a day-to-day, weekly, or even monthly glance).



But there may be a good reason why nominal returns work over those adjusted for inflation. Nominal returns are generated before any taxes, investment fees, or inflation. Since we live in a “here and now” world, these nominal prices and returns are what we deal with immediately to move forward. So, most people will want to get an idea of how the high and low price of an investment is—relative to its future prospects—rather than its past performance. In short, how the price fared when adjusted for inflation five years ago won’t necessarily matter when an investor buys it tomorrow. 




What Is an Example of Inflation Adjustment?
Inflation adjustment means removing the effect of price inflation from data. For example, if a stock rose 23% in a year that inflation was running at 3%, we could conclude, more or less, that the actual return, accounting for the increased cost of living, was about 20%. 




Why Is Inflation Adjustment Important?
Prices rise and that affects purchasing power. For example, $50 in April 2013 has the same buying power as $65.23 in April 2023. The same applies to money invested. A return on a $5,000 investment may be advertised as 70% over the course of 10 years. However, in reality, if you account for inflation, the actual return, or profit you make, is lower.




What’s the Best Measure of Inflation?
In the U.S., the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is produced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), is the most widely used measure of inflation. It influences government policy and the cost of borrowing money. However, like other measures, it isn’t perfect and won’t reflect changing living costs for all. 


   The Bottom Line  

Inflation is part of life. Costs rise and erode, among other things, the value of investments. If your investment rose 12% in a given year but the cost of living went up 4%, then your actual return isn't going to be 12%. That’s why many investors look at the inflation-adjusted return. This measure takes the nominal return and deducts inflation to reveal the real return of an investment.



The inflation-adjusted return allows us to see the true earning potential of a security without external economic forces. And it can also be particularly useful when comparing investments between different countries, each of which will likely have different levels of inflation.
What Is an Inflation Hedge?  

An inflation hedge is an investment that is considered to protect the decreased purchasing power of a currency that results from the loss of its value due to rising prices either macro-economically or due to inflation. It typically involves investing in an asset that is expected to maintain or increase its value over a specified period of time. Alternatively, the hedge could involve taking a higher position in assets, which may decrease in value less rapidly than the value of the currency.





Key Takeaways

Inflation hedging can be used to offset the anticipated drop in a currency's price.Limiting downside risk is a major commonality between institutional investors and currency hedging is a common practice. 


   How Inflation Hedging Works  

Inflation hedging can help protect the value of an investment. Certain investments might seem to provide a decent return, but when inflation is factored in, they can be sold at a loss. For example, if you invest in a stock that gives a 5% return, but inflation is 6%, you are losing that 1%. Assets that are considered an inflation hedge could be self-fulfilling; investors flock to them, which keeps their values high even though the intrinsic value may be much lower.






Gold is widely considered an inflationary hedge because its price in U.S. dollars is variable.



For example, if the dollar loses value from the effects of inflation, gold tends to become more expensive. So an owner of gold is protected (or hedged) against a falling dollar because, as inflation rises and erodes the value of the dollar, the cost of every ounce of gold in dollars will rise as a result. So the investor is compensated for this inflation with more dollars for each ounce of gold.


   A Real World Example of Inflation Hedging  

Companies sometimes engage in inflation hedging to keep their operating costs low. One of the most famous examples is Delta Air Lines purchasing an oil refinery from ConocoPhillips in 2012 to offset the risk of higher jet fuel prices.



To the extent that airlines try to hedge their fuel costs, they typically do so in the crude oil market. Delta felt they could produce jet fuel themselves at a lower cost than buying it on the market and in this way directly hedged against jet fuel price inflation. At the time, Delta estimated that it would reduce its annual fuel expense by $300 million. 


   Limitations of Inflation Hedging  

Inflation hedging has its limits and at times can be volatile. For example, Delta has not consistently made money from its refinery in the years since it was purchased, limiting the effectiveness of its inflation hedge.



The arguments for and against investing in commodities as an inflation hedge are usually centered around variables such as global population growth, technological innovation, production spikes and outages, emerging market political turmoil, Chinese economic growth, and global infrastructure spending. These continually changing factors play a role in the effectiveness of inflation hedging.
What Is an Inflation Swap?  

An inflation swap is a contract used to transfer inflation risk from one party to another through an exchange of fixed cash flows.



In an inflation swap, one party pays a fixed rate cash flow on a notional principal amount while the other party pays a floating rate linked to an inflation index, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The party paying the floating rate pays the inflation-adjusted rate multiplied by the notional principal amount. Usually, the principal does not change hands. Each cash flow comprises one leg of the swap.





Key Takeaways

An inflation swap is a transaction where one party transfers inflation risk to a counterparty in exchange for a fixed payment.An inflation swap can provide a pretty accurate estimation of what would be considered the "break-even" inflation rate.Inflation swaps are used by financial professionals to mitigate (or hedge) the risk of inflation and to use the price fluctuations to their advantage.


   How an Inflation Swap Works  

Inflation swaps are used by financial professionals to mitigate (hedge) the risk of inflation and to use the price fluctuations to their advantage. Many types of institutions find inflation swaps to be valuable tools. Payers of inflation are typically institutions that receive inflation cash flows as their core line of business. A good example might be a utility company because its income is linked (either explicitly or implicitly) to inflation.



One party to an inflation swap will receive a variable (floating) payment linked to an inflation rate and pay an amount based on a fixed rate of interest, while the other party will pay that inflation rate linked payment and receive the fixed interest rate payment. Notional amounts are used to calculate the payment streams. Zero-coupon swaps are most common, where the cash flows are swapped only at maturity.



As with other swaps, an inflation swap initially values at par, or face value. As interest and inflation rates change, the value of the swap's outstanding floating payments will change to be either positive or negative. At predetermined times, the market value of the swap is calculated. A counterparty will post collateral to the other party and vice versa, depending on the value of the swap.


   Benefits of Inflation Swaps  

The advantage of an inflation swap is that it provides an analyst with a fairly accurate estimation of what the market considers to be the "break-even" inflation rate. Conceptually, it is very similar to the way that a market sets the price for any commodity, namely the agreement between a buyer and a seller (between demand and supply) to transact at a specified rate. In this case, the specified rate is the expected rate of inflation.



Simply put, the two parties to the swap come to an agreement based on their respective takes on what the inflation rate is likely to be for the period of time in question. As with interest rate swaps, the parties exchange cash flows based on a notional principal amount (this amount is not actually exchanged), but instead of hedging against or speculating on interest rate risk, their focus is solely on the inflation rate.


   Inflation Swap Example  

An example of an inflation swap would be an investor purchasing commercial paper. At the same time, the investor enters into an inflation swap contract, receiving a fixed rate and paying a floating rate linked to inflation.



By entering into an inflation swap, the investor effectively turns the inflation component of the commercial paper from floating to fixed. The commercial paper gives the investor real LIBOR plus credit spread and a floating inflation rate, which the investor exchanges for a fixed rate with a counterparty.
What Is an Inflationary Gap?  

An inflationary gap measures the difference between the current level of real gross domestic product (GDP) and the GDP that would exist if an economy was operating at full employment.





Key Takeaways

An inflationary gap measures the difference between the current real GDP and the GDP of an economy operating at full employment.The current real GDP must be higher than the potential GDP for the gap to be considered inflationary.Policies that reduce an inflationary gap include reductions in government spending, tax increases, bond and securities issues, interest rate increases, and transfer payment reductions.A government may use fiscal policy to help reduce an inflationary gap by decreasing the number of funds circulating within the economy. A tight monetary policy should lower the money available to most consumers, triggering less demand. 


   Understanding an Inflationary Gap  

An inflationary gap exists when the demand for goods and services exceeds production due to higher levels of employment, increased trade activities, or elevated government expenditure. The real GDP can exceed the potential GDP, resulting in an inflationary gap:















Inflationary Gap


=


Actual GDP


−


Anticipated GDP







\begin{aligned}&\text{Inflationary Gap} = \text{Actual GDP} - \text{Anticipated GDP} \\\end{aligned}


​Inflationary Gap=Actual GDP−Anticipated GDP​



The inflationary gap represents the point in the business cycle when the economy expands as consumers purchase more goods and services. As demand increases but production lags, prices rise to restore market equilibrium.



The real GDP must be higher than the potential GDP for the gap to be considered inflationary. When the potential GDP is higher than the real GDP, the gap is instead referred to as a deflationary gap.


   Calculating Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

GDP measures the monetary value of final goods and services produced in a given period and bought by the final user within an economy. GDP is composed of goods and services for sale in the market and includes some nonmarket output, such as defense or education services provided by the government. 
According to macroeconomic theory, the goods market determines the real GDP, shown in the following relationship. To calculate real GDP, first compute the nominal GDP:















Y


=


C


+


I


+


G


+


NX
















where:
















Y


=


Nominal GDP
















C


=


Consumption expenditure
















I


=


Investment
















G


=


Government expenditure
















NX


=


Net exports







\begin{aligned}&\text{Y} = \text{C} + \text{I} + \text{G} + \text{NX} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{Y} = \text{Nominal GDP} \\&\text{C} = \text{Consumption expenditure} \\&\text{I} = \text{Investment} \\&\text{G} = \text{Government expenditure} \\&\text{NX} = \text{Net exports} \\\end{aligned}


​Y=C+I+G+NXwhere:Y=Nominal GDPC=Consumption expenditureI=InvestmentG=Government expenditureNX=Net exports​
Then, the real GDP = Y/D, where D is the GDP deflator, which takes inflation into effect over time.
An increase in consumption expenditure, investments, government expenditure, or net exports causes real GDP to rise in the short run. Real GDP provides a measure of economic growth while compensating for the effects of inflation or deflation. This accounts for the difference between actual economic growth and a simple shift in the prices of goods or services within the economy.


   Fiscal and Monetary Policy to Manage the Inflationary Gap  

A government may use fiscal policy to help reduce an inflationary gap by decreasing the number of funds circulating in the economy. This is accomplished through reductions in government spending, tax increases, bond and securities issues, and transfer payment reductions.



These adjustments to the fiscal conditions within the economy can restore economic equilibrium. As the amount of money in circulation decreases, the overall demand for goods and services declines, reducing inflation.



Central banks also have tools at their disposal to combat inflationary activity. When the Federal Reserve (Fed) raises interest rates, borrowing funds is more expensive.



Tight monetary policy can lower the money available to most consumers, triggering less demand and inflation retreats. Once equilibrium is reached, the Fed or other central bank can shift interest rates accordingly.




How Do You Identify an Inflationary Gap?
An inflationary gap is a difference between the full employment gross domestic product and the actual reported GDP number.  It represents the extra output as measured by GDP between what it would be under the natural rate of unemployment and the reported GDP number.




What Is the Difference Between Inflationary and Deflationary?
Inflation occurs in an economy when prices of goods and services increase and the purchasing power of people decreases. In deflation, there is a downward movement of the general price level of goods and services.




What Causes an Inflationary Gap?
An inflationary gap, when the demand for goods and services exceeds production, can be caused by high levels of employment, increased trade activities, or greater government expenditure.




How Do You Calculate the Inflationary Gap?
The Inflationary Gap equals the real or actual GDP minus the anticipated GDP.




What Is a Recessionary Gap?
A recessionary gap describes an economy operating below its full-employment equilibrium.


   The Bottom Line  

An inflationary gap measures the difference between the current real GDP and the potential GDP where an economy operates at full employment. The current real GDP is higher than the potential GDP for the gap to be inflationary. Governments impose policies to reduce an inflationary gap, such as reductions in government spending and tax and interest rate increases.
What Is an Inflection Point?  

An inflection point is an event that results in a significant change in the progress of a company, industry, sector, economy, or geopolitical situation and can be considered a turning point after which a dramatic change, with either positive or negative results, is expected to result.



Companies, industries, sectors, and economies are dynamic and constantly evolving. Inflection points are more significant than the small day-to-day progress typically made, and the effects of the change are often well known and widespread.





Key Takeaways

An inflection point refers to a key event that changes the trajectory of some process or situation related to the economy or society.Inflection points are more significant than the small day-to-day progress typically made in a company, and the effects of the change are often well known and widespread.When an inflection point is identified, it is often a sign that the affected industry must make certain fundamental changes in order to continue to operate.Inflection points can be intentional (actions taken by a company or competitor) or unintentional (those that occur by accident or from unforeseen events).If companies are not able to adapt to an inflection point, they will fail to keep up with competitors and cease operations. For those that can adapt, inflection points can be an advantage.


   Understanding an Inflection Point  

Based on mathematical charting models, the inflection point is where the direction of a curve changes in response to an event. To qualify, the shift must be noticeable or decisive and attributed to a particular cause.



This principle can be applied to a variety of economic, business, and financial information, such as shifts in the gross domestic product (GDP) or changes in security prices, but it is not used in reference to normal market fluctuations that are not the result of an event.



Andy Grove, Intel's co-founder, described a strategic inflection point as "an event that changes the way we think and act."



Inflection points can be a result of action taken by a company, or through actions taken by another entity, that has a direct impact on the company. Additionally, inflection points may be caused by an unintentional action or an unforeseen event.


   Special Considerations  

Regulatory changes, for instance, could lead to an inflection point for a corporation that was previously held back by regulatory compliance issues. Inflection points in technology include the advent of the Internet and smartphones. Politically, an inflection point can be illustrated by the fall of the Berlin Wall or the fall of communism in Poland and other Eastern Bloc countries.



Certain unforeseen events can include major economic downturns, such as the financial crisis of 2008, or natural disasters that affect a particular business or industry in a meaningful way. In this regard, an inflection point may not be identifiable until after the event has occurred and a change in direction has been subsequently noted.


   Real-World Example  

When an inflection point is identified, it is often a sign that the affected industry must make certain fundamental changes in order to continue to operate. For example, with the introduction of the smartphone, other mobile technology manufacturers had to adapt to the changing market conditions in order to remain successful.



Palm Inc., the manufacturer of the Palm Pilot personal organizer, attempted to adjust to changing market conditions through the release of the Palm Treo smartphone, but it was ultimately unable to compete with stronger industry competitors, such as the Blackberry and the iPhone.



This competitive pressure resulted in a significant loss of stock value. In 2010, HP Inc. announced its acquisition of Palm, which included an offer that amounted to approximately $5.70 per common share of Palm stock.






As of Q2 2021, Apple's global market share of the mobile phone market is 15%, behind Xiaomi (16%) and Samsung (18%).



The change in the mobile phone market towards smartphones not only impacted Palm but most of the large mobile phone companies at the time of the iPhone's release. This includes Nokia and Motorola.



At the start of the 2000s, Nokia had a 30.6% market share of the mobile phone market; the dominant company in the industry. After not being able to compete with the emergence of smartphones, Nokia sold its mobile phone business to Microsoft in 2013. Microsoft couldn't figure out a way to reboot the company and sold it in 2016.



The company still makes mobile phones, catering to the mid-lower price point but is just a shadow of its former self.




What Is a Point of Inflection?
A point of inflection is the location where a curve changes from sloping up or down to sloping down or up; also known as concave upward or concave downward. Points of inflection are studied in calculus and geometry. In business, the point of inflection is the turning point of a business due to a significant change. This turning point can be positive or negative.




What Does Inflection Point Mean in Common Usage?
In common usage, an inflection point is simply the point at which a significant change occurs. The change may be a positive one or negative one depending on how the inflection point impacts the subject at hand.




What Is an Inflection Point in Calculus?
In calculus, the inflection point is where a graph's concavity changes from either up to down or down to up. This change may be slow or dramatic but it is regarded as the point where the slope starts to change.
What Is the Information Coefficient (IC)?  

The information coefficient (IC) is a measure used to evaluate the skill of an investment analyst or an active portfolio manager. The information coefficient shows how closely the analyst's financial forecasts match actual financial results. The IC can range from 1.0 to -1.0, with -1 indicating the analyst's forecasts bear no relation to the actual results, and 1 indicating that the analyst's forecasts perfectly matched actual results.





Key Takeaways

The information coefficient (IC) is a measure used to evaluate the skill an investment analyst or active portfolio manager. An IC of +1.0 indicates a perfect prediction of actual returns, while an IC of 0.0 indicates no linear relationship. An IC of -1.0 indicates that the analyst always fails at making a correct prediction.The IC is not to be confused with the Information Ratio (IR). The IR is a measure of an investment manager's skill, comparing a manager's excess returns to the amount of risk taken.


   The Formula for the IC Is  

﻿















IC


=


(


2


×


Proportion Correct


)


−


1
















where:
















Proportion Correct


=


Proportion of predictions made
















correctly by the analyst








\begin{aligned} &\text{IC} = (2 \times \text{Proportion Correct}) - 1 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Proportion Correct} = \text{Proportion of predictions made} \\ &\text{correctly by the analyst} \\ \end{aligned}


​IC=(2×Proportion Correct)−1where:Proportion Correct=Proportion of predictions madecorrectly by the analyst​﻿


   Explaining the Information Coefficient  

The information coefficient describes the correlation between predicted and actual stock returns, sometimes used to measure the contribution of a financial analyst. An IC of +1.0 indicates a perfect linear relationship between predicted and actual returns, while an IC of 0.0 indicates no linear relationship. An IC of -1.0 indicates that the analyst always fails at making a correct prediction.



An information coefficient (IC) score near +1.0 indicates that the analyst has great skill in forecasting. But, in reality, if the definition of "correct" is that the analyst's prediction matched the direction (up or down) of actual results, then the odds of getting the forecast right are 50/50. So even an analyst with no skill whatsoever could be expected to have an IC of around 0, meaning that half of the forecasts were right and half were wrong. A score close to 0 reveals that the analyst's forecasting skills are no better than results that could be achieved by chance, suggesting that ICs approaching -1 are rare.



The IC is not to be confused with the Information Ratio (IR). The IR is a measure of an investment manager's skill, comparing a manager's excess returns to the amount of risk taken.



The IC and the IR are both components of the Fundamental Law of Active Management, which states that a manager's performance (IR) depends on skill level (IC) and its breadth, or how often it is used.


   Example of the Information Coefficient  

As a hypothetical example, if an investment analyst made two predictions and got two right, the information coefficient would be:



﻿















IC


=


(


2


×


1


.


0


)


−


1


=


+


1


.


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{IC} = (2 \times 1.0) - 1 = +1.0 \\ \end{aligned}


​IC=(2×1.0)−1=+1.0​﻿



If an analyst's predictions were only half of the time right, then:



﻿















IC


=


(


2


×


0


.


5


)


−


1


=


0


.


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{IC} = (2 \times 0.5) - 1 = 0.0 \\ \end{aligned}


​IC=(2×0.5)−1=0.0​﻿



If, however. none of the predictions were right, then:



﻿















IC


=


(


2


×


0


.


0


)


−


1


=


−


1


.


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{IC} = (2 \times 0.0) - 1 = -1.0 \\ \end{aligned}


​IC=(2×0.0)−1=−1.0​﻿


   Limitations of the Information Coefficient  

The IC is only meaningful for an analyst who makes a large number of predictions. This is because if there only a small number of predictions, random chance may explain a great deal of the results. So if there are only two predictions made and both are right the information coefficient is +1.0. If, however, the IC is till at or close to +1.0 after several dozen predictions have been made, then it is far more attributable to skill than to chance.
What Is the Information Ratio (IR)?  

The information ratio (IR) is a measurement of portfolio returns beyond the returns of a benchmark, usually an index, compared to the volatility of those returns. The benchmark used is typically an index that represents the market or a particular sector or industry.



The IR is often used as a measure of a portfolio manager's level of skill and ability to generate excess returns relative to a benchmark, but it also attempts to identify the consistency of the performance by incorporating a tracking error, or standard deviation component into the calculation.



The tracking error identifies the level of consistency in which a portfolio "tracks" the performance of an index. A low tracking error means the portfolio is beating the index consistently over time. A high tracking error means that the portfolio returns are more volatile over time and not as consistent in exceeding the benchmark.





Key Takeaways

The information ratio (IR) is a measurement of portfolio returns above the returns of a benchmark, usually an index such as the S&P 500, to the volatility of those returns.The information ratio is used to evaluate the skill of a portfolio manager at generating returns in excess of a given benchmark.A higher IR result implies a better portfolio manager who's achieving a higher return in excess of the benchmark, given the risk taken.


   Formula and Calculation of Information Ratio (IR)  

Although compared funds may be different in nature, the IR standardizes the returns by dividing the difference in their performances, known as their expected active return, by their tracking error:


















IR


=




Portfolio Return


−


Benchmark Return



Tracking Error

















where:
















IR


=


Information ratio
















Portfolio Return


=


Portfolio return for period
















Benchmark Return


=


Return on fund used as benchmark
















Tracking Error


=


Standard deviation of difference
















between portfolio and benchmark returns







\begin{aligned} &\text{IR} = \frac{ \text{Portfolio Return} - \text{Benchmark Return} }{ \text{Tracking Error} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{IR} = \text{Information ratio} \\ &\text{Portfolio Return} = \text{Portfolio return for period} \\ &\text{Benchmark Return} = \text{Return on fund used as benchmark} \\ &\text{Tracking Error} = \text{Standard deviation of difference} \\ &\text{between portfolio and benchmark returns} \\ \end{aligned}


​IR=Tracking ErrorPortfolio Return−Benchmark Return​where:IR=Information ratioPortfolio Return=Portfolio return for periodBenchmark Return=Return on fund used as benchmarkTracking Error=Standard deviation of differencebetween portfolio and benchmark returns​



To calculate IR, subtract the total of the portfolio return for a given period from the total return of the tracked benchmark index. Divide the result by the tracking error.



The tracking error can be calculated by taking the standard deviation of the difference between the portfolio returns and the index returns. For ease, calculate the standard deviation using a financial calculator or Excel.


   Deciphering the Information Ratio  

The information ratio identifies how much a fund has exceeded a benchmark. Higher information ratios indicate a desired level of consistency, whereas low information ratios indicate the opposite. Many investors use the information ratio when selecting exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or mutual funds based on their preferred risk profiles. Of course, past performance is not an indicator of future results, but the IR is used to determine whether a portfolio is exceeding a benchmark index fund.



The tracking error is often calculated by using the standard deviation of the difference in returns between a portfolio and the benchmark index. Standard deviation helps to measure the level of risk or volatility associated with an investment. A high standard deviation means there is more volatility and less consistency or predictability. The information ratio helps to determine by how much and how often a portfolio trades in excess of its benchmark but factors in the risk that comes with achieving the excess returns.



With the fees being charged by active fund managers, more investors are turning to passively managed funds that track benchmark indexes like the S&P 500. Some investors are paying 0.5% to 2% annually for an actively managed fund by a fund manager. It's important to determine whether the fund is beating a similar benchmark index on a consistent basis. The IR calculation can help provide a quantitative result of how well your fund is being managed.


   The IR vs. Sharpe Ratio  

Like the information ratio, the Sharpe ratio is an indicator of risk-adjusted returns. However, the Sharpe ratio is calculated as the difference between an asset's return and the risk-free rate of return divided by the standard deviation of the asset's returns. The risk-free rate of return would be consistent with the rate of return from a risk-free investment like a U.S. Treasury security. If a particular Treasury security paid a 3% annual yield, the Sharpe ratio would employ 3% as the risk-free rate for comparative purposes.



The IR, on the other hand, measures the risk-adjusted return in relation to a benchmark, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500), instead of a risk-free asset. The IR also measures the consistency of an investment's performance. However, the Sharpe ratio measures how much an investment portfolio outperformed the risk-free rate of return on a risk-adjusted basis.



Both financial metrics have their usefulness but the index comparison makes the IR more appealing to investors since index funds are typically the benchmark used in comparing investment performance and the market return is usually higher than the risk-free return.


   Limitations of Using the IR  

Any ratio that measures risk-adjusted returns can have varied interpretations depending on the investor. Each investor has different risk tolerance levels and depending on factors such as age, financial situation, and income might have different investment goals. As a result, the IR is interpreted differently by each investor depending on their needs, goals, and risk tolerance levels.



Also, comparing multiple funds against a benchmark is difficult to interpret because the funds might have different securities, asset allocations for each sector, and entry points in their investments. As with any single financial ratio, it's best to look at additional types of ratios and other financial metrics to make a more comprehensive and informed investment decision.


   Example  

A high IR can be achieved by having a high rate of return in the portfolio as compared to a lower return in the index as well as a low tracking error. A high ratio means that, on a risk-adjusted basis, a manager has produced better returns consistently compared to the benchmark index.



For example, say you're comparing two different fund managers:



Fund Manager A has an annualized return of 13% and a tracking error of 8%
Fund manager B has an annualized return of 8% and tracking error of 4.5% 
Also, assume the index has an annualized return of -1.5%



Fund Manager A's IR equals 1.81 or (13 - (-1.5) / 8). Fund Manager B's IR equals 2.11 or (8 - (-1.5) / 4.5). Although manager B had lower returns than manager A, their portfolio had a better IR because, in part, it has a lower standard deviation or tracking error, which means less risk and more consistency of the portfolio's performance relative to the benchmark index.
What Is Infrastructure?  

Infrastructure is defined as the basic physical systems of a business, region, or nation and often involves the production of public goods or production processes. Examples of infrastructure include transportation systems, communication networks, sewage, water, and school systems.



Investments in infrastructure tend to be costly and capital-intensive, but vital to a region's economic development and prosperity. Projects related to infrastructure improvements may be funded publicly, privately, or through public-private partnerships.





Key Takeaways


Infrastructure is the basic facilities and system serving a country, region, or community.
Examples of infrastructure include mass transit and telecommunications networks.
Large-scale infrastructure is usually produced by the public sector and funded by tax revenue.
Infrastructure can often be produced on a smaller scale by private firms or through local authorities.
Infrastructure can be classified as soft or hard and both are essential to the economy and quality of life of a society.













Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding Infrastructure  

The term infrastructure first appeared in the late 1880s, derived from French, with infra- meaning below and structure meaning building. Infrastructure can mean the foundation upon which the structure of an economy is built.



Infrastructure includes a variety of systems and structures where physical components are required such as the electrical grid across a city, state, or country. While the facilities, equipment, or similar physical assets like bridges and roads are essential to an economy, infrastructure also enables citizens to participate in the social and economic community and provides them with necessities such as food and water.



Because infrastructure often involves the production of either public goods or goods that lend themselves to production, it is typical to see public financing, control, supervision, or regulation of infrastructure. This usually takes the form of direct government production or production by a closely regulated, legally sanctioned entity. The first federally funded infrastructure project was the Cape Henry Lighthouse, built in 1789 at Virginia Beach, Virginia.



Sometimes private companies choose to invest in a country's infrastructure development as part of a business expansion effort. For example, an energy company may build pipelines and railways in a country where it wants to refine petroleum and this investment can benefit both the company and the country.



Individuals may also choose to fund improvements to certain pieces of public infrastructure. For example, an individual may fund improvements to hospitals, schools, or local law enforcement efforts.


   Types of Infrastructure  

Infrastructure is often categorized as hard or soft. Hard infrastructure is the tangible, physical assembly of structures such as roads, bridges, tunnels, and railways. Soft infrastructure is the services required to maintain the economic, health, and social needs of a population.


  Hard Infrastructure  

Hard infrastructure is the physical system needed to run a modern, industrialized nation. Examples include roads, highways, and bridges, as well as the assets required to make them operational such as transit buses, vehicles, and oil refineries. Technical systems such as networking equipment and cabling are considered hard infrastructure and provide a critical function to support business operations.



According to the Brookings Institute, 14 million people have jobs in fields directly related to infrastructure. From locomotive engineers and electrical power line installers to truck drivers and construction laborers, infrastructure jobs account for nearly 11% of the nation’s workforce.


  Soft Infrastructure  

Soft infrastructure represents human capital and institutions necessary to maintain an economy that delivers certain services to the population such as healthcare, financial institutions, government offices, law enforcement, and education. 



Investments in soft infrastructure target how people thrive and participate in daily life. In 2021, President Biden's Build Back Better Plan targeted soft infrastructure proposals like expansions to Medicare and tuition-free community college.


   Maintaining Infrastructure  

How infrastructure is maintained and funded generally depends on who owns it. The government owns a lot of infrastructure for transportation, water, and public education. Most infrastructure is owned by state and local governments, often partially supported through federal subsidies, and some infrastructure may be entirely privately owned.



Additionally, public-private partnerships exist in maintaining infrastructure. In 2004, Cintra entered into a 99-year lease with the City of Chicago to operate and maintain the Chicago Skyway Bridge. As part of the agreement, Cintra receives all toll and concession revenue generated by the bridge, while the city benefited from a $1.82 billion cash infusion and is no longer responsible for maintaining the bridge.



In 2022, the White House announced that AT&T, Comcast, Verizon, Spectrum, and 16 other providers will offer high-speed internet plans of at least 100 megabits per second “for no more than $30 per month” to eligible low-income households citing the new government subsidy established by the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, passed in 2021.



The United States has embarked on many infrastructure plans including The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and, in 2015, the $305 billion transportation infrastructure bill. On November 15, 2021, President Joe Biden signed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which allocates $1.2 trillion to fund the rebuilding of roads, bridges, water infrastructure, internet, and more.



The 2021 package also includes new incentives and investment in developing infrastructure components such as $7.5 billion to support electric vehicles and $65 billion to ensure every American has access to reliable high-speed internet.




What Is the Digital Divide?
As highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic, many areas within the United States have limited or no internet broadband access, creating a digital divide within the country. Included in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) of 2021 is funding to ensure every American has access to reliable high-speed internet.




Are Electric Vehicles Considered a Part of Infrastructure?
The Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) provides funding to develop the country’s EV-charging infrastructure and install 500,000 publicly accessible charging stations compatible with all vehicles and technologies by 2030.




Why Is Infrastructure Important to a Society?
Infrastructure powers businesses and connects workers to their jobs and citizens to opportunities for healthcare and education.. It creates opportunities within communities and an economy needs reliable infrastructure to connect supply chains and move goods and services.
What Is Inherent Risk?  

Inherent risk is the risk posed by an error or omission in a financial statement due to a factor other than a failure of internal control. In a financial audit, inherent risk is most likely to occur when transactions are complex, or in situations that require a high degree of judgment in regard to financial estimates. This type of risk represents a worst-case scenario because all internal controls in place have nonetheless failed.





Key Takeaways


Inherent risk is the risk posed by an error or omission in a financial statement due to a factor other than a failure of internal control.
In a financial audit, inherent risk is most likely to occur when transactions are complex, or in situations that require a high degree of judgment in regard to financial estimates.
Inherent risk is one of the risks auditors and analysts must look for when reviewing financial statements, along with control risk and detection risk.
Inherent risk is common in the financial services sector due to complex regulations and the use of difficult-to-assess financial instruments.













Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Inherent Risk  

Inherent risk is one of the risks auditors and analysts must look for when reviewing financial statements. The other main audit risks are control risk, which occurs when a financial misstatement results from a lack of proper accounting controls in the firm, and detection risk, which occurs when auditors simply fail to detect an easy-to-notice error.



When conducting an audit or analyzing a business, the auditor or analyst tries to gain an understanding of the nature of the business while examining control risks and inherent risks. If inherent and control risks are considered to be high, an auditor can set the detection risk to an acceptably low level to keep the overall audit risk at a reasonable level. To lower detection risk, an auditor will take steps to improve audit procedures through targeted audit selections or increased sample sizes.



Companies operating in highly regulated sectors, such as the financial sector, are more likely to have higher inherent risk, especially if the company does not have an internal audit department or has an audit department without an oversight committee with a financial background. The ultimate risk posed to the company also depends on the financial exposure created by the inherent risk if the process for accounting for the exposure fails.



Complex financial transactions, such as those undertaken in the years leading up to the financial crisis of 2007–2008, can be difficult for even the most intelligent financial professionals to understand. Asset-backed securities, such as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), became difficult to account for as tranches of varying qualities were repackaged again and again. This complexity may make it difficult for an auditor to make the correct opinion, which in turn can lead investors to consider a company to be more financially stable than in actuality.






Inherent risk is highest when management has to use a substantial amount of judgment and approximation in recording a transaction, or where complex financial instruments are involved.


   Examples of Inherent Risk  

Inherent risk is often present when a company releases forward-looking financial statements, either to internal investors or the public as a whole. Forward-looking financials by nature rely on management's estimates and value judgments, which pose an inherent risk.






When an estimation is made, it should be disclosed to financial statement users for clarity.



The same applies to accounts that require approximations or value judgments by management. Fair value accounting estimates are tricky to make and can be highly subjective.




What Are the 3 Types of Audit Risk?
There are three main types of audit risk: Inherent risk, detection risk, and control risk.




What Is the Difference Between Inherent Risk and Control Risk?
Inherent risk is an error or omission in a financial statement due to a factor other than a failure of internal control. Control risk, on the other hand, refers to the misstatement of financial statements due to sloppy accounting practices.




Can Auditors Reduce Inherent Risk?
If inherent and control risks are considered high, an auditor can keep the overall audit risk at a reasonable level by lowering the detection risk. This can be achieved by targeted audit selections or increased sample sizes.




What Factors Can Increase Inherent Risk?
Factors that can increase inherent risk include subjective estimates, non-routine transactions, and the use of complex financial instruments. Generally, the more complicated a company’s business model and transactions are, the higher the inherent risk is.


   The Bottom Line  

Inherent risk is not always easy to spot, particularly compared to the other main two audit risks, and increases substantially in business sectors where transactions are open to a substantial amount of judgment and approximation. These risks are important to take into account as they can drastically mislead investors and are generally best combatted by getting several qualified auditors to go over the books.
What Is an Inheritance?  

Inheritance refers to the assets that an individual bequeaths to their loved ones after they pass away. An inheritance may contain cash, investments such as stocks or bonds, and other assets such as jewelry, automobiles, art, antiques, and real estate.



A person may name beneficiaries in their will who will receive an inheritance. In other cases, assets will automatically pass to a spouse or children as heirs.



Those who receive an inheritance may be subject to inheritance taxes, where the more distantly related a beneficiary is to the decedent, the larger the inheritance tax is likely to be. In the United States, assets can also be subject to federal and state income tax, though life insurance policy death benefits are typically tax-free for named beneficiaries.





Key Takeaways

An inheritance is a financial term describing the assets passed down to individuals after someone dies.Most inheritances consist of cash that’s parked in a bank account but may contain stocks, bonds, cars, jewelry, automobiles, art, antiques, real estate, and other tangible assets.Those who receive an inheritance may be subject to inheritance taxes, where the more distantly related a beneficiary is to the decedent, the larger the inheritance tax is likely to be.Six U.S. states currently impose inheritance taxes: Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.A decedent’s assets are divided according to their will through the probate process. If there is no will, the court will appoint an administrator to divide assets according to state laws.


   How an Inheritance Works  

The value of an inheritance can range from a few thousand dollars to several million dollars. In most countries, inheritance assets are subject to inheritance taxes, where beneficiaries may find themselves saddled with tax liabilities. The rates of an inheritance tax (sometimes referred to as a “death duty” or “the last twist of the taxman’s knife”) depend on a host of factors, including a beneficiary’s state of residence, the value of the inheritance, and the beneficiary’s relationship to the decedent.



Currently, the six American states that have inheritance taxes are Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. And in most of these states, any assets that are bequeathed to a spouse are exempt from inheritance taxes. In some cases, children are also exempt, or they may face lower rates of taxation.






An inheritance tax differs from an estate tax, which is a levy on the transfer of a deceased person’s estate. But estate taxes do not apply to assets left to a spouse or to federally recognized charities, in most cases.



Beneficiaries with no familial ties to the decedent are typically subject to higher inheritance taxes than beneficiaries who are closely related to the decedent. Consider the following example: In Nebraska in 2018, a parent, grandparent, sibling, child, or other lineal descendants (including adopted children) paid an inheritance tax of 1% on assets exceeding $40,000.



By contrast, relatives who were further removed from the decedent paid inheritance taxes of 13% on amounts over $15,000. All other beneficiaries, such as friends and far distant relatives, paid inheritance taxes at a rate of 18% on assets exceeding $10,000.



Life insurance is not subject to inheritance taxes. If you wish to avoid an inheritance tax, consider taking out a life insurance policy with your heirs named as beneficiaries.


   The Probate Process  

Probate is the legal process by which a decedent’s assets are divided among their heirs and beneficiaries, according to their will and state laws. If the decedent died with a will, that will is reviewed by a probate court, which appoints an executor for the decedent’s estate. The executor is then responsible for dividing the estate among the people named in the will and any creditors. Any disputes are resolved through probate court.



A person who dies without a will, or with an invalid will, is said to have died intestate. In this circumstance, the probate court will appoint an administrator of the estate to divide the assets according to state laws.


   Beneficiaries vs. Heirs  

There is a distinction between a beneficiary and an heir. Beneficiaries refer to individuals named in a will, while heirs refer to people such as a child or a surviving spouse, who are entitled to receive a decedent’s property, by “intestate succession.” This is a set of rules created to sort out inheritance matters in the absence of a will.




What Can You Do to Avoid Inheritance Taxes?
An inheritance tax is a state tax on the estate of a decedent. In most cases, inheritance taxes are higher according to the size of the inheritance and the beneficiary’s relationship to the deceased.You can reduce the inheritance tax burden on your beneficiaries by placing your assets in a trust, or by gifting assets to your beneficiaries while they are still living. Another option is to take out a life insurance policy, naming your heirs as beneficiaries. These payouts are not subject to inheritance taxes.




How Can You Avoid Taxes on a 401(k) Inheritance?
If you inherit a 401(k) from a spouse, the conventional wisdom is to roll the sum into your own individual retirement account (IRA). This allows you to defer taxes until you start taking distributions.If you inherit from a parent, it’s a little more complicated. The first step should be to consult the plan documents to determine what options are available. Most advisors caution against a lump-sum distribution, which would incur greater taxes than you would otherwise. A five- or 10-year distribution allows you to spread out the tax burden and allows interest to compound. Some plans also allow distributions over your calculated life expectancy, under very specific conditions.




Can You Protect an Inheritance from a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy?
If you receive an inheritance within 180 days of filing Chapter 13 bankruptcy, your trustee may require you to pay the sum into your bankruptcy plan. It’s more complicated for inheritances received more than 180 days after a bankruptcy filing—most courts have ruled that these windfalls should be repaid to creditors, but some courts have allowed the inheritor to keep the money.




How Do I Find Out If I Have an Unclaimed Inheritance?
According to the U.S. government, the first step to finding unclaimed assets is to check your state’s unclaimed money office. This is where the state collects records of unpaid wages, unclaimed bank accounts, and heirs who could not be located.If you are uncertain about the contents of a will, the first step is to contact the decedent’s executor. In addition, their will should be filed with the local county recorder.




What Is Probate?
The term “probate” refers to a legal process in which the validity and authenticity of a will are determined. Probate also refers to the general administration of a deceased person’s will or the estate of a deceased person without a will.After an asset holder dies, the court appoints an executor named in the will or an administrator (if there is no will) to administer the process of probate. This involves collecting the deceased’s assets to pay any liabilities that remain on their estate and to distribute the assets to beneficiaries.


   The Bottom Line  

Inheritance planning is an unpleasant but necessary task for those of advancing age. While nobody enjoys thinking about their death, a well-structured estate plan can save your heirs and beneficiaries from a lot of legal unpleasantries. Moreover, it can also ensure that they receive as much money as possible, without losing too much value in taxes.
What Is Inheritance Tax?  

An inheritance tax is a tax imposed by some states on the recipients of inherited assets. In contrast to an estate tax, an inheritance tax is paid by the recipient of a bequest rather than the estate of the deceased.



The inheritance tax is not common in the U.S. In fact, just six states have an inheritance tax as of 2023, and the taxation depends on the state in which the deceased lived or owned property, the value of the inheritance, and the beneficiary's relationship to the decedent. Taxes for 2022 are paid in 2023.





Key Takeaways

Inheritance tax is a levy on assets inherited from a deceased person.Unlike the estate tax, which is levied on the value of an estate and is paid by it, an inheritance tax is levied on the value of the inheritance received by the beneficiary, and it is the beneficiary who pays it.There is no federal inheritance tax, but inherited assets may be taxed for residents of Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.Whether you will pay inheritance tax depends on the amount of the inheritance and your relationship to the deceased—with lower amounts inherited from close relatives more likely to be exempted.Inheritance taxes can be minimized or avoided by leaving heirs money via trusts or insurance policies, or by gifting sums during one's lifetime.


   Understanding Inheritance Taxes  

An inheritance tax is not the same as an estate tax. An estate tax is assessed on the estate itself before its assets are distributed, while an inheritance tax may be imposed on the bequest's beneficiaries. 



There is no federal inheritance tax in the U.S. While the U.S. government taxes large estates directly—imposing estate taxes and, if relevant, income tax on any earnings from the estate—it does not impose an inheritance tax on those who receive assets from an estate.



Inheritance taxes are collected by six U.S. states: Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. Whether your inheritance will be taxed, and at what rate, depends on its value, your relationship to the person who passed away, and the prevailing rules where you live.



Inheritance tax may be assessed by the state or states where the decedent lived or owned property.


   How Inheritance Taxes Are Calculated  

An inheritance tax, if due, is applied only to the portion of an inheritance that exceeds an exemption amount. Above those thresholds, tax is usually assessed on a sliding basis. Rates typically begin in the single digits and rise to between 15% and 18%. Both the exemption you receive and the rate you're charged may vary with your relationship to the deceased—more so than with the value of assets you are inheriting.



As a rule, the closer your familial relationship to the deceased, the higher the exemption and the lower the rate you'll pay. Surviving spouses are exempt from inheritance tax in all six states. Domestic partners, too, are exempt in New Jersey. Descendants are only subject to an inheritance tax in Nebraska and Pennsylvania.






Life insurance payable to a named beneficiary is not typically subject to an inheritance tax. It may be subject to an estate tax if the estate or a revocable trust was the beneficiary of the policy.


   Inheritance Tax Thresholds  

In most states, an inheritance tax applies to bequests above a certain amount. In a few instances, the size of the estate is significant. For example:



In Iowa, if the estate is valued at less than $25,000 then no tax is due when property passes to the recipients.In Maryland, inheritances from estates smaller than $50,000 are also exempt.



There are further exemptions for heirs, depending on how closely related they were to the deceased. Here are the details by state:



Iowa: Spouses, lineal ascendants (parents, grandparents, and great-grandparents), and lineal descendants (children, stepchildren, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren) are exempt; charities exempt up to $500. The tax rate on others ranges from 3% to 9% of inheritance in 2022.Kentucky: Immediate family members (spouses, parents, children, siblings) are exempt; other recipients exempt up to $500 or $1,000. The tax is on a sliding scale based on the size of inheritance and includes a minimum amount, plus a percentage ranging from 4% to 16%.Maryland: Immediate family (parents, grandparents, spouses, children, grandchildren, siblings) and charities exempt; other recipients exempt up to $1,000. The tax rate is 10%.Nebraska: Spouses and charities fully exempt; immediate family (parents, grandparents, siblings, children, grandchildren) exempt up to $40,000 (rising to $100,000 in 2023). Other relatives are exempt up to $15,000 ($40,000 in 2023) and unrelated heirs up to $10,000 ($25,000 in 2023). Prior to 2023, the tax rates above those exemptions are 1%, 13%, and 18%, respectively. Starting in 2023, those rates rise to 1%, 11%, and 15%, respectively. New Jersey: Immediate family (spouse, children, parents, grandparents, grandchildren) and charitable organizations exempt. Siblings and sons/daughters-in-law exempt up to $25,000. The tax rate ranges from 11% to 16%, depending on the size of inheritance and the familial relationship.Pennsylvania: Spouse and minor children exempt. Adult children, grandparents, and parents are exempt up to $3,500. The tax rate is 4.5%, 12%, or 15%, depending on the relationship.






Consider giving money gradually, while you're alive, to recipients—instead of a lump-sum bequest upon your death. With the exception of Connecticut, states usually don't tax gifts.


   Inheritance Tax vs. Estate Tax  

Inheritance taxes and estate taxes are often lumped together. However, they are two distinct forms of taxation.



Both levies are based on the fair market value of a deceased person's property, usually as of the date of death. But an estate tax is levied on the value of the decedent's estate, and the estate pays it. In contrast, an inheritance tax is levied on the value of an inheritance received by the beneficiary, and it is the beneficiary who pays it.



The distinction between an estate tax and an inheritance tax with identical rates and exemptions might make no difference to a sole heir. But in some rare situations, an inheritance could be subject to both estate and inheritance taxes.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), federal estate tax returns are only required for estates with values exceeding $12.06 million in 2022 (rising to $12.92 million in 2023). If the estate passes to the spouse of the deceased person, no estate tax is assessed. Taxes for 2022 are paid in 2023. 



If a person inherits an estate large enough to trigger the federal estate tax, the decedent lived or owned property in a state with an inheritance tax, and the bequest is not fully exempt under that state's law, the beneficiary faces the federal estate tax as well as a state inheritance tax. The estate is taxed before it is distributed, and the inheritance is then taxed at the state level. 



Heirs may also face a state estate tax. As of 2023, 12 states and one district still collected estate taxes: Connecticut, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, New York, Oregon, Minnesota, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington.



If you live in a state with an estate tax, you're more likely to feel its pinch than you are to pay federal estate tax. The exemptions for state and district estate taxes are all less than half those of the federal assessment. Some state estate tax exemptions may be as low as $1 million.






Maryland is currently the only state that imposes both an estate tax and an inheritance tax.


   Avoiding Inheritance Tax  

While there are a lot of exceptions and exemptions for inheritance taxes, especially for spouses and children, residents with significant assets in a state with one may still want to minimize the exposure for heirs.



One common strategy is to buy a life insurance policy in the sum you wish to bequeath and make the person you want to leave it to the beneficiary of the policy. The death benefit from an insurance policy is not subject to inheritance taxes.



You could also put assets in a trust—preferably an irrevocable trust. This effectively removes them from your estate and their classification as an inheritance upon your death. You can set up a schedule for the distribution of the funds when you establish the trust.






Trusts are complicated animals and must be set up and worded carefully and meticulously to comply with state tax laws. So don't try doing so without the help of a trust and estates attorney.




How Much Can You Inherit Without Paying Taxes?
The six U.S. states with inheritance taxes provide varying exemptions based on the size of the inheritance and the familial relationship of the heir to the deceased. The federal estate tax exemption shields $12.06 million from tax as of 2022 (rising to $12.92 million in 2023). There's no income tax on inheritances.




What Is the Federal Inheritance Tax Rate?
There is no federal inheritance tax—that is, a tax on the sum of assets an individual receives from a deceased person. However, a federal estate tax applies to estates larger than $12.06 million for 2022 (rising to $12.92 million in 2023). The tax is assessed only on the portion of an estate that exceeds those amounts. The rate is on a sliding scale, from 18% to 40%.




Do Beneficiaries Have to Pay Taxes on Inheritance?
It depends on their familial relationship to the deceased and on the state where the decedent lived or owned property. Only estates or property located in one of six states that impose inheritance taxes may be subject to them.Surviving spouses are always exempt from inheritance taxes. Other immediate relatives, like the deceased's parents, children, and siblings, are exempt to varying degrees, depending on the state. They may be entitled to inherit a certain sum tax-free and to pay a lower tax rate on the remainder.Inheritance taxes mainly affect more distant relatives and unrelated heirs.




How Is Inheritance Tax Calculated?
Inheritance tax rules vary by state. Most states divide beneficiaries into different classes, depending on their family relationship to the deceased (immediate, lineal, unrelated), and set exemptions and tax rates based on those categories.Most states only apply tax to an inheritance above a certain amount. They then charge a percentage of this sum; it may be flat or it may be graduated. Kentucky, for example, imposes a rate that ranges from 4% to 16%, rising as the inheritance amount does, from $1,000 to over $200,000. It also imposes a flat dollar figure, ranging from $30 to $28,670, based on the sum inherited.


   The Bottom Line  

Inheritance taxes only affect residents in six states. And they mainly apply to distant relatives or those completely unrelated to the deceased. Spouses are always exempted, and immediate family members—children, parents—often are as well. Siblings, grandchildren, and grandparents, if they're taxed at all, receive more generous terms (larger exemptions, lower rates).



Still, inheritance taxes can kick in at relatively small inheritance amounts—sometimes as little as $500. Those considering bequests that could be subject to an inheritance tax might consider estate-planning strategies including gifts, insurance policies and irrevocable trusts.
What Is an Inherited IRA?  

An inherited IRA is an account that is opened when an individual inherits an IRA or employer-sponsored retirement plan after the original owner dies. The individual inheriting the Individual Retirement Account (IRA) (the beneficiary) may be anyone—a spouse, relative, unrelated party, or entity (e.g., estate or trust). Rules on how to handle an inherited IRA differ for spouses and non-spouses, however.



An inherited IRA is also known as a "beneficiary IRA." Many of the top brokers for IRAs provide support in resolving these matters related to the inheritance of IRA assets, taxation issues, and continuation of retirement account status. 



Tax laws surrounding inherited IRAs are quite complicated, and they became even more so with the Setting Every Community Up For Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act of 2019, which made some significant changes to the regulations—mainly for non-spousal heirs.





Key Takeaways

An inherited IRA, also known as a beneficiary IRA, is an account that is opened when an individual inherits an IRA or employer-sponsored retirement plan after the original owner dies.Additional contributions may not be made to an inherited IRA.Rules vary for spousal and non-spousal beneficiaries of inherited IRAs.The SECURE Act mandated that non-spousal beneficiaries must empty inherited IRAs within a decade.Traditional IRA owners must now take required minimum distributions starting at age 73, though withdrawal rules are different for Roth IRAs. 


   Understanding the Inherited IRA  

A beneficiary may open an inherited IRA using the proceeds from any type of IRA, including traditional, Roth, rollover, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs. Generally, assets held in the deceased individual’s IRA must be transferred into a new inherited IRA in the beneficiary’s name.



This transfer must be made even if a lump-sum distribution is planned. Additional contributions may not be made to an inherited IRA.



The Internal Revenue Service provides guidelines for inherited IRA beneficiaries. IRS forms 1099-R and 5498 are required for reporting inherited IRAs and their distributions for tax purposes.



Inherited IRAs are treated the same, whether they are traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. The tax treatment of withdrawals does vary—consistent with the type of IRA (funded with pre-tax dollars, like the traditional type, or post-tax dollars, like the Roth).


   Inherited IRAs: Rules for Spouses  

Spouses have more flexibility in how to handle an inherited IRA. For one, they can roll over the IRA, or a part of the IRA, into their own existing individual retirement accounts; the big advantage of this is the ability to defer required minimum distributions (RMDs) of the funds until they reach the age of 73.






RMDs previously began at 70½, but the age was raised to 72 following the December 2019 passage of the Setting Every Community Up For Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act. This limit has since been increased again as part of SECURE 2.0 Act.



They have 60 days from receiving a distribution to roll it over into their own IRAs as long as the distribution is not a required minimum distribution.



Spousal heirs can also set up a separate inherited IRA account, as described above. How they deal with this IRA depends on the age of the deceased account holder.



If the original owner had already begun receiving RMDs at the time of death, the spousal beneficiary must continue to receive the distributions as calculated or submit a new schedule based on their own life expectancy. If the owner had not yet committed to an RMD schedule or reached their required beginning date (RBD)—the age at which they had to begin RMDs—the beneficiary of the IRA has a five-year window to withdraw the funds, which would then be subject to income taxes.


   Inherited IRAs: Rules for Non-Spouses  

Non-spouse beneficiaries may not treat an inherited IRA as their own. That is, they may not make additional contributions to the account nor can they transfer inherited funds into their existing IRA account. Non-spouses may not leave assets in the original IRA. They must set up a new inherited IRA account unless they want to distribute the assets immediately via a lump-sum payment.



It is in the realm of distributions that the SECURE Act most drastically affects non-spouse inheritors of IRAs. Previously, these beneficiaries could handle RMDs pretty much as spousal heirs could; in particular, they could recalculate them based on their own life expectancy—which often significantly decreased the annual amount that had to be withdrawn and the tax due on them (in the case of traditional IRAs).






Those who inherit Roth IRAs are required to take distributions (unlike the original account owners), but the funds remain tax-free and also free of any early-withdrawal penalty, even if the beneficiary is under 59½.



No longer. The SECURE Act dictates that, for accounts inherited after Dec. 31, 2019, non-spouse beneficiaries typically must cash out the account within 10 years of the original owner's death. Some heirs are exempted:



those whose age is within a decade of the deceased'sdisabled or chronically ill individualsor minor children; however, these minors must be direct descendants (no grandchildren, in other words), and, once they reach majority age, the 10-year rule kicks in for them too. 



There's no particular timetable for the withdrawals; they can be taken annually or all at once. For beneficiaries in these categories and those already in possession of inherited IRAs, the old distribution rules and schedules remain in effect.


   Your Options  

IRA beneficiaries have several options for claiming their inheritance; however, choices depend on their relationship to the decedent. All beneficiaries have the option to receive a lump sum distribution of the funds or disclaim the inheritance, and depending on the type of account inherited, natural beneficiaries may elect to leave the proceeds in the plan. Spouses have the most options, followed by natural non-spousal beneficiaries. Non-natural beneficiaries have the fewest options.


  Spousal Beneficiary  

As a spouse inheriting IRA funds, you have the most options for protecting and receiving your inherited funds. You may elect to:



Take a lump-sum distribution. Unlike a life insurance policy where death proceeds are non-taxable, IRA distributions are taxable to the beneficiary.Roll over inherited funds into your personal, like-kind IRA. For instance, if you inherit proceeds from your late spouse's Traditional IRA, you may roll over those proceeds to your own Traditional IRA.RMD: Required minimum distributions are based on your age and are calculated using the IRS Uniform Lifetime Table life expectancy factors. The Uniform Lifetime Table factors are based on two lives and are roughly double the factors in the IRS Single Life Expectancy Table; as a result, payments are spread out over a longer period.Transfer the inherited proceeds into an Inherited IRA.RMD: Unlike a Traditional IRA, the timing of the required minimum distribution is based on the decedent's age at the date of death and is calculated using the IRS Single Life Expectancy Table life expectancy factors.Disclaim the proceeds. By not claiming the inheritance, the remaining primary beneficiaries inherit the funds. In the event, other primary beneficiaries are not named with the disclaiming beneficiary, the contingent beneficiaries are eligible to receive the funds. If no beneficiary is named, proceeds are payable to the estate of the decedent or according to contract specifications.


  Non-Spousal Beneficiary  

Non-spousal beneficiaries include natural persons and non-natural persons. For non-natural persons, such as charities, businesses, trusts, and estates, funds can be distributed as a lump sum or transferred into an Inherited IRA in the name of the beneficiary.



For natural non-spousal beneficiaries, funds can be



Taken as a lump-sum distribution, which is taxable to the beneficiaryDisclaim the proceeds, transferring full rights to remaining beneficiaries or the decedent's estate.Transfer the inherited funds into their own Inherited IRARMD: If the original owner passed away before December 31, 2019, the required minimum distribution (RMD) will be based on the beneficiary's age using the single life expectancy factor.RMD: If the original owner passed away on or after January 1, 2020, the proceeds will be paid out within 10 years from the original owner's date of death. For certain beneficiaries, such as minor children, a disabled or chronically-ill person, or a beneficiary no more than 10 years younger than the deceased, the pre-January 1, 2020 rules apply.




Do Beneficiaries Pay Taxes on Inherited IRAs?
The recipient of an inherited IRA may or may not pay taxes depending on their situation. In general, if you inherit a Roth IRA, you're free of taxes. However, if you inherit a traditional IRA, any amount withdrawn is often subject to taxes. On the other hand, estates subject to the estate tax may also be allowed an income-tax deduction for the estate taxes paid on the IRA.




What Happens When You Inherit an IRA From a Parent?
If a child is not yet of age, a custodian may manage the money in the IRA until the child reaches the state's recognized age of adulthood. Then, at that time, the child would have complete access to the funds. They may choose to withdraw funds from the IRA but depending on the type of account, they may be subject to taxes on withdrawal.




How Do I Avoid Paying Taxes on an Inherited IRA?
Some of the strongest tax-avoidance strategies for an inherited IRA are executed before the original owner passes away. In many cases, it's best for the individual to convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA (to potentially minimize the tax burden, especially after their passing). In addition, individuals inheriting IRAs can choose to not take non-qualifying distributions that would otherwise be taxable.


   The Bottom Line  

Many individuals leverage traditional and Roth IRAs to plan for their retirement. Unfortunately, people may pass away before they make it to retirement age or withdraw all funds from their account. Inherited Roth IRAs often have better tax avoidance capabilities, though those inheriting traditional IRAs will be further constrained. In addition, traditional IRAs will have greater RMD requirements.
What Is an Initial Coin Offering (ICO)?  

An initial coin offering (ICO) is the cryptocurrency industry’s equivalent of an initial public offering (IPO). A company seeking to raise money to create a new coin, app, or service can launch an ICO as a way to raise funds.



Interested investors can buy into an initial coin offering to receive a new cryptocurrency token issued by the company. This token may have some utility related to the product or service that the company is offering or represent a stake in the company or project.





Key Takeaways

Initial coin offerings (ICOs) are a popular way to raise funds for products and services usually related to cryptocurrency.ICOs are similar to initial public offerings (IPOs), but coins issued in an ICO also can have utility for a software service or product.A few ICOs have yielded returns for investors. Numerous others have turned out to be fraudulent or have performed poorly.To participate in an ICO, you usually need to first purchase a more established digital currency, plus have a basic understanding of cryptocurrency wallets and exchanges.ICOs are, for the most part, completely unregulated, so investors must exercise a high degree of caution and diligence when researching and investing in them.












Eliana Rodgers / Investopedia


   How an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) Works  

When a cryptocurrency project wants to raise money through an ICO, the project organizers’ first step is determining how they will structure the coin. ICOs can be structured in a few different ways, including:



Static supply and static price: A company can set a specific funding goal or limit, which means that each token sold in the ICO has a preset price, and the total token supply is fixed.Static supply and dynamic price: An ICO can have a static supply of tokens and a dynamic funding goal—this means that the amount of funds received in the ICO determines the overall price per token.Dynamic supply and static price: Some ICOs have a dynamic token supply but a static price, meaning that the amount of funding received determines the supply.



These three different types of ICOs are illustrated below:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022


  White Paper Release  

Alongside structuring the ICO, the crypto project usually creates a pitchbook—called a white paper in the crypto industry—that it makes available to potential investors via a new website dedicated to the token. The promoters of the project use their white paper to explain important information related to the ICO:



What the project is aboutThe need that the project would fulfill upon completionHow much money the project needsHow many of the virtual tokens the founders will keepWhat type of payment (which currencies) will be acceptedHow long the ICO campaign will run



The project releases the white paper as part of its ICO campaign, which it designs to encourage enthusiasts and supporters to buy some of the project’s tokens. Investors can generally use fiat or digital currency to buy the new tokens, and it’s increasingly common for investors to pay using other forms of crypto such as Bitcoin or Ethereum. These newly issued tokens are similar to shares of stock sold to investors during an IPO.


  What Happens to the Funds?  

If the money raised in an ICO is less than the minimum amount required by the ICO’s criteria, the funds may be returned to the project’s investors. The ICO would then be deemed unsuccessful. If the funding requirements are met within the specified period, the money raised is spent in pursuit of the project’s goals.


  Who Can Launch an ICO?  

Anyone can launch an ICO. With very little regulation of ICOs in the U.S. currently, anyone who can access the proper technology is free to launch a new cryptocurrency.



But this lack of regulation also means that someone might do whatever it takes to make you believe they have a legitimate ICO and abscond with the money. Of all the possible funding avenues, an ICO is probably one of the easiest to set up as a scam.


  Buying Into an ICO  

If you’re set on buying into a new ICO that you’ve heard about, make sure to do your homework. The first step is ensuring that the people putting up the ICO are real and accountable. Next, investigate the project leads’ history with crypto and blockchain. If it seems that the project doesn’t involve anyone with relevant, easily verified experience, that’s a red flag.



Even if anyone can establish and launch an ICO, that doesn’t mean everyone should. So if you’re thinking about organizing an initial coin offering, ask yourself if your business would substantially benefit from one.


   Special Considerations   

ICO activity began to decrease dramatically in 2019, partly because of the legal gray area that ICOs inhabit. Investors can research and find ICOs in which to participate, but there is no surefire way to stay abreast of all the latest initial coin offerings. You can use websites like TopICOlist.com and websites that compare different ICOs against one another.






The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) can intervene in an ICO if necessary. For example, after the creator of Telegram raised $1.7 billion in an ICO in 2018 and 2019, the SEC filed an emergency action and obtained a temporary restraining order, alleging illegal activity on the part of the development team. In March 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York issued a preliminary injunction. Telegram was ordered to return $1.2 billion to investors and pay a civil penalty of $18.5 million.



There is no guarantee that an investor won’t be on the losing end of a scam when investing in an ICO. To help avoid ICO scams, you can:



Make sure that project developers can clearly define what their goals are. Successful ICOs typically have straightforward, understandable white papers with clear, concise goals.
Look for transparency. Investors should expect 100% transparency from a company launching an ICO.
Review the ICO’s legal terms and conditions. Because traditional regulators generally do not oversee this space, an investor is responsible for ensuring that an ICO is legitimate.
Ensure that ICO funds are stored in an escrow wallet. This type of wallet requires multiple access keys, which provides useful protection against scams.



Some ICOs require that another cryptocurrency be used to invest in an ICO, so you may need to purchase other coins to invest in the project.


  ICO Hyping  

ICOs can generate a substantial amount of hype, and there are numerous sites online where investors gather to discuss new opportunities. Famous actors, entertainers, or other individuals with an established presence like Steven Seagal also have encouraged their followers or fans to invest in a hot new ICO. However, the SEC released a warning to investors stating that it is illegal for celebrities to use social media to endorse ICOs without disclosing what compensation they received.



Boxing superstar Floyd Mayweather Jr. and music mogul DJ Khaled once promoted Centra Tech, an ICO that raised $30 million at the end of 2017. Centra Tech was ultimately deemed a scam in court, resulting in the two celebrities settling charges with U.S. regulators, plus three Centra Tech founders pleading guilty to ICO fraud.



Investors seeking to participate in ICOs should familiarize themselves with cryptocurrency and understand everything about an ICO before participating. Because ICOs are barely regulated, prospective investors should exercise extreme caution when investing.


   Initial Coin Offering (ICO) vs. Initial Public Offering (IPO)  

IPOs raise money for companies seeking funds from investors and result in the distribution of shares of the company’s stock to investors. For ICOs, crypto companies raise funds through the sales of coins or tokens. In both cases, investors are bullish about the company or the cryptocurrency and invest based on the belief that the asset’s value will increase over time.



The primary difference between an ICO and an IPO is that investing in an ICO doesn’t secure an ownership stake in the crypto project or company. ICO participants are gambling that a currently worthless currency will later increase in value above its original purchase price.






IPOs are highly regulated and scrutinized by government organizations such as the SEC, while ICOs are largely unregulated.



Although IPOs are funded by generally more conservative investors anticipating a financial return, ICOs may receive funding from risk-tolerant supporters keen to invest in a new, exciting project. An ICO differs from a crowdfunding event because it offers the possibility of financial gain over time, whereas crowdfunding initiatives receive donations. ICOs are also referred to as “crowdsales.”


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Initial Coin Offerings  

Online services can facilitate the generation of cryptocurrency tokens, making it exceptionally easy for a company to consider launching an ICO. ICO managers generate tokens according to the terms of the ICO, receive them, and then distribute the tokens by transferring the coins to individual investors. But because financial authorities do not regulate ICOs, funds lost due to fraud or incompetence may never be recovered.



Early investors in an ICO are usually motivated by the expectation that the tokens will gain value after the cryptocurrency launches. This is the primary benefit of an ICO: the potential for very high returns.



But the legality of cryptocurrency or digital assets is not guaranteed to persist. In 2017, the People’s Bank of China officially banned ICOs, slamming them as counterproductive to economic and financial stability. In 2021, the Chinese government went on to ban cryptocurrency mining and declared all cryptocurrency transactions illegal.


   Examples of Initial Coin Offerings  

Ethereum’s ICO in 2014 is an early, prominent example of an initial coin offering. The Ethereum ICO raised $18 million over a period of 42 days. In 2015, a two-phase ICO began for a company called Antshares, which later rebranded as Neo. The first phase of this ICO ended in October 2015, and the second continued until September 2016. During this time, Neo generated about $4.5 million.



In another example, during a one-month ICO ending in March 2018, Dragon Coin raised about $320 million. Also in 2018, the company behind the EOS platform shattered Dragon Coin’s record by raising a whopping $4 billion during a yearlong ICO. 



The first instance of the SEC cracking down on an ICO occurred on Dec. 11, 2017, when the agency halted an ICO by Munchee, a California company with a food review app. Munchee was attempting to raise money to create a cryptocurrency that would work within the app to order food. The SEC issued a cease-and-desist letter, treating the ICO as an unregistered securities offering.




How do you know when new coins are launched?
Many exchanges, websites, and aggregators list new coins. Some examples are Coinbase, Gemini, Kraken, CoinGecko, and CoinMarketCap. You can also find new coins announced on social media platforms such as Twitter.




Is an initial coin offering (ICO) legal?
Initial coin offerings (ICOs) are legal. However, the ICO is illegal if the project and coin don’t pass the Howey Test used by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to determine if an offering is an investment instrument.




What is an ICO used for?
Creating a blockchain and cryptocurrency is a costly endeavor. Developers must pay for legal counsel, programmers, facilities, and other expenses. An ICO is intended to raise funds to pay for the costs incurred during a blockchain’s or coin’s development.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other initial coin offerings (ICOs) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Because each individual’s situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Initial Margin?  

Initial margin is the percentage of the purchase price of a security that must be covered by cash or collateral when using a margin account. The current initial margin requirement set by the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation T is 50%. However, this regulation is only a minimum requirement; some equity brokerage firms may set their initial margin requirement higher. 





Key Takeaways

Initial margin is the percent of a purchase price that must be paid with cash when using a margin account.   Fed regulations currently require that the initial margin is set at a minimum of 50% of a security's purchase price. But brokerages and exchanges can set initial margin requirements higher than the Fed minimum.Initial margin requirements are different from maintenance margin requirements, which is the percent of equity that must be retained on an ongoing basis in the account.


   How Does Initial Margin Work?  

To open a margin account at a brokerage firm, an account holder first needs to post a certain amount of cash, securities or other collateral, known as the initial margin requirement. A margin account encourages investors, traders, and other market participants to use leverage to purchase securities with a total value that's greater than the available cash balance in the account. A margin account is essentially a line of credit in which interest is charged on the outstanding margin balance.



Securities in the margin account are paid for with cash loaned to the account holder by the brokerage firm and are designated as collateral. This process allows for magnification of potential profits but also magnifies potential losses. In the extreme event that securities purchased in a margin account decline to zero value, the account holder needs to deposit the full initial value of the securities in cash or other liquid collateral to cover the loss.


  Futures and initial margin   

For futures contracts, exchanges set initial margin requirements as low as 5% or 10% of the contract to be traded. For example, if a crude oil futures contract is quoted at $100,000, a futures account holder can enter a long position by posting only $5,000 initial margin, or 5% of the contract value. In other words, this initial margin requirement would give the account holder a 20x leverage factor.



During periods of high market volatility, futures exchanges may increase initial margin requirements to any level they deem appropriate, matching the power of equity brokerage firms to increase initial margin levels above those required by Fed regulation.


   Initial Margin vs. Maintenance Margin   

Initial margin is distinct from maintenance margin. The two both relate to the amount of cash vs. the amount you can borrow when investing. However, the initial margin requirement is the amount of cash or collateral required to actually purchase securities; the Federal Reserve's Regulation T sets that sum at a minimum of at least 50% of the purchase. In other words, you can't borrow more than half the price of the investment.



In contrast, the maintenance margin is the amount of equity that must be kept in the margin account going forward. The minimum maintenance margin requirement set by Reg T is 25%. That means an investor must maintain enough cash or collateral value in the account to cover 25% of the securities owned. 



Maintenance margin helps ensure account holders maintain collateral in the account should the value of their securities fall. Some securities, especially volatile ones, will have higher margin requirements set by brokerages. 


   Example of Initial Margin  

As an example, assume an account holder wants to purchase 1,000 shares of Meta, Inc. (META), formerly Facebook, which is quoted at $200 per share. The total cost for this transaction in a cash balance account would be $200,000. However, if the account holder opens a margin account and deposits the 50% initial margin requirement, or $100,000, the total purchasing power will rise to $200,000. In this case, the margin account has access to two-to-one leverage.
Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   What Is an Initial Public Offering (IPO)?  

An initial public offering (IPO) refers to the process of offering shares of a private corporation to the public in a new stock issuance for the first time. An IPO allows a company to raise equity capital from public investors.



The transition from a private to a public company can be an important time for private investors to fully realize gains from their investment as it typically includes a share premium for current private investors. Meanwhile, it also allows public investors to participate in the offering.





Key Takeaways

An initial public offering (IPO) refers to the process of offering shares of a private corporation to the public in a new stock issuance. Companies must meet requirements by exchanges and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to hold an IPO.IPOs provide companies with an opportunity to obtain capital by offering shares through the primary market.Companies hire investment banks to market, gauge demand, set the IPO price and date, and more.An IPO can be seen as an exit strategy for the company’s founders and early investors, realizing the full profit from their private investment.


   How an Initial Public Offering (IPO) Works  

Before an IPO, a company is considered private. As a pre-IPO private company, the business has grown with a relatively small number of shareholders including early investors like the founders, family, and friends along with professional investors such as venture capitalists or angel investors.



An IPO is a big step for a company as it provides the company with access to raising a lot of money. This gives the company a greater ability to grow and expand. The increased transparency and share listing credibility can also be a factor in helping it obtain better terms when seeking borrowed funds as well.



When a company reaches a stage in its growth process where it believes it is mature enough for the rigors of SEC regulations along with the benefits and responsibilities to public shareholders, it will begin to advertise its interest in going public.



Typically, this stage of growth will occur when a company has reached a private valuation of approximately $1 billion, also known as unicorn status. However, private companies at various valuations with strong fundamentals and proven profitability potential can also qualify for an IPO, depending on the market competition and their ability to meet listing requirements.



IPO shares of a company are priced through underwriting due diligence. When a company goes public, the previously owned private share ownership converts to public ownership, and the existing private shareholders’ shares become worth the public trading price. Share underwriting can also include special provisions for private to public share ownership.






Generally, the transition from private to public is a key time for private investors to cash in and earn the returns they were expecting. Private shareholders may hold onto their shares in the public market or sell a portion or all of them for gains.



Meanwhile, the public market opens up a huge opportunity for millions of investors to buy shares in the company and contribute capital to a company’s shareholders' equity. The public consists of any individual or institutional investor who is interested in investing in the company.



Overall, the number of shares the company sells and the price for which shares sell are the generating factors for the company’s new shareholders' equity value. Shareholders' equity still represents shares owned by investors when it is both private and public, but with an IPO, the shareholders' equity increases significantly with cash from the primary issuance.


   History of IPOs  

The term initial public offering (IPO) has been a buzzword on Wall Street and among investors for decades. The Dutch are credited with conducting the first modern IPO by offering shares of the Dutch East India Company to the general public.



Since then, IPOs have been used as a way for companies to raise capital from public investors through the issuance of public share ownership.



Through the years, IPOs have been known for uptrends and downtrends in issuance. Individual sectors also experience uptrends and downtrends in issuance due to innovation and various other economic factors. Tech IPOs multiplied at the height of the dotcom boom as startups without revenues rushed to list themselves on the stock market.



The 2008 financial crisis resulted in a year with the least number of IPOs. After the recession following the 2008 financial crisis, IPOs ground to a halt, and for some years after, new listings were rare. More recently, much of the IPO buzz has moved to a focus on so-called unicorns—startup companies that have reached private valuations of more than $1 billion. Investors and the media heavily speculate on these companies and their decision to go public via an IPO or stay private.


   What Is the IPO Process?  

The IPO process essentially consists of two parts. The first is the pre-marketing phase of the offering, while the second is the initial public offering itself. When a company is interested in an IPO, it will advertise to underwriters by soliciting private bids or it can also make a public statement to generate interest.



The underwriters lead the IPO process and are chosen by the company. A company may choose one or several underwriters to manage different parts of the IPO process collaboratively. The underwriters are involved in every aspect of the IPO due diligence, document preparation, filing, marketing, and issuance.


  Steps to an IPO  

Proposals. Underwriters present proposals and valuations discussing their services, the best type of security to issue, offering price, amount of shares, and estimated time frame for the market offering.
Underwriter. The company chooses its underwriters and formally agrees to underwrite terms through an underwriting agreement.
Team. IPO teams are formed comprising underwriters, lawyers, certified public accountants (CPAs), and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) experts.
Documentation. Information regarding the company is compiled for required IPO documentation. The S-1 Registration Statement is the primary IPO filing document. It has two parts—the prospectus and the privately held filing information. The S-1 includes preliminary information about the expected date of the filing. It will be revised often throughout the pre-IPO process. The included prospectus is also revised continuously.
Marketing & Updates. Marketing materials are created for pre-marketing of the new stock issuance. Underwriters and executives market the share issuance to estimate demand and establish a final offering price. Underwriters can make revisions to their financial analysis throughout the marketing process. This can include changing the IPO price or issuance date as they see fit. Companies take the necessary steps to meet specific public share offering requirements. Companies must adhere to both exchange listing requirements and SEC requirements for public companies.
Board & Processes. Form a board of directors and ensure processes for reporting auditable financial and accounting information every quarter.
Shares Issued. The company issues its shares on an IPO date. Capital from the primary issuance to shareholders is received as cash and recorded as stockholders' equity on the balance sheet. Subsequently, the balance sheet share value becomes dependent on the company’s stockholders' equity per share valuation comprehensively.
Post IPO. Some post-IPO provisions may be instituted. Underwriters may have a specified time frame to buy an additional amount of shares after the initial public offering (IPO) date. Meanwhile, certain investors may be subject to quiet periods.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an IPO  

The primary objective of an IPO is to raise capital for a business. It can also come with other advantages as well as disadvantages.


  Advantages  

One of the key advantages is that the company gets access to investment from the entire investing public to raise capital. This facilitates easier acquisition deals (share conversions) and increases the company’s exposure, prestige, and public image, which can help the company’s sales and profits.



Increased transparency that comes with required quarterly reporting can usually help a company receive more favorable credit borrowing terms than a private company. 


  Disadvantages  

Companies may confront several disadvantages to going public and potentially choose alternative strategies. Some of the major disadvantages include the fact that IPOs are expensive, and the costs of maintaining a public company are ongoing and usually unrelated to the other costs of doing business.



Fluctuations in a company's share price can be a distraction for management, which may be compensated and evaluated based on stock performance rather than real financial results. Additionally, the company becomes required to disclose financial, accounting, tax, and other business information. During these disclosures, it may have to publicly reveal secrets and business methods that could help competitors.



Rigid leadership and governance by the board of directors can make it more difficult to retain good managers willing to take risks. Remaining private is always an option. Instead of going public, companies may also solicit bids for a buyout. Additionally, there can be some alternatives that companies may explore.





Pros

Can raise additional funds in the future through secondary offerings 
Attracts and retains better management and skilled employees through liquid stock equity participation (e.g., ESOPs)
IPOs can give a company a lower cost of capital for both equity and debt



Cons

Significant legal, accounting, and marketing costs arise, many of which are ongoing
Increased time, effort, and attention required of management for reporting
There is a loss of control and stronger agency problems





   IPO Alternatives  
  Direct Listing  

A direct listing is when an IPO is conducted without any underwriters. Direct listings skip the underwriting process, which means the issuer has more risk if the offering does not do well, but issuers also may benefit from a higher share price. A direct offering is usually only feasible for a company with a well-known brand and an attractive business.


  Dutch Auction  

In a Dutch auction, an IPO price is not set. Potential buyers can bid for the shares they want and the price they are willing to pay. The bidders who were willing to pay the highest price are then allocated the shares available.


   Investing in an IPO  

When a company decides to raise money via an IPO it is only after careful consideration and analysis that this particular exit strategy will maximize the returns of early investors and raise the most capital for the business. Therefore, when the IPO decision is reached, the prospects for future growth are likely to be high, and many public investors will line up to get their hands on some shares for the first time. IPOs are usually discounted to ensure sales, which makes them even more attractive, especially when they generate a lot of buyers from the primary issuance.



Initially, the price of the IPO is usually set by the underwriters through their pre-marketing process. At its core, the IPO price is based on the valuation of the company using fundamental techniques. The most common technique used is discounted cash flow, which is the net present value of the company’s expected future cash flows.



Underwriters and interested investors look at this value on a per-share basis. Other methods that may be used for setting the price include equity value, enterprise value, comparable firm adjustments, and more. The underwriters do factor in demand but they also typically discount the price to ensure success on the IPO day.



It can be quite hard to analyze the fundamentals and technicals of an IPO issuance. Investors will watch news headlines but the main source for information should be the prospectus, which is available as soon as the company files its S-1 Registration. The prospectus provides a lot of useful information. Investors should pay special attention to the management team and their commentary as well as the quality of the underwriters and the specifics of the deal. Successful IPOs will typically be supported by big investment banks that can promote a new issue well.



Overall, the road to an IPO is a very long one. As such, public investors building interest can follow developing headlines and other information along the way to help supplement their assessment of the best and potential offering price.



The pre-marketing process typically includes demand from large private accredited investors and institutional investors, which heavily influence the IPO’s trading on its opening day. Investors in the public don’t become involved until the final offering day. All investors can participate but individual investors specifically must have trading access in place. The most common way for an individual investor to get shares is to have an account with a brokerage platform that itself has received an allocation and wishes to share it with its clients.


   Performance of IPOs  

Several factors may affect the return from an IPO which is often closely watched by investors. Some IPOs may be overly hyped by investment banks which can lead to initial losses. However, the majority of IPOs are known for gaining in short-term trading as they become introduced to the public. There are a few key considerations for IPO performance.


  Lock-Up  

If you look at the charts following many IPOs, you'll notice that after a few months the stock takes a steep downturn. This is often because of the expiration of the lock-up period. When a company goes public, the underwriters make company insiders, such as officials and employees, sign a lock-up agreement.



Lock-up agreements are legally binding contracts between the underwriters and insiders of the company, prohibiting them from selling any shares of stock for a specified period. The period can range anywhere from three to 24 months. Ninety days is the minimum period stated under Rule 144 (SEC law) but the lock-up specified by the underwriters can last much longer. The problem is, when lockups expire, all the insiders are permitted to sell their stock. The result is a rush of people trying to sell their stock to realize their profit. This excess supply can put severe downward pressure on the stock price.


  Waiting Periods  

Some investment banks include waiting periods in their offering terms. This sets aside some shares for purchase after a specific period. The price may increase if this allocation is bought by the underwriters and decrease if not.


  Flipping  

Flipping is the practice of reselling an IPO stock in the first few days to earn a quick profit. It is common when the stock is discounted and soars on its first day of trading.


  Tracking IPO Stocks  

Closely related to a traditional IPO is when an existing company spins off a part of the business as its standalone entity, creating tracking stocks. The rationale behind spin-offs and the creation of tracking stocks is that in some cases individual divisions of a company can be worth more separately than as a whole. For example, if a division has high growth potential but large current losses within an otherwise slowly growing company, it may be worthwhile to carve it out and keep the parent company as a large shareholder then let it raise additional capital from an IPO.



From an investor’s perspective, these can be interesting IPO opportunities. In general, a spin-off of an existing company provides investors with a lot of information about the parent company and its stake in the divesting company. More information available for potential investors is usually better than less and so savvy investors may find good opportunities from this type of scenario. Spin-offs can usually experience less initial volatility because investors have more awareness.






IPOs are known for having volatile opening day returns that can attract investors looking to benefit from the discounts involved. Over the long term, an IPO's price will settle into a steady value, which can be followed by traditional stock price metrics like moving averages. Investors who like the IPO opportunity but may not want to take the individual stock risk may look into managed funds focused on IPO universes. But also look out for so-called hot IPOs that could be more hype than anything else.




What Is the Purpose of an Initial Public Offering?
An IPO is essentially a fundraising method used by large companies, in which the company sells its shares to the public for the first time. Following an IPO, the company’s shares are traded on a stock exchange. Some of the main motivations for undertaking an IPO include: raising capital from the sale of the shares, providing liquidity to company founders and early investors, and taking advantage of a higher valuation.




Can Anybody Invest in an IPO?
Oftentimes, there will be more demand than supply for a new IPO. For this reason, there is no guarantee that all investors interested in an IPO will be able to purchase shares. Those interested in participating in an IPO may be able to do so through their brokerage firm, although access to an IPO can sometimes be limited to a firm’s larger clients. Another option is to invest through a mutual fund or another investment vehicle that focuses on IPOs.




Is an IPO a Good Investment?
IPOs tend to garner a lot of media attention, some of which is deliberately cultivated by the company going public. Generally speaking, IPOs are popular among investors because they tend to produce volatile price movements on the day of the IPO and shortly thereafter. This can occasionally produce large gains, although it can also produce large losses. Ultimately, investors should judge each IPO according to the prospectus of the company going public as well as their financial circumstances and risk tolerance.




How Is an IPO Priced?
When a company goes IPO, it needs to list an initial value for its new shares. This is done by the underwriting banks that will market the deal. In large part, the value of the company is established by the company's fundamentals and growth prospects. Because IPOs may be from relatively newer companies, they may not yet have a proven track record of profitability. Instead, comparables may be used. However, supply and demand for the IPO shares will also play a role on the days leading up to the IPO.
What Is Inorganic Growth?  

Inorganic growth arises from mergers or takeovers rather than an increase in the company's own business activity. Firms that choose to grow inorganically can gain access to new markets through successful mergers and acquisitions. Inorganic growth is considered a faster way for a company to grow compared to organic growth.





Key Takeaways

Inorganic growth is growth from buying other businesses or opening new locations. Meanwhile, organic growth is internal growth the company sees from its operations, often measured by same-store or comparable sales. Acquisitions can help immediately boost a company’s earnings and increase market share. The downside of inorganic growth via acquisitions is that implementation of technology or integration of the new employees can take time.Inorganic growth involving the opening of new stores can capitalize on high-traffic areas, but it can also cannibalize existing stores. 


   How Is Inorganic Growth Achieved?  

Firms can choose to grow inorganically in several ways including engaging in mergers and acquisitions and, in the case of retail or branch organizations, opening new stores or branches.



Mergers are challenging from an integration perspective. Acquisitions can be accretive to earnings, but the implementation of the technology or knowledge acquired can take time. In other words, pulling the value out of mergers and acquisitions is more complex than taking credit for sales. Costs in the form of restructuring charges can greatly increase expenses. The purchase price of the acquisition can also be prohibitive for some firms.



By opening new stores in profitable locations, businesses can take advantage of the higher growth rates associated with new stores. However, when new stores are placed in locations that cannibalize sales and/or do not have enough traffic to support those stores, they can be a drag on sales.


   Inorganic Growth vs. Organic Growth   

Which is best, inorganic or organic growth? Inorganic growth, such as a boost from acquisitions, can provide a short-term boost. However, steady and slow organic growth can be viewed as superior, as it shows the company has the ability to make money regardless of the economic backdrop. Plus, there’s the downside of potentially using debt to fund inorganic growth. On the flipside, inorganic growth might not fully repair declining organic growth or internal issues.



One of the most important measures of performance for fundamental analysts is growth, particularly in sales. Sales growth can be the result of promotional efforts, new product lines and improved customer service, which are internal, or organic, measures. 



Growth in organic sales is often described in terms of comparable sales or same-store-sales when referring to retail outlets. In other words, these sales occur naturally and not through the acquisition of another company or the opening of new stores. Some analysts consider organic sales to be a better indicator of company performance. A company may have positive sales growth due to acquisitions while same-store-sales growth may decline due to a decrease in foot traffic. Analysts research organic sales by analyzing inorganic sales growth.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Inorganic Growth  

If a company merges with another in pursuit of inorganic growth, that company's market share and assets become larger. This offers immediate benefits such as the additional skills and expertise of new staff and a greater likelihood of obtaining capital when needed. As well, it allows a company to grow much faster and almost immediately increase its market share. 



However, there are disadvantages in that additional management is required, the direction of the business may go in an unanticipated direction, there may be additional debt or a company could grow too quickly incurring substantial risk. The downsides to inorganic growth is the large upfront costs and management challenges with integrating acquisitions. 




What Is an Example of Inorganic Growth?
Consider that Company A is looking to leverage an inorganic growth strategy. Company A acquires a software startup that provides a new technology that its competitors don't yet provide. In doing so, Company A now offers its customers new technologies and gains access to new markets that were established by the acquired company.




Is M&A Inorganic Growth?
Yes, mergers & acquisitions are a form of inorganic growth as the company takes external measures to grow the company by combining with another firm.




What Is Balanced Growth?
In short, balanced growth involves using organic growth to build the company as well as inorganic growth in acquiring other companies to help boost growth. Acquisitions can lead to faster sales growth and quicker cashflow, but may be unpredictable. Organic growth is advantageous because it is familiar and inherent to the company, although sales may not be as robust.




Do Companies With More Organic Growth Outperform Those With Higher Inorganic Growth?
According to a study from McKinsey, S&P 500 companies that had higher organic growth tended to outperform companies with the least organic growth when assessed at comparable growth levels.




What are Common Forms of Inorganic Growth?
Based on a survey of 1,300 CEOs by PwC, 40% said they were planning on targeting a joint venture to boost revenues, 37% were considering a merger or acquisition, 32% were planning on working with startups, and 14% were planning on selling a business.
What Is Input-Output Analysis?  

Input-output analysis (I-O) is a form of macroeconomic analysis based on the interdependencies between different economic sectors or industries. This method is commonly used for estimating the impacts of positive or negative economic shocks and analyzing the ripple effects throughout an economy. I-O economic analysis was originally developed by Wassily Leontief (1906–1999), who later won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work in this area.





Key Takeaways

Input-output analysis is a macroeconomic analysis based on the interdependencies between different economic sectors or industries.Input-output analysis is used to estimate the impacts of positive or negative economic shocks and analyzes the ripple effects throughout the economy.The use of input-output analysis is not common in the Western world or neoclassical economics but often used in Marxist economics when central planning of an economy is required.Input-output tables are the foundation of input-output analysis, depicting rows and columns of data that quantify the supply chain for all of the sectors of an economy.Three types of impacts are modeled in input-output analysis. They are direct impact, indirect impact, and induced impact.These impacts on the economy are determined when certain input levels are changed.


   Understanding Input-Output Analysis  

The foundation of I-O analysis involves input-output tables. Such tables include a series of rows and columns of data that quantify the supply chain for all sectors of an economy. Industries are listed in the headers of each row and each column. The data in each column corresponds to the level of inputs used in that industry's production function.



For example, the column for auto manufacturing shows the resources required for building automobiles (e.g., the amount of steel, aluminum, plastic, electronics, and so on). I-O models typically include separate tables showing the amount of labor required per dollar unit of investment or production.



While input-output analysis is not commonly utilized by neoclassical economics or by policy advisers in the West, it has been employed in Marxist economic analysis of coordinated economies that rely on a central planner.


   Three Types of Economic Impact  

I-O models estimate three types of impact: direct, indirect, and induced. These terms are another way of referring to initial, secondary, and tertiary impacts that ripple throughout the economy when a change is made to a given input level. By using I-O models, economists can estimate the change in output across industries due to a change in inputs in one or more specific industries.



The direct impact of an economic shock is an initial change in expenditures. For example, building a bridge would require spending on cement, steel, construction equipment, labor, and other inputs.
The indirect, or secondary, impact would be due to the suppliers of the inputs hiring workers to meet demand.
The induced, or tertiary, impact would result from the workers of suppliers purchasing more goods and services for personal consumption. This analysis can also be run in reverse, seeing what effects on inputs were likely the cause of observed changes in outputs.


   Example of Input-Output Analysis  

Here's an example of how I-O analysis works. A local government wants to build a new bridge and needs to justify the cost of the investment. To do so, it hires an economist to conduct an I-O study.



The economist talks to engineers and construction companies to estimate how much the bridge will cost, the supplies needed, and how many workers will be hired by the construction company.



The economist converts this information into dollar figures and runs numbers through an I-O model, which produces the three levels of impacts. The direct impact is simply the original numbers put into the model, for example, the value of the raw inputs (cement, steel, etc.).



The indirect impact is the jobs created by the supplying companies, so cement and steel companies. These companies need to hire workers to complete the project. They either have the funds to do so or have to borrow the money to do so, which would have another impact on banks.



The induced impact is the amount of money that the new workers spend on goods and services for themselves and their families. This includes basics such as food and clothing, but now that they have more disposable income, it also relates to goods and services for enjoyment.



The I-O analysis studies the ripple effects on various sectors of the economy caused by the local government wanting to build a new bridge. The bridge may require certain costs from the government, utilizing taxes, but the I-O analysis will show the benefits the project generates by hiring companies that hire workers that spend in the economy, helping it to grow.
What Is INSEAD?  

One of the world's top graduate business schools, INSEAD, has campuses in France, Singapore, San Francisco, and the Middle East (Abu Dhabi). Founded in 1957, INSEAD is an acronym for Institut Européen d'Administration des Affaires.



Today, INSEAD is recognized around the world as one of the top business schools on the planet. The school has 165 faculty members from 42 countries, with more than 1,500 students in its various degree programs each year. The school also has more than 11,000 executives that participate in its executive education programs each year.





Key Takeaways

INSEAD is one of the world's leading and largest graduate business schools with five campuses and centers around the globe.The school offers a variety of graduate programs, including MBAs, a doctorate in management, and a certificate program.The school has 165 faculty members and more than 1,500 students enrolled in its graduate degree-granting programs each year.


   History of INSEAD  

INSEAD was established in 1955 when the Paris Chamber of Commerce decided to start a European business school. Four years later, it took in its first MBA students. In 1960, 52 students from 14 different countries graduated from the school's MBA program. In 1968, INSEAD began offering its executive program for the first time. The school's Ph.D. program was launched in 1989.



The school opened its Asian campus in Singapore in 2000 and its Middle East campus in Abu Dhabi in 2010. In 2020, INSEAD announced a new hub located in San Francisco, CA to establish a North American presence.


   INSEAD Campuses  

The school's main campus in France is located in Fontainebleau near Paris. The second campus, located in Asia, is in Singapore in the Buona Vista district, 15 minutes from the financial district. The third campus, in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, was inaugurated in 2010.


   Programs Offered at INSEAD  

INSEAD offers a variety of graduate and doctoral programs. In addition to the standard curricula offered below, the school also offers customized programs in collaboration with corporations seeking to grant executive education to their managers.


  MBA  

INSEAD offers a 10-month, fully-accelerated term of study for an MBA with intake in January and August. Students are required to take core subjects including finance, economics, accounting, business ethics, and marketing, as well as electives from a pool of 75 different course offerings. Roughly 94% of graduates were employed in their field three months after graduation.


  Global Executive MBA (GEMBA)  

This program is offered at the school's France, Abu Dhabi, and Singapore campuses for experienced executives. An intensive 14- to 17-month modular program, it includes group coaching, team activities, and 360-degree assessments. A typical GEMBA class has 222 students, each with an average of 14 years of work experience.


  Executive Master in Change  

This program spans 18 months with eight modules that last three to four days each. Students focus on human behavior and organizational dynamics. The objectives of the program include learning how to increase self-awareness, becoming an effective agent for organizational change, learning new coaching methodologies, and getting a better understanding of organizational behavior. A typical EMC class has 30 participants across the France and Singapore campuses.


  Executive Master in Finance  

This program is for working professionals and lasts 18 months. Intake is on the Asia campus. The program consists of six modules that last two weeks each, taking place three to four months apart. A typical EMFin has 35 participants with an average of 9.5 years of work experience.


  Tsinghua-INSEAD Executive MBA (TIEMBA)  

This program comes as a result of a partnership between INSEAD and Tsinghua, a university based in Beijing. Students can pursue this degree at the France, Singapore, and Abu Dhabi INSEAD campuses or at Tsinghua.


  Ph.D. in Management  

The most rigorous degree offered is a five-year program that prepares students who wish to work in academia in business. The first two years are dedicated to course study, while the remaining three are intended for research and dissertation work. Intake happens in Europe or Asia, with an exchange through the Wharton School in the United States.



The program has a maximum of 18 open places each year. Collaboration is encouraged between different academic areas to offer more depth for research. Students are given lucrative financial support which includes scholarships and living allowances.



INSEAD also offers a certificate in business foundations. The INSEAD-Sorbonne Unviersité Certificate Programme is aimed at recent master's and doctoral graduates.




Is INSEAD Better Than Harvard?
Depending on the publication, INSEAD can be considered a better MBA degree than Harvard. According to the Financial Times, in 2023, INSEAD ranked number two for best MBA programs while Harvard ranked number four.




How Much Does INSEAD Cost?
The cost for INSEAD for starting the program in Aug. 2023 is €97,000. For starting the program in Jan. 2024, it is €98,500. This does not include living expenses. Living expenses in France add another €25,000.




Is INSEAD an Ivy League School?
No, INSEAD is not an Ivy League school. Ivy League schools are a certain grouping of specific schools in the U.S. Schools outside of the U.S., such as INSEAD, are not part of the Ivy League.


   The Bottom Line  

INSEAD is a top business graduate school with its central campus in France, along with locations in Singapore, North America, and the Middle East. The school offers a variety of business graduate degrees and is considered to be one of the world's leading business schools.
What Is an Inside Day?  

An inside day is a two-day price pattern that occurs when a second day has a range that is completely inside the first day's price range. The high of the second day is lower than the first, and the low of the second is higher than the first.



Inside days show a contraction in volatility and are often a continuation pattern. This means that following the inside day the price will often continue moving in the same direction after the pattern as it did before. That said, the pattern is common and frequently insignificant.



Inside days may be contrasted with outside days.





Key Takeaways

An inside day is a common technical chart pattern where the high and low of one day occur inside the high and low of the prior day.Inside days are thought to signal a continuation pattern.If trading a breakout from the pattern, the highest probability trades are ones where the overall market direction aligns with the direction into and out of the two-day pattern.


   Understanding Inside Days  

Inside days are common. On a daily chart, they may occur several times per month in many assets. This means that many inside days will provide little information to a trader and will not result in a significant price move following the pattern.



An inside day shows that volatility has dropped from the prior day. The market is taking a pause. This is why the pattern is often considered a continuation pattern. In the Encyclopedia of Chart Patterns, Thomas Bulkowski found that in over 29,000 samples of the pattern, the price continued in the same direction it entered the pattern 62% of the time.



When attempting to trade the pattern, the best results tend to come with trading it as a continuation pattern. For example, if looking to buy a stock, it should be a bull market, the stock should be trending higher when it forms the inside day, and then the price should exit the pattern to the upside.



In the example above, the trader could buy when the price moves above the top of the pattern, which is the high of the first candle of the two-bar pattern.



To enter short, the trader would short-sell when the price dropped below the low of the pattern. The short should align with a bear market, the price should be moving lower into the inside day, and then the price should break below the two-bar pattern.
A stop loss is placed outside the pattern on the opposite side of the entry. If going long, the stop loss is placed just below the low of the two-day pattern, for example.






The inside day pattern does not have a profit target attached to it. Traders can utilize other methods to collect profits, such as a trailing stop loss, risk/reward ratio, an indicator or moving average, or looking for other candlestick patterns to signal an exit.


   Example of an Inside Day  

The following chart shows multiple inside days in Bank of America Corporation stock. This shows how common the pattern can be. Not all inside days result in a significant price move following the pattern.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The first two patterns occur during a price rise. The price then breaks above the pattern and continues to the upside. Ideally, this is the structure desired for a long trade.



For the inside days that follow, some are preceded by a price advance or decline, while others occur when the price is moving predominately sideways. Traders could have avoided some of the poor signals by only taking a trade if the breakout occurs in the same direction as the price direction that preceded the two-day pattern.
What Is Indemnity?  

Indemnity is a comprehensive form of insurance compensation for damage or loss. When the term indemnity is used in the legal sense, it may also refer to an exemption from liability for damage.



Indemnity is a contractual agreement between two parties. In this arrangement, one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damage.



A typical example is an insurance contract, in which the insurer or the indemnitor agrees to compensate the other (the insured or the indemnitee) for any damage or losses in return for premiums paid by the insured to the insurer. With indemnity, the insurer indemnifies the policyholder—that is, promises to make whole the individual or business for any covered loss.





Key Takeaways

Indemnity is a comprehensive form of insurance compensation for damage or loss.In an indemnity arrangement, one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damage caused by another party.A typical example is an insurance contract, in which the insurer or the indemnitor agrees to compensate the other (the insured or the indemnitee) for any damage or losses in return for premiums paid by the insured to the insurer.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How Indemnity Works  

An indemnity clause is standard in the majority of insurance agreements. However, exactly what is covered, and to what extent, depends on the specific agreement.



Any indemnity agreement has what is called a period of indemnity, or a specific length of time for which the payment is valid. Similarly, many contracts include a letter of indemnity, which guarantees that both parties will meet the contract stipulations (or else an indemnity must be paid).



Indemnity is common in agreements between an individual and a business (for example, an agreement to obtain car insurance). However, it can also apply on a larger scale to relationships between businesses and government or between governments of two or more countries.






Indemnity clauses can be complicated to negotiate and can lead to increased costs of services because of the increased risk of the contract.



Sometimes, governments, a business, or an entire industry must take on the costs of larger issues on behalf of the public, such as outbreaks of disease. For example, according to Reuters, Congress authorized $1 billion to fight a bird flu epidemic that devastated the U.S. poultry industry in 2014 and 2015. The U.S. Department of Agriculture spent $200 million of that money on indemnity payments paid to farmers who needed to kill their birds to stop the spread of the virus.


   Special Considerations  
  How Indemnity Is Paid  

Indemnity may be paid in the form of cash, or by way of repairs or replacement, depending on the terms of the indemnity agreement. For example, in the case of home insurance, the homeowner pays insurance premiums to the insurance company in exchange for the assurance that the homeowner will be indemnified if the house sustains damage from fire, natural disasters, or other perils specified in the insurance agreement.



In the event that the home is damaged significantly, the insurance company will be obligated to restore the property to its original state—either through repairs by authorized contractors or reimbursement to the homeowner for spending on such repairs.


  Indemnity Insurance  

Indemnity insurance is a way for a company (or individual) to obtain protection from indemnity claims. This insurance protects the holder from having to pay the full sum of an indemnity, even if the holder is responsible for the cause of the indemnity.



Many companies make indemnity insurance a requirement, as lawsuits are common. Everyday examples include malpractice insurance, which is common coverage for those in the medical field, and errors and omissions insurance (E&O), which protects companies and their employees against claims made by clients and applies to any given industry. Some companies also invest in deferred compensation indemnity insurance, which protects the money that companies expect to receive in the future.






As with any other form of insurance, indemnity insurance covers the costs of an indemnity claim, including, but not limited to, court costs, fees, and settlements. The amount covered by insurance depends on the specific agreement, and the cost of the insurance depends on many factors, including the policyholder's history of indemnity claims.



Property leases also include indemnity clauses. For example, in the case of a rental property, a tenant is typically responsible for damage due to negligence, fines, lawyer fees, and more depending on the agreement. 


  Acts of Indemnity  

An act of indemnity protects those who have acted illegally from being subject to penalties. This exemption typically applies to public officers, such as police officers or government officials, who are sometimes compelled to commit illegal acts in order to carry out the responsibilities of their jobs.



Often, such protection is granted to a group of people who committed an illegal act for the common good, such as the assassination of a known dictator or terrorist leader.


   History of Indemnity  

Although indemnity agreements haven't always had a formal name, they are not a new concept. Historically, indemnity agreements have served to ensure cooperation between individuals, businesses, and governments.



In 1825, Haiti was forced to pay France what was then called an "independence debt." The payments were intended to cover the losses that French plantation owners "suffered" after losing land and slaves. While this form of indemnity was incredibly unjust, it is one example of many historical cases that show the ways indemnity has been applied worldwide.



Another common form of indemnity is the reparations a winning country seeks from a losing country after a war. Depending on the amount and extent of the indemnity due, it can take years and even decades to pay off. One of the most well-known examples is the indemnity Germany paid after its role in World War I. Those reparations were finally paid off in 2010, almost a century after they were assessed.




What Is Indemnity in Insurance?
Indemnity is a comprehensive form of insurance compensation for damage or loss. It amounts to a contractual agreement between two parties in which one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damage caused by another party.




What Is the Purpose of Indemnity?
Indemnification, or indemnity, designates one party (the indemnifying party) as being required to compensate the other party (the indemnified party) for certain costs and expenses, typically stemming from third-party damage claims.




What Is the Rule of Indemnity in Insurance?
With indemnity insurance, one party commits to compensate another for prospective loss or damage. In insurance policies, in exchange for premiums paid by the insured to the insurer, the insurer offers to compensate the insured for any potential damage or losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Indemnity is a type of insurance compensation paid for damage or loss. When the term is used in the legal sense, it also may refer to an exemption from liability for damage. Indemnity is a contractual agreement between two parties in which one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damage caused by another party. Typically, an insurance contract dictates that the insurer, also known as the indemnitor, agrees to compensate the other party involved (the insured or the indemnitee) for any damage or losses in return for premiums paid by the insured.
What Are Inside Sales?  

Inside sales refers to the sale of products or services by personnel who reach customers through phone, email, or the internet. Other ways to define inside sales are "remote sales" or "virtual sales." It is called "inside" because these sales reps remain indoors, often at a call center or company office. Inside sales may or may not be outsourced to a third-party vendor.



Inside sales can be contrasted with outside sales, where people physically go out and meet potential customers.





Key Takeaways

An inside sale is the sale of products or services made by personnel who reach customers by phone or online.Outside sales would instead rely on in-person meetings and physical interaction.Inside and outside sales may be paired for greater efficiency, where they assist each other in tasks, such as lead generation, to increase sales.Purchasing goods and services online or by phone is increasingly popular among consumers.


   Understanding Inside Sales  

Unlike outside sales personnel, inside salespeople traditionally do not travel. Despite this, they are still proactive about contacting potential customers and may engage in cold calling. However, a company may also designate incoming calls from prospective customers as inside sales. In addition, a company may outsource its inside sales duties to a third party instead of conducting sales in-house.



The advent of the telephone and its use as a sales tool gave birth to the distinction between inside and outside sales. The term "inside sales" was created in the 1980s to differentiate telemarketing or telesales from high ticket phone sales common with business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) sales practices.



Unlike telemarketers who read from scripts, inside sales reps are highly trained, creative people, who determine a sales strategy for selling products and services to customers. By the late 1990s or early 2000s, the term "inside sales" was being used to mark a difference between inside and outside sales.



Sometimes inside and outside sales personnel and practices work together for greater efficiency. For example, an inside sales individual within a department may handle the legwork of creating and organizing sales appointments for outside sales personnel, otherwise known as lead generation. In some cases, inside sales personnel may be used to upsell incumbent customers by adding ancillary products or services to their order.






The inside sales segment is among the fastest-growing segments of sales and lead generation.


   Advantages of Inside Sales  

Purchasing goods and services online or by phone is popular among consumers, looking for ways to simplify their lives. It even has its own industry association, the American Association of Inside Sales Professionals (AA-ISP).



Meanwhile, the ways most inside and outside salespeople operate are converging. Increasingly, outside salespeople are making more sales remotely and inside salespeople are occasionally going out in the field. This convergence is aided by the adoption of new sales-facilitating technologies, as well as changing customer buying habits and attitudes about how products and services are sold. This has led to a new moniker for inside sales: "sales in the cloud."


   The Role of the Inside Sales Representative  

Insider sales reps often earn a modest base salary followed by sales commissions and performance bonuses. Because inside sales will take place online over the phone, representatives may want experience in telemarketing or customer support and develop a pleasant demeanor when calling strangers. One perk of inside sales is that you can often do the job remotely or from home.



In 2021, according to PayScale.com, the median base salary for an inside sales representative is about $45,000 with 10% receiving a maximum salary of $66,000. However, salary differences can vary greatly among companies. For example, Oracle Corp. pays its inside sales reps an average salary of $50,565 while State Farm Insurance Company offers its sales reps an average salary of $29,661, according to PayScale's data.






It is common for companies to outsource inside sales to third-party specialists like call centers, telemarketers, or online sales specialists.




What Is Inside Sales vs. Outside Sales?
Inside sales relies on an indoors salesforce to market and sell the company's products or services online or over the phone.Outside sales uses in-person techniques such as meeting clients face-to-face, knocking on doors, or setting up physical booths at conventions or conferences.




Is Cold Calling Used With Inside Sales?
Cold calling is when a salesman or marketers solicits a potential customer who has had no prior interaction with the company or salesperson. Consumers tend to dislike cold calling, finding it impersonal and potentially disruptive. As a result, the success rate for cold calling is very low and federal regulations now exist to limit the extent of cold calls including the National Do-Not-Call Register.Nevertheless, cold calling can be one strategy used with inside sales to reach more individuals and stay proactive.




Is Inside Sales the Same As Telemarketing?
Telemarketing, or telesales, involves selling over the phone or by email, often using cold calls, and is one aspect of inside sales. On whole, inside sales encompasses a broader range of sales & marketing tools and techniques including social media marketing, mobile marketing, search engine optimization (SEO), and customer relationship management (CRM).


   The Bottom Line  

Inside sales relies on professionals selling products and services from behind a desk in an office, call center, or from home. Inside sales uses telephone, email, and other online methods to make contact with prospective clients and close sales. With the growth of e-commerce, inside sales involving social media and driving web-based traffic has become a priority for many companies, including legacy brick-and-mortar retailers.
What Is Insider Information?  

Insider information is a fact about a public company's plans or finances that has not yet been revealed to shareholders and that could give an unfair advantage to its possessors if acted upon. Buying or selling stock based on insider information can be a criminal offense.



Insider information is usually available to executives working within or close to a public company.


   Understanding Insider Information  

A limited number of people inside a company inevitably know about an event that will, once it is revealed, will significantly affect the company's stock price. It might be a pending merger, a product recall, a shortfall in earnings, or the failure of a major project. In extreme cases, it might be a financial scandal that is about to burst into public view.



The people who are in the know are not just sworn to confidentiality. They are forbidden by law to take advantage of that knowledge by buying or selling stock in the company, or by passing along the information to someone else who takes advantage of it.



Insider trading is illegal when the material information has not been made public and has been traded on. It is seen as an unfair manipulation of the free market to give an advantage to certain parties. Ultimately, it undermines confidence in the integrity of the market and can dampen economic growth. 





Key Takeaways

Insider information refers to non-public facts about a publicly-traded company which could provide an advantage to investors.The manipulation of insider information to benefit an investor in buying or selling stock is known as insider trading and is illegal.The Securities and Exchange Commission regulates legal insider trading.


   Regulating Insider Information and Trading  

A person who uses insider information to place trades, or advises a third party to place trades based on the information, can be found guilty of insider trading.



Obviously, company insiders own stock and they buy and sell shares from time to time. Not all insider trading is illegal.



In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates legal insider trades. Trading in company stock by its executives, directors, and employees is subject to regulations encoded in the 1934 Securities Exchange Act.



The enforceable definition of insider trading has been expanded since the law's passage through a series of high-profile securities fraud rulings and loophole-closing legislation.



For instance, in 2000, the Congress passed Regulation Fair Disclosure (Regulation FD), which was meant to curb selective disclosure of information by companies to some shareholders or other traders. It stipulates that any time a firm is disclosing previously non-public information to an interested party, they must make that information public and available to all traders.



The SEC prosecutes trading based on insider information as a serious fraud crime and individuals found guilty can be heavily fined or imprisoned. The business mogul and media personality Martha Stewart was indicted in 2003 on securities fraud and other charges after trading to avoid a loss based on insider information. She was imprisoned for five months and paid a disgorgement of $45,673 plus prejudgment interest of $12,389, and a civil penalty of $137,019.
What Is Insider Trading?  

Insider trading involves trading in a public company's stock or other securities by someone with non-public, material information about the company. Insider transactions are legal if the insider makes a trade and reports it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, but insider trading is illegal when the material information is still non-public.



Those who commit insider trading face harsh consequences, so it's important to know what it is and how to avoid it if you own company shares and have information that can affect other investors.





Key Takeaways

Insider trading is buying or selling a publicly traded company's stock by someone with non-public, material information about that company.Non-public, material information is any information that could substantially impact an investor's decision to buy or sell a security that has not been made available to the public.This form of insider trading is illegal and has stern penalties, including potential fines and jail time.Insider transactions are legal as long as you conform to the rules set forth by the SEC.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Insider Trading  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defines illegal insider trading as:



The buying or selling a security, in breach of a fiduciary duty or other relationship of trust and confidence, on the basis of material, non-public information about the security.



Material information is any information that could substantially impact an investor's decision to buy or sell the security. Non-public information is information that is not legally available to the public.



The question of legality stems from the SEC's attempt to maintain a fair marketplace. An individual with access to insider information would have an unfair edge over other investors, who do not have the same access and could potentially make larger, and thus unfair, profits than their fellow investors.


  Legal vs. Illegal Insider Trading  

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was the first step in requiring the disclosure of company stock transactions. Directors, executives, or anyone else who has information or who holds more than 10% of any class of a company's securities are considered insiders by the SEC.



Anyone who becomes an insider must file SEC Form 3, Initial Statement of Beneficial Ownership of Securities, within 10 days of assuming an insider role.



If an insider makes a transaction, they must file Form 4, Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership, within two business days of making the transaction. This form serves to notify the public that an insider acted on a security.



SEC Form 5, Annual Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership Of Securities, is required no later than 45 days after a company's fiscal year ends. The SEC requires its filing only if one or more transactions exempted from Form 4 were not reported during the year.






If you meet the definition of an insider and file the forms, trading your company shares is called an insider transaction. It is only considered illegal insider trading when you don't follow the rules.



Illegal insider trading includes an insider (by SEC definition) not submitting the required forms after making a transaction. It also includes passing along material non-public information before it is made publicly available. For example, suppose you work for XYZ Company and learn that it is about to post losses in its quarterly report, which can affect investors.



You tell a friend who owns shares in the company, and they sell their shares a few days before the report is published—and share prices drop right after it is. You and your friend may be guilty of insider trading even though neither of you is classified as an "insider" by definition. You acted on information that could affect other investors when they didn't have the information.


   Examples of Insider Trading  

Insider trading is nothing new—it has been going on for as long as stock markets have existed. However, there are some notable recent examples worth mentioning.


  Martha Stewart  

Directors of companies are not the only people who have the potential to be convicted of insider trading. For example, in 2003, Martha Stewart was charged by the SEC with obstruction of justice and securities fraud—including insider trading—for her part in the 2001 ImClone case.



Stewart sold close to 4,000 shares of biopharmaceutical company ImClone Systems based on information from Peter Bacanovic, a broker at Merrill Lynch. Bacanovic's tip came after ImClone Systems chief executive officer (CEO), Samuel Waksal, sold all his company shares. This came around the time ImClone was waiting on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a decision on its cancer treatment, Erbitux.



Shortly after these sales, the FDA rejected ImClone's drug, causing shares to fall 16% in one day. The early sale by Stewart saved her a loss of $45,673. However, the sale was made based on a tip she received about Waksal selling his shares, which was not public information. After a 2004 trial, Stewart was charged with lesser crimes of obstruction of a proceeding, conspiracy, and making false statements to federal investigators. Stewart served five months in a federal corrections facility.


  Amazon  

In September 2017, former Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) financial analyst Brett Kennedy was charged with insider trading. Authorities said Kennedy gave fellow University of Washington alumni Maziar Rezakhani information on Amazon's 2015 first-quarter earnings before the release. Rezakhani paid Kennedy $10,000 for the information. In a related case, the SEC said Rezakhani made $115,997 trading Amazon shares based on the tip from Kennedy.




Has Insider Trading a Negative Connotation?
The term "insider trading" generally has a negative connotation based on the perception that it is unfair to the average investor. Essentially, insider trading involves trading in a public company's stock by someone with non-public, material information about that stock. Insider trading is illegal, but if an insider trades their holdings and reports it properly, it is an insider transaction, which is legal.




When Is Insider Trading Illegal?
Insider trading is deemed illegal when the material information is still non-public and comes with harsh consequences, including potential fines and jail time. Material non-public information is defined as any information that could substantially impact that company's stock price.




When Is Insider Trading Legal?
Legal insider transactions happen in the stock market all the time. The question of legality stems from the SEC's attempt to maintain a fair marketplace. It is legal for company insiders to trade company stock as long as they report these trades to the SEC on time.


   The Bottom Line  

Insider trading is when non-published information from a company is used to make a trading decision by someone with an invested interest in that company. It is illegal to engage in insider trading, but it is legal to trade your company shares as long as you follow the guidelines set by the SEC.
What Is Insolvency?  

Insolvency is when an individual or company can no longer meet their financial obligations to lenders as debts become due. Before an insolvent company or person gets involved in insolvency proceedings, they will may be involved in informal arrangements with creditors, such as setting up alternative payment arrangements. Insolvency can arise from poor cash management, a reduction in cash inflow, or an increase in expenses.





Key Takeaways

Insolvency is a state of financial distress in which a person or business is unable to pay their debts.Insolvency is when liabilities are greater than the value of the company, or when a debtor cannot pay the debts they owe.A company can become insolvent due to a number of situations that lead to poor cash flow.When faced with insolvency, a business or individual can contact creditors directly and restructure debts to pay them off.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Insolvency Works  

Insolvency is a state of financial distress in which a business or person is unable to pay their bills.



Insolvency can lead to insolvency proceedings, in which legal action will be taken against the insolvent person or entity, and assets may be liquidated to pay off outstanding debts. Business owners may contact creditors directly and restructure debts into more manageable installments. Creditors are typically amenable to this approach because they want to be repaid and avoid losses, even if the repayment is on a delayed schedule.



If a business owner plans on restructuring the company’s debt, they assemble a realistic plan showing how they can reduce company overhead and continue carrying out business operations. The owner creates a proposal detailing how the debt may be restructured using cost reductions or other plans for support. The proposal shows creditors how the business may produce enough cash flow for profitable operations while paying its debts.


   Factors Contributing to Insolvency  

There are numerous factors that can contribute to a person's or company’s insolvency. A company’s hiring of inadequate accounting or human resources management may contribute to insolvency. For example, the accounting manager may improperly create and/or follow the company’s budget, resulting in overspending. Expenses add up quickly when too much money is flowing out and not enough is coming into the business.



Rising vendor costs can also contribute to insolvency. When a business has to pay increased prices for goods and services, the company passes along the cost to the consumer. Rather than pay the increased cost, many consumers take their business elsewhere so they can pay less for a product or service. Losing clients results in losing income for paying the company’s creditors.



Lawsuits from customers or business associates may lead a company to insolvency. The business may end up paying large amounts of money in damages and be unable to continue operations. When operations cease, so does the company’s income. Lack of income results in unpaid bills and creditors requesting money owed to them.



Some companies become insolvent because their goods or services do not evolve to fit consumers’ changing needs. When consumers begin doing business with other companies offering larger selections of products and services, the company loses profits if it does not adapt to the marketplace. Expenses exceed revenues and bills remain unpaid.






Types of insolvency include cash-flow insolvency and balance-sheet insolvency.


   Insolvency vs. Bankruptcy  

Insolvency is a type of financial distress, meaning the financial state in which a person or entity is no longer able to pay the bills or other obligations. The IRS states that a person is insolvent when the total liabilities exceed total assets.



A bankruptcy, on the other hand, is an actual court order that depicts how an insolvent person or business will pay off their creditors, or how they will sell their assets in order to make the payments. A person or corporation can be insolvent without being bankrupt, even if it's only a temporary situation. If that situation extends longer than anticipated, it can lead to bankruptcy. 




What Is the Difference Between Solvency and Insolvency?
When a company or person is insolvent, they cannot meet their financial obligations. Solvency is when you have enough funds to cover the payments you owe. A company is considered solvent when they have more assets than liabilities.




What Is the Difference Between Debt Restructuring and Debt Consolidation?
Debt restructuring is when you take steps to avoid defaulting on debt, such as negotiating a lower interest rate or new terms that make payments more affordable. Debt consolidation is when you combine multiple loans into one new loan, often to achieve better terms.




Is Insolvency the Same Thing as Bankruptcy?
Insolvency is not the same as bankruptcy, although a company that has become insolvent may file for bankruptcy. Insolvency is the state of not being able to pay your obligations while bankruptcy is a legal process to discharge your debts.


   The Bottom Line  

Insolvency is a state where a debtor cannot pay their debts, and it can occur for a number of reasons. Understanding the factors that can lead to insolvency, such as overspending, can help you prevent insolvency and its consequences.
What Is an Installment Debt?  

An installment debt is a loan that is repaid by the borrower in regular installments. An installment debt is generally repaid in equal monthly payments that include interest and a portion of the principal. This type of loan is an amortized loan that requires a standard amortization schedule to be created by the lender detailing payments throughout the loan’s duration.





Key Takeaways

An installment debt is a loan that is repaid in regular installments, such as most mortgages and car loans.Installment loans are good for borrowers as it's a way to finance big-ticket items, while they provide lenders with regular payments.Installments loans are generally less risky than other alternative loans that do not have installment payments, such as balloon-payment loans or interest-only loans.An installment debt may be a type of personal loan.Your amortization schedule determines how much you pay in monthly installment debt payments.


   Understanding Installment Debt  

An installment debt is a favored method of consumer financing for big-ticket items such as homes, cars, and appliances. Lenders also favor installment debt since it offers a steady cash flow to the issuer throughout the loan with regular payments based on a standard amortization schedule.



The amortization schedule will determine the size of the monthly installment debt payments. The amortization schedule is created based on several variables, including the total principal issued, the interest rate charged, any down payment, and the total number of payments.



For example, few can afford to pay off the price of a home in a single payment. Therefore a loan is issued with a principal amount covering the home’s value and is amortized with monthly installment payments over a period. Mortgage loans are typically structured with a 15-year payment schedule or a 30-year payment schedule. As a result, mortgage borrowers can make steady installment debt payments over the life of the loan, which helps to make purchasing a home more affordable.



Conversely, an appliance that costs $1,500 can be paid off in a year by most people. The buyer can further reduce the monthly payments by making a substantial down payment of $500, for instance. In this case, assuming an interest rate of 8%, the equal monthly payments over one year would be approximately $87, which means the total financing cost over the one-year period is about $44.



On the other hand, if the buyer does not have the resources for a down payment and finances the total $1,500 cost of the appliance for one year at 8%, the monthly payments would be $130.50. The total financing cost, in this case, is a little higher at $66.






Installments loans are often lower risk loans than loans without installment payments.


   Special Considerations  

An installment loan is one of the most traditional loan products offered by lenders. Lenders can build a standard amortization schedule and receive monthly cash flow from both principal and interest payments on the loans. In addition, high-quality loans can be accepted as qualified loans receiving certain protections and offering the opportunity for sale on the secondary market, which increases a bank’s capital.



Installments loans can generally be much lower risk than other alternative loans that do not have installment payments. These loans can include balloon-payment loans or interest-only loans. These alternative loans are not structured with a traditional amortization schedule and are issued with a much higher risk than standard installment loans.


   Types of Installment Debt  

Traditional loans from financial institutions for homes and automobiles are a prominent source of lending business for lenders. Most of these loans are based on conservative underwriting with standard amortization schedules that pay down principal and interest with each installment payment.



Alternative installment debt loans are also offered by a variety of higher-risk alternative lenders in the credit market. Payday loans are one example. They charge higher interest rates and base the principal offered on a borrower’s employer and per paycheck income. These loans are also paid with installments based on an amortization schedule; however, their underlying components involve much higher risks.



In 2014, the Dodd-Frank Act instituted legislation for qualified mortgages. This provided lending institutions with more significant incentives to structure and issue higher-quality mortgage loans. Standard installment repayment terms are one requirement for qualified mortgages. In addition, as a qualified mortgage loan, it is eligible for certain protections and is also more appealing to underwriters in secondary market loan product structuring.


   Installment Debt vs. Personal Loans  

An installment loan is a financial vehicle in which a lender agrees to be paid back in installments versus one payment. For example, a mortgage payment is a type of installment loan repaid by the borrower in monthly installments that include principal and interest. Federal loans for education and mortgages are two types of common installment loans. An installment debt is money owed on an installment loan.



An installment loan is a type of personal loan, but there are other kinds of personal loans, including payments repaid in full with interest rather than in installments. A personal loan can come from a bank, a credit union, a boss, or a member of your family.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Installment Debt  

Like any loan, there are advantages and disadvantages to taking on installment debt. For example, if you want to buy a house, an installment loan is a great way to borrow a large sum of money and pay it back over time. On the other hand, if you hate the idea of being in long-term debt, borrowing and then paying a personal loan off in full may be more appealing.



An installment debt is paid off on a regular schedule set by the lender. An installment loan allows you to budget your money each month while you are paying off your debt.



In some cases, when you have signed up to pay your loan off using installment payments, you will be charged with a penalty fee if you decide to pay it off early. In addition, installment loans take time to pay off, making them a financial commitment.





Pros

Installment loans allow the borrower to pay off their loan over time.
Installment loans provide a way to borrow large sums of money to purchase big ticket items like a home.
Installment debt is usually a set amount each month, making it easier on your budget.



Cons

Installment debt is usually very high making it difficult to pay off in one payment.
Installment debt includes interest, which adds up over the years.
Some lenders may charge a penalty fee, if you pay off your loan in full.





   The Bottom Line  

An installment debt is a type of loan repaid by the borrower in regular, often monthly payments that include the interest owed plus a portion of the principal.



An installment debt is an amortized loan and has a standard amortization schedule created by the lender that shows the borrower how much they will owe over the life of the loan. Mortgages and student loans are often forms of installment debt and allow borrowers to gain access to large sums of money. An installment debt is less risky than borrow large amounts that must be paid off in full with interest in a short amount of time.


   Installment Debt FAQs  
  What Is an IRS Installment Agreement?  

An IRS installment agreement is a plan used to pay the IRS via installments any tax you owe them.


  How Much Interest Does the IRS Charge on Installment Agreements?  

The IRS issues a charge of one-half of a 1 % rate on unpaid taxes up to 10 days. Afterward, the interest rises to 1%, but "if you file your return by its due date and request an installment agreement, the one-half of 1% rate decreases to one-quarter of 1% for any month in which an installment agreement is in effect," according to its website.


  What Is an Installment Sale?  

An installment sale is a sale of property where you receive at least one payment beyond the tax year of the sale. However, installment sale rules don't apply if you sell your property at a loss.


  What Happens if You Don't Pay Your Installment Loan?  

Like any loan, if you don't pay back what you owe, you can find yourself in a lot of financial trouble. If you default on your mortgage, for example, you can lose your home. In addition, if you don't pay your installment loan, the fees, interest, and potential penalty charges will increase. By not paying your loans, you risk damaging your credit, as well.


  How Can You Get an Installment Loan With Bad Credit?  

It is possible to get an installment loan with bad credit but you find yourself saddled with a higher interest rate on the loan if your credit is below 600. If you shop around for a loan, you may find one, even if your credit is considered "bad" by one of the "big three" credit bureaus. However, you may not qualify for a mortgage, which is a type of installment loan, with a score lower than 550.
What Is the Institute for Supply Management (ISM)?  

The term Institute for Supply Management (ISM) refers to a nonprofit supply management association. Established in 1915, it is the largest organization of its kind. It provides certification, development, education, and research for individuals and corporations in the supply management and purchasing professions. The goal of the ISM is to help advance supply management "to drive value and competitive advantage." The organization publishes the ISM Manufacturing Report on Business.





Key Takeaways

The Institute for Supply Management is a nonprofit supply management association.The organization was established in 1915 as the National Association of Purchasing Agents before changing its name in 2002.It provides certification, development, education, and research for the supply management and purchasing industries.ISM members can earn the Certified Professional in Supply Management or the Certified Professional in Supplier Diversity.The ISM publishes three Purchase Managers' Indexes as part of its ISM Manufacturing Report on Business, which is considered a leading economic indicator.


   Understanding the Institute for Supply Management (ISM)  

The Institute for Supply Management was founded in 1915 as the National Association of Purchasing Agents. The organization operated as such until 2002 when it officially changed its name to the ISM. As noted above, it is the largest organization that serves members of the supply management and the purchasing industries.



As of 2021, the organization had more than 50,000 members across 100 countries. The association offers services to industry professionals and corporations. The ISM's leadership is comprised of individuals who work in supply management.



The ISM provides professionals with certifications, career help, training, and peer networking. Members can earn two, highly sought-after designations from the institute and become a Certified Professional in Supply Management (CPSM) and a Certified Professional in Supplier Diversity (CPSD):



The CPSM represents the highest degree of professional competencies and is built on an in-depth analysis of supply management functions across industries.
The CPSD is designed to create experts that can help guide their companies through supplier diversity issues, harness underutilized, innovative suppliers, and tap into new markets.



Individuals must recertify through continuing education, work experience, volunteering, or exams.



The organization releases its Report on Business, which includes the Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) and the Services (or non-manufacturing) PMI. These two indexes are published monthly by the ISM Manufacturing and Services business survey committees. They and are considered to be among the most reliable economic indicators. The committees also release a monthly Hospital PMI.






Professionals with a CPSM designation can earn as much as 10% more than their industry peers.


   Special Considerations  

Supply management is often considered to be the way in which businesses purchase and use the raw materials they need to produce their finished goods. While this is just one part of the definition, there's actually more to it than that.



Supply management is a complex process that requires personnel to tackle the following:



Identifying, sourcing, negotiating, and procuring a service or good that is essential to the ongoing operations of their companies according to the wishes of the organization's leaders and supervisors.
Formulating a strategy for developing and maintaining relationships with suppliers (and then executing on it), as well as holding suppliers accountable.
Utilizing technology and procedures that facilitate the procurement process.
Considering the theories of supply and demand and what influence they have on supply.



Personnel who work in supply management and purchasing must also be adept at coordinating the logistics involved with preproduction, inventory management, budgeting, workforce management, and ensuring that the business runs smoothly.
What Is the Institute Of Management Accountants?  

The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) is one of the top associations for financial professionals. It offers the prestigious Certified Management Accountant (CMA) designation. The IMA's mission is to promote education and development in management accounting and finance, advocate for the highest ethics and best business practices, and provide a forum for research.





Key Takeaways:

The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) is a global association for financial professionals and offers the prestigious Certified Management Accountant (CMA) designation.The IMA's mission is to promote education and development in management accounting and finance, the highest ethics and best business practices.As of Sept. 21, 2022, the IMA had approximately 140,000 members in 150 countries.



The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) is a global membership association of accountants and financial professionals who work at nonprofit, private and public companies, and academic institutions. In 2019, the Institute celebrated its 100th anniversary. The organization's vision is to be the leading resource for certifying, supporting, maturing, and linking the world’s best financial professionals and accountants.



The association’s core values include integrity and trust, passion, respect, innovation, and continuous improvement. It achieves these core values by providing access to career opportunities, building a network of industry professionals, and developing partner connections. It offers educational programs to increase leadership opportunities and expand professional knowledge. IMA provides a forum for members by promoting forward-thinking research and industry best practices and offering newsletters and journals.


   Understanding the IMA  

IMA provides services in the Americas, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, and Europe. It has offices in China, Switzerland (Zurich), Netherlands (Amsterdam), Singapore, United Arab Emirates (Dubai), and Egypt (Cairo). As of Sept. 21, 2022, the IMA had approximately 140,000 members in 150 countries. The association has over 350 professional and student chapters worldwide. Members can achieve career development through access to one of IMA's local chapters. The association strives to raise awareness of the management accounting sector.



IMA operates an online training center that provides educational materials. It also offers professional education products. Members receive career development training through local chapters, continuing education, information and resources, and participate in online communities.


   History  

Since 1919, IMA has been an advocate and resource for accounting and financial management professionals. It was founded in Buffalo, New York, to promote knowledge and professionalism among cost accountants and promote a wider understanding of the role of cost accounting in management. The original name of the association was the National Association of Cost Accountants, but in 1957, the name was changed to the National Association of Accountants. In 1991, the name was changed again to the Institute of Management Accountants.



The first chapter was formed in Chicago in 1920, and the first annual conference was held in Atlantic City. In 1972, the association created the CMA certification program. In 1983, it issued the first code of ethics for management accountants in the United States, titled Standards of Ethical Conduct of Management Accountants. In 1996, IMA established the Certified Financial Manager program but discontinued it in 2007.


   Membership Benefits  

IMA offers membership benefits such as publications, conferences, and research on industry trends and advancements. IMA membership also offers discounts on business and professional expenses such as office supplies, insurance, rental cars, and training.
What Is the Institutional Brokers' Estimate System (IBES)?  

The Institutional Brokers' Estimate System (IBES) is a database used by brokers and active investors to access the estimates made by stock analysts regarding the future earnings of publicly traded American companies.



IBES is often written as "I/B/E/S."





Key Takeaways

The Institutional Brokers' Estimate System, or IBES, is a database of analyst estimates and company guidance for more than 23,000 public companies.The database aggregates all of the available financial data on companies and company sectors to aid in decision-making.It features a host of data from equity analyst consensus to forward guidance.Historical data is available from 1976 when IBES was introduced, with international data going back to 1987.IBES is owned today by Thomson Reuters.


   Understanding the IBES  

IBES serves as a central location for all current analyst estimates for stocks. It also incorporates company guidance, the estimates of projected future earnings that companies publish on a quarterly and annual basis, and update periodically as needed.



The first iteration of the IBES database was created by a brokerage firm in 1976 and traded hands several times, landing at financial analytics firm Primark, before being purchased by Thomson Reuters in 2000.



The database provides summary information and detailed projections gathered from analysts and brokers from the major international brokerages as well as local independent analysts. It draws on analyst estimates of more than 216 performance measures for companies across all industries. These include estimates of revenue, earnings per share, price targets, net debt, enterprise value, and net income, among other factors.



Users can break down data by year, by fiscal quarter, and by other timeframes that are used to measure and anticipate a company’s performance.



The database includes recommendations from the analysts on whether to buy, hold, or sell shares in the public companies they cover.






IBES is designed to be a centralized system to assist decision-making about securities.


   How IBES Is Used  

IBES aims to be a concise centralized system to aid in decision-making about securities. It allows for access to a broader consensus estimate rather than relying on the narrow judgments that can be made from day to day as analysts publish their reports.



IBES can be used in a variety of ways. Forecast models for earnings per share results, for instance, can be created using IBES as a benchmark. The database also is used in accounting research.















Source: Thomson Reuters - Refinitiv.


   IBES Spinoffs  

Thomson Reuters has other distinct databases based on IBES. For example, IBES guidance data and earnings estimates are available to academics at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania to review and evaluate expectations for companies. An IBES historical database is used to compare and test investment theories.



The IBES is one of a number of databases used by money managers and investors. The Center for Research on Security Prices has developed databases for stock prices including daily and monthly market information, research, and historical data.




What Does IBES Stand for?
In the financial markets, IBES (or I/B/E/S) stands for the Institutional; Brokers' Estimate System, a financial database containing equity analysts' estimates and reports on most publicly-traded companies.




Who Owns IBES?
IBES is owned by the financial data and media company Thomson Reuters, which it acquired in 2000 when Thomson Reuters purchased the Primark Company.




What Kind of Data Is Found in an IBES Report?
In addition to analysts' recommendations, IBES reports contain a wealth of company financial data including earnings (EPS) forecasts, company guidance, and KPIs (key performance indicators).




How Can I Access IBES Data?
IBES is available through various subscription services offered by Thomson Reuters, including its Refinitiv, Thomson ONE, and Eikon platforms.
What Is an Institutional Investor?  

An institutional investor is a company or organization that invests money on behalf of other people. Mutual funds, pensions, and insurance companies are examples. Institutional investors often buy and sell substantial blocks of stocks, bonds, or other securities and, for that reason, are considered to be the whales on Wall Street.



The group is also viewed as more sophisticated than the average retail investor and, in some instances, they are subject to less restrictive regulations.





Key Takeaways

An institutional investor is a company or organization that invests money on behalf of clients or members.Hedge funds, mutual funds, and endowments are examples of institutional investors.Institutional investors are considered savvier than the average investor and are often subject to less regulatory oversight.The buying and selling of large positions by institutional investors can create supply and demand imbalances that result in sudden price moves in stocks, bonds, or other assets.Institutional investors are the big fish on Wall Street.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   The Role of Institutional Investors  

An institutional investor buys, sells, and manages stocks, bonds, and other investment securities on behalf of its clients, customers, members, or shareholders. Broadly speaking, there are six types of institutional investors: endowment funds, commercial banks, mutual funds, hedge funds, pension funds, and insurance companies. Institutional investors face fewer protective regulations compared to average investors because it is assumed the institutional crowd is more knowledgeable and better able to protect themselves. 



Institutional investors have the resources and specialized knowledge for extensively researching a variety of investment opportunities not open to retail investors. Because institutions are moving the biggest positions and are the largest force behind supply and demand in securities markets, they perform a high percentage of transactions on major exchanges and greatly influence the prices of securities. In fact, institutional investors today make up more than 90% of all stock trading activity.





80%

Institutional investors account for about 80% of the S&P 500 total market capitalization, according to data from Pensions & Investment Online.



Since institutional investors can move markets, retail investors often research institutional investors’ regulatory filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to determine which securities the retail investors should buy personally. In other words, some investors attempt to mimic the buying of the institutional crowd by taking the same positions as the so-called "smart money."






   Retail Investors vs. Institutional Investors  

Retail and institutional investors are active in a variety of markets like bonds, options, commodities, forex, futures contracts, and stocks. However, because of the nature of the securities and the manner in which transactions occur, some markets are primarily for institutional investors rather than retail investors. Examples of markets primarily for institutional investors include the swaps and forward markets. 



Retail investors typically buy and sell stocks in round lots of 100 shares or more; institutional investors are known to buy and sell in block trades of 10,000 shares or more. Because of the larger trade volumes and sizes, institutional investors sometimes avoid buying stocks of smaller companies for two reasons. First, the act of buying or selling large blocks of a small, thinly-traded stock can create sudden supply and demand imbalances that move share prices higher and lower.



In addition, institutional investors typically avoid acquiring a high percentage of company ownership because performing such an act may violate securities laws. For example, mutual funds, closed-end funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that are registered as diversified funds are restricted as to the percentage of a company’s voting securities that the funds can own.







What’s The Difference Between Institutional and Non-Institutional Investors?




What Is the World's Largest Asset Manager?
The largest private asset manager is BlackRock, which holds about $10 trillion in assets under management as of 2022. Note that most of these assets are held in the name of BlackRock's clients; they are not owned by BlackRock itself.




What Qualifies As an Institutional Investor?
An institutional investor is an entity that makes investments on behalf of someone else. Examples include pension funds, mutual funds, insurance companies, university endowments, and sovereign wealth funds.




How Do Institutional Investors Make Money?
Institutional investors make money by charging fees and commissions to their members or clients. For example, a hedge fund may charge a certain percentage of a client's investment gains or total assets. There may also be flat fees for holding an account or making trades or withdrawals.




What Is an Accredited Investor?
An accredited investor—sometimes described as a sophisticated investor—is someone with enough experience or wealth to make certain risky investments that are not permitted to the general public. In the United States, an accredited investor must have a net worth of over $1 million, excluding the value of their primary residence.


   The Bottom Line  

Institutional investors are the big fish on Wall Street and can move markets with their large block trades. The group is generally considered more sophisticated than the retail crowd and often subject to less regulatory oversight. Institutional investors are usually not investing their own money, but making investment decisions on behalf of clients, shareholders, or customers.
What Is an Instrument?  

An instrument is a means by which something of value is transferred, held, or accomplished. In the field of finance, an instrument is a tradable asset, or a negotiable item, such as a security, commodity, derivative, or index, or any item that underlies a derivative.



In separate contexts, an instrument can alternatively refer to an economic variable that can be controlled or altered by government policymakers to effect a change in other economic indicators. It can also refer to a legal document such as a contract, will, or deed.





Key Takeaways

An instrument is an implement with which to store or transfer value or financial obligations.A financial instrument is a tradable or negotiable asset, security, or contract.Legal instruments may contain binding terms, rights, and/or obligations.


   Understanding Instruments  

International Accounting Standards (IAS) defines financial instruments as "any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity."



Basically, any asset purchased by an investor can be considered a financial instrument. Antique furniture, wheat, and corporate bonds are all equally considered investing instruments in that they can all be bought and sold as things that hold and produce value. Instruments can be debt or equity, representing a share of liability (a future repayment of debt) or ownership. An instrument, in essence, is a type of contract or medium that serves as a vehicle for an exchange of some value between parties.



The values of cash instruments (financial securities that are exchanged for cash like a share of stock) are directly influenced and determined by markets. These can be securities that are easily transferable. The value and characteristics of derivative instruments are derived from their components, such as an underlying asset, interest rate, or index.






Financial instruments may also be divided according to an asset class, which depends on whether they are debt-based or equity-based.


   Economic Instruments  

In terms of instruments as economic variables, policymakers and central banks commonly adjust economic instruments, such as interest rates, to achieve and maintain desired levels of other economic indicators, such as inflation or unemployment rates. Economic instruments may also include such assets as performance bonds or pollution taxes, all designed to bring about some change that is sought as a part of a policy.



For instance, an economic instrument like a tax might be instituted to help reflect some form of cost, which might not be monetary, that is incurred in the procurement or production of some goods or services. Accessing and using natural resources can have broader effects on the environment and lead to the depletion of that resource. Fees on the production of such resources might be instituted to reflect the impact of exploiting these resources.


   Legal Instruments  

From a legal perspective, some examples of legal instruments include insurance contracts, debt covenants, purchase agreements, or mortgages. These documents lay out the parties involved, triggering events, and terms of the contract, communicating the intended purpose and scope.



With legal instruments, there will be a statement of any contractual relationship that is established between the parties involved, such as the terms of a mortgage. These may include rights given to certain parties that are secured by law. A legal instrument presents in a formal fashion that there is an obligation, act, or other duty that is enforceable.
What Are Non-Sufficient Funds (NSF)?  

Non-sufficient funds (NSF), or insufficient funds, is the status of a checking account that does not have enough money to cover all transactions. NSF also describes the fee charged when a check is presented but cannot be covered by the balance in the account. 



Customers will see a “non-sufficient funds” or “insufficient funds” notice on a bank statement when attempting to withdraw more money than their account holds.



When payment cannot be completed it is often considered as “bounced." If a bank receives a check written on an account with insufficient funds, the bank can refuse payment and charge the account holder an NSF fee. Additionally, a penalty or fee may be charged by the merchant for the returned check.





Key Takeaways

A checking account is said to have “non-sufficient funds” (NSF), or "insufficient funds” when it lacks the money needed to cover transactions.The acronym NSF also references the fee a customer is charged for presenting a check or payment that cannot be covered by the balance in the account.Consumers can avoid NSF fees by opting for overdraft protection through their banks.


   How Non-Sufficient Funds Fees Work  

Banks often charge NSF fees when a presented check is returned or payment cannot be made due to a lack of funds to cover it. NSF Fees average $34 each, according to 2022 data from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).



When a check is written and deposited by the payee, their financial institution must make the funds available to them within two business days after they make the deposit. If funds are not available from the payer's bank account, it is deemed as insufficient and an NSF fee is assessed.



Banks provide account holders with several options to avoid the penalties associated with an insufficient funds transaction. Customers can opt out of overdraft policies that allow the bank to cover charges and add an NSF fee, or link at least one backup account, such as a savings account or credit card to fund the insufficient account.






In 2023, the CFPB issued a report saying it found numerous financial institutions charging multiple NSF fees for the same transaction, potentially as soon as the next day. While this is not illegal, the CFPB said that consumers could not reasonably avoid the penalties—for which some institutions reaped millions of dollars in fees—and that the fees weren't justified by benefits to consumers or competition. As a result, nearly all of the banks and credit unions the CFPB engaged with provided plans to stop charging NSF fees altogether.


   NSF Fees vs. Overdraft Fees  

Non-sufficient funds and overdrafts are two distinct bank transactions. Both relate to insufficient funds and can trigger fees. Banks charge NSF fees when they return presented payments without payment, like a check, and overdraft fees when they accept and pay the checks that overdraw checking accounts.



A customer with $100 in a checking account may initiate an automated clearing house (ACH) or electronic check payment for a purchase in the amount of $120. If the bank refuses to pay the check, an NSF fee is incurred. If the bank accepts the check and pays the seller, the checking account balance falls to –$20 and incurs an overdraft (OD) fee. 



Overdraft protection is often an option for banking customers. If a customer has $20 in a checking account and attempts to make a $40 purchase with a debit or check card and has not opted-in to the bank’s overdraft plan, the transaction will be declined by the retailer.



If the customer has OD protection, the transaction may be accepted, and the bank may assess an OD fee. However, if the customer wrote a check for the $40 transaction, the bank may honor it and assess an OD fee or reject it and assess an NSF fee, regardless of whether or not the customer has joined the overdraft program.


   How to Avoid NSF Fees  

Properly budget for monthly paymentsAvoid intentionally writing a check or making a payment for more than the current checking account balance.Monitor account balances, debit card transactions, and automated payments.Link multiple accounts like a checking and a savings account so the money will automatically move from one to the other to cover shortfalls.Look to banks for overdraft lines of credit, a special product to apply for to cover any issues with insufficient funds. An overdraft line of credit requires a credit application, which considers a customer's credit score and credit profile in determining approval.






Many banks now allow you to set up low-balance alerts: You get a text or email notification when the funds in your account drop below a figure you designate. That can help you keep track of how much money is currently available, and you can adjust your spending accordingly.


   Criticism of NSF Fees  

The CFPB oversees and protects consumers while using financial services. In 2010, sweeping bank-reform laws addressed overdraft and NSF fees and implemented guidance allowing consumers to opt for overdraft protection through their banks. More protections for consumers become increasingly urgent as financial institutions mishandle fee policies.



Financial institutions have reordered transactions, processing debits to consumer accounts in a way to maximize overdraft fees by deducting the largest first, rather than in chronological order. In 2011, Bank of America settled a two-year-old class action for $410 million for reordering customer transactions and charging overdraft fees in this way. TD Bank paid over $62 million in a class action settlement for the same mismanagement of fees in 2010.



In 2020, the Bank of Hawaii set up a settlement fund of $8 million to repay clients who had been charged for authorized customer payments while funds were available, but settled the debits once the accounts moved to an insufficient status and charging fees. The bank agreed to forgive overdraft fees that remained unpaid.



Financial institutions have practiced single transaction, multiple fee activity, assessing more than one NSF fee on a single item or transaction if the payment request is automatically re-submitted repeatedly by the creditor. In 2020, the Navy Federal Credit Union settled such a case for $16 million, without conceding any wrongdoing or liability.



This was followed by the 2023 CFPB report that found a number of banks and credit unions had engaged in similar actions as Navy Federal. The institutions then said they would reimburse wronged consumers and issued plans to stop charging any NSF fees.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Why Do Banks Charge an NSF Fee?
Banks charge NSF fees for the cost and inconvenience of having to return declined checks. "For many, overdraft/NSF fees have emerged as the No. 1 generator of fee income and is one of the bank’s most profitable sources of revenue," a Woodstock Institute report noted, quoting American Banker.




Are NSF Fees Legal?
Yes, NSF fees are legal on bounced checks and should not be charged on debit card transactions or ATM withdrawals. The U.S. government doesn't regulate NSF fees or the size of fees but The Truth in Lending Act does require banks to disclose their fees to customers when they open an account.




Can an NSF Fee Be Waived?
Bank policies vary, but an NSF fee can often be waived through an NSF reversal after the fact, especially if it's the first time that it's been assessed. Calling the bank's customer service line and requesting a refund is the best course of action for a consumer.




Do NSF Fees Affect Your Credit?
NSF fees don't affect a customer's credit or credit score directly because banks do not report the transactions to credit bureaus such as Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.However, a bounced check can make delay a credit card or loan payment which may affect a customer's credit score.




What Happens If I Don't Pay My NSF Fees?
Customers don't have an option to avoid paying NSF fees, as the bank automatically deducts them from the account.


   The Bottom Line  

Non-sufficient funds and the fees they incur are irritating, but are common banking occurrences. Though increasingly the focus of criticism and lawsuits, NSF fees remain legal, but the CFPB helps to protect consumers by monitoring such charges. Customers can avoid fees by monitoring their bank balances or by signing up for overdraft protection.
What Is Insurable Interest?  

Insurable interest is a type of investment that protects anything subject to a financial loss. A person or entity has an insurable interest in an item, event, or action when the damage or loss of the object would cause a financial loss or other hardships.



To have an insurable interest a person or entity would take out an insurance policy protecting the person, item, or event in question. The insurance policy would mitigate the risk of loss if something happens to the asset—like becoming damaged or lost.





Key Takeaways

Insurable interest is the basis of all insurance policies linking the insured and owner of the policy.Insurable interest can be an object which, if damaged or destroyed, would result in financial hardship for the policyholder.To exercise insurable interest, the policyholder would buy insurance on the item or entity in question.The policy must not create a moral hazard, in which a policyholder would have a financial incentive to allow or even cause a loss.



Insurable interest is an essential requirement for issuing an insurance policy that makes the entity or event legal, valid, and protected against intentionally harmful acts. People not subject to financial loss do not have an insurable interest. Therefore a person or entity cannot purchase an insurance policy to cover themselves if they are not actually subject to the risk of financial loss.


   Understanding Insurable Interest  

Insurance is a method of pooled risk exposure that protects policyholders from financial losses. Insurers have created many tools to cover losses related to various factors such as automobile expenses, health care expenses, loss of income through disability, loss of life, and damage to property.



Insurable interest specifically applies to people or entities where there is a reasonable assumption of longevity or sustainability, barring any unforeseen adverse events. Insurable interest insures against the prospect of a loss to this person or entity. For example, a corporation may have an insurable interest in the chief executive officer (CEO), and an American football team may have an insurable interest in a star, franchise quarterback. Further, a business may have an insurable interest in its c-suite officers but not its average employees.


   Property Insurable Interest  

Homeowners insurance compensates a policyholder who suffers a significant financial loss if a fire or other destructive force destroys his or her home. The homeowner has an insurable interest in the property; losing that home would create a catastrophic loss for the policyholder. It is reasonable for the homeowner to expect longevity regarding the ownership of the house. The homeowner is, therefore, insuring against the possibility that something unforeseeable causes damage.



A policyholder may buy property insurance for their own home but not the house across the street. Purchasing homeowners insurance for a neighbor’s house creates an incentive to cause damage to that house and collect the insurance proceeds. Appropriate underwriting would not create such a temptation, which represents a moral hazard, whereby parties have an incentive to allow or even affect a loss.


   The Principle of Indemnity and Insurable Interest  

The indemnification principle holds that insurance policies should compensate a policyholder for a covered loss, but losses should not reward or penalize holders. Indemnification suggests that insurers should design policies to cover the value of the at-risk asset appropriately. Poorly conceived or designed policies create a moral hazard, which increases the costs to insurance companies and drives premiums to unsustainable levels for policyholders.


   Real-World Example of Insurable Interest  

Insurable interest is also necessary in life insurance, though this has not always been the case. There are cases where people have purchased life insurance policies for elderly acquaintances strictly because they expect that person's imminent death. Life insurance regulations have evolved to require a relationship in which the policy owner will suffer a financial loss in the event of the insured's death. Hardship may include immediate family members, more distant blood relatives, romantic partners, creditors, and business associates. The face value of life insurance policies must not exceed the human life value of the insured; otherwise, the indemnity principle would be violated, creating a moral hazard.



Also, a policy may not be written without the knowledge of the insured person. This was the case in September 2018 when a California couple was accused of committing three counts of insurance fraud in order to receive $1 million in life insurance benefits. Husband and wife, Peter and Jin Kim purchased life insurance on one of Mr. Kim's clients and listed Mrs. Kim as the client's beneficiary niece. On a second policy, Mrs. Kim appeared as the sister of the policyholder. Mr. Kim, a licensed insurance agent, also did not inform the company that the client had a diagnosed terminal illness when he submitted the applications.




Is Insurable Interest Required for Insurance Policies?
Yes. Insurable interest is, essentially, proof that an individual or entity would experience financial or other hardships as the result of damage to or loss of an item or person. This is evaluated during the underwriting process to ensure this direct link. Such proof of insurable interest is required for all insurance policies.




What Is Moral Hazard?
A moral hazard is when someone with an insurance policy is incentivized to cause loss or damage in order to collect on the insurance. For instance, somebody who is terminally ill may seek a life insurance policy knowing it will payout when they pass away soon after acquiring it. Having insurable interest helps minimize moral hazard.




Why Can't I Take Out a Life Insurance Policy on Just Anybody?
Unless you have insurable interest, you cannot take out a life insurance policy on that individual. If so, you could essentially place bets on, or else profit from the death of otherwise random individuals. Family members and dependents are often justifiable as having insurable interest. So are business partners, borrowers, and key employees in certain cases.
What Is Insurance?  

Insurance is a contract, represented by a policy, in which a policyholder receives financial protection or reimbursement against losses from an insurance company. The company pools clients’ risks to make payments more affordable for the insured. Most people have some insurance: for their car, their house, their healthcare, or their life.



Insurance policies hedge against financial losses resulting from accidents, injury, or property damage. Insurance also helps cover costs associated with liability (legal responsibility) for damage or injury caused to a third party.





Key Takeaways

Insurance is a contract (policy) in which an insurer indemnifies another against losses from specific contingencies or perils.There are many types of insurance policies. Life, health, homeowners, and auto are among the most common forms of insurance.The core components that make up most insurance policies are the premium, deductible, and policy limits.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   How Insurance Works  

Many insurance policy types are available, and virtually any individual or business can find an insurance company willing to insure them—for a price. Common personal insurance policy types are auto, health, homeowners, and life insurance. Most individuals in the United States have at least one of these types of insurance, and car insurance is required by state law.



Businesses obtain insurance policies for field-specific risks, For example, a fast-food restaurant's policy may cover an employee's injuries from cooking with a deep fryer. Medical malpractice insurance covers injury- or death-related liability claims resulting from the health care provider's negligence or malpractice. Businesses may be required by state law to buy specific insurance coverages.






Most insurance is regulated at the state level.



There are also insurance policies available for very specific needs, such as kidnap, ransom and extortion insurance (K&R), identity theft insurance, and wedding liability and cancellation insurance.


   Insurance Policy Components  

Understanding how insurance works can help you choose a policy. For instance, comprehensive coverage may or may not be the right type of auto insurance for you. Three components of any insurance type are the premium, policy limit, and deductible.


  Premium  

A policy’s premium is its price, typically a monthly cost. Often, an insurer takes multiple factors into account to set a premium. Here are a few examples:



Auto insurance premiums: Your history of property and auto claims, age and location, creditworthiness, and many other factors that may vary by state.
Home insurance premiums: The value of your home, personal belongings, location, claims history, and coverage amounts.
Health insurance premiums: Age, sex, location, health status, and coverage levels.
Life insurance premiums: Age, sex, tobacco use, health, and amount of coverage.



Much depends on the insurer's perception of your risk for a claim. For example, suppose you own several expensive automobiles and have a history of reckless driving. In that case, you will likely pay more for an auto policy than someone with a single midrange sedan and a perfect driving record. However, different insurers may charge different premiums for similar policies. So finding the price that is right for you requires some legwork.


  Policy Limit  

The policy limit is the maximum amount an insurer will pay for a covered loss under a policy. Maximums may be set per period (e.g., annual or policy term), per loss or injury, or over the life of the policy, also known as the lifetime maximum.



Typically, higher limits carry higher premiums. For a general life insurance policy, the maximum amount that the insurer will pay is referred to as the face value. This is the amount paid to your beneficiary upon your death.



The federal Affordable Care Act (ACA) prevents ACA-compliant plans from instituting a lifetime limit for essential healthcare benefits such as family planning, maternity services, and pediatric care.


  Deductible  

The deductible is a specific amount you pay out of pocket before the insurer pays a claim. Deductibles serve as deterrents to large volumes of small and insignificant claims.



For example, a $1,000 deductible means you pay the first $1,000 toward any claims. Suppose your car's damage totals $2,000. You pay the first $1,000, and your insurer pays the remaining $1,000.



Deductibles can apply per policy or claim, depending on the insurer and the type of policy. Health plans may have an individual deductible and a family deductible. Policies with high deductibles are typically less expensive because the high out-of-pocket expense generally results in fewer small claims.


   Types of Insurance  

There are many different types of insurance. Let’s look at the most important.


  Health Insurance  

Health insurance helps covers routine and emergency medical care costs, often with the option to add vision and dental services separately. In addition to an annual deductible, you may also pay copays and coinsurance, which are your fixed payments or percentage of a covered medical benefit after meeting the deductible. However, many preventive services may be covered for free before these are met.



Health insurance may be purchased from an insurance company, an insurance agent, the federal Health Insurance Marketplace, provided by an employer, or federal Medicare and Medicaid coverage.



The federal government no longer requires Americans to have health insurance, but in some states, such as California, you may pay a tax penalty if you don't have insurance.






If you have chronic health issues or need regular medical attention, look for a health insurance policy with a lower deductible. Though the annual premium is higher than a comparable policy with a higher deductible, less-expensive medical care year-round may be worth the tradeoff.


  Home Insurance  

Homeowners insurance (also known as home insurance) protects your home, other property structures, and personal possessions against natural disasters, unexpected damage, theft, and vandalism. Renter's insurance is another type of homeowners insurance.



Homeowner insurance won't cover floods or earthquakes, which you'll have to protect against separately.



Your lender or landlord will likely require you to have homeowners insurance coverage. Where homes are concerned, you don't have coverage or stop paying your insurance bill, your mortgage lender is allowed to buy homeowners insurance for you and charge you for it.


  Auto Insurance  

Auto insurance can help pay claims if you injure or damage someone else's property in a car accident, help pay for accident-related repairs on your vehicle, or repair or replace your vehicle if stolen, vandalized, or damaged by a natural disaster.



Instead of paying out of pocket for auto accidents and damage, people pay annual premiums to an auto insurance company. The company then pays all or most of the covered costs associated with an auto accident or other vehicle damage.



If you have a leased vehicle or borrowed money to buy a car, your lender or leasing dealership will likely require you to carry auto insurance. As with homeowners insurance, the lender may purchase insurance for you if necessary.


  Life Insurance  

A life insurance policy guarantees that the insurer pays a sum of money to your beneficiaries (such as a spouse or children) if you die. In exchange, you pay premiums during your lifetime.



There are two main types of life insurance. Term life insurance covers you for a specific period, such as 10 to 20 years. If you die during that period, your beneficiaries receive a payment. Permanent life insurance covers your whole life as long as you continue paying the premiums.


  Travel Insurance  

Travel insurance covers the costs and losses associated with traveling, including trip cancellations or delays, coverage for emergency healthcare, injuries and evacuations, and damaged baggage, rental cars, and rental homes.




What Is Insurance?
Insurance is a way to manage your financial risks. When you buy insurance, you purchase protection against unexpected financial losses. The insurance company pays you or someone you choose if something bad occurs. If you have no insurance and an accident happens, you may be responsible for all related costs.




Why Is Insurance Important?
Insurance helps protect you, your family, and your assets. An insurer will help you cover the costs of unexpected and routine medical bills or hospitalization, accident damage to your car or injury of others, and home damage or theft of your belongings. An insurance policy can even provide your survivors with a lump-sum cash payment if you die. In short, insurance can offer peace of mind regarding unforeseen financial risks.




Is Insurance an Asset?
Depending on the type of life insurance policy and how it is used, permanent or variable life insurance could be considered a financial asset because it can build cash value or be converted into cash. Simply put, most permanent life insurance policies have the ability to build cash value over time.


   The Bottom Line  

Insurance helps to protect you and your family against unexpected financial costs and resulting debts or the risk of losing your assets. Insurance helps protect you from expensive lawsuits, injuries and damages, death, and even total losses of your car or home.



Sometimes, your state or lender may require you to carry insurance. Although there are many insurance policy types, some of the most common are life, health, homeowners, and auto. The right type of insurance for you will depend on your goals and financial situation.
What Is an Insurance Claim?  

An insurance claim is a formal request by a policyholder to an insurance company for coverage or compensation for a covered loss or policy event. The insurance company validates the claim (or denies the claim). If it is approved, the insurance company will issue payment to the insured or an approved interested party on behalf of the insured.



Insurance claims cover everything from death benefits on life insurance policies to routine and comprehensive medical exams. In some cases, a third party is able to file claims on behalf of the insured person. However, in the majority of cases, only the person(s) listed on the policy is entitled to claim payments.





Key Takeaways

An insurance claim is a formal request by a policyholder to an insurance company for coverage or compensation for a covered loss or policy event.The insurance company validates the claim and, once approved, issues payment to the insured or an approved interested party on behalf of the insured.For property-casualty insurance, such as for your car or home, filing a claim can cause rate hikes to your future premiums.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How an Insurance Claim Works  

A paid insurance claim serves to indemnify a policyholder against financial loss. An individual or group pays premiums as consideration for the completion of an insurance contract between the insured party and an insurance carrier. The most common insurance claims involve costs for medical goods and services, physical damage, loss of life, liability for the ownership of dwellings (homeowners, landlords, and renters), and liability resulting from the operation of automobiles.



For property and causality insurance policies, regardless of the scope of an accident or who was at fault, the number of insurance claims you file has a direct impact on the rate you pay to gain coverage (typically through installment payments called insurance premiums). The greater the number of claims that are filed by a policyholder, the greater the likelihood of a rate hike. In some cases, it's possible if you file too many claims that the insurance company may decide to deny you coverage.



If the claim is being filed based on the damage to property that you caused, your rates will almost surely rise. On the other hand, if you aren't at fault, your rates may or may not increase. For example, getting hit from behind when your car is parked or having siding blow off your house during a storm are both events that are clearly not the result of the policyholder.



However, mitigating circumstances, such as the number of previous claims you have filed, the number of speeding tickets you have received, the frequency of natural disasters in your area (earthquakes, hurricanes, floods), and even a low credit rating can all cause your rates to go up, even if the latest claim was made for damage you didn't cause.



When it comes to insurance rate increases, not all claims are created equal. Dog bites, slip-and-fall personal injury claims, water damage, and mold can all act as signals of future liability for an insurer. These items tend to have a negative impact on your rates and on your insurer's willingness to continue providing coverage. Surprisingly, speeding tickets may not cause a rate hike at all. At least for your first speeding ticket, many companies will not increase your prices. The same goes for a minor automobile accident or a small claim against your homeowner's insurance policy.


   Types of Insurance Claims  
  Health Insurance Claims  

Costs for surgical procedures or inpatient hospital stays remain prohibitively expensive. Individual or group health policies indemnify patients against financial burdens that may otherwise cause crippling financial damage. Health insurance claims filed with carriers by providers on behalf of policyholders require little effort from patients; the majority of medical are adjudicated electronically.



Policyholders must file paper claims when medical providers do not participate in electronic transmittals but charges result from rendered covered services. Ultimately, an insurance claim protects an individual from the prospect of large financial burdens resulting from an accident or illness.


  Property and Casualty Claims  

A house is typically one of the largest assets an individual will purchase in their lifetime. A claim filed for damage from covered perils is initially routed via the Internet to a representative of an insurer, commonly referred to as an agent or claims adjuster.



Unlike health insurance claims, the onus is on the policyholder to report damage to a deeded property they own. An adjuster, depending on the type of claim, inspects and assesses damage to property for payment to the insured. Upon verification of the damage, the adjuster initiates the process of compensating or reimbursing the insured.


  Life Insurance Claims  

Life insurance claims require the submission of a claim form, a death certificate, and oftentimes the original policy. The process, especially for large face value policies, may require in-depth examination by the carrier to ensure that the death of the insured did not fall under a contract exclusion, such as suicide (usually excluded for the first few years after policy inception) or death resulting from a criminal act.



Generally, the process takes approximately 30 to 60 days without extenuating circumstances, affording beneficiaries the financial wherewithal to replace the income of the deceased or simply cover the burden of final expenses.






Filing an insurance claim may raise future insurance premiums.


   Special Considerations  

There are no hard-and-fast rules around rate hikes. What one company forgives, another won't forget. Because any claim at all may pose a risk to your rates, understanding your policy is the first step toward protecting your wallet. If you know your first accident is forgiven or a previously filed claim won't count against you after a certain number of years, the decision of whether or not to file a claim can be made with advanced knowledge of the impact it will or won't have on your rates.



Talking to your agent about the insurance company's policies long before you need to file a claim is also important. Some agents are obligated to report you to the company if you even discuss a potential claim and choose not to file. For this reason, you also don't want to wait until you need to file a claim to inquire about your insurer's policy regarding consultation with your agent.



Regardless of your situation, minimizing the number of claims you file is the key to protecting your insurance rates from a substantial increase. A good rule to follow is to only file a claim in the event of catastrophic loss. If your car gets a dent on the bumper or a few shingles blow off of the roof of your house, you may be better off if you take care of the expense on your own.



If your car is totaled in an accident or the entire roof of your house caves in, filing a claim becomes a more economically feasible exercise. Just keep in mind that even though you have coverage and have paid your premiums on time for years, your insurance company can still decline to renew your coverage when your policy expires.




How Do I Initiate an Insurance Claim?
If you hold an insurance policy and have experienced damages covered by it, you can initiate a claim by contacting your insurer. This can be done by phone, and increasingly online. Once the claim has been started, the insurer will collect relevant information from you and may ask for evidence (such as photos) or supporting documentation. The insurer may also send an adjuster to interview you and evaluate the merits of your claim.




Why Does Filing a Claim Increase Insurance Premiums?
Sometimes, filing a claim can result in higher insurance premiums going forward. Although this is not always the case as some insurers will forgive the first accident, for example. Rate hikes following a claim are mainly due because the insurer will see you as a greater risk than before, and adjust the cost upwards accordingly. If you can prove that a claim was made where you were not at fault, you may be able to reverse such an increase. If you file too many claims over a very short period of time, the insurance company may not renew your policy regardless of fault.




Should I File an Insurance Claim if the Damage Is Less than My Deductible?
If the damage you experience is less than your deductible, it may not make sense to file a claim with your insurance company. For instance, if you have $200 in estimated damage, but a $1,000 deductible, it wouldn't make sense. If, however, you feel that the other party is entirely at fault and want their insurance to pay for your damage, you may want to initiate a claim nonetheless. It is a good idea to always talk with your insurance agent before filing a claim.
What Is Insurance Coverage?  

Insurance coverage is the amount of risk or liability that is covered for an individual or entity by way of insurance services. Insurance coverage, such as auto insurance, life insurance—or more exotic forms, such as hole-in-one insurance—is issued by an insurer in the event of unforeseen occurrences.





Key Takeaways

Insurance coverage refers to the amount of risk or liability that is covered for an individual or entity by way of insurance services.The most common types of insurance coverage include auto insurance, life insurance and homeowners insurance. Insurance coverage helps consumers recover financially from unexpected events, such as car accidents or the loss of an income-producing adult supporting a family.In exchange for insurance coverage, the insured person is responsible for paying premiums to the insurance company.


   Understanding Insurance Coverage  

Insurance coverage helps consumers recover financially from unexpected events, such as car accidents or the loss of an income-producing adult supporting a family. In exchange for this coverage, the insured person pays a premium to the insurance company. Insurance coverage and its costs are often determined by multiple factors.



Premiums are a way for the insurance company to manage risk. When there's an increased possibility that an insurance company may have to pay out money toward a claim, they can offset that risk by charging a higher premium.



For example, most insurers charge higher premiums for young male drivers, as insurers deem the probability of young men being involved in an accident to be higher than, say, a middle-aged married man with years of driving experience.





Tip

Insurance companies use the underwriting process to evaluate you for risk and use the information they collect to set your premiums.


   Main Types of Insurance Coverage  

There are different types of insurance coverage someone may need. Here are some of the most common options for insuring yourself and your property.


  Auto Insurance Coverage  

Auto insurance can protect you in the event of an accident. In all 50 states, excluding New Hampshire, drivers are required to have minimum amounts of liability insurance coverage. This includes both bodily injury liability coverage and property damage liability coverage. Bodily injury liability coverage pays for the medical expenses of another person if they're injured in an accident for which you are at fault. Property damage liability coverage pays for damages to someone else's property when you're at fault in an accident.



Depending on where you live, you may also be required to have:



Uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage
Comprehensive coverage
Collision coverage
Medical payments coverage
Personal injury protection (PIP)



Auto insurance premiums typically depend on the insured party's driving record. A record free of accidents or serious traffic violations may result in a lower premium. Drivers with histories of accidents or serious traffic violations may pay higher premiums. Likewise, because mature drivers tend to have fewer accidents than less-experienced drivers, insurers typically charge more for drivers below age 25.



If a person drives his car for work or typically drives long distances, he generally pays more for auto insurance premiums, because his increased mileage likewise increases his chances for accidents. People who do not drive as much pay less.



Because of higher vandalism rates, thefts and accidents, urban drivers pay higher premiums than those living in small towns or rural areas. Other factors varying among states include the cost and frequency of litigation, medical care and repair costs, the prevalence of auto insurance fraud, and weather trends.





Tip

Options for saving money on auto insurance premiums include asking about safe driver discounts and bundling coverage with homeowners or other types of insurance.


  Life Insurance Coverage  

Life insurance is designed to provide a measure of financial security for your loved ones if you pass away. These policies allow you to name a primary beneficiary and one or more contingent beneficiaries to receive a death benefit should you pass away.



Term life insurance covers you for a set time period. For example, you may choose a 20- or 25-year term policy. Permanent life insurance covers you as long as your premiums are paid, which can effectively translate to lifetime coverage. Permanent life insurance can also allow you to build cash value over time that you could borrow against if necessary.



Types of permanent life insurance include:



Whole life
Universal life
Variable life
Variable universal life



With either type of life insurance (i.e. term or permanent), you can choose the death benefit amount you would like your beneficiaries to receive, i.e. $500,000, $1 million or even more. Between term life and permanent life insurance, term life tends to offer lower premium costs since you're only covered for a set period of time.



Premiums can depend on the age of the insured party and their gender. Because younger people are less likely to die than older people, younger people typically pay lower life insurance costs. And since women tend to live longer than men, women tend to pay lower premiums.





Important

Engaging in risky behaviors, such as a potentially dangerous hobby or using drugs and alcohol, could cause life insurance premiums to be higher.



Health is another important factor in determining life insurance costs. People in good health typically pay lower life insurance premiums. For example, the risk of dying for a person with a 30-year policy is greater than the risk of dying for a person with a 10-year policy.



A history of chronic disease or other potential health issues with an individual or family, such as heart disease or cancer, may result in paying higher premiums. Obesity, alcohol consumption, or smoking can affect rates as well. An applicant typically goes through a medical exam to determine whether he has high blood pressure or other signs of potential health issues that may result in premature death for the applicant and increased risk for the insurance company.





Tip 

No exam life insurance policies allow you to skip the medical exam but you may pay higher premium costs.


  Homeowner's Insurance  

Homeowner's insurance is designed to protect against financial losses associated with covered incidents involving your home. For example, a typical homeowner's insurance policy covers both the home and its contents in the event of:



FireTheft/vandalismLightningHailWind



Your policy can pay for repairs to your home or in extreme cases, to rebuild the home. Homeowner's insurance can also pay to replace lost or damaged belongings as well as replacement or repairs for associated structures, such as a garage or storage shed.



Homeowner's insurance premiums can depend on the value of the home, policy coverage amounts and where the home is located. For example, you may pay more to insure a home that's located in an area prone to hurricanes or tornadoes.





Important

Standard homeowner's insurance policies typically do not cover events like earthquakes or flood-related damage. You'd need to purchase separate coverage to be protected against those scenarios.
What Is an Insurance Premium?  

An insurance premium is the amount of money an individual or business pays for an insurance policy. Insurance premiums are paid for policies that cover healthcare, auto, home, and life insurance. Once earned, the premium is income for the insurance company. It also represents a liability, as the insurer must provide coverage for claims being made against the policy. Failure to pay the premium on the individual or the business may result in the cancellation of the policy.





Key Takeaways

An insurance premium is the amount of money an individual or business must pay for an insurance policy.Insurance premiums are paid for policies that cover healthcare, auto, home, and life insurance.Failure to pay the premium on the part of the individual or the business may result in the cancellation of the policy and a loss of coverage.Some premiums are paid quarterly, monthly, or semi-annually depending on the policy.Shopping around for insurance may help you find affordable premiums. 


   How an Insurance Premium Works  

When you sign up for an insurance policy, your insurer will charge you a premium. This is the amount you pay for the policy. Policyholders may choose from several options for paying their insurance premiums. Some insurers allow the policyholder to pay the insurance premium in installments—monthly or semi-annually—while others may require an upfront payment in full before any coverage starts.



The price of the premium depends on a variety of factors, including:



The type of coverage
Your age
The area in which you live
Any claims filed in the past
Moral hazard and adverse selection






There may be additional charges payable to the insurer on top of the premium, including taxes or services fees.


   Auto Insurance  

For example, in an auto insurance policy, the likelihood of a claim being made against a teenage driver living in an urban area may be higher than a teenage driver in a suburban area. In general, the greater the risk associated, the more expensive the insurance policy (and thus, the insurance premiums).


   Life Insurance  

In the case of a life insurance policy, the age at which you begin coverage will determine your premium amount, along with other risk factors (such as your current health). The younger you are, the lower your premiums will generally be. Conversely, the older you get, the more you pay in premiums to your insurance company.


   How Premiums Are Calculated  

Insurance premiums may increase after the policy period ends. The insurer may increase the premium for claims made during the previous period if the risk associated with offering a particular type of insurance increases, or if the cost of providing coverage increases. 



Insurance companies generally employ actuaries to determine risk levels and premium prices for a given insurance policy. The emergence of sophisticated algorithms and artificial intelligence is fundamentally changing how insurance is priced and sold. There is an active debate between those who say algorithms will replace human actuaries in the future and those who contend the increasing use of algorithms will require greater participation of human actuaries and send the profession to a "next level."



Insurers use the premiums paid to them by their customers and policyholders to cover liabilities associated with the policies they underwrite. They may also invest in the premium to generate higher returns. This can offset some costs of providing insurance coverage and help an insurer keep its prices competitive.



While insurance companies may invest in assets with varying levels of liquidity and returns, they are required to maintain a certain level of liquidity at all times. State insurance regulators set the number of liquid assets necessary to ensure insurers can pay claims.


   Special Considerations  

Most consumers find shopping around to be the best way to find the cheapest insurance premiums. You may choose to shop around on your own with individual insurance companies. And if you are looking for quotes, it's fairly easy to do this by yourself online.



For example, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) allows uninsured consumers to shop around for health insurance policies on the marketplace. Upon logging in, the site requires some basic information such as your name, date of birth, address, and income, along with the personal information of anyone else in your household. You can choose from several options available based on your home state—each with different premiums, deductibles, and copays—the policy coverage changes based on the amount you pay.



The other option is to try going through an insurance agent or broker. They tend to work with a number of different companies and can try to get you the best quote. Many brokers can connect you to life, auto, home, and health insurance policies. However, it's important to remember that some of these brokers may be motivated by commissions.




What Do Insurers Do With the Premiums?
Insurers use the premiums paid to them by their customers and policyholders to cover liabilities associated with the policies they underwrite. Some insurers invest in the premium to generate higher returns. By doing so, the companies can offset some costs of providing insurance coverage and help an insurer keep its prices competitive within the market.




What Are the Key Factors Affecting Insurance Premiums?
Insurance premiums depend on a variety of factors including the type of coverage being purchased by the policyholder, the age of the policyholder, where the policyholder lives, the claim history of the policyholder, and moral hazard and adverse selection. Insurance premiums may increase after the policy period ends, or if the risk associated with offering a particular type of insurance increases. It may also change if the amount of coverage changes.




What Is an Actuary?
An actuary assesses and manages the risks of financial investments, insurance policies, and other potentially risky ventures. Actuaries assess particular situations financial risks, primarily using probability, economic theory, and computer science. Most actuaries work at insurance companies, where their risk-management capabilities are particularly applicable in determining risk levels and premium prices for a given insurance policy.
What Is an Insurance Underwriter?  

Insurance underwriters are professionals who evaluate and analyze the risks involved in insuring people and assets. Insurance underwriters establish pricing for accepted insurable risks. The term underwriting means receiving remuneration for the willingness to pay a potential risk. Underwriters use specialized software and actuarial data to determine the likelihood and magnitude of a risk.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi





Key Takeaways

Insurance underwriters evaluate the risks involved in insuring people and assets and establish pricing for a risk. Underwriters in investment banking guarantee a minimum share price for a company planning an IPO (initial public offering).Commercial banking underwriters assess the risk of lending to individuals or lenders and charge interest to cover the cost of assuming that risk.Insurance underwriters assume the risk of a future event and charge premiums in return for a promise to reimburse the client an amount in the event damage or occurs.


   Investment Banking Underwriters  

The underwriters of an investment bank often guarantee a specified amount of capital to a corporation during an initial public offering (IPO), an amount which is theoretically provided by investors as the source of capital. The bank acts only as the "facilitator" of the transaction, but they have still taken on an "underwriting risk" by promising to provide those proceeds of the sale to the client, regardless of the success or failure of the sale of its company's shares.


   Insurance Underwriters  

Insurance underwriters assume the risk involved in a contract with an individual or entity. For example, an underwriter may assume the risk of the cost of a fire in a home in return for a premium or a monthly payment. Evaluating an insurer's risk before the policy period and at the time of renewal is a vital function of an underwriter.



For example, homeowners insurance underwriters must consider numerous variables when rating a homeowner's policy. Property and casualty insurance agents act as field underwriters, initially inspecting homes or rental properties for conditions such as deteriorated roofs or foundations that pose a risk to the carrier. The agents report hazards to the home underwriter. The home underwriter additionally considers hazards that may trigger a liability claim.



Hazards include unfenced swimming pools, cracked sidewalks, and the presence of dead or dying trees on the property. These and other hazards represent risks to an insurance company, which may eventually be required to pay liability claims in the event of accidental drownings or slip and fall injuries.



Inputting a number of factors, which often includes an applicant's credit rating, homeowner insurance underwriters employ an algorithmic rating method to pricing. The system generates an appropriate premium based on the platform’s interpretation and the combination of all data reported from the observations of the field underwriter. The lead underwriter also subjectively considers answers submitted by the applicant on the policy application when arriving at a premium.






Insurance companies must balance their approach to underwriting: if too aggressive, greater-than-expected claims could compromise earnings; if too conservative, they will be outpriced by competitors and lose market share.


   Commercial Banking Underwriters  

Commercial banking underwriters assess the creditworthiness of borrowers to decide whether the individual or entity should receive a loan or funding. The borrower is typically charged a fee to cover the lender's risk if the borrower defaults on the loan.


   Medical Stop-Loss Underwriters  

Medical stop-loss underwriters assess risk based on the individual health conditions of self-insured employer groups. Stop-loss insurance protects groups that pay their own health insurance claims for employees rather than paying premiums to transfer all of the risk to an insurance carrier.



Self-insured entities pay medical and prescription drug claims plus administration fees out of company reserves and assume the risk posed by the potential for large or catastrophic losses such as organ transplants or cancer treatments. Underwriters for self-insured entities must thus assess the individual medical profiles of employees. Underwriters also evaluate the risk of the group as a whole and calculate an appropriate premium level and aggregate claims limit, which, if exceeded, may cause irreparable financial harm to the employer.






Fast Fact: Insurance underwriting is a large and profitable industry; according to Business Insider, Warren Buffett used insurance and reinsurance premiums to fund investments at Berkshire Hathaway.
What Is Insurtech?  

Insurtech refers to the use of technology innovations designed to find cost savings and efficiency from the current insurance industry model. Insurtech is a combination of the words “insurance” and “technology,” inspired by the term fintech.





Key Takeaways

Insurtech is the use of technology innovations designed to make the current insurance model more efficient.By using technology such as data analysis, IoT, and AI, insurtech allows products to be priced more competitively.Insurtech is used to more effectively process claims, evaluate risk, process contracts, or underwrite policies.Insurtech is similar to fintech, as both leverage modern solutions that are revolutionizing each respective traditional industry.There are headwinds for insurtechs, notably regulation issues and a reluctance of established insurers to work with them. 


   Understanding Insurtech  

Insurtech is premised on the belief that the insurance industry is ripe for innovation and disruption. Insurtech is exploring avenues that large insurance firms have less incentive to exploit, such as offering ultra-customized policies, social insurance, and using new streams of data from Internet-enabled devices to dynamically price premiums according to observed behavior.



Regarding traditional insurance, some people pay more than they should be based on the basic level of data used to group people. Among other things, insurtech is looking to tackle this data and analysis issue head-on. Using inputs from all manners of devices, including geolocation tracking of cars to the activity trackers on our wrists, these companies are building more finely delineated groupings of risk, allowing products to be priced more competitively.



In addition to better pricing models, insurtech startups are testing the waters on a host of potential game-changers. These include using deep learning trained artificial intelligence (AI) to handle the tasks of brokers and find the right mix of policies to complete an individual’s coverage.



There is also interest in the use of apps to pull disparate policies into one platform for management and monitoring, creating on-demand insurance for micro-events like borrowing a friend's car, and the adoption of the peer-to-peer model to both create customized group coverage and incentivize positive choices through group rebates.






There are many similarities to the goals and implementations of insurtech and fintech, as both the insurance industry and financial industry are undergoing substantial process changes.


   Importance of Insurtech  

Insurtech plays an important part in changing how coverage is applied and paid for in a number of different ways:



Insurtech enhances the customer experience. By leveraging technology, customers are more engaged in selecting their coverage, understanding their needs, and getting personalized service. Instead of having to travel to a branch or speak to a representative, the future of insurtech is moving towards self-serve, online dealings where customers have their choice of engagement channel.
Insurtech promotes efficiency. Policy-seekers and policy-holders can often research and explore options using the internet and apps. Without having to wait for business hours or an available representative, many insurtech companies empower users to quickly access the information they need without being bogged down in processes.
Insurtech emphasizes individuality. Due to the innovative nature of information gathering and data processing, many new tools (discussed below) are now available to better understand each individual's true needs. This not only improves pricing but delivers more reliable, consistent coverage based on historical data.
Insurtech improves flexibility. Modern insurtech offerings are more likely to have flexibile, customized, short-term, or transferrable plans. Instead of needing to lock into long-term arrangements, insurtech is more likely to give individuals specific coverage for a specific need over a specific duration.
Insurtech reduces operating costs. Traditional insurance companies relied on brick-and-mortar locations that necessitated manual labor. Now, insurtech companies can operate remotely with staff engaging with customers around the world. The operating model of the online company is similar skimmer with less overhead.
Insurtech may decrease fraud. By leveraging data, analytics, trend analysis, and machine learning, insurtech companies may be able to detect fraudulent activities if inconsistencies in data arises. In addition, big data may also be able to discover potential loopholes that insurers can seek to close to avoid exploitation.


   What Insurance Areas Does Insurtech Solve?  
  Claims Management  

The claims management process traditionally resulted in manually reviewing each claim, deciding what compensation to award, then remitting that compensation. Now, insurtech companies aim to build processes that automate certain processes and detect fraud.



Larger companies can leverage technology to gather and aggregate specific data points regarding specific claims. These claims may also be validated using automation by comparing different data streams. Last, large companies can use automation or repetitive workflows to pay out a large number of claims with minimal human intervention.


  Underwriting  

The underwriting process entails reviewing an individual's profile, assessing their risk profile, and extending them an insurance package offer that includes their coverage. The information provided to a client also includes their monthly premium in addition to what compensation they may be entitled to under various claims.



Much of this data can be mined or gathered automatically. Even if a client must submit information, modern technology uses many data points to compare against historical data that can continually learn, grow, and make more educated assumptions. This means the data decides for itself whether to extend a policy to the individual and what price is fair for the associated level of risk.


  Contract Execution  

Whether it's related to paying out a claim, enforcing a different insurance level tier, closing a customer's policy that has expired, or approving a new customer, there are a tremendous number of contracts that occur related to insurance.



When leveraging blockchain technology, smart contracts can be triggered to execute when specific criteria is met. This eliminates the human element for needing to handle the contract, and this allows an unbiased, neutral party (i.e. technology) to evaluate the criteria of a contract and decide the appropriate course of action.


  Risk Mitigation  

As mentioned earlier, big data can be used to gather, analyze, and summarize information. This includes analyzing a customer's historical activity or assessing a broad range of claim types. Based on the information gathered, insurers may be able to detect fraud, protect against unsuitable risk, or better understand where they may be most exposed.






According to Grand View Research, the total insurtech industry value in 2022 was $5.4 billion. The revenue forecast for 2030 is $152 billion.


   Innovations Driving Insurtech Change  

There continues to be a growing, evolving range of technology used in insurtech that changes the way insurance is being performed. Here are the following most notable technologies being leveraged.


  Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning  

Artificial intelligence functions allow certain tasks that previously required human interaction to now be performed exclusively reliant on technology. For example, customers would previously have to interact with representatives to have questions answered; now, interactive discussions with chatbots may allow a customer to receive help without talking to a human.



A subset of artificial intelligence is machine learning, the ability to extract historical data and compile predictive models. These models are then used to distribute information and may be set to a feedback loop. If future data in fed into the model, the model may "learn" and continually evaluate how to calculate appropriate premiums based on demographics or risk profiles.


  Automation  

Insurtech change relies on efficiency. This means that when insurance clients fill out a document online, that record is automatically stored in a data warehouse or used to automatically compile a policy ready for signature. Automation tools are utilized to avoid manual human intervention when technological tools can carry out a process on its own.


  Big Data  

Big data refers to the collection of massive amounts of information. This includes a broad range of data, the fast collection of real-time data, and a variety of data sets. Big data collection techniques allow insurers to gather a broader set of data used to analyze the risk profile of a customer to better understand their characteristics and habits. In addition, this information can be gathered for millions of customers and fed into predictive models discussed earlier.


  Blockchain  

Though most known for cryptocurrency, the fundamental basis for blockchain technology is immutable, distributed legers. This allows for unalterable record-keeping to ensure security and reliability in information storage. It also allows for smart contract execution to reside on a blockchain, remaining dormant until specific conditions are met to release insurance proceeds or validate an insurance client.


  Drones  

Insurtech also relies on innovative hardware technologies as well. Drones can be used to assess properties, evaluate property damage where it might have been physically unsafe for humans to traverse, or audit a site for a claim. Drones are now becoming increasingly reliant on high-definition photo and video quality, allowing for assessors to heavily rely on photographs and stored images from flights.


  Internet of Things  

Another insurtech innovation that relies on physical innovation is the Internet of Things (IoT). Though a digital concept, IoT relies on the interaction between physical goods and software. For example, auto insurers now commonly offer devices that gauge vehicle speed, handling, and driving habits that can be used to reward positive driving habits or penalize negative driving habits. While this level of information has never been available before, insurance companies can now base premiums on the smallest of details.






According to Hourly, there are over 3,400 insurtech companies, up from 1,500 companies in 2018.


   Insurtech Companies  

Below are examples of real insurtech companies and the ways each are innovating the insurance industry.


  Lemonade  

Lemonade directly sells insurance coverage via a custom mobile app. This coverage is sold directly to the customer as opposed to being transmitted via brokers. Insurance policies include renters' insurance, homeowners' insurance, pet insurance, and auto insurance. All insurance claims processing is performed through the digital platform.


  Dacadoo  

Dacadoo leverages consumer devices such as phones and smartwatches to gather information via an integrated API. This information crafts individual consumer profiles that allows Dacadoo to assess risk in real-time and adjust profiles based on positive or negative life improvements.


  Bdeo  

Bdeo leverages artificial intelligence to improve the claim processing experience. Bdeo relies on chatbots to interact with customers to gather claim information. The chatbot gives direction on what information is needed, how to photograph the damage, and where to input information. Then, remote adjusters analyze the information provided. The company also leverages a computer vision model that utilizes technology to minimize adjustor misevaluations.


  Etherisc  

Etherisc leverages blockchain technology to utilize smart contracts. Etherisc gathers information from third-party providers. Then, as events unfold, the company is able to have their contracts automatically perform tasks based on outcomes that are compared against this third-party information. For example, agribusiness insurance claims may automatically process when specific natural conditions occur; these natural conditions such as rainfall are compared with third-party data to ensure no fraudulent activity may occur.


  Avinew  

Avinew is a pioneer in the insurtech industry regarding internet of thing technology. The company offers lower premiums to customers who change their driving habits, choose less risky routes, or use an automatic driving system. This information is all possible by onboard devices that track vehicle useage and tendencies.


   Criticism of Insurtech  

Although many of these innovations are long overdue, there are reasons why the incumbent insurance companies are so reluctant to adapt. Insurance is a highly regulated industry with many layers of jurisdictional legal baggage to deal with. As such, the major companies have survived this long by being incredibly cautious, which has made them shy away from working with any startups—let alone startups in their own, very stable industry.



This is a bigger problem than it sounds, as many of the insurtech startups still require the help of traditional insurers to handle underwriting and manage catastrophic risk. That said, as more insurtech startups garner consumer interest with a refined model and a user-friendly approach, they may find that the incumbent players warm to the idea of insurtech and become interested in buying up some of the innovation.



There is also a certain level of privacy that is relinquished when adopting insurtech methodologies. Consider tracking devices that can detect whether you actually stop at stop signs. These devices also track your location, the places you visit, and how long you are at those locations. For some, this level of data collection and personally identifiable information is less preferable than the benefit received from the efficient, innovation of insurtech.




What Does Insurtech Mean?
Insurtech is a combination of "insurance" and "technology". It is an emerging industry that utilizes technology and modern innovations to change how traditional insurance is performed.




Is Insurtech a Component of Fintech?
Insurtech and fintech are often considered two different industries. Both rely on modern solutions to change how traditional services are performed. However, there are many differences between the financial sector and insurance sector. Therefore, insurtech companies are not likely to offer financial services in addition to insurance coverage.




How Does Insurtech Make Money?
Insurtech relies on minimal overhead and operational efficient to make money. Though it still earns revenue from clients, the goal is to have minimal costs by eliminating a physical office or personnel to perform tasks that have been eliminated through chatbots or automation. Due to lower costs, insurtech companies are often able to offer lower prices.




Is Insurtech Better than Traditional Insurance?
Some customers may prefer face-to-face interactions with a dedicated insurance agent they've gotten to know for years. Other customers may prefer to self-select their own policy that can be canceled using an app. Insurtech simply offers a different method of delivering insurance coverage that traditional insurance may not have been able to offer. Whether one is better than the other is simply a matter of consumer preference.


   The Bottom Line  

The traditional insurance industry is being disrupted by the introduction of technology. This new sector called insurtech offers customers a new way to do things by gathering information differently, executing contracts more efficiently, and analyzing information more accurately. Though some may feel the insurance industry will be losing a personal touch, insurtech strives to offer lower, more custom, and more flexible coverage.
What Is an Intangible Asset?  

An intangible asset is one that is not physical in nature. Since intangible assets have no shape or form, they cannot be held or manipulated. Common types of intangible assets include brands, goodwill, and intellectual property. Businesses have several ways to value these assets, which can be challenging because they have no shape or form. They are in contrast to tangible assets, which have physical forms and can be held.





Key Takeaways

An intangible asset is an asset that is not physical in nature, such as a patent, brand, trademark, or copyright. Businesses can create or acquire intangible assets. An intangible asset can be considered indefinite (a brand name, for example) or definite, like a legal agreement or contract. Intangible assets created by a company do not appear on the balance sheet and have no recorded book value. 












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Intangible Assets  

As noted above, an intangible asset is one that has no physical form. As such, it cannot be handled. These assets are generally considered long-term whose value increases over time. Even though it doesn't have a physical form, an intangible asset can be very valuable for the owner and critical to their long-term success (or failure).



Intangible assets are commonly held by businesses. They may include brand recognition, goodwill, and intellectual property like patents, trademarks, and copyrights. These assets can be divided into two categories:



Indefinite: This type of intangible asset stays with the holder as long as it continues to operate, such as a brand name.Definite: This type is restricted to a limited time. A legal agreement to operate under another company's patent with no plans of extending the agreement is considered a definite intangible asset.



Businesses can create or acquire intangible assets. For example, a business may create a mailing list of clients or establish a patent. If a business creates an intangible asset, it can write off the expenses from the process, such as filing the patent application, hiring a lawyer, and paying other related costs.






Intangible assets can lose value if the company that holds them goes bankrupt or fails.


   Types of Intangible Assets  

Let's look at some of the most common types of intangible assets—notably brands, goodwill, and intellectual property.


  Brands  

A brand is something that sets one business apart from another. This may come in the form of a logo, symbol, or brand name. Businesses commonly use marketing, design techniques, and advertising to come up with their brands. This allows consumers to easily identify a particular company. For instance, most people can easily identify Apple (AAPL) just by seeing its logo.



Brands are important because they contribute to a company's brand equity and help keep customers loyal. Some consumers may choose to ignore pricing and pay more for one company's product out of loyalty even if it is priced higher than a similar product offered by a competitor. Consider athletes who choose Nike over Adidas and vice versa.


  Goodwill  

When one company purchases another, the intangible assets associated with that transaction are considered goodwill. When a company acquires another business, any amount that exceeds the fair value of the target's net assets represents its goodwill. If the amount is above the target's book value, then it results in positive goodwill. Anything below book value is negative goodwill.


  Intellectual Property  

Intellectual property is a type of intangible asset that is legally protected. This means it cannot be used by another business or individual unless authorized by the owner. Common forms of intellectual property include:



Copyrights
Digital Assets
Franchises
Patents
Trademarks
Trade Secrets



Any unauthorized use of someone else's intellectual property is called infringement. This includes using (intentionally or unintentionally), mimicking, or copying another entity's brand name, logo, or other assets.


   How to Value Intangible Assets   

A business like Coca-Cola (KO) wouldn't be nearly as successful if not for the money made through brand recognition. Although brand recognition is not a physical asset that can be seen or touched, it can have a meaningful impact on generating sales. So how does a company value intangible assets like this one?



There are generally three ways that businesses can value their intangible assets, according to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). They are the:



Market Approach: This valuation relies on an expected value based on a relative analysis. It focuses on placing a value on similar intangible assets. It may prove to be difficult because of the limited details available about similar assets held by other companies.
Income Approach: Companies can use this method when their intangible assets have a cash flow stream. Some income approaches include the relief from royalty method, which estimates possible royalty payments derived from the use of the asset or the avoided loss of income.
Cost Approach: This method relies on the idea of substitution and doesn't account for any future benefits based on time or amount.



All the expenses of creating intangible assets are expensed. But intangible assets created by a company do not appear on the balance sheet and have no recorded book value. Because of this, when a company is purchased, often the purchase price is above the book value of assets on the balance sheet. The purchasing company records the premium paid as an intangible asset on its balance sheet.


   Intangible vs. Tangible Assets  

As noted above, tangible assets are the opposite of intangible ones. They have a physical form, which means they can be held and manipulated. These are among the main assets that a company has in its portfolio.



Unlike intangible assets, the value of tangible assets may be easier to determine. The owner may choose to hire an appraiser who determines the fair market value (FMV) of the asset or they may decide to sell the asset for cash. Another common form of valuation is by comparing it to the cost of a replacement.



Some of the most common forms of tangible assets include:



Equipment
Furniture
Inventory
Land
Property
Vehicles



Financial securities, such as stocks and bonds, are also considered tangible assets even though they can't be held. That's because they derive their value from contractual claims.



Tangible assets come in two categories: current and fixed. Current assets are those that can be easily used and converted to cash, such as inventory. Fixed assets, on the other hand, are tangible assets that have a lifespan of one year or more. Plant, property, and equipment (PP&E) is considered a fixed asset.


   Example of Intangible Assets  

Intangible assets only appear on the balance sheet if they have been acquired. If Company ABC purchases a patent from Company XYZ for an agreed-upon amount of $1 billion, then Company ABC would record a transaction for $1 billion in intangible assets that would appear under long-term assets.



The $1 billion asset would then be written off over a number of years via amortization. Indefinite life intangible assets, such as goodwill, are not amortized. Rather, these assets are assessed each year for impairment, which is when the carrying value exceeds the asset's fair value.




What Are the Main Types of Intangible Assets?
Intangible assets fall into two different categories: definite, which last for a certain period of time, and indefinite, which have an infinite lifespan. The types of intangible assets include brands, goodwill, and intellectual property.




What's the Difference Between Intangible and Tangible Assets?
Intangible assets have no physical shape or form. This means they can't be handled. Tangible assets, on the other hand, have a physical shape, which means they can be handled and grasped. Tangible assets, such as property, equipment, and inventory, are among the main assets that a company holds.




How Are Intangible Assets Disclosed on a Company's Balance Sheet?
Most intangible assets appear as long-term assets on corporate balance sheets. The value is determined based on the purchase or acquisition price along with their amortization schedules. Some intangible assets, such as goodwill, don't appear on corporate balance sheets. That's because their value cannot be spread out over time.


   The Bottom Line  

Businesses can have both tangible and intangible assets. The former category consists of assets that can be physically handled while the latter is made up of assets that have no physical form. Even though intangible assets can't be seen and held, they provide a great deal of value for their owners. As such, businesses should take care to guard and protect them the same way they do with their tangible assets.
What Is Intangible Personal Property?  

The term intangible personal property refers to an item of value that cannot be touched or physically held. These assets can be held by both individuals and corporations. Intangible personal property can be anything that has image, social, and reputational capital, along with digital, copyrights, patents, and investments. Intangible personal property or intangible assets are the opposite of tangible personal property, which can be physically touched and come with a degree of value, such as machinery, jewelry, and electronics.





Key Takeaways

Intangible personal property has no physical shape but represents something else of value.Intellectual property is one of the most common forms of intangible personal property.Some examples of intangible personal property include image, social, and reputational capital, as well as personal social media pages and other personal digital assets.Companies also have intangible property, such as patents, copyrights, life insurance contracts, securities investments, and partnership interests.It is the opposite of tangible personal property, such as machinery, jewelry, electronics, and other items can be physically touched and have some level of value assigned to them. 


   Understanding Intangible Personal Property  

Personal property can be divided into a few different categories—notably tangible and intangible personal property. Tangible personal property is anything that can be held and has definitive value while intangible personal property is anything that doesn't have any obvious value and can't be touched. We discuss the differences between the two a little further down.



The value in intangible personal property lies in the associated benefits and value recognition. Intellectual property is one of the most common forms of this type of property. Other types of intangible personal property include life insurance contracts, securities investments, royalty agreements, and partnership interests. The most common forms of intangible property for companies include goodwill, research and development (R&D), and patents.



Some forms of these intangible items are known as capital assets and appear on a company's financial statements while others are not included. For example, a company would list a trademark or patent as an asset on its balance sheet.



The company may need to do in-depth research to determine a realistic market price for intangible objects. Once a value is assigned to this property, the company may write off some of the cost of creating the object. An example may be the cost associated with compiling a customer or client mailing list or hiring a lawyer to file a patent application.






Intangible personal property may often be referred to as incorporeal property.


   Special Considerations  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does impose capital gains taxes on any tangible property that individuals and corporations sell. But it can be cloudy when it comes to intangible assets. Since there is no actual physical shape to this type of property, it doesn't have an assigned or hard value, which makes it hard to account for and evaluate. As such, not all forms of intangible personal property are taxable.



Some types of intangible assets are, though, making them eligible for capital gains or losses. Capital gains are realized when they're sold at a higher price while capital losses result from a lower price than the original purchase price. The value is determined by any intellectual or non-physical attributes. For instance, a musical composition may be taxed when it is sold to someone else at a different price than when it was originally purchased.



While tangible assets may be depreciated, the IRS requires that property owners amortize "over 15 years the capitalized costs" any intangibles that were purchased before August 1993. That's because they are commonly given a 15-year life. These refer to any assets held for the purpose of trade or business.






Certain intangible assets may be taxed as ordinary income, though, thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. This may include things like intellectual property, digital assets, or patents. Make sure you consult a tax professional about how to handle your intangibles.


   Intangible Personal Property vs. Tangible Personal Property  

As noted above, intangible personal property is anything without obvious value that can't be physically manipulated. Tangible personal property, on the other hand, is anything that can be held and anything with discernable value. As such, it can be moved around.



Tangible assets can be used in the day-to-day operations of a business or by individuals in their daily lives. Examples include machinery, vehicles, jewelry, art, electronics, and furniture. Things like smartphones and collectibles also fall in this category.



This kind of personal property is subject to depreciation. either on an accelerated basis or using the five- or seven-year periods. Taxation occurs on an ad valorem basis, which requires the use of an appraiser to assess the value. It can also be taxed on the actual value—the difference between the sale and the purchase price.






Real estate is not considered personal property because it cannot be moved, which is a determining factor in identifying personal property.


   Examples of Intangible Personal Property  

Let's say Firm XYZ invented a liquid, that when rubbed on a tattoo, causes it to blend into the surrounding skin rendering it invisible. There is also a solvent used to remove the tattoo obstructing solution. Firm XYZ issues a patent for both formulas. The patent, which keeps others from copying the formulas, gives the company sole ownership rights over this invention for the duration of the patent.



The firm enjoys the financial benefits of being the sole seller of this breakthrough tattoo obstructing concoction. Those financial benefits can be represented by the patent, which does not have any inherent value itself but is valuable because of these future benefits. The company will include the patents as a capital asset and may write off some of the expenses required to list the patent




What Types of Assets Are Considered Intangible Personal Property?
Intangible personal property is anything with no obvious and assigned value and can't be physically held. Examples include copyrights, patents, intellectual property, investments, digital assets, along with anything that has image, social, or reputational capital.




What's the Difference Between Intangible and Tangible Personal Property?
Intangible personal property is any type of asset that has value but isn't physical in nature. Examples of intangible personal property are copyrights, patents, intellectual property, and investments. Assets that can be represented with social or reputational capital also qualify as intangible personal property. Tangible personal property, on the other hand, refers to assets that can be touched and have an assigned value, such as jewelry, art, machinery, and electronics.




Is Intangible Property Taxable?
Intangible personal property has no physical shape and, as such, has no assigned value. This makes it hard to account for and properly evaluate them. But there are certain forms of intangible personal property that are subject to capital gains taxes. This happens when they are sold at a higher price than when they were purchased. An asset's value and, therefore, any capital gains that result from its sale are based on its physical attributes and intellectual content. Things like music compositions are assets that have great value and may result in capital gains when/if they are sold. Some assets may be taxed as ordinary income, such as patents or other forms of intellectual property.
What Is Intellectual Capital?  

Intellectual capital is the value of a company's employee knowledge, skills, business training, or any proprietary information that may provide the company with a competitive advantage.



Intellectual capital is considered an asset, and can broadly be defined as the collection of all informational resources a company has at its disposal that can be used to drive profits, gain new customers, create new products, or otherwise improve the business. It is the sum of employee expertise, organizational processes, and other intangibles that contribute to a company's bottom line.



Some of the subsets of intellectual capital include human capital, information capital, brand awareness, and instructional capital.





Key Takeaways

Intellectual capital refers to the intangible assets that contribute to a company's bottom line. These assets include the expertise of employees, organizational processes, and the sum of knowledge contained within the organization.There is no standard method to measure intellectual capital, and standards for measurement vary across organizations.Intellectual capital includes human capital, information capital, brand awareness, and instructional capital.Businesses can increase intellectual capital by hiring better employees, conducting training programs for employees, and developing new patents.


   Understanding Intellectual Capital  

Intellectual capital is a business asset, although measuring it is a very subjective task. As an asset, it is not booked on the balance sheet as "intellectual capital"; instead, to the extent possible, it is integrated into intellectual property (as part of intangibles and goodwill on the balance sheet), which in itself is difficult to measure.



Companies spend much time and resources developing management expertise and training their employees in business-specific areas to add to the "mental capacity," so to speak, of their enterprise. This capital employed to enhance intellectual capital provides a return to the company, though difficult to quantify, but something that can contribute toward many years' worth of business value.


   Measuring Intellectual Capital  

Various methods exist to measure intellectual capital but there is no consistency or uniform standard accepted in the industry. For example, the balanced scorecard, which is an industry performance metric, measures four perspectives of an employee as part of its efforts to quantify intellectual capital. The perspectives are financial, customer, internal processes, and organization capacity.



On the other hand, the Danish company Skandia considers the transformation of human capital into structural capital as the mission of intellectual capital. The company has designed a house-like structure with financial focus as the roof, customer focus and process as the walls, human focus as the soul, and renewable and development focus as the platform to measure intellectual capital.﻿﻿



Because of the nebulous nature and defining features of intellectual capital, it is also referred to as intangible assets and environment.


   Types of Intellectual Capital  

Intellectual capital is most commonly broken down into three categories: human capital, relationship capital, and structural capital.



Human capital includes all of the knowledge and experience of employees within an organization. It consists of their education, life experiences, and work experience. It can be increased by providing training.



Relationship capital encompasses all of the relationships that an organization has, which include its employees, its suppliers, its customers, its shareholders, and so on.



Structural capital refers to the core belief system of an organization, such as its mission statement, company policies, work culture, and its organizational structure.


   Examples of Intellectual Capital  

Examples of intellectual capital include the knowledge that a factory line worker has developed over many years, a specific way of marketing a product, a method to cut downtime on a critical research project, or a mysterious, secret formula (e.g., Coca-Cola soft drink). A company can also bolster its intellectual capital by hiring qualified individuals and process experts who contribute to its bottom line.



For example, a mechanic graduates from technical school and starts work at an automobile manufacturer. Their intellectual capital consists of the knowledge they learned at school. After one year on the job, their intellectual capital has increased by the experience they have gained through their job and the specific application of their knowledge. After two years, the mechanic is enrolled in a training program that focuses on new technology and increased efficiency. The mechanic's, and therefore the company's, intellectual capital has increased further.



As technology and process improvements become more of a differentiating factor within modern companies, intellectual capital becomes a greater factor in achieving success in a competitive marketplace.
What Is an Intentionally Defective Grantor Trust?  

An intentionally defective grantor (IDGT) trust is an estate-planning tool used to freeze certain assets of an individual for estate tax purposes but not for income tax purposes. The intentionally defective trust is created as a grantor trust with a loophole that allows the them to receive income from certain trust assets.



The grantor pays income tax on any generated income, but the estate does not incur any estate taxes when the grantor dies.





Key Takeaways

An intentionally defective grantor trust (IDGT) allows a person to isolate certain trust assets to segregate income tax from estate tax treatment.It is effectively a grantor trust with a purposeful flaw that ensures the individual continues to pay income taxes.IDGTs are most often utilized when the trust beneficiaries are children or grandchildren where the grantor has paid income tax on the growth of assets they will inherit.


   Understanding Intentionally Defective Grantor Trusts   

Grantor trust rules outline certain conditions when an irrevocable trust can receive some of the same treatments as a revocable trust by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). These situations sometimes lead to the creation of what are known as intentionally defective grantor trusts.



In these cases, a grantor is responsible for paying taxes on the trust's income, but trust assets are not counted toward the owner's estate. However, such assets would apply to a grantor's estate if the individual runs a revocable trust because the individual would effectively still own the property.


  Estate Taxes  

For estate tax purposes, the value of the grantor's estate is reduced by the amount of the asset transfer. The individual will "sell" assets to the trust in exchange for a promissory note—also called an installment note—of some length, such as 10 or 15 years.



The note will pay enough interest to classify the trust as above-market, but the underlying assets are expected to appreciate at a faster rate.


  Beneficiaries  

The beneficiaries of IDGTs are typically children or grandchildren who will receive assets that have been able to grow without reductions for income taxes, which the grantor has paid.



he IDGT can be an effective estate-planning tool if appropriately structured, allowing a person to lower their taxable estate while gifting assets to beneficiaries at a locked-in value.



The trust's grantor can also reduce their taxable estate by paying income taxes on the trust assets, essentially gifting extra wealth to beneficiaries.






Due to the complexity, an IDGT should be structured with the assistance of a qualified accountant, certified financial planner (CFP), or an estate-planning attorney.


   Selling Assets to an Intentionally Defective Grantor Trust  

The structure of an IDGT allows the grantor to transfer assets to the trust either by gift or sale. Gifting an asset to an IDGT could trigger a gift tax, so the better alternative would be to sell the asset to the trust. When assets are sold to an IDGT, there is no recognition of a capital gain, which means no taxes are owed.



This is ideal for removing highly appreciated assets from the estate. In most cases, the transaction is structured as a sale to the trust, to be paid for in the form of an installment note, payable over several years. The grantor receiving the loan payments can charge a low rate of interest, which is not recognized as taxable interest income.



However, the grantor is liable for any income the IDGT earns. If the asset sold to the trust is income-producing, such as a rental property or a business, the income generated inside the trust is taxable to the grantor.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Makes a Grantor Trust Intentionally Defective?
Intentionally defective refers to the fact that the grantor no longer owns the assets in the trust—they are removed from the estate—but still pays income taxes on any income earned from the assets in the trust.




How Are Intentionally Defective Grantor Trusts Taxed?
IDGTs are not taxed when assets are sold into them or if they appreciate because there is no recognition of capital gains. However, the grantor pays income taxes if there is income from the IDGT.




What Happens to an Intentionally Defective Grantor Trust When the Grantor Dies?
If there was an installment note, the principal and any accumulated interest are included in the grantor's taxable estate. However, if the assets were sold into the IDGT, they are not included in the taxable estate and can be passed on to the beneficiaries.
What Is the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)?  

The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is a cooperative development bank founded in 1959 to accelerate the economic and social development of its Latin American and Caribbean member countries. It is owned by a total of 48 member countries, including the U.S. and some European nations. The bank provides financing in the form of loans and grants.





Key Takeaways

Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is a cooperative bank to help support the economic and social development of Latin America and Caribbean countries.The IBD includes 48 countries, including the U.S., and financed $13.6 billion for 94 projects in 2021.The funds that the Inter-American Development Bank lends to its member countries are raised in the bond market.The U.S. is the IDB’s largest shareholder with a 30% stake.


   Understanding the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)  

The IDB assists Latin American and Caribbean countries in formulating development policies and provides financing and technical assistance to achieve environmentally sustainable economic growth, increase competitiveness, enhance social equity, fight poverty, modernize the state, and foster free trade and regional integration. The IBD supported 94 projects, lending $13.6 billion in 2021.



The funds that the Inter-American Development Bank lends to its member countries are raised in the bond market. The bonds are backed by the loans the IDB makes, which carry the guarantee of capital pledged by the bank's non-borrowing members. The bonds are triple-A rated and issued at market rates. The triple-A rating helps to keep borrowing costs for the member countries low. The U.S. is the IDB’s largest shareholder with a 30.01% stake. Brazil and Argentina each own 11.35%. Mexico comes in third with a 7.3% stake, and Japan owns 5%.


   Special Considerations  

As of October 2022, the Inter-American Development Bank has 601 projects, financing $56.1 billion. Past projects that have been completed in 2022 include projects to reform and modernize the state (Suriname, Guyana, Jamaica, and Barbados), social investment (Ecuador), energy (Mexico), and the environment (Columbia, Barbados). The bank’s current goals include focusing on social inclusion, economic integration, and innovation. As well, it’s interested in climate change, gender issues, and diversity.



When he was president of the IAB, Luis Alberto Moreno said the focus of the bank included tackling inequality and improving public services for the countries it serves. Change is needed, said Moreno, pointing to the various protests in the streets within the region during 2019. Moreno pointed out the lack of growth in Latin America since 2014—the end of the commodity boom. Since then, the region has experienced the worst economic growth in the world.



In September 2020, Mauricio J. Claver-Carone was elected President of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) during an electronic meeting of the Bank’s Board of Governors. Claver-Carone took office on October 1, 2020, for a five-year term. Previously, Claver-Carone was Deputy Assistant to the Former U.S. President Donald Trump and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. National Security Council. He has also served as Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary for International Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
What Is Interactive Media?  

Interactive media is a method of communication in which a program's outputs depend on the user's inputs. In turn, the user's inputs affect the program's outputs. It refers to the ways in which people process and share information or how they communicate with each other. 



Interactive media allows people to connect with others or organizations by making them active participants in the media they consume through text, graphics, video, and sound.





Key Takeaways

Interactive media refers to the ways in which people process and share information.It's meant to engage the user and interact with them in a way that non-interactive media does not.Social media, virtual reality, and apps are all forms of interactive media. Television and radio are the most common examples of non-interactive media.Interactive media arose through the Internet revolution of the 1990s and improved technology, such as smartphones.The uses of interactive media are far and wide, ranging from education and networking to video games.


   Understanding Interactive Media  

The purpose of interactive media is to engage the user and interact with them in a way non-interactive media does not. Traditional forms of media, such as television and radio, originally required no active participation. These forms of media made consumers more passive, providing them with no way to navigate through their experiences except for the ability to change the channel.



That began to change with the advent of the Internet in the 1990s. As technology developed, consumers were given different tools through which interactive media was presented. Access to the Internet went from an expensive utility available only through dial-up to a wireless tool accessible with the touch of a finger.



Computers and laptops became household items and a necessity in the workplace. Smartphones made interacting with media easy and convenient.






Interactive media will become even more immersive as technology becomes more advanced, broadening what people can do.


   Elements of Interactive Media  

Unlike traditional media, interactive media is meant to enhance a user's experience. An interactive medium will require one more of the following elements to do that:



Moving images and graphics
Animation
Digital Text
Video
Audio



A user can participate by manipulating one or more of these elements during their experience, something traditional media doesn't offer.






Six Degrees is often considered to be the world's first social media platform. It was founded in 1996.


   The Influences of Interactive Media  

Interactive media doesn't just make people more active. It also gives them the power to communicate with people, companies, and organizations with whom they would normally have no contact. It allows the free flow and exchange of ideas and information.



Interactive media also has an educational component, making it a powerful learning tool. It allows and encourages students to become more active in their learning experiences and more collaborative and to be more in control of what they're learning.



Interactive media has changed the way people traditionally approach various personal and professional aspects of life, such as searching for a job, interviews, going to school, and advertising.


   Examples of Interactive Media  

People are surrounded by interactive media in the digital era. You'll find an example of this form of communication everywhere you look.



Social networking websites such as Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram are examples of interactive media. These sites use graphics and text to allow users to share photos and information about themselves and to chat and play games.
Video games are another type of interactive media. Players use controllers to respond to visual and sound cues on the screen that are generated by a computer program.
You use apps if you have a mobile device like a smartphone. These forms of interactive media can help you figure out the weather, direct you to a desired location, choose and respond to news stories in which you're interested, and allow you to shop.
Virtual reality (VR) is another form of interactive media. VR gives users a completely immersive experience, allowing them to delve into a world that's almost a carbon copy of reality. The only difference is that this world is digital.




What Is the Primary Advantage of Using Interactive Media?
Interactive media allows the user and a business to interact and communicate much more seamlessly. As a consumer, you can communicate with the business and get your questions answered. As a business owner, you can more easily identify and address your clients' or customers' needs and concerns.




What Are Some Common Examples of Interactive Media?
You most likely engage in interactive media repeatedly all day. You've done so when you check in to your Instagram, X, or Facebook account, or when you tap into your Uber phone app to arrange for a ride home. Maybe you take care of some personal finance issues on your smartphone as well. All these are examples of interactive media.




What Are the Elements of Interactive Media?
Interactive media often provides audio and visual components, as well as animated images and graphics, but it doesn't have to be that fancy. You're engaging in this type of media whenever you simply enter text into an app or tap a key on your laptop, tablet or smartphone. Interactive media is basically anything that gives you some measure of control over what you're watching or contributing.


   The Bottom Line  

Interactive media allows people to connect with friends, acquaintances or even businesses and organizations in a way that allows them to maintain some control over the encounter. As a consumer, you most likely engage in it every day. As a business owner, it provides you with a great tool to gauge customer satisfaction and to make changes to keep your business up and running in response to complaints and concerns.
What Are Interbank Deposits?  

The term interbank deposit refers to an arrangement between two banks in which one holds funds in an account for another institution. The interbank deposit arrangement requires that the holding bank opens a due to account for the other. This is a general ledger account with funds payable to another party. In the arrangement, the correspondent bank is the one that waits for the deposit.





Key Takeaways

An interbank deposit is an arrangement between two banks in which one holds funds in an account for another institution.The arrangement requires that the holding bank opens a due to account for the other.Most interbank trading conducted on the market is proprietary—banks do so between and for each other. 


   Understanding Interbank Deposits  

Interbank deposits are part of the interbank market. The interbank market is a system used by banks and other financial institutions to trade currencies. This system excludes retail investors—individuals who buy and sell securities for their personal account instead of for another company or organization—and other, smaller trading parties. Most interbank trading conducted on the market is proprietary, meaning banks do so between and for each other. There are instances, though, where this type of banking takes place for large, institutional customers.






The interbank system excludes smaller retail investors and other, small trading parties.



In the interbank market, banks borrow and lend money between each other in order to manage liquidity and meet the reserve requirements that regulators place on them. A reserve requirement is the amount of money a bank must keep in their vaults. Deposits, as well as loans, are among the many types of transactions that take place between banks that help them meet these conditions. These transactions also provide the market with a great deal of liquidity.



When two banks make an arrangement for an interbank deposit, the holding bank sets up a due to account for the corresponding bank— the institution that makes the deposit. The due to account is a holding account, also known as a payable account.



Banks use a special interest rate on deposits and short-term loans. This rate is known as the interbank rate. The interbank rate depends on maturity, market conditions, and the credit ratings of the institutions involved. The Intercontinental Exchange London Interbank Offered Rate (ICE LIBOR) is a benchmark rate, which some of the world’s leading banks charge one another for short-term loans.


   Special Considerations  

As mentioned above, the bank for which the due to account is held is referred to as the corresponding bank. This designation is generally held for deposits that take place between domestic banks. But the terms change when the correspondent bank is a foreign institution. In this case, the due to account is a nostro—derived from the word ours in Latin—account for the bank holding the deposit. Put simply, this is an account held by a bank in a foreign currency at another institution. This is in contract to a vostro—the Latin word for yours—account for the foreign correspondent bank. A vostro account is the term bank uses to describe accounts that other firms have on their books in their home currency. So the correspondent bank will call its account at the holding bank a nostro account, while the holding bank calls it a vostro account.



Here's an example to help make it easier to understand. Let's say Bank A makes an interbank deposit with Bank B, which is in a different country. The account is called a nostro account—our account on your ledger—to Bank A, while it's a vostro account or your account to Bank B.
What Is the Interbank Market?  

The interbank market is a global network utilized by financial institutions to trade currencies and other currency derivatives directly between themselves. While some interbank trading is done by banks on behalf of large customers, most interbank trading is proprietary, meaning that it takes place on behalf of the banks' own accounts. Banks use the interbank market to manage their own exchange rate and interest rate risk as well as to take speculative positions based on research.



The interbank market is a subset of the interdealer market, which is an over-the-counter (OTC) venue where financial institutions can trade a variety of asset classes among one another and on behalf of their clients, often facilitated by interdealer brokers (IDBs).





Key Takeaways

The interbank market is a global network utilized by financial institutions to trade currencies and other currency derivatives directly between themselves.Banks use the interbank market to manage their own exchange rate and interest rate risk as well as to take speculative positions based on research.Most transactions within the interbank network are for a short duration—anywhere between overnight to six months.


   Understanding the Interbank Market  

The interbank market for foreign exchange (forex) serves commercial turnover of currency investments as well as a large amount of speculative, short-term currency trading. The typical maturity term for transactions in the interbank market is overnight or six months.



The forex interdealer market is characterized by large transaction sizes and tight bid-ask spreads. Currency transactions in the interbank market can either be speculative (initiated with the sole intention of profiting from a currency move) or for the purposes of hedging currency exposure. It may also be proprietary but to a lesser extent customer-driven—by an institution's corporate clients, such as exporters and importers, for example.


   A Brief History of the Interbank Forex Market   

The interbank forex market developed after the collapse of the Bretton Woods agreement and following the decision by former U.S. President Richard Nixon to take the country off the gold standard in 1971.



Currency rates of most of the large industrialized nations were allowed to float freely at that point, with only occasional government intervention. There is no centralized location for the market, as trading takes place simultaneously around the world, and stops only for weekends and holidays.



The advent of the floating rate system coincided with the emergence of low-cost computer systems that allowed increasingly rapid trading on a global basis. Voice brokers over telephone systems matched buyers and sellers in the early days of interbank forex trading, but were gradually replaced by computerized systems that could scan large numbers of traders for the best prices.



Trading systems from Reuters and Bloomberg allow banks to trade billions of dollars at once, with daily trading volume topping $6 trillion on the market's busiest days.


   Participants in the Interbank Market  

In order to be considered an interbank market maker, a bank must be willing to make prices to other participants as well as asking for prices. Interbank deals can top $1 billion in a single deal.



Among the largest players are Citicorp and JP Morgan Chase in the United States, Deutsche Bank in Germany, and HSBC in Asia. There are several other participants in the interbank market, including trading firms and hedge funds. While they contribute to the setting of exchange rates through their purchase and sale operations, other participants do not have as much of an effect on currency exchange rates as large banks.


   Credit and Settlement Within the Interbank Market   

Most spot transactions settle two business days after execution (T+2); the major exception being the U.S. dollar vs. the Canadian dollar, which settles the next day. This means banks must have credit lines with their counterparts in order to trade, even on a spot basis.



In order to reduce settlement risk, most banks have netting agreements that require the offset of transactions in the same currency pair that settle on the same date with the same counterpart. This substantially reduces the amount of money that changes hands and thus the risk involved.



While the interbank market is not regulated—and therefore decentralized—most central banks will collect data from market participants to assess whether there are any economic implications. This market needs to be monitored, as any problems can have a direct impact on overall economic stability. Brokers, who put banks in touch with each other for trading purposes, have also become an important part of the interbank market ecosystem over the years.
What Was Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET)?  

Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET) processed credit and debit card transactions between financial institutions (FIs). It handled the transferring of funds from cards bearing the MasterCard Inc. (MA) logo, prior to the introduction of Banknet.





Key Takeaways

Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET) processed MasterCard’s debit and credit card transactions.INET orchestrated the transfer of funds, while MasterCard’s Interbank National Authorization System (INAS) processed card authorizations.The two systems were later combined into Banknet, a single entity tying together all MasterCard data processing centers and issuing members into one financial network.


   Understanding Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET)  

Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET) dealt with the transfer of funds, while MasterCard’s Interbank National Authorization System (INAS) processed card authorizations.



Interbank National Authorization System (INAS) was the first component of MasterCard’s global telecommunications network, providing electronic authorization to replace earlier phone authorization technology. Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET) followed later, offering electronic settlement services to replace the previous system in which banks sent each other paperwork.



Eventually, Interbank Network for Electronic Transfer (INET) and Interbank National Authorization System (INAS) were combined into a single entity named Banknet: a global telecommunications network linking all MasterCard card issuers, acquirers, and data processing centers into one financial network.



Banknet facilitates payments across the world. It has been in operation since 1997 and can handle millions of secure transactions each hour via its thousand-plus data centers littered all over the globe.






Before Banknet, a payment through MasterCard took approximately 650 milliseconds to process. Banknet has cut down that time to 210 milliseconds.



Banknet’s architecture is based on a peer-to-peer protocol that routes transactions to various endpoints. Data centers are equipped with technology that provides redundancy and automatic activations of backup services in the event that a shutdown occurs.



Banknet’s architecture allows the regulation of bandwidth in accordance with demand. This function is crucial to regulate the capacity of the system at peak times, such as during the holiday shopping season. For this technology and others, Banknet primarily partners with AT&T Inc.



Banknet also provides a transaction research service for chargeback requests. This makes it possible for cardholders to get approved chargebacks in just a few hours. 





Important

The Banknet hub and data warehouse is one of the largest in the world and can be used by issuers and analysts to research payments and retail transactions.


   MasterCard vs. Visa  

MasterCard Inc. (MA) runs one of the largest credit and debit card networks. According to creditcard.com, there were "249 million Mastercard credit cards in the U.S. and 725 million cards in the rest of the world at the end of March 2021."



MasterCard’s Banknet technology gives it a big advantage over its rival Visa Inc. (V). Instead of using a peer-to-peer network, Visa handles transactions through a centralized, or “star-based” system. This type of network connects its many endpoints to only a few main data centers.



In other words, that means that if one of MasterCard's data centers fails there should be many others online, whereas if one of Visa malfunctions a larger portion of transactions are likely to be affected.



Still, in terms of global dominance, MasterCard continues to play catch up to Visa. Creditcard.com data shows that "Visa is the largest of the four major U.S. credit card networks. There were 343 million Visa credit cards in circulation in the U.S. and 798 million Visa credit cards in circulation outside of the U.S. at the end of September 2020."
What Is the Interbank Rate?  

The interbank rate is the rate of interest charged on short-term loans made between U.S. banks. Banks may borrow money from other banks to ensure that they have enough liquidity for their immediate needs, or lend money when they have excess cash on hand. The interbank lending system is short-term, typically overnight, and rarely more than a week.



The term interbank rate also refers to the interest rate charged when banks conduct wholesale transactions in foreign currencies with banks in other nations.






The interbank rate, also known as the federal funds rate, is the interest charged on short-term loans made between financial institutions.The term "interbank rate" may also refer to the foreign exchange rates paid by banks when they trade currencies with other banks.In either case, these are the lowest rates that can be found at any particular time and are reserved for the big banking institutions.


   How the Interbank Rate Works  

Banks are required by federal regulators to hold enough cash in reserve to accommodate day-to-day withdrawals from their customers. These liquidity needs are generally managed by borrowing to cover any shortfall and lending to earn a modest interest on any excess.



The rate of interest earned on the banks' money is based on the current federal funds rate. This rate, also known as the interbank rate or the overnight rate, is actually set by the banks themselves. It is not "set" by the Fed per se, but is affected by the the one rate the Federal Reserve actually does set, which is the discount rate. The Fed has a target range it tries to keep the Fed Funds within, but they don't actually set it...That is up to the banks involved in that transaction.



The federal funds rate is a tool that the Federal Reserve uses to increase or decrease the amount of cash in the system overall. A low rate encourages banks to borrow freely while a higher rate discourages such activity.



In the economic crisis of 2008 that kicked off the great recession, the board cut the target range of the rate to between 0% and 0.25% and kept it there for seven years to encourage investment and borrowing. A series of modest increases pushed the target up to a range of 2.25% to 2.5% in December 2018. Then, in response to the economic fallout of the 2020 crisis, the Fed again cut rates to close to 0%.



This does not mean that a consumer will be able to directly take advantage of near-zero rates. The interbank rate is available only to the largest and most creditworthy financial institutions. However, all interest rates for borrowing or saving money are based on that key federal fund's rate, so a rate for a mortgage or a credit card will be based on the federal funds rate plus a premium.






A consumer will never get the interbank rate on a loan. The lowest rate is available only to the largest and most creditworthy financial institutions.


   The Interbank Rate in Foreign Exchange  

The alternate definition of interbank rate is relevant to the interbank market, the global market used by financial institutions to buy and sell foreign currencies. In this case, the interbank rate or interbank exchange rate is the current value of any currency as compared to any other currency. The rates fluctuate constantly by fractions when the market is open.



Most of this trading is done by the banks to manage their own exchange rate and interest rate risk, though they also trade on behalf of some large institutional clients.



The interbank rate is what you see when you compare any two currencies in an online currency calculator. As with the interbank interest rate, consumers are not going to get the interbank foreign exchange rate when they exchange money. They will get the interbank rate, plus a premium that represents the profit of the company that exchanges the money.
What Is the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE)?  

The Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) is an American company that owns and operates financial and commodity marketplaces and exchanges. It was founded in May 2000 in Atlanta, Georgia. ICE operations include futures exchanges, cash exchanges, central clearing houses, and market services for off-exchange trading.



ICE operates futures exchanges in the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada, Singapore and Abu Dhabi. Its cash exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NYSE ARCA, NYSE National, NYSE AMEX Options, NYSE ARCA Options, and NYSE Chicago. ICE also operates six central clearing houses: ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear Netherlands, ICE Clear Singapore, and ICE NGX.





Key Takeaways

The Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) is an American company that owns and operates financial and commodity marketplaces and exchanges.ICE was founded in 2000 and became a publicly traded company on November 16, 2005; it was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006.When it was founded, the company's primary focus was on energy products; however, through various acquisitions, the company's activities have broadened to include other commodities, foreign cash exchanges, and equity index futures.



ICE became a publicly traded company on November 16, 2005, and was added to the Russell 1000 Index on June 30, 2006.


   Understanding the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE)  

In May 2000, ICE was founded by Jeffrey C. Sprecher, a power plant developer who wanted to create a more transparent and efficient platform for over-the-counter (OTC) energy commodity trading. Compared with manual trading, the new platform provided greater price transparency, efficiency, liquidity, and had lower costs.



When it was founded, the company's primary focus was on energy products, specifically crude and refined oil, natural gas, power, and emissions. Through various acquisitions, the company's activities broadened to include other commodities—such as sugar, cotton, and coffee—in addition to foreign cash exchanges and equity index futures.



In response to the 2007–08 Financial Crisis, Sprecher formed ICE Clear Credit, which would serve as a clearing house for credit default swaps, over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, and provide crucial risk management services for the market. In March 2009, ICE Clear Credit was created and approved by the Federal Reserve as a bank and two years later, was designated as a clearing house and regulated by the CFTC and SEC. ICE was the first to offer clearing services in the OTC energy and credit derivatives markets. According to ICE's Q1 2022 report, ICE had cleared more than $16.4 trillion in credit default swaps, up YOY by 9.7%.



Since its founding in 2000, ICE's company growth has primarily been achieved through the acquisition of other exchanges. It's first acquisition was the International Petroleum Exchange (IPE), now ICE Futures Europe, in 2001. In the following decade, the company expanded by acquiring the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) in 2005, Winnipeg Commodity Exchange, which is now ICE Futures Canada in 2007, Creditex Group in 2008, and Climate Exchange in 2010. Several more acquisitions occurred the next ten years: NYSE Euronext in 2013, Interactive Data Corporation (IDC) in 2015, Standard & Poor's Securities Evaluations, Inc.in 2016, Virtu BondPoint in 2017, Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX) in 2018, and Simplifile, LC in 2019. ICE's most recent expansion has continued with the acquisitions of Ellie Mae in 2020 and Black Knight in 2022.



In June 2016, ICE launched a new suite of data services and software, called ICE Data Services. The proprietary real-time data, valuations, analytics, reference data, evaluated pricing, and connectivity solutions employed by ICE Data Services are used by NYSE, SuperDerivatives, Interactive Data (IDC), and other ICE customers, including financial institutions, asset managers, and individual investors. ICE Data Services also provides its customers with unique data from global exchanges and fixed income markets.



According the 2021 FIA report, ICE is the fourth-largest exchange group in the world, behind CME Group, Brazil's B3, and the National Stock Exchange of India, ranked at the top spot. As of July 2022, the company has a market capitalization of $53.88 billion.
What Is Interest?  

Interest is the monetary charge for the privilege of borrowing money. Interest expense or revenue is often expressed as a dollar amount, while the interest rate used to calculate interest is typically expressed as an annual percentage rate (APR). Interest is the amount of money a lender or financial institution receives for lending out money. Interest can also refer to the amount of ownership a stockholder has in a company, usually expressed as a percentage.





Key Takeaways

Interest is the monetary charge for borrowing money—generally expressed as a percentage, such as an annual percentage rate (APR).Interest may be earned by lenders for the use of their funds or paid by borrowers for the use of those funds.Interest is often considered simple interest (based on the principal amount) or compound interest (based on principal and previously-earned interest).Interest is often associated with credit cards, mortgages, car loans, private loans, savings accounts, or penalty assessments.Interest is highly dependent on macroeconomic policy dictated by the Federal Reserve's Federal funds rate.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Interest  

Interest is the concept of compensating one party for incurring risk and sacrificing the opportunity to use funds while penalizing another party for the use of someone else's funds. The person temporarily parting ways with their money is entitled to compensation, and the person temporarily using those funds is often required to pay this compensation.



When you leave money in your savings account, your account is credited interest. This is because the bank uses your money and loans it out to other clients, resulting in you earning interest revenue.



The amount of interest a person must pay is often tied to their creditworthiness, the length of the loan, or the nature of the loan. All else being equal, interest and interest rates are higher when there is greater risk; as the lender faces a greater risk in the borrower not being able to make their payments, the lender may charge more interest to incentivize them to make the loan.






APR includes the loan's interest rate, as well as other charges, such as origination fees, closing costs, or discount points.


   History of Interest Rates  

This cost of borrowing money is considered commonplace today. However, the wide acceptability of interest became common only during the Renaissance.



Interest is an ancient practice; however, social norms from ancient Middle Eastern civilizations, to Medieval times regarded charging interest on loans as a kind of sin. This was due, in part because loans were made to people in need, and there was no product other than money being made in the act of loaning assets with interest.



The moral dubiousness of charging interest on loans fell away during the Renaissance. People began borrowing money to grow businesses in an attempt to improve their own station. Growing markets and relative economic mobility made loans more common and made charging interest more acceptable. It was during this time that money began to be considered a commodity, and the opportunity cost of lending it was seen as worth charging for.



Political philosophers in the 1700s and 1800s elucidated the economic theory behind charging interest rates for lent money, authors included Adam Smith, Frédéric Bastiat, and Carl Menger.



Iran, Sudan, and Pakistan use interest-free banking systems. Iran is completely interest-free, while Sudan and Pakistan have partial measures. With this, lenders partner in profit and loss sharing instead of charging interest on the money they lend. This trend in Islamic banking—refusing to take interest on loans—became more common toward the end of the 20th century, regardless of profit margins.



Today, interest rates can be applied to various financial products including mortgages, credit cards, car loans, and personal loans. Interest rates started to fall in 2019 and were brought to near zero in 2020.


   Formula and Calculation for Interest  

In its most basic form, interest is calculated by multiplying the outstanding principal by the interest rate.



Interest = Interest Rate * Principal or Balance



The more complex aspect in calculating interest is often determining the correct interest rate. The interest rate is often expressed as a percentage and is usually designated as the APR. However, the APR often does not reflect any effects of compounding. Instead, the effective annual rate is used to express the actual rate of interest to be paid.



Often, an annual rate must be converted to calculate the applicable interest earned in a given period. For example, if a savings account is to pay 3% interest on the average balance, the account may award 0.25% (3% / 12 months) each month.



The applicable interest rate is then multiplied against the outstanding amount of money related to the interest assessment. For loans, this is the outstanding principal balance. For savings, this is often the average balance of savings for a given period.



In either case, the amount of interest assessed each period will likely change. For loans, borrowers will have likely made payments that reduce the principal balance, resulting in lower interest. For savers, general activity (including the addition of last month's interest) often changes the applicable balance.






Your credit score has the most impact on the interest rate you are offered when it comes to various loans and lines of credit.


   Simple Interest vs. Compound Interest  

Two main types of interest can be applied to loans—simple and compound. Simple interest is a set rate on the principal originally lent to the borrower that the borrower has to pay for the ability to use the money. Compound interest is interest on both the principal and the compounding interest paid on that loan. The latter of the two types of interest is the most common.



For obvious reasons, individuals attempting to earn interest prefer compound interest agreements. This agreement results in interest being earned on interest and results in more total earnings. Savings accounts with banks often earn compound interest; any prior interest earned on your savings is deposited into your account, and this new balance is what earns interest in future periods.



On the other hand, compound interest is extremely concerning for borrowers especially if their accrued compound interest is capitalized into their outstanding principal. This means the borrower's monthly payment will actually increase due to now having a greater loan than what they started with.


   Common Applications of Interest  

There's countless ways a person can charge or be charged interest. Below are some common examples of where interest may be earned by one party and paid by another.



Credit cards: Among the methods of borrowing money that incurs the highest amount of interest, credit cards are known for having a high APR. Consumers may make minimum monthly installment payments; in return, interest expense may accumulate and is earned by the credit card providers/underlying financial institutions.
Mortgages: Among the longest-term loans, mortgages often incur interest over the entirety of their potential 30-year term. Though interest may be assessed as a fixed or variable rate, it is theoretically reduced over time as the borrower pays down the original loan principal amount.
Auto loans: An example of a shorter-term loan, auto loans are often awarded for terms up to six years. Interest is often charged as a fixed rate, and the dealership extending credit may have an in-house financing department that collects the interest revenue.
Student loans: During COVID-19, student loan payments were paused, and prevailing loan rates were dropped to 0%. This meant that for a while, all loans incurred no interest assessments.
Savings accounts: Often a positive type of interest for most consumers, savings accounts earn monthly interest assessments. Also called dividends, consumers have these deposits are automatically credited to your account.
Invoices: Though many companies may assess a late fee, some companies choose to assess an interest charge on outstanding and late invoices. The idea is since the late payer is technically borrowing money from the invoice holder, the invoice holder is due interest.






A quick way to get a rough understanding of how long it will take for an interest-bearing account to double is to use the so-called rule of 72. Simply divide the number 72 by the applicable interest rate. At 4% interest, for instance, and you’ll double your investment in around 18 years (i.e., 72/4).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Paying Interest  

Imagine a situation where you absolutely need reliable transportation to get to work. There is no public transit system, you do not own a car, work is far away, and you can't afford to buy an entire car outright. The largest advantage of paying interest is it is a relatively low expense compared to alternatives.



Paying interest also means a payer is holding debt, building their credit history, and potentially effectively using leverage. For example, real estate developers often borrow money to construct and rent buildings. If the rate of return on the building is greater than the interest rate they are charged, the company is successfully using someone else's money to make money for themselves.



On the downside, interest is a recurring cash expense. Payers are often contractually obligated to pay interest, and monthly payments are typically applied to interest assessments before paying down the principal. Consumers may find interest assessments overwhelming. In addition, having too many loans and too high of monthly payments may restrict a borrower from being able to take out more credit.




Interest for Borrowers

Pros

May be the result of much-needed capital; relatively-speaking, it may be worth the small expense during emergencies.
Is a result of building a strong credit history
May be used to leverage returns and generate higher profits



Cons

Is a real, often monthly expense requiring cash outlay
Is usually paid before any principal balance can be paid down
May compound and become overwhelming for a borrower to overcome
Are contractually obligated to be paid





   Advantages and Disadvantages of Collecting Interest  

A strategy for many investors is to collect interest. Often a fixed amount (or at least consistent), interest often provides positive cash flow that is a reliable source of income depending on the creditworthiness of the person borrowing the money. Instead of having capital sitting around and not being used, lending money to others is a more efficient way of deploying capital, especially in the short term when the lender may need that money for a specific reason in the longer term.



Interest is also touted as one of the simplest forms of passive income. Loans may require little to no administration or maintenance after the agreement is signed. Lenders may simply collect interest and principal payments.



There are some downsides to collecting interest. First, interest revenue is taxable; even a small amount may push a taxpayer into a higher tax bracket. Next, because you are collecting interest, this means you are allowing someone else to use your capital. Though you may be satisfied collecting interest, there will often be greater earning potential had you utilized the capital yourself.



Also, collecting interest may have philosophical opponents. Consider student loan debt assessments. While some say interest rates near 10% are reasonable for the amount of risk these lenders are incurring, others claim these rates are predatory to young adults and should not be assessed.




Interest for Lenders

Pros

May provide source of cash flow if interest payments are collected monthly/frequently
May be a passive source of income
May provide a consistent stream of income if the borrower is reliable in their payments
Is a more efficient use of capital instead of not loaning it out



Cons

Will increase a taxpayers tax liability
May be lower than what could have been earned had the lender deployed capital for their own investment purpose
May attract negative attention in some situations depending on the borrower, rate of interest, and circumstance





   Interest and Macroeconomics  

A low-interest-rate environment is intended to stimulate economic growth so that it is cheaper to borrow money. This is beneficial for those who are shopping for new homes, simply because it lowers their monthly payment and means cheaper costs. When the Federal Reserve lowers rates, it means more money in consumers' pockets, to spend in other areas, and more large purchases of items, such as houses. Banks also benefit from this environment because they can lend more money.



However, low-interest rates aren't always ideal. A high-interest rate typically tells us that the economy is strong and doing well. In a low-interest-rate environment, there are lower returns on investments and in savings accounts, and of course, an increase in debt which could mean more of a chance of default when rates go back up.



In response to COVID-19, the Federal Reserve began enacting monetary policy as early as March 2020. Then, as the pandemic eased, the Federal Reserve began raising the Federal funds rate. As this Federal funds rate influences the interest rate on many other types of loans, borrowers soon found it to be more expensive to incur debt.




What Is Accrued Interest?
Accrued interest is interest that has been incurred but not paid. For a borrower, this is interest that is due for payment, but cash has not been remit to the lender. For a lender, this is interest that has been earned that they have not yet been paid for. Interest is often accrued as part of a company's financial statements.




What Is the Best Way to Earn Interest?
There are now many ways investors can deposit funds into alternative investments that generate interest. This also means investors must take care in selecting borrowers. The best way to earn interest is to property research the risk profile of your borrower; should they default on the loan, you may not have recourse to recover your lost principal.




How Much Interest Do Bank Accounts Pay?
The amount of interest paid by bank accounts will widely vary based on prevailing government rates and macroeconomic conditions. For example, during the COVID-19 pandemic, while the Federal funds rate was low, interest rates on bank accounts was near 0%. Then, as the pandemic eased, bank accounts began paying interest greater than 2% on bank deposits.


   The Bottom Line  

Interest is a critical part of our high-functioning society. By allowing individuals to borrower and lend money, society has greater economic prosperity by encouraging spending. As a result, capital likely does not sit around idly; it is borrowed by some and lent by others. Through the payment of interest, individuals are encouraged to always be putting money to use.
What Is the Interest Coverage Ratio?  

The interest coverage ratio is a debt and profitability ratio used to determine how easily a company can pay interest on its outstanding debt. The interest coverage ratio is calculated by dividing a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by its interest expense during a given period.



The interest coverage ratio is sometimes called the times interest earned (TIE) ratio. Lenders, investors, and creditors often use this formula to determine a company's riskiness relative to its current debt or for future borrowing.





Key Takeaways

The interest coverage ratio is used to measure how well a firm can pay the interest due on outstanding debt.The interest coverage ratio is calculated by dividing a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by its interest expense during a given period.Some variations of the formula use EBITDA or EBIAT instead of EBIT to calculate the ratio.Generally, a higher coverage ratio is better, although the ideal ratio may vary by industry.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Formula and Calculation of the Interest Coverage Ratio  

The "coverage" in the interest coverage ratio stands for the length of time—typically the number of quarters or fiscal years—for which interest payments can be made with the company's currently available earnings. In simpler terms, it represents how many times the company can pay its obligations using its earnings.
The formula used is:















Interest Coverage Ratio


=



EBIT


Interest Expense

















where:
















EBIT


=


Earnings before interest and taxes







\begin{aligned} &\text{Interest Coverage Ratio}=\frac{\text{EBIT}}{\text{Interest Expense}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EBIT}=\text{Earnings before interest and taxes} \end{aligned}


​Interest Coverage Ratio=Interest ExpenseEBIT​where:EBIT=Earnings before interest and taxes​
The lower the ratio, the more the company is burdened by debt expenses and the less capital it has to use in other ways. When a company's interest coverage ratio is only 1.5 or lower, its ability to meet interest expenses may be questionable.
Companies need to have more than enough earnings to cover interest payments in order to survive future and perhaps unforeseeable financial hardships that may arise. A company’s ability to meet its interest obligations is an aspect of its solvency and is thus an important factor in the return for shareholders.


   Interest Coverage Ratio Interpretation  

Staying above water with interest payments is a critical and ongoing concern for any company. As soon as a company struggles with its obligations, it may have to borrow further or dip into its cash reserve, which is much better used to invest in capital assets or for emergencies.



While looking at a single interest coverage ratio may reveal a good deal about a company’s current financial position, analyzing interest coverage ratios over time will often give a much clearer picture of a company’s position and trajectory.



Looking at a company's interest coverage ratios on a quarterly basis for, say, the past five years, lets investors know whether the ratio is improving, declining, or has remained stable and provides a great assessment of a company’s short-term financial health.



Moreover, the desirability of any particular level of this ratio is in the eye of the beholder to an extent. Some banks or potential bond buyers may be comfortable with a less desirable ratio in exchange for charging the company a higher interest rate on their debt.


   Example of the Interest Coverage Ratio   

Suppose that a company’s earnings during a given quarter are $625,000 and that it has debts upon which it is liable for payments of $30,000 every month. To calculate the interest coverage ratio here, one would need to convert the monthly interest payments into quarterly payments by multiplying them by three (the remaining quarters in the calendar year). The interest coverage ratio for the company is $625,000 / $90,000 ($30,000 x 3) = 6.94. This indicates the company has no current problems with liquidity.



On the other hand, an interest coverage ratio of 1.5 is generally considered a minimum acceptable ratio for a company and the tipping point below which lenders will likely refuse to lend the company more money, as the company’s risk for default may be perceived as too high.



If a company’s ratio is below one, it will likely need to spend some of its cash reserves to meet the difference or borrow more, which will be difficult for the reasons stated above. Otherwise, even if earnings are low for a single month, the company risks falling into bankruptcy.


   Types of Interest Coverage Ratios  

Two somewhat common variations of the interest coverage ratio are important to consider before studying the ratios of companies. These variations come from alterations to EBIT.


  EBITDA  

One such variation uses earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) instead of EBIT in calculating the interest coverage ratio. Because this variation excludes depreciation and amortization, the numerator in calculations using EBITDA will often be higher than those using EBIT. Since the interest expense will be the same in both cases, calculations using EBITDA will produce a higher interest coverage ratio than calculations using EBIT.


  EBIAT  

Another variation uses earnings before interest after taxes (EBIAT) instead of EBIT in interest coverage ratio calculations. This has the effect of deducting tax expenses from the numerator in an attempt to render a more accurate picture of a company’s ability to pay its interest expenses. Because taxes are an important financial element to consider, for a clearer picture of a company’s ability to cover its interest expenses, EBIAT can be used to calculate interest coverage ratios instead of EBIT.


   Limitations of the Interest Coverage Ratio  

Like any metric attempting to gauge the efficiency of a business, the interest coverage ratio comes with a set of limitations that are important for any investor to consider before using it.



For one, it is important to note that interest coverage is highly variable when measuring companies in different industries and even when measuring companies within the same industry. For established companies in certain industries, such as a utility company, an interest coverage ratio of two is often an acceptable standard.



A well-established utility will likely have consistent production and revenue, particularly due to government regulations; so, even with a relatively low-interest coverage ratio, it may be able to reliably cover its interest payments. Other industries, such as manufacturing, are much more volatile and may often have a higher minimum acceptable interest coverage ratio of three or higher.



These kinds of companies generally see greater fluctuation in business. For example, during the recession of 2008, car sales dropped substantially, hurting the auto manufacturing industry. A workers’ strike is another example of an unexpected event that may hurt interest coverage ratios. Because these industries are more prone to these fluctuations, they must rely on a greater ability to cover their interest to account for periods of low earnings.



Because of such wide variations across industries, a company's ratio should be evaluated to others in the same industry—and, ideally, those who have similar business models and revenue numbers.



Furthermore, while all debt is important to take into account when calculating the interest coverage ratio, companies may choose to isolate or exclude certain types of debt in their interest coverage ratio calculations. As such, when considering a company’s self-published interest coverage ratio, it's important to determine if all debts were included.




What Does the Interest Coverage Ratio Tell You?
The interest coverage ratio measures a company's ability to handle its outstanding debt. It is one of a number of debt ratios that can be used to evaluate a company's financial condition. The term "coverage" refers to the length of time—ordinarily, the number of fiscal years—for which interest payments can be made with the company's currently available earnings. In simpler terms, it represents how many times the company can pay its obligations using its earnings.




How Is the Interest Coverage Ratio Calculated?
The ratio is calculated by dividing EBIT (or some variation thereof) by interest on debt expenses (the cost of borrowed funding) during a given period, usually annually.




What Is a Good Interest Coverage Ratio?
A ratio above one indicates that a company can service the interest on its debts using its earnings or has shown the ability to maintain revenues at a fairly consistent level. While an interest coverage ratio of 1.5 may be the minimum acceptable level, two or better is preferred for analysts and investors. For companies with historically more volatile revenues, the interest coverage ratio may not be considered good unless it is well above three.




What Does a Bad Interest Coverage Ratio Indicate?
A bad interest coverage ratio is any number below one as this means that the company's current earnings are insufficient to service its outstanding debt. The chances of a company being able to continue to meet its interest expenses on an ongoing basis are still doubtful even with an interest coverage ratio below 1.5, especially if the company is vulnerable to seasonal or cyclical dips in revenues.


   The Bottom Line  

The interest coverage ratio, or times interest earned (TIE) ratio, is used to determine how well a company can pay the interest on its debts and is calculated by dividing EBIT (EBITDA or EBIAT) by a period's interest expense. Generally, a ratio below 1.5 indicates that a company may not have enough capital to pay interest on its debts. However, interest coverage ratios vary greatly across industries; therefore, it is best to compare ratios of companies within the same industry and with a similar business structure.
What Is an Interest Expense?  

An interest expense is the cost incurred by an entity for borrowed funds. Interest expense is a non-operating expense shown on the income statement. It represents interest payable on any borrowings—bonds, loans, convertible debt or lines of credit. It is essentially calculated as the interest rate times the outstanding principal amount of the debt. Interest expense on the income statement represents interest accrued during the period covered by the financial statements, and not the amount of interest paid over that period. While interest expense is tax-deductible for companies, in an individual's case, it depends on their jurisdiction and also on the loan's purpose.



For most people, mortgage interest is the single-biggest category of interest expense over their lifetimes as interest can total tens of thousands of dollars over the life of a mortgage as illustrated by online calculators.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Interest Expenses Work  

Interest expense often appears as a line item on a company’s balance sheet since there are usually differences in timing between interest accrued and interest paid. If interest has been accrued but has not yet been paid, it would appear in the “current liabilities” section of the balance sheet. Conversely, if interest has been paid in advance, it would appear in the “current assets” section as a prepaid item.



While mortgage interest is tax-deductible in the United States, it is not tax-deductible in Canada. The loan's purpose is also critical in determining the tax-deductibility of interest expense. For example, if a loan is used for bona fide investment purposes, most jurisdictions would allow the interest expense for this loan to be deducted from taxes. However, there are restrictions even on such tax deductibility. In Canada, for instance, if the loan is taken out for an investment that is held in a registered account—such as a Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP), Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP), or Tax-Free Savings Account—interest expense is not permitted to be tax-deductible.



The amount of interest expense for companies that have debt depends on the broad level of interest rates in the economy. Interest expense will be on the higher side during periods of rampant inflation since most companies will have incurred debt that carries a higher interest rate. On the other hand, during periods of muted inflation, interest expense will be on the lower side.



The amount of interest expense has a direct bearing on profitability, especially for companies with a huge debt load. Heavily indebted companies may have a hard time serving their debt loads during economic downturns. At such times, investors and analysts pay particularly close attention to solvency ratios such as debt to equity and interest coverage.





Key Takeaways

An interest expense is an accounting item that is incurred due to servicing debt.Interest expenses are often given favorable tax treatment.For companies, the greater the interest expense the greater the potential impact on profitability. Coverage ratios can be used to dig deeper.


   Interest Coverage Ratio  

The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of a company’s operating income (or EBIT—earnings before interest or taxes) to its interest expense. The ratio measures a company’s ability to meet the interest expense on its debt with its operating income. A higher ratio indicates that a company has a better capacity to cover its interest expense.



For example, a company with $100 million in debt at 8% interest has $8 million in annual interest expense. If annual EBIT is $80 million, then its interest coverage ratio is 10, which shows that the company can comfortably meet its obligations to pay interest. Conversely, if EBIT falls below $24 million, the interest coverage ratio of less than 3 signals that the company may have a hard time staying solvent as an interest coverage of less than 3 times is often seen as a "red flag."
What Is an Interest-Only Mortgage?  

An interest-only mortgage is a type of mortgage in which the mortgagor (the borrower) is required to pay only the interest on the loan for a certain period. The principal is repaid either in a lump sum at a specified date, or in subsequent payments.





Key Takeaways

An interest-only mortgage is one where you solely make interest payments for the first several years of the loan, as opposed to your payments including both principal and interest.Interest-only payments may be made for a specified time period, may be given as an option, or may last throughout the duration of the loan (mandating you pay it all back at the end).Usually, interest-only loans are structured as a particular type of adjustable-rate mortgage.While interest-only mortgages mean lower payments for a while, they also mean you aren't building up equity, and mean a big jump in payments when the interest-only period ends.


   Understanding an Interest-Only Mortgage  

Interest-only mortgages can be structured in various ways. Interest-only payments may be made for a specified time period, may be given as an option, or may last throughout the duration of the loan. With some lenders, paying the interest exclusively may be a provision that is only available for certain borrowers.



Most interest-only mortgages require only the interest payments for a specified time period—typically five, seven, or 10 years. After that, the loan converts to a standard schedule—a fully-amortized basis, in lender lingo—and the borrower’s payments will increase to include both interest and a portion of the principal.



Usually, interest-only loans are structured as a particular type of adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM), known as an interest-only ARM. You pay just the interest, at a fixed rate, for a certain number of years, known as the introductory period. After the introductory period ends, the borrower starts repaying both principal and interest, and the interest rate will start to vary. For example, if you take out a "7/1 ARM", it means your introductory period of interest-only payments lasts seven years, and then your interest rate will adjust once a year.






Fixed-rate interest-only mortgages are not very common; they usually exist on longer, 30-year mortgages.


   Paying Off the Interest-Only Mortgage  

At the end of the interest-only mortgage term, the borrower has a few options. Some borrowers may choose to refinance their loan after the interest-only term has expired, which can provide for new terms and potentially lower interest payments with the principal. Other borrowers may choose to sell the home they mortgaged to pay off the loan. Still, other borrowers may opt to make a one-time lump sum payment when the loan is due—having saved up by not paying the principal all those years.


   Special Considerations for Interest-Only Mortgages  

Some interest-only mortgages may include special provisions that allow for just paying interest under certain circumstances. For example, a borrower may be able to pay only the interest portion on their loan if damage occurs to the home, and they are required to make a high maintenance payment. In some cases, the borrower may have to pay only interest for the entire term of the loan, which requires them to manage accordingly for a one-time lump sum payment.


   Interest-Only Mortgage Advantages and Disadvantages  

Interest-only mortgages reduce the required monthly payment for a mortgage borrower by excluding the principal portion from a payment. Homebuyers have the advantage of increased cash flow and greater support for managing monthly expenses. For first-time home buyers, an interest-only mortgage also allows them to defer large payments into future years when they expect their income to be higher.



However, just paying interest also means that the homeowner is not building up any equity in the property—only the repayment of principal debt does that. Also, when payments start to include principal, they get significantly higher. This could be a problem if it coincides with a downturn in one's finances—loss of a job, an unexpected medical emergency, etc.



Borrowers should cautiously estimate their expected future cash flow to ensure that they can meet the bigger monthly obligations, and pay off the loan when required. While interest-only mortgage loans can be convenient for several reasons, they may also add to default risk.
What Is an Interest Rate?  

The interest rate is the amount a lender charges a borrower and is a percentage of the principal—the amount loaned. The interest rate on a loan is typically noted on an annual basis known as the annual percentage rate (APR).



An interest rate can also apply to the amount earned at a bank or credit union from a savings account or certificate of deposit (CD). Annual percentage yield (APY) refers to the interest earned on these deposit accounts.





Key Takeaways

The interest rate is the amount charged on top of the principal by a lender to a borrower for the use of assets.An interest rate also applies to the amount earned at a bank or credit union from a deposit account.Most mortgages use simple interest. However, some loans use compound interest, which is applied to the principal but also to the accumulated interest of previous periods.A borrower that is considered low risk by the lender will have a lower interest rate. A loan that is considered high risk will have a higher interest rate.The APY is the interest rate that is earned at a bank or credit union from a savings account or CD. Savings accounts and CDs use compounded interest.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Interest Rates  

Interest is essentially a charge to the borrower for the use of an asset. Assets borrowed can include cash, consumer goods, vehicles, and property. Because of this, an interest rate can be thought of as the "cost of money" - higher interest rates make borrowing the same amount of money more expensive.



Interest rates thus apply to most lending or borrowing transactions. Individuals borrow money to purchase homes, fund projects, launch or fund businesses, or pay for college tuition. Businesses take out loans to fund capital projects and expand their operations by purchasing fixed and long-term assets such as land, buildings, and machinery. Borrowed money is repaid either in a lump sum by a pre-determined date or in periodic installments.



For loans, the interest rate is applied to the principal, which is the amount of the loan. The interest rate is the cost of debt for the borrower and the rate of return for the lender. The money to be repaid is usually more than the borrowed amount since lenders require compensation for the loss of use of the money during the loan period. The lender could have invested the funds during that period instead of providing a loan, which would have generated income from the asset. The difference between the total repayment sum and the original loan is the interest charged.



When the borrower is considered to be low risk by the lender, the borrower will usually be charged a lower interest rate. If the borrower is considered high risk, the interest rate that they are charged will be higher, which results in a higher cost loan.






Risk is typically assessed when a lender looks at a potential borrower's credit score, which is why it's important to have an excellent one if you want to qualify for the best loans.


   Simple Interest Rate  

If you take out a $300,000 loan from the bank and the loan agreement stipulates that the interest rate on the loan is 4% simple interest, this means that you will have to pay the bank the original loan amount of $300,000 + (4% x $300,000) = $300,000 + $12,000 = $312,000.



The example above was calculated based on the annual simple interest formula, which is:



Simple interest = principal X interest rate X time



The individual that took out a loan will have to pay $12,000 in interest at the end of the year, assuming it was only a one-year lending agreement. If the term of the loan was a 30-year mortgage, the interest payment will be:



Simple interest = $300,000 X 4% X 30 = $360,000



A simple interest rate of 4% annually translates into an annual interest payment of $12,000. After 30 years, the borrower would have made $12,000 x 30 years = $360,000 in interest payments, which explains how banks make money through loans, mortgages, and other types of lending.


   Compound Interest Rate  

Some lenders prefer the compound interest method, which means that the borrower pays even more in interest. Compound interest, also called interest on interest, is applied both to the principal and also to the accumulated interest made during previous periods. The bank assumes that at the end of the first year the borrower owes the principal plus interest for that year. The bank also assumes that at the end of the second year, the borrower owes the principal plus the interest for the first year plus the interest on interest for the first year.



The interest owed when compounding is higher than the interest owed using the simple interest method. The interest is charged monthly on the principal including accrued interest from the previous months. For shorter time frames, the calculation of interest will be similar for both methods. As the lending time increases, however, the disparity between the two types of interest calculations grows.



Using the example above, at the end of 30 years, the total owed in interest is almost $700,000 on a $300,000 loan with a 4% interest rate.



The following formula can be used to calculate compound interest:



Compound interest = p X [(1 + interest rate)n − 1]where:p = principaln = number of compounding periods​


   Compound Interest and Savings Accounts  

When you save money using a savings account, compound interest is favorable. The interest earned on these accounts is compounded and is compensation to the account holder for allowing the bank to use the deposited funds.



If, for example, you deposit $500,000 into a high-yield savings account, the bank can take $300,000 of these funds to use as a mortgage loan. To compensate you, the bank pays 1% interest into the account annually. So, while the bank is taking 4% from the borrower, it is giving 1% to the account holder, netting it 3% in interest. In effect, savers lend the bank money which, in turn, provides funds to borrowers in return for interest.






The snowballing effect of compounding interest rates, even when rates are at rock bottom, can help you build wealth over time; Investopedia Academy's Personal Finance for Grads course teaches how to grow a nest egg and make wealth last.


   Borrower's Cost of Debt  

While interest rates represent interest income to the lender, they constitute a cost of debt to the borrower. Companies weigh the cost of borrowing against the cost of equity, such as dividend payments, to determine which source of funding will be the least expensive. Since most companies fund their capital by either taking on debt and/or issuing equity, the cost of the capital is evaluated to achieve an optimal capital structure.


   APR vs. APY  

Interest rates on consumer loans are typically quoted as the annual percentage rate (APR). This is the rate of return that lenders demand for the ability to borrow their money. For example, the interest rate on credit cards is quoted as an APR. In our example above, 4% is the APR for the mortgage or borrower. The APR does not consider compounded interest for the year.



The annual percentage yield (APY) is the interest rate that is earned at a bank or credit union from a savings account or CD. This interest rate takes compounding into account.


   How Are Interest Rates Determined?  

The interest rate charged by banks is determined by a number of factors, such as the state of the economy. A country's central bank (e.g., the Federal Reserve in the U.S.) sets the interest rate, which each bank uses to determine the APR range they offer. When the central bank sets interest rates at a high level, the cost of debt rises. When the cost of debt is high, it discourages people from borrowing and slows consumer demand. Also, interest rates tend to rise with inflation.



To combat inflation, banks may set higher reserve requirements, tight money supply ensues, or there is greater demand for credit. In a high-interest rate economy, people resort to saving their money since they receive more from the savings rate. The stock market suffers since investors would rather take advantage of the higher rate from savings than invest in the stock market with lower returns. Businesses also have limited access to capital funding through debt, which leads to economic contraction.



Economies are often stimulated during periods of low-interest rates because borrowers have access to loans at inexpensive rates. Since interest rates on savings are low, businesses and individuals are more likely to spend and purchase riskier investment vehicles such as stocks. This spending fuels the economy and provides an injection to capital markets leading to economic expansion. While governments prefer lower interest rates, they eventually lead to market disequilibrium where demand exceeds supply causing inflation. When inflation occurs, interest rates increase, which may relate to Walras' law.





5.31%

The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage in mid-2022.  This is up from 2.89% just one year earlier.


   Interest Rates and Discrimination  

Despite laws, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), that prohibit discriminatory lending practices, systemic racism prevails in the U.S. Homebuyers in predominantly Black communities are offered mortgages with higher rates than homebuyers in white communities, according to a Realtor.com report published in July 2020. Its analysis of 2018 and 2019 mortgage data found that the higher rates added almost $10,000 of interest over the life of a typical 30-year fixed-rate loan.



In July 2020, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which enforces the ECOA, issued a Request for Information seeking public comments to identify opportunities for improving what ECOA does to ensure nondiscriminatory access to credit. “Clear standards help protect African Americans and other minorities, but the CFPB must back them up with action to make sure lenders and others follow the law,” stated Kathleen L. Kraninger, director of the agency.




Why Are Interest Rates on 30-year Loans Higher than 15-year Loans?
Interest rates are a function of risk of default and opportunity cost. Longer-dated loans and debts are inherently more risky, as there is more time during which the borrower can default. At the same time, the opportunity cost is larger over longer time periods, during which time that principal is tied up and cannot be used for any other purpose.




How Does the Fed Use Interest Rates in the Economy?
The Federal Reserve, along with other central banks around the world, uses interest rates as a monetary policy tool. By increasing the cost of borrowing among commercial banks, the central bank can influence many other interest rates such as those on personal loans, business loans, and mortgages. This makes borrowing more expensive in general, lowering the demand for money and cooling off a hot economy. Lowering interest rates, on the other hand, makes money easier to borrow, stimulating spending and investment.




Why Do Bond Prices React Inversely to Interest Rate Changes?
A bond is a debt instrument that typically pays a fixed rate of interest over its lifetime. Say that prevailing interest rates are 5%. If a bond is priced at par = $1,000 and has an interest rate (coupon) of 5%, it will pay $50 a year to bondholders. If interest rates rise to 10%, new bonds issued will pay double—i.e., $100 per $1,000 in face value. An existing bond that only pays $50 will have to sell at a steep discount in order for somebody to want to buy it. Likewise, if interest rates drop to 1%, new bonds will only pay $10 per $1,000 in face value. Hence, a bond that pays $50 will be in high demand and its price will be bid up quite high.
What Is an Interest Rate Call Option?  

An interest rate call option is a derivative in which the holder has the right to receive an interest payment based on a variable interest rate, and then subsequently pays an interest payment based on a fixed interest rate. If the option is exercised, the investor who sells the interest rate call option will make a net payment to the option holder.





Key Takeaways

An interest rate call option is a derivative that gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to pay a fixed rate and to receive a variable rate for a specific period.Interest rate call options can be put in contrast with interest rate puts.Interest rate calls are used by lending institutions to lock interest rates offered to borrowers, among other uses.Investors who want to hedge a position on a loan in which floating interest rates are paid can use interest rate call options. 


   Understanding Interest Rate Call Options  

To understand interest rate call options, let’s first remind ourselves of how prices in the debt market work. There is an inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices. When prevailing interest rates in the market increase, fixed income prices fall. Similarly, when interest rates decline, prices increase. Investors looking to hedge against an adverse movement in interest rates or speculators seeking to profit from an expected movement in rates can do so through interest rate options.



An interest rate option is a contract that has its underlying asset as an interest rate, such as the yield of a three-month Treasury bill (T-bill) or 3-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). An investor who expects the price of Treasury securities to fall (or yield to increase) will buy an interest-rate put. If she expects the price of the debt instruments to increase (or yield to decrease), an interest rate call option will be purchased.



An interest rate call option gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to pay a fixed rate and receive a variable rate. If the underlying interest rate at expiration is higher than the strike rate, the option will be in the money and the buyer will exercise it. If the market rate drops below the strike rate, the option will be out of the money, and the investor will allow the contract to expire.



The amount of the payment when the option is exercised is the present value of the difference between the market rate on the settlement date and the strike rate multiplied by the notional principal amount specified in the option contract. The difference between the settlement rate and strike rate must be adjusted for the period of the rate.


   Example of an Interest Rate Call Option  

As a hypothetical example, suppose an investor holds a long position in an interest rate call option which has the 180-day T-bill as its underlying interest rate. The notional principal amount stated in the contract is $1 million, and the strike rate is 1.98%. If the market rate increases past the strike rate to, say 2.2%, the buyer will exercise the interest rate call. Exercising the call gives the holder the right to receive 2.2% and pay 1.98%. The payoff to the holder is:



﻿









Payoff









=


(


2


.


2


%


−


1


.


9


8


%


)


×



(




1


8


0




3


6


0




)



×


$


1


 Million
















=


.


2


2


×


.


5


×


$


1


 Million
















=


$


1


,


1


0


0








\begin{aligned} \text{Payoff} &= (2.2\% - 1.98\%) \times \left ( \frac{ 180 }{ 360 } \right ) \times \$1 \text{ Million} \\ &= .22 \times .5 \times \$1 \text{ Million} \\ &= \$1,100 \\ \end{aligned}


Payoff​=(2.2%−1.98%)×(360180​)×$1 Million=.22×.5×$1 Million=$1,100​﻿



The interest rate options take the days to maturity attached to the agreement into account. Also, the payoff from the option is not made until the end of the number of days attached to the rate. For example, if the interest rate option in our example expires in 60 days, the holder will not be paid for 180 days since the underlying T-bill matures in 180 days. The payoff should, therefore, be discounted to the present time by finding the present value of $1,100 at 6%.


   Benefits of Interest Rate Call Options  

Lending institutions that wish to lock in a floor on future lending rates are the main buyers of interest rate call options. Clients are mostly corporations who need to borrow at some point in the future, so the lenders would want to insure or hedge against adverse changes in interest rates during the interim.






A balloon payment is a large payment due at the end of a balloon loan.



Interest rate call options can be used by an investor wishing to hedge a position in a loan in which interest is paid based on a floating interest rate. By purchasing the interest rate call option, an investor can limit the highest rate of interest for which payments would have to be made while enjoying lower rates of interest, and she can forecast the cash flow that will be paid when the interest payment is due.



Interest rate call options can be used in either a periodic or balloon payment situation. Also, interest rate options can be traded on an exchange or over the counter (OTC).
What Is an Interest Rate Collar?  

An interest rate collar is a relatively low-cost interest rate risk management strategy that uses derivatives to hedge an investor's exposure to interest rate fluctuations.





Key Takeaways

An interest rate collar uses options contracts to hedge interest rate risk to protect variable rate borrowers against rising rates or lenders against falling rates in the case of a reverse collar.A collar involves selling a covered call and simultaneously buying a protective put with the same expiration, establishing a floor and a cap on interest rates.While the collar effectively hedges interest rate risk, it also limits any potential upside that would have been conferred by a favorable movement in rates.


   Understanding Interest Rate Collar  

A collar is a broad group of options strategies that involve holding the underlying security and buying a protective put while simultaneously selling a covered call against the holding. The premium received from writing the call pays for the purchase of the put option. In addition, the call caps the upside potential for appreciation of the underlying security's price but protects the hedger from any adverse movement in the value of the security. A type of collar is the interest rate collar.



Essentially, an interest rate collar involves the simultaneous purchase of an interest rate cap and sale of an interest rate floor on the same index for the same maturity and notional principal amount. An interest rate collar uses interest rate options contracts to protect a borrower against rising interest rates while also setting a floor on declining interest rates. An interest rate collar can be an effective way of hedging interest rate risk associated with holding bonds. With an interest rate collar, the investor purchases an interest rate ceiling, which is funded by the premium received from selling an interest rate floor.



Remember that there is an inverse relationship between bond prices and interest rates—interest rates fall as bond prices rise, and vice versa. The objective of the buyer of an interest rate collar is to protect against rising interest rates.



Purchasing an interest rate cap (i.e., a bond put option or rates call option) can guarantee a maximum decline in the bond's value. Although an interest rate floor (bond call option or rates put option) limits the potential appreciation of a bond given a decrease in rates, it provides upfront cash and generates premium income that pays for the cost of the ceiling.



Let's say an investor enters a collar by purchasing a ceiling with a strike rate of 10% and sells a floor at 8%. Whenever the interest rate is above 10%, the investor will receive a payment from the seller of the ceiling. If the interest rate drops below 8%, which is below the floor, the investor who is short the call must now make a payment to the party that purchased the floor.



Clearly, the interest rate collar strategy protects the investor by capping the maximum interest rate paid at the collar's ceiling but sacrifices the profitability of interest rate drops.


   Interest Rate Caps and Floors  

An interest rate cap establishes a ceiling on interest payments. It is simply a series of call options on a floating interest rate index, usually 3- or 6-month London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR), which coincides with the rollover dates on the borrower's floating liabilities. The strike price, or strike rate, of these options represent the maximum interest rate payable by the purchaser of the cap.



An interest rate floor is the minimum interest rate that is created using put options. It reduces the risk to the party receiving the interest payments since the coupon payment each period will be no less than a certain floor rate or strike rate.


   Reverse Interest Rate Collar  

A reverse interest rate collar protects a lender (e.g., a bank) against declining interest rates, which would cause a variable rate lender to receive less interest income if rates decline. It involves the simultaneous purchase (or long) of an interest rate floor and sale (or short) of an interest rate cap. The premium received from the short cap partly offsets the premium paid for the long floor. The long floor receives a payment when the interest rate falls below the floor exercise rate. The short cap makes payments when the interest rate exceeds the cap exercise rate.
What Is an Interest Rate Derivative?  

An interest rate derivative is a financial instrument with a value that is linked to the movements of an interest rate or rates. These may include futures, options, or swaps contracts. Interest rate derivatives are often used as hedges by institutional investors, banks, companies, and individuals to protect themselves against changes in market interest rates, but they can also be used to increase or refine the holder's risk profile or to speculate on rate moves.





Key Takeaways

An interest rate derivative is a financial contract whose value is based on some underlying interest rate or interest-bearing asset.These may include interest rate futures, options, swaps, swaptions, and FRA's.Entities with interest rate risk can use these derivatives to hedge or minimize potential losses that may accompany a change in interest rates.


   Understanding Interest Rate Derivatives  

Interest rate derivatives are most often used to hedge against interest rate risk, or else to speculate on the direction of future interest rate moves. Interest rate risk exists in an interest-bearing asset, such as a loan or a bond, due to the possibility of a change in the asset's value resulting from the variability of interest rates. Interest rate risk management has become very important, and assorted instruments have been developed to deal with interest rate risk.



Interest rate derivatives can range from simple to highly complex; they can be used to reduce or increase interest rate exposure. Among the most common types of interest rate derivatives are interest rate swaps, caps, collars, and floors.



Also popular are interest rate futures. Here the futures contract exists between a buyer and seller agreeing to the future delivery of any interest-bearing asset, such as a bond. The interest rate future allows the buyer and seller to lock in the price of the interest-bearing asset for a future date. Forwards on interest rate operate similarly to futures, but are not exchange-traded and may be customized between counterparties.


   Interest Rate Swaps  

A plain vanilla interest rate swap is the most basic and common type of interest rate derivative. There are two parties to a swap: party one receives a stream of interest payments based on a floating interest rate and pays a stream of interest payments based on a fixed rate. Party two receives a stream of fixed interest rate payments and pays a stream of floating rate payments. Both payment streams are based on the same notional principal, and the interest payments are netted. Through this exchange of cash flows, the two parties aim to reduce uncertainty and the threat of loss from changes in market interest rates.



A swap can also be used to increase an individual or institution's risk profile, if they choose to receive the fixed rate and pay floating. This strategy is most common with companies that have a credit rating that allows them to issue bonds at a low fixed rate but prefer to swap to a floating rate to take advantage of market movements.


   Caps and Floors  

A company with a floating rate loan that does not want to swap to a fixed rate but does want some protection can buy an interest rate cap. The cap is set at the top rate that the borrower wishes to pay; if the market moves above that level, the owner of the cap receives periodic payments based on the difference between the cap and the market rate. The premium, which is the cost of the cap, is based on how high the protection level is above the then-current market; the interest rate futures curve; and the maturity of the cap; longer periods cost more, as there is a higher chance that it will be in the money.



A company receiving a stream of floating rate payments can buy a floor to protect against declining rates. Like a cap, the price depends on the protection level and maturity. Selling, rather than buying, the cap or floor increases rate risk.


   Other Interest Rates Instruments  

Less common interest rate derivatives include eurostrips, which are a strip of futures on the eurocurrency deposit market; swaptions, which give the holder the right but not the obligation to enter into a swap if a given rate level is reached; and interest rate call options, which give the holder the right to receive a stream of payments based on a floating rate and then make payments based on a fixed rate. A forward rate agreement (FRA) is an over-the-counter contract that fixes the rate of interest to be paid on an agreed upon date in the future to exchange an interest rate commitment on a notional amount. The notional amount is not exchanged, but rather a cash amount based on the rate differentials and the notional value of the contract.
What Is an Interest Rate Differential (IRD)?  

An interest rate differential (IRD) weighs the contrast in interest rates between two similar interest-bearing assets. Most often it is the difference between two interest rates.



Traders in the foreign exchange market use IRDs when pricing forward exchange rates. Based on the interest rate parity, a trader can create an expectation of the future exchange rate between two currencies and set the premium, or discount, on the current market exchange rate futures contracts.





Key Takeaways

Interest rate differentials (IRDs) simply measure the difference between interest rates of two different instruments.IRD is most often used in fixed income, forex, and lending markets.IRD also plays a key role in calculating a currency carry trade.


   Understanding Interest Rate Differential (IRD)  

IRDs simply measure the difference in interest rates between two securities. If one bond yields 5% and another 3%, the IRD would be 2 percentage points—or 200 basis points (bps). IRD calculations are most often used in fixed income trading, forex trading, and lending calculations.



The IRD is used in the housing market to describe the difference between the interest rate and a bank's posted rate on the prepayment date for mortgages.



The IRD is also a key component of the carry trade, a trading strategy that involves borrowing at a low-interest rate and investing the proceeds in an asset that provides a higher rate of return. Carry trades often consist of borrowing in a low-interest rate currency, and then converting the borrowed amount into another currency with a higher yield.


   Interest Rate Differential: A Bond Trade Example  

The IRD is the amount the investor can expect to profit using a carry trade. Say an investor borrows $1,000 and converts the funds into British pounds, allowing for the purchase of a British bond. If the purchased bond yields 7% while the equivalent U.S. bond yields 3%, then the IRD equals 4%, or 7% - 3%. This profit is ensured only if the exchange rate between dollars and pounds remains constant.



One of the primary risks involved with this strategy is the uncertainty of currency fluctuations. In this example, if the British pound were to fall in relation to the U.S. dollar, the trader may experience losses.



Additionally, traders may use leverage, such as a factor of 10-to-1, to improve their profit potential. If the investor leveraged the borrowing by a factor of 10-to-1, they could make a profit of 40%. However, leverage could also cause larger losses if there are strong movements in exchange rates.


   Interest Rate Differential: A Mortgage Example  

When homebuyers borrow money to purchase houses, there may be an IRD.



For example, say a homebuyer purchased a home and took out a mortgage at a rate of 5.50% for 30 years. Assume 25 years have passed and the borrower only has five years left in the mortgage term. The lender could use the current market interest rate it is offering for a five-year mortgage to determine the IRD. If the current market interest rate on a five-year mortgage is 3.85%, the IRD is 1.65% or 0.1375% per month.


   Interest Rate Differential (IRD) vs. Net Interest Rate Differential (NIRD)  

The net interest rate differential (NIRD) is a specific type of IRD used in forex markets. In international currency markets, the NIRD is the difference between the interest rates of two distinct economic regions.



For instance, if a trader is long the NZD/USD pair, they would own the New Zealand currency and borrow the US currency. These New Zealand dollars can be placed into a New Zealand bank while simultaneously taking out a loan for the same amount from the U.S. bank. The NIRD is the difference in any interest earned and any interest paid while holding the currency pair position.




What Are Interest Rate Differential Calculations Used for?
IRD calculations are used to demonstrate the difference in interest rates between two financial securities, usually in fixed income trading, forex trading, and lending calculations.




How Is the Interest Rate Differential Used in the Housing Market?
It's used in the housing market to illustrate the difference in rating between the stated interest rate and a bank's posted rate when it comes to prepayment dates for mortgages. 




How Is the Interest Rate Differential Used in the Carry Trade?
In carry trade investing, an investor would borrow money in a low-interest rate currency and then convert the amount that was borrowed into a higher-yielding currency. The IRD is the difference between the two interest rates.
What Is an Interest Rate Floor?  

An interest rate floor is an agreed-upon rate in the lower range of rates associated with a floating rate loan product. Interest rate floors are utilized in derivative contracts and loan agreements. This is in contrast to an interest rate ceiling (or cap).



Interest rate floors are often used in the adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) market. Often, this minimum is designed to cover any costs associated with processing and servicing the loan. An interest rate floor is often present through the issuing of an ARM, as it prevents interest rates from adjusting below a preset level.





Key Takeaways

Contracts and loan agreements often include interest rate floors.Interest rate floors are in contrast to interest rate ceilings or caps.There are three common interest rate derivative contracts, with interest rate floors being just one.If a variable rate falls below the interest rate floor, the floor is triggered and will be the prevailing rate for the period.A variable-rate floor is meant to protect a lender by ensuring a minimum interest assessment can be collected each month even if adjustable rates reach 0%.


   Understanding Interest Rate Floors  

Interest rate floors and interest rate caps are levels used by varying market participants to hedge risks associated with floating-rate loan products. In both products, the buyer of the contract seeks to obtain a payout based on a negotiated rate. In the case of an interest rate floor, the buyer of an interest rate floor contract seeks compensation when the floating rate falls below the contract’s floor. This buyer is buying protection from lost interest income paid by the borrower when the floating rate falls.



Interest rate floor contracts are one of three common interest rate derivative contracts, the other two being interest rate caps and interest rate swaps. Interest rate floor contracts and interest rate cap contracts are derivative products typically bought on market exchanges similar to put and call options.



Interest rate swaps require two separate entities to agree on the swapping of an asset, typically involving the exchanging of fixed-rate debt for floating-rate debt. Interest rate floor and interest rate cap contracts can provide a different alternative to the exchanging of balance sheet assets in an interest rate swap.


   Real-World Example of an Interest Rate Floor  

As a hypothetical example, assume that a lender is securing a floating rate loan and is looking for protection against lost income that would arise if interest rates were to decline. Suppose the lender buys an interest rate floor contract with an interest rate floor of 8%. The floating rate on the $1 million negotiated loan then falls to 7%. The interest rate floor derivative contract purchased by the lender results in a payout of $10,000 = (($1 million *.08) - ($1 million*.07)).



The payout to the holder of the contract is also adjusted based on days to maturity or days to reset which is determined by the details of the contract.






An interest rate floor is carefully calculated based on future market expectations. The lender imposing the floor doesn't want to include this unfavorable loan term to the borrower only for the floor to never be met.


   The Use of Floors in Adjustable Rate Loan Contracts  

An interest rate floor can also be an agreed-upon rate in an adjustable-rate loan contract, such as an adjustable mortgage. The lender’s lending terms structure the contract with an interest rate floor provision, which means that the rate is adjustable based on the agreed-upon market rate until it reaches the interest rate floor. A loan with an interest rate floor provision has a minimum rate that must be paid by the borrower to protect the income for the lender.




How Does an Interest Rate Floor Apply to My Loan?
An interest rate floor impacts your loan by creating a minimum interest rate. Even if prevalent market rates drop to 0%, you will still be subject to a rate equal to at least the floor. If your loan has an interest rate floor, you will always be assessed interest on the outstanding principal.




What Does Interest Rate Floor Mean?
An interest rate floor is a financing mechanism to ensure the lender is able to assess interest regardless of how external variable interest rates are performing. An interest rate floor is a fixed interest rate that is triggered should interest rates drop below the floor.




What Does Floor Mean in Finance?
In general, a floor in finance refers to a minimum that a certain set of criteria can not drop below. An interest rate floor means regardless of other contingent interest rates a loan may be subject to. A price floor means regardless of other market conditions, the price of an item can not contractually fall below a specific limit.A floor in finance is often set in protection of one party. For example, a lender will implement an interest rate floor to ensure their risk exposure to low rates is minimized. Even in the most unfavorable conditions, the lender can still expect minimum contract conditions.




What Is Floor or Ceiling Rate?
A floor rate is the minimum rate a borrower will be charged. Alternatively, a ceiling rate protects the borrow and caps the upper limit at which a borrower can be charged. A floor rate protects the lender, as the lender can always expect to collect a minimum amount of interest. Alternatively, a ceiling rate protects the borrower, as the borrower can always expect to never be forced to pay higher than a specific amount of interest.




What Is a Floor on a LIBOR Rate?
A floor rate is often established in conjunction with a variable rate like LIBOR or SOFR. For example, imagine a loan assessed at a rate of 1-Month LIBOR + 1.50% with an interest rate ceiling of 4% and floor of 2%.If 1-Month LIBOR falls to 0.25%, the calculated rate would be 1.75%. However, this rate falls below the floor. This loan would not be assessed at 1.75%; instead, the floor would be triggered, and the rate used is 2%.If 1-Month LIBOR rises to 3%, the calculated rate would be 4.50%. However, this rate falls above the ceiling. This loan would not be assessed at 4.50%; instead, the ceiling would be triggered, and the rate used is 4%.Last, if 1-Month LIBOR stabilizes at 1%, the calculated rate would be 2.5%. Because 2.5% falls between the ceiling and the floor, neither boundary is triggered. The interest rate used for this period is 2.5%.
What Is an Interest Rate Future?  

An interest rate future is a futures contract with an underlying instrument that pays interest. The contract is an agreement between the buyer and seller for the future delivery of any interest-bearing asset.



The interest rate futures contract allows the buyer and seller to lock in the price of the interest-bearing asset for a future date.





Key Takeaways

An interest rate future is a financial derivative that allows exposure to changes in interest rates.Interest rate futures price moves inversely to interest rates.Investors can speculate on the direction of interest rates with interest rate futures, or else use the contracts to hedge against changes in rates. Most interest rate futures that trade on American exchanges use U.S. Treasury securities as the underlying asset.


   Understanding Interest Rate Futures  

An interest rate future can be based on underlying instruments such as Treasury bills in the case of Treasury bill futures traded on the CME or Treasury bonds in the case of Treasury bond futures traded on the CBOT, which is a division of the CME.



Other products such as CDs, Treasury notes, and Ginnie Mae securities are also available to trade as underlying assets of an interest rate future. The most popular interest rate futures are the 30-year, 10-year, five-year, and two-year Treasuries, as well as the eurodollar.


   Interest Rate Futures Example  

Treasury-based interest rate futures and eurodollar-based interest rate futures trade differently. The face value of most Treasuries is $100,000. Thus, the contract size for a Treasury-based interest rate future is usually $100,000. Each contract trades in handles of $1,000, but these handles are split into thirty-seconds (32nds), or increments of $31.25 ($1,000/32). If a quote on a contract is listed as 101'25 (or often listed as 101-25), this would mean the total price of the contract is the face value, plus one handle, plus 25/32s of another handle, or:












10



1


′



25


 Price









=


 


$


100


,


000


+


$


1


,


000


+



(


$


1


,


000


×



25


32



)

















=


 


$


101


,


781.25







\begin{aligned} 101^\prime25 \text{ Price} &=\ \$100,000 + \$1,000 + \left(\$1,000 \times\frac{25}{32}\right)\\ &=\ \$101,781.25 \end{aligned}


101′25 Price​= $100,000+$1,000+($1,000×3225​)= $101,781.25​



Eurodollar-based contracts have a contract size of $1 million, a handle size of $2,500, and trade in increments of $25. These contracts, unlike Treasury-based contracts, also can trade at half-tick and quarter-tick values. This means that the minimum price movement of a $1 million contract is only $6.25, which equals $25 x 25%.



The price of an interest rate future moves inversely to the change in interest rates. If interest rates go down, the price of the interest rate future goes up and vice versa. For instance, a trader speculates that interest rates may fall over the next month, and bond prices will rise. The trader purchases a 30-year Treasury bond futures contract for a price of 102'28. One month later, the trader's prediction has come true. Interest rates are lower, and the interest rate future is now priced at 104'05. The trader sells, and the profit is:


















Purchase Price


=


10



2


′



28


=


$


102


,


875
















Sale Price


=


10



4


′



05


=


$


104


,


156.25
















Profit


=


$


1


,


281.25


 or 


1.25


%







\begin{aligned} &\text{Purchase Price} = 102^\prime28 = \$102,875\\ &\text{Sale Price} = 104^\prime05 = \$104,156.25\\ &\text{Profit} = \$1,281.25\text{ or }1.25\% \end{aligned}


​Purchase Price=102′28=$102,875Sale Price=104′05=$104,156.25Profit=$1,281.25 or 1.25%​


   Special Considerations  

Interest rate futures are used for speculation purposes, but also for hedging bond portfolios or interest rates. While speculators can use interest rate futures to bet on the direction of rate changes, hedgers can also use them to mute the effect of an unfavorable move in bond prices and rates.



For instance, a borrower that has a loan with a variable rate will be hurt if interest rates rise. Therefore, the borrower could sell (short) an interest rate future that will fall if rates rise and gains from the short futures contract can help to offset the increased cost of the loan.
What Is an Interest Rate Option?  

An interest rate option is a financial derivative that allows the holder to benefit from changes in interest rates. Investors can speculate on the direction of interest rates with interest rate options. It is similar to an equity option and can be either a put or a call. Interest rate options are option contracts on the rate of bonds like U.S. Treasury securities.





Key Takeaways


Interest rate options are financial derivatives that allow investors to hedge or speculate on the directional moves in interest rates. A call option allows investors to profit when rates rise and put options allow investors to profit when rates fall.
Interest rate options are cash-settled, which is the difference between the exercise strike price of the option, and the exercise settlement value determined by the prevailing spot yield.
Interest rate options have European-style exercise provisions, which means the holder can only exercise their options at expiration.



   What Do Interest Rate Options Tell You?  

As with equity options, an interest rate option has a premium attached to it or a cost to enter into the contract. A call option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to benefit from rising interest rates. The investor holding the call option earns a profit if, at the expiry of the option, interest rates have risen and are trading at a rate that's higher than the strike price and high enough to cover of the premium paid to enter the contract.



Conversely, an interest rate put gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to benefit from falling interest rates. If interest rates fall lower than the strike price and low enough to cover the premium paid, the option is profitable or in-the-money. The option values are 10xs the underlying Treasury yield for that contract. A Treasury that has a 6% yield would have an underlying option value of $60 in the options market. When Treasury rates move or change, so do the underlying values of their options. If the 6% yield for a Treasury rose to 6.5%, the underlying option would increase from $60 to $65.



Aside from outright speculation on the direction of interest rates, interest rate options are also used by portfolio managers and institutions to hedge interest rate risk. Interest rate options can be entered into using short-term and long-term yields or what's commonly referred to as the yield curve, which refers to the slope of the yields for Treasuries over time. If short-term Treasuries like the two-year Treasury have lower yields than long-term Treasuries, like the 30-year yield, the yield curve is upward sloping. If long-term yields are lower than short-term yields, the curve is said to be downward sloping.



Interest rate options trade formally through the CME Group, one of the largest futures and options exchanges in the world. Regulation of these options is managed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). An investor may use options on Treasury bonds and notes, and Eurodollar futures.



Interest rate options have European-style exercise provisions, which means the holder can only exercise their options at expiration. The limitation of option exercise simplifies their usage as it eliminates the risk of early buying or selling of the option contract. The rate option strike values are yields, not units of price. Also, no delivery of securities is involved. Instead, interest rate options are cash-settled, which is the difference between the exercise strike price of the option, and the exercise settlement value determined by the prevailing spot yield.


   Example of an Interest Rate Option  

If an investor wants to speculate on rising interest rates, they could buy a call option on the 30-year Treasury with a strike price $60 and an expiration date of August 31st. The premium for the call option is $1.50 per contract. In the options market, the $1.50 is multiplied by 100 so that the cost for one contract would be $150, and two call option contracts would cost $300. The premium is important because the investor must make enough money to cover the premium.



If yields rise by August 31st, and the option is worth $68 at expiry, the investor would earn the difference of $8, or $800 based on the multiplier of 100. If the investor had originally bought one contract, the net profit would be $650 or $800 minus the $150 premium paid to enter into the call option.



Conversely, if yields were lower on August 31st, and the call option was now worth $55, the option would expire worthless, and the investor would lose the $150 premium paid for the one contract. For an option that expires worthless, it's said to be "out of the money." In other words, its value would be zero, and the buyer of the option loses the entire premium paid.



As with other options, the holder does not have to wait until expiration to close the position. The holder needs to do is sell the option back in the open market. For an options seller, closing the position before expiration requires the purchase of an equivalent option with the same strike and expiration. However, there can be a gain or loss on unwinding the transaction, which is the difference between the premium originally paid for the option and the premium received from the unwinding contract.


   The Difference Between Interest Rate Options and Binary Options  

A binary option is a derivative financial product with a fixed (or maximum) payout if the option expires in the money, or the trader losses the amount they invested in the option if the option expires out of the money. The success of a binary option is thus based on a yes or no proposition—hence, “binary.” Binary options have an expiry date or time. At the time of expiry, the price of the underlying asset must be on the correct side of the strike price (based on the trade taken) in order for the trader to make a profit.



An interest rate option is often called a bond option and can be confused with binary options. However, interest rate options have different characteristics and payout structures than binary options.


   Limitations of Interest Rate Options  

Since interest rate options are European-based options, they can't be exercised early like American-style options. However, the contract can be unwound by entering into an offsetting contract, but that's not the same as exercising the option.



Investors must have a sound grasp of the bond market when investing in interest rate options. Treasury and bond yields have a fixed rate attached to them and Treasury yields move inversely to bond prices.



As yields rise, bond prices fall because existing bondholders sell their previously-purchased bonds since their bonds have a lower-paying yield than the current market. In other words, in a rising-rate market, existing bondholders don't want to hold their lower-yielding bonds to maturity. Instead, they sell their bonds and wait to buy higher-yielding bonds in the future. As a result, when rates rise, bond prices fall because of a sell-off in the bond market.
What Is Interest Rate Parity (IRP)?  

Interest rate parity (IRP) is a theory according to which the interest rate differential between two countries is equal to the differential between the forward exchange rate and the spot exchange rate.





Key Takeaways

Interest rate parity is the fundamental equation that governs the relationship between interest rates and currency exchange rates.The basic premise of interest rate parity is that hedged returns from investing in different currencies should be the same, regardless of their interest rates.Parity is used by forex traders to find arbitrage opportunities.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Interest Rate Parity (IRP)  

Interest rate parity (IRP) plays an essential role in foreign exchange markets by connecting interest rates, spot exchange rates, and foreign exchange rates.



IRP is the fundamental equation that governs the relationship between interest rates and currency exchange rates. The basic premise of IRP is that hedged returns from investing in different currencies should be the same, regardless of their interest rates.



IRP is the concept of no-arbitrage in the foreign exchange markets (the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset to profit from a difference in the price). Investors cannot lock in the current exchange rate in one currency for a lower price and then purchase another currency from a country offering a higher interest rate.



The formula for IRP is:



















F


0



=



S


0



×



(




1


+



i


c





1


+



i


b





)

















where:

















F


0



=


Forward Rate

















S


0



=


Spot Rate

















i


c



=


Interest rate in country 


c

















i


b



=


Interest rate in country 


b







\begin{aligned} &F_0 = S_0 \times \left ( \frac{ 1 + i_c }{ 1 + i_b } \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &F_0 = \text{Forward Rate} \\ &S_0 = \text{Spot Rate} \\ &i_c = \text{Interest rate in country }c \\ &i_b = \text{Interest rate in country }b \\ \end{aligned}


​F0​=S0​×(1+ib​1+ic​​)where:F0​=Forward RateS0​=Spot Rateic​=Interest rate in country cib​=Interest rate in country b​


   Forward Exchange Rate  

An understanding of forward rates is fundamental to IRP, especially as it pertains to arbitrage. Forward exchange rates for currencies are exchange rates at a future point in time, as opposed to spot exchange rates, which are current rates. Forward rates are available from banks and currency dealers for periods ranging from less than a week to as far out as five years and more. As with spot currency quotations, forwards are quoted with a bid-ask spread.



The difference between the forward rate and spot rate is known as swap points. If this difference (forward rate minus spot rate) is positive, it is known as a forward premium; a negative difference is termed a forward discount.



A currency with lower interest rates will trade at a forward premium in relation to a currency with a higher interest rate. For example, the U.S. dollar typically trades at a forward premium against the Canadian dollar. Conversely, the Canadian dollar trades at a forward discount versus the U.S. dollar.


   Covered vs. Uncovered Interest Rate Parity  

The IRP is said to be "covered" when the no-arbitrage condition could be satisfied through the use of forward contracts in an attempt to hedge against foreign exchange risk. Conversely, the IRP is "uncovered" when the no-arbitrage condition could be satisfied without the use of forward contracts to hedge against foreign exchange risk.



The relationship is reflected in the two methods an investor may adopt to convert foreign currency into U.S. dollars.



The first option an investor may choose is to invest the foreign currency locally at the foreign risk-free rate for a specific period. The investor would then simultaneously enter into a forward rate agreement to convert the proceeds from the investment into U.S. dollars using a forward exchange rate at the end of the investing period.



The second option would be to convert the foreign currency to U.S. dollars at the spot exchange rate, then invest the dollars for the same amount of time as in option A at the local (U.S.) risk-free rate. When no arbitrage opportunities exist, the cash flows from both options are equal.






Arbitrage is defined as the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same asset in different markets in order to profit from tiny differences in the asset's listed price. In the foreign exchange world, arbitrage trading involves the buying and selling of different currency pairs to exploit any pricing inefficiencies.




IRP has been criticized based on the assumptions that come with it. For instance, the covered IRP model assumes that there are infinite funds available for currency arbitrage, which is obviously not realistic. When futures or forward contracts are not available to hedge, uncovered IRP does not tend to hold in the real world.


   Covered Interest Rate Parity Example  

Let's assume Australian Treasury bills are offering an annual interest rate of 1.75% while U.S. Treasury bills are offering an annual interest rate of 0.5%. If an investor in the United States seeks to take advantage of Australia's interest rates, the investor would have to exchange U.S. dollars to Australian dollars to purchase the Treasury bill.



Thereafter, the investor would have to sell a one-year forward contract on the Australian dollar. However, under the covered IRP, the transaction would only have a return of 0.5%; otherwise, the no-arbitrage condition would be violated.




What's the Conceptual Basis for IRP?
IRP is the fundamental equation that governs the relationship between interest rates and currency exchange rates. Its basic premise is that hedged returns from investing in different currencies should be the same, regardless of their interest rates. Essentially, arbitrage (the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset to profit from a difference in the price) should exist in the foreign exchange markets. In other words, investors cannot lock in the current exchange rate in one currency for a lower price and then purchase another currency from a country offering a higher interest rate.




What Are Forward Exchange Rates?
Forward exchange rates for currencies are exchange rates at a future point in time, as opposed to spot exchange rates, which are current rates. Forward rates are available from banks and currency dealers for periods ranging from less than a week to as far out as five years and more. As with spot currency quotations, forwards are quoted with a bid-ask spread.




What Are Swap Points?
The difference between the forward rate and spot rate is known as swap points. If this difference (forward rate minus spot rate) is positive, it is known as a forward premium; a negative difference is termed a forward discount. A currency with lower interest rates will trade at a forward premium in relation to a currency with a higher interest rate. 




What's the Difference Between Covered and Uncovered IRP?
The IRP is said to be covered when the no-arbitrage condition could be satisfied through the use of forward contracts in an attempt to hedge against foreign exchange risk. Conversely, the IRP is uncovered when the no-arbitrage condition could be satisfied without the use of forward contracts to hedge against foreign exchange risk.
What Is Interest Rate Risk?  

Interest rate risk is the potential for investment losses that can be triggered by a move upward in the prevailing rates for new debt instruments. If interest rates rise, for instance, the value of a bond or other fixed-income investment in the secondary market will decline. The change in a bond's price given a change in interest rates is known as its duration.



Interest rate risk can be reduced by buying bonds with different durations, or by hedging fixed-income investments with interest rate swaps, options, or other interest rate derivatives.





Key Takeaways

Interest rate risk is the potential that a change in overall interest rates will reduce the value of a bond or other fixed-rate investment: As interest rates rise bond prices fall, and vice versa. This means that the market price of existing bonds drops to offset the more attractive rates of new bond issues.Interest rate risk is measured by a fixed income security's duration, with longer-term bonds having a greater price sensitivity to rate changes.Interest rate risk can be reduced through diversification of bond maturities or hedged using interest rate derivatives.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Interest Rate Risk  

Interest rate changes can affect many investments, but it impacts the value of bonds and other fixed-income securities most directly. Bondholders, therefore, carefully monitor interest rates and make decisions based on how interest rates are perceived to change over time.



For fixed-income securities, as interest rates rise security prices fall (and vice versa). This is because when interest rates increase, the opportunity cost of holding those bonds increases – that is, the cost of missing out on an even better investment is greater. The rates earned on bonds therefore have less appeal as rates rise, so if a bond paying a fixed rate of 5% is trading at its par value of $1,000 when prevailing interest rates are also at 5%, it becomes far less attractive to earn that same 5% when rates elsewhere start to rise to say 6% or 7%.



In order to compensate for this economic disadvantage in the market, the value of these bonds must fall, because who will want to own a 5% interest rate when they can get 7% with some different bond.



Therefore, for bonds that have a fixed rate, when interest rates rise to a point above that fixed level, investors switch to investments that reflect the higher interest rate. Securities that were issued before the interest rate change can compete with new issues only by dropping their prices.



Interest rate risk can be managed through hedging or diversification strategies that reduce a portfolio's effective duration or negate the effect of rate changes. (For more on this, seeManaging interest rate risk.)






   Example of Interest Rate Risk  

For example, say an investor buys a five-year, $500 bond with a 3% coupon. Then, interest rates rise to 4%. The investor will have trouble selling the bond when newer bond offerings with more attractive rates enter the market. The lower demand also triggers lower prices on the secondary market. The market value of the bond may drop below its original purchase price.



The reverse is also true. A bond yielding a 5% return holds more value if interest rates decrease below this level since the bondholder receives a favorable fixed rate of return relative to the market.


   Bond Price Sensitivity  

The value of existing fixed-income securities with different maturity dates declines by varying degrees when market interest rates rise. This phenomenon is referred to as “price sensitivity” and is measured by the bond's duration.



For instance, suppose there are two fixed-income securities, one that matures in one year and another that matures in 10 years. When market interest rates rise, the owner of the one-year security can reinvest in a higher-rate security after hanging onto the bond with a lower return for only one year at most. But the owner of the 10-year security is stuck with a lower rate for nine more years.



That justifies a lower price value for the longer-term security. The longer a security's time to maturity, the more its price declines relative to a given increase in interest rates.



Note that this price sensitivity occurs at a decreasing rate. A 10-year bond is significantly more sensitive than a one-year bond but a 20-year bond is only slightly less sensitive than a 30-year one.


   The Maturity Risk Premium  

A long-term bond generally offers a maturity risk premium in the form of a higher built-in rate of return to compensate for the added risk of interest rate changes over time. The larger duration of longer-term securities means higher interest rate risk for those securities. To compensate investors for taking on more risk, the expected rates of return on longer-term securities are typically higher than rates on shorter-term securities. This is known as the maturity risk premium.



Other risk premiums, such as default risk premiums and liquidity risk premiums, may determine rates offered on bonds.
What Is Interest Rate Sensitivity?  

Interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how much the price of a fixed-income asset will fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. Securities that are more sensitive have greater price fluctuations than those with less sensitivity.



This type of sensitivity must be taken into account when selecting a bond or other fixed-income instrument the investor may sell in the secondary market. Interest rate sensitivity affects buying as well as selling.





Key Takeaways

Interest rate sensitivity is how much a fixed-income asset price moves with changes in interest rates.Interest rates and fixed-income asset prices are inversely correlated.More interest rate sensitivity means an asset's price fluctuates more with a change in interest rates.The longer the maturity of the asset, the more sensitive the asset to changes in interest rates.


   How Interest Rate Sensitivity Works  

Fixed-income securities and interest rates are inversely correlated. Therefore, as interest rates rise, prices of fixed-income securities tend to fall. When applied to calculate fixed income securities, interest rate sensitivity is known as the asset's duration. This is one way to determine how interest rates affect a fixed-income security portfolio. The higher a bond or bond fund's duration, the more sensitive the bond or bond fund to changes in interest rates.



The duration of fixed-income securities gives investors an idea of the sensitivity to potential interest rate changes. Duration is a good measure of interest rate sensitivity because the calculation includes multiple bond characteristics, such as coupon payments and maturity.



Generally, the longer the maturity of the asset, the more sensitive the asset to changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates are watched closely by bond and fixed-income traders, as the resulting price fluctuations affect the overall yield of the securities. Investors who understand the concept of duration can immunize their fixed-income portfolios to changes in short-term interest rates.


   Types of Interest Rate Sensitivity  

There are four widely used duration measurements to determine a fixed-income security's interest-rate sensitivity—the Macaulay duration, modified duration, effective duration, and key rate duration. To calculate the Macaulay duration certain metrics must be known, including the time to maturity, remaining cash flows, required yield, cash flow payment, par value, and bond price.



The modified duration is a modified calculation of the Macaulay duration that incorporates yield to maturity (YTM). It determines how much the duration would change for each percentage point change in the yield.



The effective duration is used to calculate the duration of bonds with embedded options. It determines the approximate price decline for a bond if interest rates rise instantaneously by 1%. The key rate duration determines a fixed-income security's or fixed-income portfolio's duration at a specific maturity on the yield curve.


   Example of Interest Rate Sensitivity  

One widely used measure to determine the interest rate sensitivity is the effective duration. For example, assume a bond mutual fund holds 100 bonds with an average duration of nine years and an average effective duration of 11 years. If interest rates rise instantaneously by 1.0%, the bond fund is thus expected to lose 11% of its value based on its effective duration.



Likewise, a trader can look at a particular corporate bond with a maturity of six months and a duration of 2.5. If interest rates fall 0.5%, the trader can expect that the bond's price to rise by 1.25%.
What Is an Interest Rate Swap?  

An interest rate swap is a forward contract in which one stream of future interest payments is exchanged for another based on a specified principal amount. Interest rate swaps usually involve the exchange of a fixed interest rate for a floating rate, or vice versa, to reduce or increase exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or to obtain a marginally lower interest rate than would have been possible without the swap.



A swap can also involve the exchange of one type of floating rate for another, which is called a basis swap.





Key Takeaways

Interest rate swaps are forward contracts in which one stream of future interest payments is exchanged for another based on a specified principal amount.Interest rate swaps can exchange fixed or floating rates to reduce or increase exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.Interest rate swaps are sometimes called plain vanilla swaps, since they were the original and often the simplest such swap instruments.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding Interest Rate Swaps  

Interest rate swaps are the exchange of one set of cash flows for another. Because they trade over the counter (OTC), the contracts are between two or more parties according to their desired specifications and can be customized in many different ways.



Swaps are often utilized if a company can borrow money easily at one type of interest rate but prefers a different type.






   Types of Interest Rate Swaps  

There are three different types of interest rate swaps: Fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed, and float-to-float.


  Fixed-to-Floating  

For example, consider a company named TSI that can issue a bond at a very attractive fixed interest rate to its investors. The company’s management feels that it can get a better cash flow from a floating rate. In this case, TSI can enter into a swap with a counterparty bank in which the company receives a fixed rate and pays a floating rate.



The swap is structured to match the maturity and cash flow of the fixed-rate bond, and the two fixed-rate payment streams are netted. TSI and the bank choose the preferred floating-rate index, which is usually the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for a one-, three-, or six-month maturity. TSI then receives the LIBOR plus or minus a spread that reflects both interest rate conditions in the market and its credit rating.






The Intercontinental Exchange, the authority responsible for LIBOR, will stop publishing one-week and two-month USD LIBOR after Dec. 31, 2021. All other LIBOR will be discontinued after June 30, 2023.


  Floating-to-Fixed  

A company that does not have access to a fixed-rate loan may borrow at a floating rate and enter into a swap to achieve a fixed rate. The floating-rate tenor, reset, and payment dates on the loan are mirrored on the swap and netted. The fixed-rate leg of the swap becomes the company’s borrowing rate.


  Float-to-Float  

Companies sometimes enter into a swap to change the type or tenor of the floating rate index that they pay; this is known as a basis swap. A company can swap from three-month LIBOR to six-month LIBOR, for example, because the rate either is more attractive or matches other payment flows. A company can also switch to a different index, such as the federal funds rate, commercial paper, or the Treasury bill rate.


   Real-World Example of an Interest Rate Swap  

Suppose that PepsiCo needs to raise $75 million to acquire a competitor. In the United States, they may be able to borrow the money with a 3.5% interest rate, but outside of the U.S., they may be able to borrow at just 3.2%. The catch is that they would need to issue the bond in a foreign currency, which is subject to fluctuation based on the home country’s interest rates.



PepsiCo could enter into an interest rate swap for the duration of the bond. Under the terms of the agreement, PepsiCo would pay the counterparty a 3.2% interest rate over the life of the bond. The company would then swap $75 million for the agreed-upon exchange rate when the bond matures and avoid any exposure to exchange-rate fluctuations.




Why is it called ‘interest rate swap’?
An interest rate swap occurs when two parties exchange (i.e., swap) future interest payments based on a specified principal amount. Among the primary reasons why financial institutions use interest rate swaps are to hedge against losses, manage credit risk, or speculate. Interest rate swaps are traded on over-the-counter (OTC) markets, designed to suit the needs of each party, with the most common swap being a fixed exchange rate for a floating rate, also known as a vanilla swap. 




What is an example of an interest rate swap?
Consider that Company A issued $10 million in two-year bonds that have a variable interest rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1%. Say that LIBOR is 2%. Since the company is worried that interest rates may rise, it finds Company B that agrees to pay Company A the LIBOR annual rate plus 1% for two years on the notional principal of $10 million. In exchange, Company A pays Company B a fixed rate of 4% on a notional value of $10 million for two years. If interest rates rise significantly, Company A will benefit. Conversely, Company B will stand to benefit if interest rates stay flat or fall.




What are different types of interest rate swaps?
Fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed, and float-to-float are the three main types of interest rate swaps. A fixed-to-floating swap involves one company receiving a fixed rate and paying a floating rate since it believes that a floating rate will generate stronger cash flow. An example of a floating-to-fixed swap is where a company wishes to receive a fixed rate to hedge interest rate exposure. Lastly, a float-to-float swap—also known as a basis swap—is where two parties agree to exchange variable interest rates. For example, a LIBOR may be swapped for a Treasury bill (T-bill) rate.


   The Bottom Line  

An interest rate swap is an agreement between different parties to exchange one stream of interest payments for another over a specified time period. They are derivative contracts that trade over the counter (OTC) and can be customized by the participating parties to match their needs.



Usually, interest rate swaps exchange fixed-rate payments for floating-rate payments, or the other way around, and are used to manage exposure to fluctuating interest rates or to get a lower borrowing rate.
What Is an Interim Dividend?  

An interim dividend is a dividend payment made before a company's annual general meeting (AGM) and the release of final financial statements. This declared dividend usually accompanies the company's interim financial statements. The interim dividend is issued more frequently in the United Kingdom where dividends are often paid semi-annually. The interim dividend is typically the smaller of the two payments made to shareholders.





Key Takeaways

An interim dividend is typically one of two dividends given out by a company that is providing shareholders with income on a semi-annual basis.The interim dividend is usually paid out ahead of a firm's annual general meeting and the release of the final version of its financial statements.Final dividends are paid out after the release of the final version of a company's financial statements. As a result, final dividends are paid from current earnings, and interim dividends are paid from retained earnings.The company's Board of Directors is responsible for declaring an interim dividend, but whether it's approved or not is up to shareholders.


   Understanding an Interim Dividend  

Individuals invest in companies through bonds or stocks. Bonds pay a set rate of interest, and investors have seniority over shareholders in the case of bankruptcy, but investors do not benefit from share price appreciation. Stocks do not pay interest, but some do pay dividends. Dividend payments allow shareholders to benefit from earnings growth through both interim and final dividends as well as share price appreciation. Directors declare an interim dividend, but it is subject to shareholder approval. By contrast, a normal dividend, also called a final dividend, is voted on and approved at the annual general meeting once earnings are known. Both interim and final dividends can be paid out in cash and stock.






The issuing of an interim dividend is a more common practice in the United Kingdom, where dividends are often paid to shareholders on a semi-annual basis.


   Final Versus Interim Dividends  

Dividends are paid out per share owned. For example, if you own 100 shares of company A, and company A pays out $1 in dividends every year, you will receive $100 in dividend income every year. If company A doubles its dividend, the company will pay out $2 per share, and investors will receive $200 annually. Final dividends are announced and paid out on an annual basis along with earnings. Final dividends are announced after earnings are determined, but companies pay out interim dividends from retained earnings, not current earnings.



Retained earnings can also be thought of as undistributed profits. Companies typically pay these dividends on a quarterly or six-month basis before the end of the year. Interim dividends are paid every six months in the United Kingdom and every three months in the United States. Companies declare and distribute an interim dividend during an exceptional earnings season or when legislation makes it more advantageous to do so.



A final or regular dividend can be a set amount that is paid every quarter, six months or year. It can be a percentage of net income or earnings. It can also be paid out of the earnings left over after the company pays for capital expenditures (CapEx) and working capital. The dividend policy or strategy used is dependent on management's goals and intentions for shareholders. Interim dividends can follow the same strategy as final dividends, but since interim dividends are paid out before the end of the fiscal year, the financial statements that accompany interim dividends are unaudited.






If both an interim and final dividend is handed out in the same fiscal year, the interim dividend is typically the smaller of the two.


   Interim Dividend Example  

On Feb. 13, 2019, Plato Income Maximiser Ltd (ASX: PL8) announced an interim dividend. Shareholders of record on Thursday, Feb. 28th would be given a dividend of 0.005 per share on that day. The firm's director notes that the firm understands retirees need to supplement government pensions. This need is why the firm's "investment strategy prioritizes regular and sustainable dividend payments."
What Is an Interim Statement?  

An interim statement is a financial report covering a period of less than one year. Interim statements are used to convey the performance of a company before the end of normal full-year financial reporting cycles. Unlike annual statements, interim statements do not have to be audited. Interim statements increase communication between companies and the public and provide investors with up-to-date information between annual reporting periods.



These may also be referred to as interim reports.





Key Takeaways

Interim statements are financial reports produced by firms covering a period of less than one year.The goal is to keep shareholders and analysts more up-to-date and in regular communication with corporate management, and to alert the public to material changes to the company in a timely fashion.Quarterly reports are commonly used by companies, and may sometimes be mandated by the SEC.


   Understanding Interim Statements  

A quarterly report is an example of an interim statement because it is issued before year end.



The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) suggests certain standards be included while preparing interim statements. These include a series of condensed statements covering the company's financial position, income, cash flows, and changes in equity along with notes of explanation.



The IASB also suggests that companies should follow the same guidelines in their interim statements as they use in preparing their annual reports (which are audited), including the use of similar accounting methods.



Interim statements offer a more timely look into a business’s operations, rather than waiting until year-end statements, which do not officially become available for months after year-end close anyway. Investors find the periodic snapshots helpful when allocating investment capital – all of which leads to greater market liquidity – a prime goal of capital markets.



These reports can also alert investors and analysts to recent changes that meaningfully affect the corporation. A form 8-K, for instance, is used to report unscheduled material events or corporate changes at a company that could be of importance to the shareholders or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The report notifies the public of events reported including acquisition, bankruptcy, resignation of directors, or a change in the fiscal year. Form 8-K reports may be issued based on other events up to the company's discretion that the registrant considers to be of importance to shareholders.


   Example: Quarterly Reports  

The most common interim statement may be the quarterly report. A quarterly report is a summary or collection of un-audited financial statements, such as balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements, issued by companies every quarter (three months). In addition to reporting quarterly figures, these statements may also provide year-to-date and comparative (e.g., last year's quarter to this year's quarter) results. Publicly-traded companies must file their reports with the Securities Exchange Commission. This form, known as a 10-Q, does not include all the detailed information, such as background and operations detail that the annual report (known as a 10-K) would.



The SEC also mandates that investment companies file quarterly reports if they manage more than $100 million, using a form 13F.



Most companies have an accounting period that ends with the calendar year: Dec. 31 and quarters that end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. Quarterly reports are typically filed within a few weeks of a quarter's end.
What Is an Intermediate Good?  

An intermediate good is a product used to produce a final good or finished product—also referred to as a consumer good. Intermediate goods—like salt—can also be finished products, since it is consumed directly by consumers and used by producers to manufacture other food products.



Intermediate goods are sold between industries for resale or the production of other goods. These goods are also called semi-finished products because they are used as inputs to become part of the finished product.





Key Takeaways

Intermediate goods are products that are used in the production process to make other goods, which are ultimately sold to consumers.The intermediate goods are sold industry-to-industry for resale or to produce other products.Intermediate goods are typically used directly by a producer, sold to another company to make another intermediary good, or sold to another company to make a finished product.When calculating GDP, economists use the value-added approach with intermediate goods to guarantee that they are not counted twice—once when purchased, and once when the final good is sold.


   How Intermediate Goods Work  

Intermediate goods are vital to the production process, which is why they are also called producer goods. Industries sell these goods to each other for resale or to produce other goods. When they are used in the production process, they are transformed into another state.



There are typically three options for the use of intermediate goods. A producer may make and use their own intermediate goods. The producer may also produce the goods and then sell them, which is a highly common practice between industries. Companies buy intermediate goods for specific use in creating either a secondary intermediate product or in producing the finished good. Inevitably, all intermediate goods are either a component of the final product or are completely reconfigured during the production process.


   Intermediate Goods Example  

Consider a farmer who grows wheat. The farmer sells his crop to a miller for $100 giving the farmer $100 in value. The miller breaks down the wheat to make flour—a secondary intermediate good. The miller sells the flour to a baker for $200 and creates $100 in value ($200 sale - $100 purchase = $100). The final good, which is sold directly to the consumer, is the bread. The baker sells all of it for $300, adding another $100 of value ($300 - $200 = $100). The final price at which the bread is sold is equal to the value that is added at each stage in the production process ($100 + $100 + $100).






Services can also be intermediate, as in the case of a photographer—the photography is the intermediate service, while the photographs are the final product.


   Intermediate Goods Versus Consumer and Capital Goods  

Intermediate goods can be used in production, but they can also be consumer goods. How it is classified depends on who buys it. If a consumer buys a bag of sugar to use at home, it is a consumer good. But if a manufacturer purchases sugar to use during the production of another product, it becomes an intermediate good.



Capital goods, on the other hand, are assets that are used in the production of consumer goods. That means they are purchased to help in the production process. So the baker who bakes the bread in the example above will buy an oven to use in the production process. That oven is considered a capital good, which doesn't transform or change shape, unlike the wheat.


   Intermediate Goods and Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

Economists do not factor intermediate goods when they calculate gross domestic product (GDP). GDP is a measurement of the market value of all final goods and services produced in the economy. The reason why these goods are not part of the calculation is that they would be counted twice.



So if a confectioner buys sugar to add it to her candy, it can only be counted once—when the candy is sold, rather than when she buys the sugar for production. This is called a value-added approach because it values every stage of production involved in producing a final good.


   Special Considerations  

There are many intermediate goods that can be used for multiple purposes. Steel is an example of an intermediate good. It can be used in the construction of homes, cars, bridges, planes, and countless other products. Wood is used to make flooring and furniture, glass is used in the production of windows and eyeglasses, and precious metals like gold and silver are used to make decorations, housing fixtures, and jewelry.
What Is an Internal Audit?  

Internal audits evaluate a company’s internal controls, including its corporate governance and accounting processes. These types of audits ensure compliance with laws and regulations and help to maintain accurate and timely financial reporting and data collection. Internal auditors are hired by companies who work on behalf of their management teams. These audits also provide management with the tools necessary to attain operational efficiency by identifying problems and correcting lapses before they are discovered in an external audit.





Key Takeaways

An internal audit offers risk management and evaluates the effectiveness of many different aspects of the company.Types of internal audits include financial, operational, compliance, environmental, IT, or for a very specific purpose.Internal audits provide management and the board of directors with a value-added service where flaws in a process may be caught and corrected prior to external audits.Similar to external audits, internal audits are conducted through planning, auditing, reporting, and monitoring steps.Internal audits may enhance the efficiency of operations, motivate employees to adhere to company policy, and allow management to explore specific areas of its operations.


   Understanding Internal Audits  

Internal audits play a critical role in a company’s operations and corporate governance, especially now that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 holds managers legally responsible for the accuracy of their company's financial statements. SOX also required that a company's internal controls be documented and reviewed as part of its external audit.



In addition to ensuring that a company complies with laws and regulations, internal audits also provide a degree of risk management and safeguard against potential fraud, waste, or abuse. The results of internal audits provide management with suggestions for improvements to current processes not functioning as intended, which may include information technology systems as well as supply-chain management.



Internal audits may take place on a daily, weekly, monthly, or annual basis. Some departments may be audited more frequently than others. For example, a manufacturing process may be audited on a daily basis for quality control, while the human resources department might only be audited once a year.






Audits may be scheduled, to give managers time to gather and prepare the required documents and information, or they may be a surprise, especially if unethical or illegal activity is suspected.


   Types of Internal Audits  
  Compliance Audit  

A company may be required to adhere to local laws, compliance needs, government regulations, external policies, or other restrictions. To demonstrate compliance with these rules, a company may task an internal audit committee to review, compile appropriate information, and provide an overall opinion on the status of the compliance requirement.


  Internal Financial Audit  

Public companies are required to perform certain levels of external financial auditing where a completely independent third party provides an opinion on the company's financial records. Companies may want to dive further into audit findings or perform an internal financial audit in preparation for an external audit. Many of the tests between an internal or external auditor may be similar; the nature of independence separates the two types of audits for financial audits.


  Environmental Audit  

As companies become continually more environmentally conscious, some take the steps of reviewing the business' impact on the planet. This results in an internal audit covering how a company safely sources raw materials, minimizes greenhouse gases during production, utilizes eco-friendly distribution methods, and reduces energy consumption. Companies leveraging triple bottom line reporting may perform internal environmental audits as part of annual reporting.


  Technology/IT Audit  

An IT audit may have different objectives. The internal audit may be the result of an external lawsuit, a company complaint, or a target to become more efficient. An internal audit focused on technology reviews the controls, hardware, software, security, documentation, and backup/recovery of systems. The goal is likely to assess general IT accuracy and processing capabilities.


  Performance Audit  

An internal audit focused on performance pays less attention to the processes and more on the final result. The company will have likely have set performance objectives or metrics that may be tied to performance bonuses or other incentives. As a result, an internal auditor assesses the outcome of an objective that may not be easily quantifiable.



For example, a company may wish to have expanded its use of diverse suppliers; the internal auditor, independent of any purchasing process, will be tasked with analyzing how the company's spending patterns have changed since this goal was set.


  Operational Audit  

An operational audit is most likely to occur when key personnel leaves or when new management takes over an entity. The company may want to assess how things are done and whether resources are being used more efficiently. During an operational internal audit, the auditor will review whether current staff and processes fulfil the mission statement, value, and objectives of a company.


  Construction Audit  

Development, operating, real estate, or construction companies may perform construction audits to ensure not only appropriate physical development of a building but appropriate project billing along the life of the project. This mostly includes adherence to contract terms with the general contractor, sub-contractors, or standalone vendors as necessary.



This may also include ensuring the company has remit the appropriate payments, collected the appropriate payments, and internal project reports regarding project completion are correct.


  Special Investigations  

Many of the audits above may be recurring and performed each year. In some cases, it might make sense for an internal audit committee to evaluate a special circumstance that will occur only once. This may entail gathering a report on the efficiency on a recent merger, the hiring of a key employee, or a complaint from staff. When selecting the individuals for the special investigation audit, a company must be especially mindful to select members with appropriate expertise and independence.






Depending on the structure of the organization, the internal audit may be prepared by the board of directors of by upper management.


   Internal Audit vs. External Audit  

Internal and external audits have the same objective. Both types of audits analyze an aspect of a company to determine a specific opinion. However, there are many differences between the two types of audits.



In an internal audit, the company is often able to select its own audit team. As such, the team represents the interests of the company's management team. This may be advantageous to specifically place certain employees with very niche experience on the team. In an external audit, the company can often select the external audit firm; however, the company often does not have a say in the specific employees put on their external audit.



There may be some requirements regarding the external audit staff depending on the audit. For example, in an external financial audit, a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) must certify the financial statements. In an internal audit, there is no requirement that any member of the audit team must be a CPA.



The end goal of either audit is an audit report; however, audit reports are used for very different reasons. An internal audit report is usually used by internal management to improve the operations, processes, or policies of the company. An external audit report is often required for an outside reason and is more often used heavier by members outside of the company.



Finally, the nature of the engagement will be very different. During an internal audit, the employees of a company may often freely give advice, discuss unrelated matters with the company, or may have a very fluid consulting agreement. During an external audit, a very defined scope is often set, and the external auditor will often take great care to ensure they do not exceed their audit boundaries.





Internal Audits

A company is usually able to select its own internal audit lead and team members
Members of the audit team often do not need to have specific titles or licenses
Audit reports are primarily used by internal management to improve company operations
Internal audits may be less formal with blurred structure as the auditor provides casual guidance



External Audits

A company or board can usually pick the audit firm but not audit team members
Members of the audit team may be required to hold specific titles or license as part of the audit agreement
Audit reports are primarily used by external parties to satisfy a reporting requirement
External audits are often more formal with defined boundaries and disallowed services





   Internal Audit Process  

Internal auditors generally identify a department, gather an understanding of the current internal control process, conduct fieldwork testing, follow up with department staff about identified issues, prepare an official audit report, review the audit report with management, and follow up with management and the board of directors as needed to ensure recommendations have been implemented.


  Step 1: Planning  

Before any audit procedures are performed, the internal auditors often start by developing the audit plan. This sets the audit requirements, objectives, timeline, schedule, and responsibilities across audit team members. The audits may review prior audits to understand management expectations for presentation and data collection.



The audit plan often has a checklist to ensure members of the team adhere to broad expectations. The internal audit team may also preemptively plan to meet with management throughout the audit to communicate the status and any struggles of the audit. The planning stage often ends with a kick-off meeting that launches the audit and communicates the initial information needed.


  Step 2: Auditing  

Many of the auditing procedures used by internal audits are the same as external auditors. Some companies might use continuous audits to ensure ongoing oversight of company practices. Assessment techniques ensure an internal auditor gathers a full understanding of the internal control procedures and whether employees are complying with internal control directives.



To avoid disrupting the daily workflow, auditors begin with indirect assessment techniques, such as reviewing flowcharts, manuals, departmental control policies, or other existing documentation.



Auditing fieldwork procedures can include transaction matching, physical inventory count, audit trail calculations, and account reconciliation as is required by law. Analysis techniques may test random data or target specific data if an auditor believes an internal control process needs to be improved.



The internal audit may have started with a defined scope; but as the internal audit team gathers and analyzes information, it may become necessary to redefine the purpose and extent of the audit. This includes re-evaluating the original timeline or resources allocated to the audit.


  Step 3: Reporting  

Internal audit reporting includes a formal report and may include a preliminary or memo-style interim report. An interim report typically includes sensitive or significant results the auditor thinks the board of directors needs to know right away. Similar to an interim financial statement, an interim audit communicates a partial set of information useful for laying the road for the remaining portion.



Often, a company may deliver a draft copy of the final audit report and host a pre-close internal audit meeting with management. This may allow management to provide rebuttals, additional information that may change findings, or provide commentary on their feedback regarding the audit findings.



The final report includes a summary of the procedures and techniques used for completing the audit, a description of audit findings, and suggestions for improvements to internal controls and control procedures. The final report may also communicate next steps in terms of changes to be implemented, future monitoring processes, and what future reviews will entail.


  Step 4: Monitoring  

After a designated amount of time, an internal audit may call for follow-up steps to make sure the appropriate post-close audit changes were implemented. The details and process for these monitoring and review steps is often agreed to at the delivery of the final audit.



For example, an internal financial audit may find severe internal control deficiencies that an internal auditor believes will not pass an external financial audit. Management agreed to implement changes within the next six weeks. After six weeks, the internal auditor may be tasked with implementing a small-scope or limited review of the deficiency to see if the issue still persists.






The monitoring step of an internal audit is technically not required. Management or the board may decide to disregard internal audit findings and not implement the changes the audit report suggests.


   Internal Audit Reports: The 5 C's  

Internal audit reports are often known for adhering to the 5 C's reporting requirement. A complete, sufficient internal audit often ends with a summary report that communicates answers to the following questions:



Criteria: What particular issue was identified, and why was the internal audit necessary? Is the internal audit in preparation for a future external audit? Who requested the audit, and why did this party request the audit?
Condition: How as the issue in relation to a company target or expectation? Does the company have a policy that was broken, a benchmark that was not met, or other condition that was not satisfied? Is the company confident no issue exists, or do they believe an issue is at hand?
Cause: Why did the issue arise? Who was involved, what processes were broken, and how could the issue have been avoided?
Consequence: What is the outcome of the problem? Are issues limited to internal matters, or are there risks of external consequences? What is the financial implications of the issue?
Corrective Action: What can the company do fix the problem? What specific steps will management take to resolve the issue, and what type of monitoring or review will occur after solutions have been put in place to ensure a fix has been implemented?


   Importance of Internal Audits  

Some may think internal audits are not as valuable as external audits. After all, a company may hand-pick its own internal audits who do not have full independence from the company. However, there are many ways internal audits provide value to the company and external parties:



Management can be more efficient about what to explore. For example, while external financial audits must test an entire financial system, a company may be concerned about whether the cash management process is being fraudulently managed; therefore, management can elect to have all audit procedures analyze cash processes.Internal audits may save companies money. If a company's processes are very strong, the external audit process may not be as long as intensive, thereby reducing the external audit fee and time spent supporting external auditors.The company enhances its control environment. Even if the internal audit yields no findings, employees may be aware that their work gets analyzed and reported on, thereby motivating adherence to company policy.Internal audits may make companies more efficient. External audits often are not intended to make processes better; they are meant to review whether processes are accurate. This distinction is important because a company may be "just getting by" with inefficient processes that meet very minimum requirements.Internal audit reports give management a head start to make corrections. Instead of having to scramble when an external audit finds a deficiency, management can take longer to think through solutions, implement the solution with care, and review whether the solution worked.Certain departments may need enhanced oversight. Whether it is lack of expertise, staffing shortages, or problem with current personnel, a company may benefit from targeting a specific area and formally reviewing its workflow and processes.




What Are the Types of Internal Audits?
A company can choose to perform an internal audit for almost any reason. This may lead to an internal financial audit, operational audit, compliance audit, environmental audit, IT audit, or a special one-time circumstance.




What Is the Role of Internal Audit?
The role of an internal audit is to identify a deficiency or substantiate a proficiency. For example, a company may issue an internal financial audit to make sure its internal controls over accounts payable adhere to company policy. Alternatively, the company may launch an internal environmental audit to explore how environmental impact its eco-friendly changes had on the planet last year.




What Is the Internal Audit Process?
The internal audit process entails planning the audit, performing the audit procedures, compiling the audit report, and monitoring post-audit changes. Management may choose to expand the scope of an audit at any point of the audit if findings during the audit cause the scope to shift a different direction.




What Are the 5 C's of Internal Audit?
Internal audit reports often outline the criteria, condition, cause, consequence, and corrective action. These five areas report why the audit was performed, what caused the reason for the audit, how the audit will be performed, what the auditor aims to achieve, and what steps will be taken after the audit findings are presented.


   The Bottom Line  

An internal audit is a process that allows a company to self-select an audit team to carry out the review of its operations. The company can often define the scope of the internal audit. In addition, the company can often choose almost any reason to conduct an internal audit. Though internal audits are less useful for meeting external reporting requirements, they hold tremendous value for improving internal operations as well as informing management ways the company can get better.
What Is an Internal Auditor (IA)?  

An internal auditor (IA) is a trained professional employed by companies to provide independent and objective evaluations of financial and operational business activities, including corporate governance. They are tasked with ensuring that companies comply with laws and regulations, follow proper procedures, and function as efficiently as possible.





Key Takeaways

An internal auditor (IA) is a trained professional tasked with providing independent and objective evaluations of company financial and operational business activities.They are employed to ensure that companies follow proper procedures and function efficiently.Final reports are presented to senior management and can include recommendations.


   Understanding an Internal Auditor (IA)  

The main job of an internal auditor (IA) is to identify problems and correct them before they are discovered during an external audit by an outside firm or regulatory agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). One of the roles of the SEC is to regulate how companies report their financial statements to help ensure that investors have access to all of the necessary information before investing.



An internal audit generally performs the three tasks outlined below.



Assess any risks and the internal controls within a companyEnsure that a company and its employees are in compliance with federal and state laws and regulationsMake suggestions as to what needs to be done to rectify a failed audit or issues that were identified as problematic during the audit


   Internal Auditing Process  

To achieve this goal, internal auditors will typically perform a multitude of tasks, including examining financial statements, expense reports, inventory, financial data, budgeting and accounting practices, as well as creating risk assessments for each department. Detailed notes are taken, interviews with employees are conducted, work schedules are supervised, physical assets are verified, and financial statements are scrutinized to eliminate potentially damaging errors or falsehoods and find ways to boost productivity.



Once an internal auditor has completed the examination, the findings are presented in a formal report. The audit report describes how the audit was done, what it discovered and, if necessary, suggestions for what improvements could be made. It is usually presented to senior executives at the company. If changes are recommended, it's common for an internal auditor to be asked to complete a follow-up audit to determine how well the advised changes have been executed.



Properly-managed publicly-traded companies also carry out internal audits to ensure that the company is complying with federal and state regulations, including those mandated by the SEC. However, companies must also ensure that their accounting practices follow the accounting guidelines as laid out by the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).


   Requirements for Internal Auditors  

The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), established in 1941 and headquartered in Florida, is the international professional organization that sets standards, guidance, best practices, and code of ethics for practitioners.﻿﻿ On its website, the IIA defines internal auditing as: “an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization's operations. It helps an organization accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.”


   Internal Auditor vs. External Auditor  

Sometimes the role of internal and external auditors can be confused. The main difference between the two is that internal auditors (IA) work on behalf of company management. Internal auditors are hired by the company, while external auditors are appointed by a shareholder vote.



Internal auditors are employed to educate management and staff about how the business can function better. External auditors, on the other hand, have no such obligations. They are responsible for reviewing financial statements to ensure that they are accurate and conform to GAAP. Their findings are then reported back to shareholders, rather than management.



According to the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, the role of the external auditor is to: “inspect clients’ accounting records and express an opinion as to whether financial statements are presented fairly in accordance with the applicable accounting standards of the entity, such as Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). They must assert whether financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.”﻿﻿ 



It is a legal requirement for all financial statements from public companies to be audited by a third-party accountant, in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ 


   Benefits of an Internal Auditor (IA)  

Many companies choose to employ an internal auditor, despite not being legally obligated to do so. Robust internal audits are viewed as a key way to correct issues quickly, maintain a good reputation, and prevent money from being wasted. Reports filed by internal auditors (IA) can help companies to prosper and operate at maximum efficiency. For this reason, many executives view them as a necessary expense.



Many companies choose to employ an internal auditor, despite not being legally obligated to do so. Robust internal audits are viewed as a key way to correct issues quickly, maintain a good reputation, and prevent money from being wasted. Reports filed by internal auditors (IA) can help companies to prosper and operate at maximum efficiency. Internal auditors also set the company up for success when it's annual external audit comes around. The job of an internal auditor is essentially to help catch and fix issues before an external auditor has the chance to so do. For this reason, many executives view them as a necessary expense.
What Are Internal Controls?  

Internal controls are accounting and auditing processes used in a company's finance department that ensure the integrity of financial reporting and regulatory compliance.



Internal controls help companies to comply with laws and regulations, and prevent fraud. They also can help improve operational efficiency by ensuring that budgets are adhered to, policies are followed, capital shortages are identified, and accurate reports are generated for leadership.





Key Takeaways

Internal controls are the mechanisms, rules, and procedures implemented by a company to ensure the integrity of financial and accounting information, promote accountability and prevent fraud.Internal controls aid companies in complying with laws and regulations, and preventing employees from stealing assets or committing fraud.They also can help improve operational efficiency by improving the accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting.Internal audits play a critical role in a company’s internal controls and corporate governance.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 made managers legally responsible for the accuracy of their companies' financial statements.












http://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/internalcontrols.asp


   Understanding Internal Controls  

Internal controls have become a key business function for every U.S. company since the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. In the wake of such corporate misconduct, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted to protect investors from fraudulent accounting activities and to improve the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures.



This had a profound effect on corporate governance. The legislation made managers responsible for financial reporting and creating an audit trail. Managers found guilty of not properly establishing and managing internal controls face serious criminal penalties.



The auditor’s opinion that accompanies financial statements is based on an audit of the procedures and records used to produce them. As part of an audit, external auditors will test a company’s accounting processes and internal controls and provide an opinion as to their effectiveness.


   Importance of Internal Controls  

Internal audits evaluate a company’s internal controls, including its corporate governance and accounting processes. These internal controls can ensure compliance with laws and regulations as well as accurate and timely financial reporting and data collection. They help to maintain operational efficiency by identifying problems and correcting lapses before they are discovered in an external audit.



Internal audits play a critical role in a company’s operations and corporate governance, now that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has made managers legally responsible for the accuracy of its financial statements.



No two systems of internal controls are identical, but many core philosophies regarding financial integrity and accounting practices have become standard management practices. While they can be expensive, properly implemented internal controls can help streamline operations and increase operational efficiency, in addition to preventing fraud.






The U.S. Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to protect investors from the possibility of fraudulent accounting activities by corporations. The Act mandated strict reforms to improve financial disclosures from corporations and prevent accounting fraud.


   Components of Internal Controls  

A company's internal controls system should include the following components:



Control environment: A control environment establishes for all employees the importance of integrity and a commitment to revealing and rooting out improprieties, including fraud. A board of directors and management create this environment and lead by example. Management must put into place the internal systems and personnel to facilitate the goals of internal controls.Risk Assessment: A company must regularly assess and identify the potential for, or existence of, risk or loss. Based on the findings of such assessments, added focus and levels of control might be implemented to ensure the containment of risk or to watch for risk in related areas.Monitor: A company must monitor its system of internal controls for ongoing viability. By doing so, it can ensure, whether through system updates, adding employees, or necessary employee training, the continued ability of internal controls to function as needed.Information/Communication: Solid information and consistent communication are important on two fronts. First, clarity of purpose and roles can set the stage for successful internal controls. Second, facilitating the understanding of and commitment to steps to take can help employees do their job most effectively.Control Activities: These pertain to the processes, policies, and other courses of action that maintain the integrity of internal controls and regulatory compliance. They involve preventative and detective activities.


   Preventative vs. Detective Controls  

Internal controls are typically comprised of control activities such as authorization, documentation, reconciliation, security, and the separation of duties. They are broadly divided into preventative and detective activities.



Preventative control activities aim to deter errors or fraud from happening in the first place and include thorough documentation and authorization practices. Separation of duties, a key part of this process, ensures that no single individual is in a position to authorize, record, and be in the custody of a financial transaction and the resulting asset. Authorization of invoices and verification of expenses are internal controls.



In addition, preventative internal controls include limiting physical access to equipment, inventory, cash, and other assets.



Detective controls are backup procedures that are designed to catch items or events that have been missed by the first line of defense. Here, the most important activity is reconciliation, which is used to compare data sets. Corrective action is taken upon finding material differences. Other detective controls include external audits from accounting firms and internal audits of assets such as inventory.


   Limitations of Internal Controls  

Regardless of the policies and procedures established by an organization, internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance that a company's financial information is correct.



The effectiveness of internal controls can be limited by human judgment. For example, a business may give high-level personnel the ability to override internal controls for operational efficiency reasons.



What's more, internal controls can be circumvented through collusion, where employees whose work activities are normally separated by internal controls, work together in secret to conceal fraud or other misconduct.






Auditing techniques and control methods from England migrated to the United States during the Industrial Revolution. In the 20th century, auditors' reporting practices and testing methods were standardized.




Why Are Internal Controls Important?
Internal controls are the mechanisms, rules, and procedures implemented by a company to ensure the integrity of financial and accounting information, promote accountability, and prevent fraud. Besides complying with laws and regulations and preventing employees from stealing assets or committing fraud, internal controls can help improve operational efficiency by improving the accuracy and timeliness of financial reporting.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enacted in the wake of the accounting scandals in the early 2000s, seeks to protect investors from fraudulent accounting activities and improve the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures.




What Are the 2 Types of Internal Controls?
Internal controls are broadly divided into preventative and detective activities. Preventative control activities aim to deter errors or fraud from happening in the first place and include thorough documentation and authorization practices. Detective controls are backup procedures that are designed to catch items or events that have been missed by the first line of defense. 




What Are Some Preventative Internal Controls?
Separation of duties, a key part of the preventative internal control process, ensures that no single individual is in a position to authorize, record, and be in the custody of a financial transaction and the resulting asset. Authorization of invoices, verification of expenses, limiting physical access to equipment, inventory, cash, and other assets are examples of preventative internal controls.




What Are Detective Internal Controls?
Detective internal controls attempt to find problems within a company's processes once they have occurred. They may be employed in accordance with many different goals, such as quality control, fraud prevention, and legal compliance. Here, the most important activity is reconciliation, which compares data sets. Other detective controls include internal and external audits.


   The Bottom Line  

Internal controls are vital to ensuring the integrity of companies' operations and the trustworthiness of the financial information they report. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 spurred internal controls in the aftermath of such scandals as those involving Enron and WorldCom to protect investors from corporate accounting fraud.



The success of internal controls can be limited by personnel who cut control activity corners for the sake of operational efficiency and by those employees who work together to conceal fraud.
What Is an Internal Growth Rate (IGR)?  

An internal growth rate (IGR) is the highest level of growth achievable for a business without obtaining outside financing, and a firm's maximum internal growth rate is the level of business operations that can continue to fund and grow the company.





Key Takeaways

An internal growth rate (IGR) is the highest level of growth achievable for a business without obtaining outside financing.A firm's maximum internal growth rate is the level of business operations that can continue to fund and grow the company without issuing new equity or debt.Internal growth can be generated by adding new product lines or expanding existing ones.


   Formula and Calculating IGR  

To calculate the Internal Growth Rate for a company, you have to determine two variables. First, you need the company's Return on Assets (ROA), which is:



Net Income ÷ Total Assets (or average of total assets across periods)



Then, you need its Retention Ratio (RR), which is the percentage of how much net income is kept by the company:



Retained Earnings ÷ Net Income



Finally, you can calculate the IGR:



Return on Assets x Retention Ratio



So, imagine Company A had the following data in its financial statements:



Net Income: $30,843,000Total Assets (or average of total assets across periods): $114,938,000Retained Earnings: $1,358,000



Using the formula for ROA ($30,843,000 ÷ $114,938,000), you get 0.27. The retention ratio ($1,358,000 ÷ $30,834,000) results in 0.04. Then, you multiply the ROA and RR to get your IGR:



0.27 x 0.04 = 0.01, or 10%


  Alternate Formulas  

You might see other ways to calculate the IGR using an alternate retention ratio. In this method, you subtract a company's dividend payout ratio from one:



Retention Ratio = 1 - Dividend Payout Ratio



However, to use this method, a company must be profitable enough to pay dividends and have a dividend payout ratio (Dividends Paid ÷ Net Income). If dividends paid equals zero, your retention ratio, and thus your IGR, will be inaccurate. For instance, if you used this method in the previous example with a company that has no dividends—you'd have a retention ratio of zero—you would get an IGR of 0.27 (27%), whereas previously, you got a result of 0.01 (10%):



ROA: 0.27RR: 1 - 0 = 1IGR: 0.27 x 1 = 0.27, or 27%


   Limitations of Using the Internal Growth Rate  

The internal growth rate is believed by some to tell you the maximum growth that a company can experience using only its existing resources (no external funding, retained earnings only). While this metric is useful to companies that have achieved a state where they can retain earnings, it's important to keep in mind that most companies do not become profitable for many years. Without profitability, there may be no retained earnings, which can pose further difficulties if business owners want to use IGR as an analysis tool.



Investors may not find much value in the IGR because of the issues mentioned previously—no dividends or retained earnings means the rate cannot be calculated. Because companies with retained earnings and pay dividends are generally out of the startup or small business phase and more mature, the internal growth rate may not be a compelling analysis metric.



Another limitation of the IGR is vital to business growth—retained earnings is capital sitting in an account. A company shouldn't have a very large retained earnings because capital is being wasted. If a company's retained earnings is growing, it might mean that they are more profitable and reinvesting earnings. It might also mean that the company is sitting on capital that could be put to use.




What Is the Difference Between Internal and External Growth Rate?
Internal growth is when a company uses internal resources to grow, while external growth is when it uses resources from outside itself to grow.




Which Is Higher Internal Growth Rate or Sustainable Growth Rate?
Sustainable growth rate is always higher than an internal growth rate because it factors in leverage, or debt.




What Is the Internal Growth Rate Formula?
The formula for the internal growth rate is (Retained Earnings ÷ Net Income) × (Net Income ÷ Total Assets).


   The Bottom Line  

The internal growth rate is a measurement some business owners and investors use to gauge how much growth a business can experience using only internal sources. It can only be used to evaluate companies that generate enough revenue to retain earnings or issue dividends to stockholders.



Correction—Aug. 24, 2023: A previous version of this article used only the dividend payout ratio to calculate the internal growth rate. As the article now correctly states, there are two different ways to calculate it, and when to use each one.
What Is Internal Rate of Return (IRR)?  

The internal rate of return (IRR) is a metric used in financial analysis to estimate the profitability of potential investments. IRR is a discount rate that makes the net present value (NPV) of all cash flows equal to zero in a discounted cash flow analysis.



IRR calculations rely on the same formula as NPV does. Keep in mind that IRR is not the actual dollar value of the project. It is the annual return that makes the NPV equal to zero.



Generally speaking, the higher an internal rate of return, the more desirable an investment is to undertake. IRR is uniform for investments of varying types and, as such, can be used to rank multiple prospective investments or projects on a relatively even basis. In general, when comparing investment options with other similar characteristics, the investment with the highest IRR probably would be considered the best.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

The internal rate of return (IRR) is the annual rate of growth that an investment is expected to generate.IRR is calculated using the same concept as net present value (NPV), except it sets the NPV equal to zero.The ultimate goal of IRR is to identify the rate of discount, which makes the present value of the sum of annual nominal cash inflows equal to the initial net cash outlay for the investment. IRR is ideal for analyzing capital budgeting projects to understand and compare potential rates of annual return over time.In addition to being used by companies to determine which capital projects to use, IRR can help investors determine the investment return of various assets.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Formula and Calculation for IRR  

The formula and calculation used to determine this figure are as follows:


















0


=


NPV


=



∑



t


=


1



T





C


t





(


1


+


I


R


R


)



t




−



C


0

















where:

















C


t



=


Net cash inflow during the period t

















C


0



=


Total initial investment costs
















I


R


R


=


The internal rate of return
















t


=


The number of time periods







\begin{aligned} &\text{0}=\text{NPV}=\sum_{t=1}^{T}\frac{C_t}{\left(1+IRR\right)^t}-C_0\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &C_t=\text{Net cash inflow during the period t}\\ &C_0=\text{Total initial investment costs}\\ &IRR=\text{The internal rate of return}\\ &t=\text{The number of time periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​0=NPV=t=1∑T​(1+IRR)tCt​​−C0​where:Ct​=Net cash inflow during the period tC0​=Total initial investment costsIRR=The internal rate of returnt=The number of time periods​


  How to Calculate IRR  

Using the formula, one would set NPV equal to zero and solve for the discount rate, which is the IRR.
The initial investment is always negative because it represents an outflow.
Each subsequent cash flow could be positive or negative, depending on the estimates of what the project delivers or requires as a capital injection in the future.
However, because of the nature of the formula, IRR cannot be easily calculated analytically and instead must be calculated iteratively through trial and error or by using software programmed to calculate IRR (e.g., using Excel).


  How To Calculate IRR in Excel  

Using the IRR function in Excel makes calculating the IRR easy. Excel does all the necessary work for you, arriving at the discount rate you are seeking to find. All you need to do is combine your cash flows, including the initial outlay as well as subsequent inflows, with the IRR function. The IRR function can be found by clicking on the Formulas Insert (fx) icon.



Here is a simple example of an IRR analysis with cash flows that are known and annually periodic (one year apart). Assume a company is assessing the profitability of Project X. Project X requires $250,000 in funding and is expected to generate $100,000 in after-tax cash flows in the first year and grow by $50,000 for each of the next four years.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



In this case, the IRR is 56.72%, which is quite high.



Excel also offers two other functions that can be used in IRR calculations: the XIRR, and the MIRR. XIRR is used when the cash flow model does not exactly have annual periodic cash flows. The MIRR is a rate-of-return measure that includes the integration of the cost of capital and the risk-free rate.







How to Calculate IRR in Excel 


   Understanding IRR  

The ultimate goal of IRR is to identify the rate of discount, which makes the present value of the sum of annual nominal cash inflows equal to the initial net cash outlay for the investment. Several methods can be used when seeking to identify an expected return, but IRR is often ideal for analyzing the potential return of a new project that a company is considering undertaking.



Think of IRR as the rate of growth that an investment is expected to generate annually. Thus, it can be most similar to a compound annual growth rate (CAGR). In reality, an investment will usually not have the same rate of return each year. Usually, the actual rate of return that a given investment ends up generating will differ from its estimated IRR.


   What Is IRR Used for?  

In capital planning, one popular scenario for IRR is comparing the profitability of establishing new operations with that of expanding existing operations. For example, an energy company may use IRR in deciding whether to open a new power plant or to renovate and expand an existing power plant.



While both projects could add value to the company, it is likely that one will be the more logical decision as prescribed by IRR. Note that because IRR does not account for changing discount rates, it’s often not adequate for longer-term projects with discount rates that are expected to vary.



IRR is also useful for corporations in evaluating stock buyback programs. Clearly, if a company allocates substantial funding to repurchasing its shares, then the analysis must show that the company’s own stock is a better investment—that is, has a higher IRR—than any other use of the funds, such as creating new outlets or acquiring other companies.



Individuals can also use IRR when making financial decisions—for instance, when evaluating different insurance policies using their premiums and death benefits. The general consensus is that policies that have the same premiums and a high IRR are much more desirable.



Note that life insurance has a very high IRR in the early years of policy—often more than 1,000%. It then decreases over time. This IRR is very high during the early days of the policy because if you made only one monthly premium payment and then suddenly died, your beneficiaries would still get a lump sum benefit.



Another common use of IRR is in analyzing investment returns. In most cases, the advertised return will assume that any interest payments or cash dividends are reinvested back into the investment. What if you don’t want to reinvest dividends but need them as income when paid? And if dividends are not assumed to be reinvested, are they paid out, or are they left in cash? What is the assumed return on the cash? IRR and other assumptions are particularly important on instruments like annuities, where the cash flows can become complex.



Finally, IRR is a calculation used for an investment’s money-weighted rate of return (MWRR). The MWRR helps determine the rate of return needed to start with the initial investment amount factoring in all of the changes to cash flows during the investment period, including sales proceeds.


   Using IRR With WACC  

Most IRR analyses will be done in conjunction with a view of a company’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and NPV calculations. IRR is typically a relatively high value, which allows it to arrive at an NPV of zero.



Most companies will require an IRR calculation to be above the WACC. WACC is a measure of a firm’s cost of capital in which each category of capital is proportionately weighted. All sources of capital, including common stock, preferred stock, bonds, and any other long-term debt, are included in a WACC calculation.



In theory, any project with an IRR greater than its cost of capital should be profitable. In planning investment projects, firms will often establish a required rate of return (RRR) to determine the minimum acceptable return percentage that the investment in question must earn to be worthwhile. The RRR will be higher than the WACC.



Any project with an IRR that exceeds the RRR will likely be deemed profitable, although companies will not necessarily pursue a project on this basis alone. Rather, they will likely pursue projects with the highest difference between IRR and RRR, as these will likely be the most profitable.



IRR may also be compared against prevailing rates of return in the securities market. If a firm can’t find any projects with an IRR greater than the returns that can be generated in the financial markets, then it may simply choose to invest money in the market. Market returns can also be a factor in setting an RRR.






Analyses will also typically involve NPV calculations at different assumed discount rates.


   IRR vs. Compound Annual Growth Rate  

The CAGR measures the annual return on an investment over a period of time. The IRR is also an annual rate of return; however, the CAGR typically uses only a beginning and ending value to provide an estimated annual rate of return.



IRR differs in that it involves multiple periodic cash flows—reflecting that cash inflows and outflows often constantly occur when it comes to investments. Another distinction is that CAGR is simple enough that it can be calculated easily.


   IRR vs. Return on Investment (ROI)  

Companies and analysts may also look at the return on investment (ROI) when making capital budgeting decisions. ROI tells an investor about the total growth, start to finish, of the investment. It is not an annual rate of return. IRR tells the investor what the annual growth rate is. The two numbers normally would be the same over the course of one year but won’t be the same for longer periods of time.



ROI is the percentage increase or decrease of an investment from beginning to end. It is calculated by taking the difference between the current or expected future value and the original beginning value, divided by the original value, and multiplied by 100.



ROI figures can be calculated for nearly any activity into which an investment has been made and an outcome can be measured. However, ROI is not necessarily the most helpful for lengthy time frames. It also has limitations in capital budgeting, where the focus is often on periodic cash flows and returns.


   Limitations of IRR  

IRR is generally ideal for use in analyzing capital budgeting projects. It can be misconstrued or misinterpreted if used outside of appropriate scenarios. In the case of positive cash flows followed by negative ones and then by positive ones, the IRR may have multiple values. Moreover, if all cash flows have the same sign (i.e., the project never turns a profit), then no discount rate will produce a zero NPV.



Within its realm of uses, IRR is a very popular metric for estimating a project’s annual return; however, it is not necessarily intended to be used alone. IRR is typically a relatively high value, which allows it to arrive at an NPV of zero. The IRR itself is only a single estimated figure that provides an annual return value based on estimates. Since estimates in IRR and NPV can differ drastically from actual results, most analysts will choose to combine IRR analysis with scenario analysis. Scenarios can show different possible NPVs based on varying assumptions.



As mentioned, most companies do not rely on IRR and NPV analyses alone. These calculations are usually also studied in conjunction with a company’s WACC and an RRR, which provides for further consideration.



Companies usually compare IRR analysis to other tradeoffs. If another project has a similar IRR with less up-front capital or simpler extraneous considerations, then a simpler investment may be chosen despite IRRs.



In some cases, issues can also arise when using IRR to compare projects of different lengths. For example, a project of a short duration may have a high IRR, making it appear to be an excellent investment. Conversely, a longer project may have a low IRR, earning returns slowly and steadily. The ROI metric can provide some more clarity in these cases, although some managers may not want to wait out the longer time frame.


   Investing Based on IRR  

The internal rate of return rule is a guideline for evaluating whether to proceed with a project or investment. The IRR rule states that if the IRR on a project or investment is greater than the minimum RRR—typically the cost of capital, then the project or investment can be pursued.



Conversely, if the IRR on a project or investment is lower than the cost of capital, then the best course of action may be to reject it. Overall, while there are some limitations to IRR, it is an industry standard for analyzing capital budgeting projects.


   IRR Example  

Assume a company is reviewing two projects. Management must decide whether to move forward with one, both, or neither. Its cost of capital is 10%. The cash flow patterns for each are as follows:



Project A



Initial Outlay = $5,000Year one = $1,700Year two = $1,900Year three = $1,600Year four = $1,500Year five = $700



Project B



Initial Outlay = $2,000Year one = $400Year two = $700Year three = $500Year four = $400Year five = $300



The company must calculate the IRR for each project. Initial outlay (period = 0) will be negative. Solving for IRR is an iterative process using the following equation:



$0 = Σ CFt ÷ (1 + IRR)t



where:



CF = net cash flowIRR = internal rate of returnt = period (from 0 to last period)



-or-



$0 = (initial outlay * −1) + CF1 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + CF2 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + ... + CFX ÷ (1 + IRR)X



Using the above examples, the company can calculate IRR for each project as:



IRR Project A



$0 = (−$5,000) + $1,700 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + $1,900 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + $1,600 ÷ (1 + IRR)3 + $1,500 ÷ (1 + IRR)4 + $700 ÷ (1 + IRR)5



IRR Project A = 16.61 %



IRR Project B



$0 = (−$2,000) + $400 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + $700 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + $500 ÷ (1 + IRR)3 + $400 ÷ (1 + IRR)4 + $300 ÷ (1 + IRR)5



IRR Project B = 5.23 %



Given that the company’s cost of capital is 10%, management should proceed with Project A and reject Project B.




What Does Internal Rate of Return Mean?
The internal rate of return (IRR) is a financial metric used to assess the attractiveness of a particular investment opportunity. When you calculate the IRR for an investment, you are effectively estimating the rate of return of that investment after accounting for all of its projected cash flows together with the time value of money. When selecting among several alternative investments, the investor would then select the investment with the highest IRR, provided it is above the investor’s minimum threshold. The main drawback of IRR is that it is heavily reliant on projections of future cash flows, which are notoriously difficult to predict.




Is IRR the Same as ROI?
Although IRR is sometimes referred to informally as a project’s “return on investment,” it is different from the way most people use that phrase. Often, when people refer to ROI, they are simply referring to the percentage return generated from an investment in a given year or across a stretch of time. But that type of ROI does not capture the same nuances as IRR, and for that reason, IRR is generally preferred by investment professionals.Another advantage of IRR is that its definition is mathematically precise, whereas the term ROI can mean different things depending on the context or the speaker.




What Is a Good Internal Rate of Return?
Whether an IRR is good or bad will depend on the cost of capital and the opportunity cost of the investor. For instance, a real estate investor might pursue a project with a 25% IRR if comparable alternative real estate investments offer a return of, say, 20% or lower. However, this comparison assumes that the riskiness and effort involved in making these difficult investments are roughly the same. If the investor can obtain a slightly lower IRR from a project that is considerably less risky or time-consuming, then they might happily accept that lower-IRR project. In general, though, a higher IRR is better than a lower one, all else being equal.


   The Bottom Line  

The internal rate of return (IRR) is a metric used to estimate the return on an investment. The higher the IRR, the better the return of an investment. As the same calculation applies to varying investments, it can be used to rank all investments to help determine which is the best. The one with the highest IRR is generally the best investment choice.



IRR is an important tool for companies in determining where to invest their capital. Companies have a variety of options to help grow their business. These include building out new operations, improving existing operations, making acquisitions, and so on. IRR can help determine which option to choose by showing which will have the best return.
What Is the Internal Revenue Code (IRC)?  

The Internal Revenue Code (IRC) refers to Title 26 of the U.S. Code, the official "consolidation and codification of the general and permanent laws of the United States," as the Code's preface explains. Commonly referred to as the IRS code or IRS tax code, the laws in Title 26 are enforced by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The United States Code was first published in 1925 by the U.S. House of Representatives. Title 26 covers all relevant rules pertaining to income, gift, estate, sales, payroll, and excise taxes.


   Understanding the Internal Revenue Code (IRC)  

The Internal Revenue Code is broken down into the following topics or subcategories:



A. Income Taxes
B. Estate and Gift Taxes
C. Employment Taxes
D. Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
E. Alcohol, Tobacco, and Certain Other Excise Taxes
F. Procedure and Administration
G. The Joint Committee on Taxation
H. Financing of Presidential Election Campaigns
I. Trust Fund Code
J. Coal Industry Health Benefits
K. Group Health Plan Requirements


   History of the Internal Revenue Code  

In 1919, a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives began a project to re-codify the U.S. Statutes. The completed version was published in 1925. Title 26, the Internal Revenue Code, was originally compiled in 1939. Congress has the authority to rewrite the tax code and add items to it every year. For example, in 2017, Congress passed the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which brought about major reforms of the tax code affecting both individuals and businesses.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), founded in 1862, governs the codes in Title 26. Based in Washington, D.C., the IRS is also responsible for collecting taxes. The IRS is granted the right to issue fines and punishments for violations of the Internal Revenue Code.


   Campaigns to Abolish the Code  

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 enacted significant changes to the previous laws. However, there have also been ongoing campaigns to abolish the entire system. The two most recent bills:



In 2017, the House of Representatives Bill H.R. 29, The Tax Code Termination Act, was filed to abolish the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by the end of 2021. The H.R. 29 bill would require Congress to approve a new federal tax system by July 4, 2021, prior to abolishing the current system.



Bill S.18, the Fair Tax Act of 2017, was introduced into Congress on January 3, 2017. The bill proposes imposing a national sales tax on the use or consumption of taxable property or services in the U.S. in place of personal and corporate income tax, employment and self-employment tax, and estate and gift taxes. The proposed sales tax rate would be 23% in 2019, with adjustments to the rate made in subsequent years. The bill includes exemptions for the tax for used and intangible property, property or services purchased for business, export or investment purposes and for state government functions. The Internal Revenue Service would be disbanded entirely, with no funding for operations authorized after 2021.



The Fair Tax Act would allow U.S. residents to receive a monthly sales tax rebate, based on household size and income and all states would be responsible for administering, collecting, and remitting sales tax to the federal government. Most significantly, the bill would terminate the national sales tax if the Sixteenth Amendment (which authorizes federal income tax) is not repealed within seven years following the bill’s enactment.



The Fair Tax Act has made little progress since its introduction. The passage of the TCJA, which made significant changes in the current tax system but reaffirmed its basic structure, makes the future of the Fair Tax Act (and the Tax Care Termination Act, as well) uncertain to unlikely.



John Buhl, former manager of media relations for the Tax Foundation, says that the recent adoption of changes to the tax code may reduce the appetite for pursuing a larger overhaul of the tax system. In addition, he notes that the new tax reform plan evolved to alleviate concerns that the original plan was designed to benefit the wealthy and that trying to replace it with a sales tax would raise similar issues of whether this would benefit wealthier Americans more. “Distributionally, replacing all federal taxes with a consumption tax would heighten those arguments,” Buhl says.
What Is the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)?  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a government agency that administers tax laws and collects federal taxes from U.S. individual and corporate taxpayers. The IRS is a division of the U.S. Treasury Department and ensures that the responsibilities of the Treasury secretary are followed through under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Established in 1862, the agency also handles gift, excise, and estate taxes. The IRS routinely conducts audits to ensure that taxpayers comply with tax laws.





Key Takeaways

The Internal Revenue Service is a federal agency responsible for collecting federal taxes and enforcing U.S. tax laws.Most of the work of the IRS involves individual and corporate income taxes.Taxpayers can file and pay their taxes electronically, by mail, or in person.The IRS routinely audits taxpayers randomly or if it detects irregularities in their tax returns.You can contact the IRS by phone, by mail, online, or in person by making an appointment.


   How the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Works  

The IRS traces its roots back to 1862 when President Abraham Lincoln created the commissioner of Internal Revenue to collect taxes to fund the war. In 1913, Congress was given the power to enact income tax laws, paving the way for the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The agency, whose name was changed to the Internal Revenue Service in the 1950s, went through a series of changes and reorganization to what it is today.



Based in Washington, D.C., the agency's mission is to enforce tax laws and collect federal taxes from all taxpayers in the United States, including individuals and corporations. This is done by collecting and processing annual tax returns from tax filers. The agency aims to help taxpayers understand how federal tax laws work, including those involving gifts, excise taxes, and estates. According to the agency:



U.S. taxpayers must comply with tax laws that are passed by U.S. Congress
Taxpayers must understand and meet their tax obligations
The IRS is designed to help compliant taxpayers and ensure that those who aren't compliant pay their sharer





$4.1 trillion

The amount of tax revenue collected by the IRS each year. This represents about 96% of the country's gross receipts.



Processing federal tax returns and collecting revenue from individual and corporate taxpayers is one of the main roles of the IRS. In cases where a taxpayer is owed money, the IRS issues tax refunds. For the week ending Feb. 24, 2023, the IRS reported:



Receiving 45.98 million individual returnsProcessing 45.72 million individual returnsIssuing 35.14 million refunds totaling $108.20 billion



The IRS operates on a budget that is approved by Congress. This is divided into four different accounts: TaxpayerServices, Enforcement, Operations Support, and Business Systems Modernization. The money allotted to each cannot be reallocated to other sections. The agency requested a budget of $14.1 billion for the 2023 fiscal year and requested that the allocation structure be changed so that money can be moved to support costs in other areas.






The IRS is headed up by a commissioner. Douglas O'Donnell was appointed as the acting commissioner on Nov. 12, 2022.


   Tax Filing and Collection  
  Filing Your Taxes  

The majority of individual taxpayers use Form 1040: U.S. Individual Tax Return Definition, Types, and Use to file their taxes and those who are 65 and older may use Form 1040-SR: Tax Return for Seniors. These forms are used to report income and determine whether any additional taxes are owed or if a refund is due to the taxpayer.



Corporations use Form 1120: U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return to report their income and tax liabilities. There are variations of the form, depending on the type of corporation, including:



Form 1120-C: U.S. Income Tax Return for Cooperative Associations
Form 1120-F: U.S. Income Tax Return of a Foreign Corporation
Form 1120-H: U.S. Income Tax Return for Homeowners Associations
Form 1120-L: U.S. Life Insurance Company Income Tax Return
Form 1120-S: U.S. Tax Return for an S corporation



Individual and corporate taxpayers may also be required to complete and attach additional forms to their main filing, including schedules, addendums, and issuer-provided documents, such as a W-2 and/or 1099s.



Taxpayers may file their returns by mail or electronically with special tax preparation software designed for consumer use. Although the agency still accepts paper returns, it strongly recommends that taxpayers file electronically to avoid delays. Keep in mind that the agency does not endorse any particular platform or filing software. The number of returns that are e-filed continues to grow, and the overwhelming majority are now filed this way. Keep in mind that taxpayers may also use the services of tax professionals, such as tax preparers or accountants.


  Paying Your Taxes  

Individual taxpayers can pay their taxes directly to IRS through an electronic transfer of funds from their bank accounts or by using a credit or debit card. Other methods include same-day bank wires or electronic funds withdrawals at the time that you e-file your return. Businesses that make large payments must enroll in and use the Electronic Federal Tax Paying System.



Taxpayers may also mail in a personal check, cashier’s check, or money order payable to U.S. Treasury. The following information must accompany the payment



Name and address
Daytime phone number
Social Security number (SSN) or employer identification number (EIN)
Tax year
Related tax form or notice number



Just like paper returns, the IRS strongly recommends making electronic payments to avoid any delays.



Taxpayers may also pay in cash by making an in-person appointment at an IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center by calling (844) 545-5640, Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. ET. Taxpayers should call 30 to 60 days before they intend to make their payments.



Cash payments are also accepted at the following IRS retail partners: Dollar General, Family Dollar, CVS Pharmacy, Walgreens, Pilot Travel Centers, 7-Eleven, Speedway, Kum & Go, Royal Farms, Go Mart, and Kwik Trip. Taxpayers must wait to receive a payment code from the IRS via email, which is presented when making the payment. Keep in mind that there is a limit of $500 per payment.






The fiscal year runs between Oct. 1 and Sept. 30 for the IRS.


   Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Audits  

The IRS audits a select portion of income tax returns every year as part of its enforcement mission. Audits ensure that taxpayers are accurate information to the IRS according to tax laws. The agency randomly selects taxpayers to audit or singles out those whose returns are related to others that were audited. In other cases, there may be red flags that alert the IRS to conduct an audit.



The audit process involves an auditor who reviews the return. This individual may either accept the return or request a review. In the latter case, the taxpayer is notified by mail. The audit involves reviewing paperwork and may be conducted by mail or in person at an IRS office or another location, such as the taxpayer's home, business, or accountant's office.



While there is no single factor that determines who gets an IRS audit each year, the following are just some of the red flags that may trigger a review:



Failing to declare the right amount of income
Claiming a higher-than-normal amount of deductions (especially business-related ones)
Making disproportionately large charitable donations compared to income
Claiming rental real estate losses



You may also run the risk of being audited if you run your own business or earn a high income.



The IRS reported 738,959 audits as of the end of the 2021 fiscal year. Out of all of these audits, 0.55% were for individual taxpayers. The agency collected $26.8 billion in additional tax revenue as a result of these reviews. Audits by mail were primarily conducted (78.4%) while the remaining (21.6%) were conducted face-to-face.






Make sure you keep all your documents in a safe place in case you get audited. The IRS may include your last three years of returns in an audit but may go back further if it notices a significant error. The agency generally doesn't go back beyond six years.


   How to Connect with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  
  By Mail  

If you file a tax return by mail, your state of residence and whether or not you are expecting a tax refund will determine the address that you should use. There is a list on the IRS website.



If you send an application or a payment, there is also a list on the IRS website of mailing addresses depending on your purpose.


  By Phone or Online  

Individuals can contact the IRS by phone at (800) 829-1040, Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time, and there are other toll-free numbers for businesses and other purposes. But it may take some doing to reach a live agent. According to a blog from certified personal accountant (CPA) Amy Northard. you'll have to answer a series of automated questions first. Investopedia vetted her process for accuracy.



For online assistance with a variety of questions, use the Interactive Tax Assistant on the IRS website.


  In Person  

You can also set up an in-person appointment by phone at your local IRS office. The IRS website has a locator page into which you merely type your ZIP code to get the office location and phone number.




When Was the IRS Established?
The IRS was established in 1862 by President Abraham Lincoln, who instituted an income tax to pay for the Civil War. The tax was repealed in 1872, revived in 1894, and declared unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1895. In 1913, the 16th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reinstated the federal income tax.




What Is the Best Way to File My Tax Return?
It’s best to file your taxes electronically, which 90% of taxpayers did in the IRS's 2021 fiscal year. You can still file a paper return by mail, but doing so will delay your receipt of any refund.




How Can I Pay My Taxes?
The most popular way to pay your taxes is by electronic transfer, either directly from your bank account or through a debit or credit card. However, you can also pay by check or money order, and you can even pay in person—using cash if you wish.




What Are the Chances of Being Audited by the IRS?
The audit rate for individual tax returns was 0.55% in 2021. However, your chances go up if you make big bucks. The 2020 rate for people making $10 million or more was 5.8%. However, no single factor determines whether or not the IRS will audit you.


   The Bottom Line  

If you've ever filed a tax return, you should have a pretty basic understanding of what the IRS does. This agency is part of the Treasury and is responsible for collecting taxes and enforcing tax laws. With a history that dates back more than 150 years, the face of the IRS has changed. From individuals who went door-to-door to collect taxes to fund the Civil War, it now accepts returns and payments by mail and electronically. But be sure to report your information to the agency accurately and on a timely basis. If you don't, you may run the risk of being audited. And remember: Keep all your records in a safe place if the IRS comes knocking.
What Is Internalization?  

Internalization occurs when a transaction is handled by an entity itself rather than routing it out to someone else. This process may apply to business and investment transactions, or to the corporate world.



In business, internalization is a transaction conducted within a corporation rather than in the open market. Internalization also occurs in the investment world, when a brokerage firm fills a buy order for shares from its own inventory of shares instead of executing the trade using outside inventory.



Internalization can also apply to a multinational corporation. This happens when the company decides to shift assets between its own subsidiaries in different countries.


   Understanding Internalization  

Internalization can occur when an individual, business, or firm decides to handle an issue in-house instead of outsourcing it to a third-party.



Companies may decide to internalize the production of a particular material on its own rather than having another manufacturer do so. This process is called internal sourcing, or delivering products to customers through the business’s own channels instead of using an outside shipping company.



Internalization is beneficial to a company as it cuts down the costs of outsourcing certain process such as manufacturing or selling products and services. The process also provides benefits to brokers, who can make money on the spread, or on the difference between the purchase and sale price.






Internalizing certain processes may not necessarily be cost-effective, as companies may be required to purchase additional resources and/or facilities.


   Internalized Trading  

A trade may be internalized when the trade is completed for an investor within their brokerage firm. The process is often less expensive than alternatives as it is not necessary to work with an outside firm to complete the transaction.



Brokerage firms that internalize securities orders can also take advantage of the difference between what they purchased shares for and what they sell them for, known as the spread. For example, a firm may see a greater spread by selling its own shares than by selling them on the open market. Additionally, because share sales are not conducted on the open market, the brokerage firm is less likely to influence prices if it sells a large portion of shares.


   Internal Sourcing  

Internal sourcing refers to the process of acquiring any needed asset, service, or material from within the business instead of from an external source. This commonly refers to a business’s decision to produce goods internally instead of retaining an outside supplier.



Internal sourcing can also refer to internal hiring practices where preference is given to current employees when recruiting for a vacancy, as well as choosing to keep certain business activities within the business structure, such as with marketing activities.



A business may work to keep its financing source internalized, focusing on the reinvestment of certain assets back into the business instead of acquiring outside financing or investment.
What Are International Accounting Standards (IAS)?  

International Accounting Standards (IAS) are a set of rules for financial statements that were replaced in 2001 by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and have subsequently been adopted by most major financial markets around the world. Both sets of standards were issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), an independent body based in London.



The United States does not follow IFRS. Instead, the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission requires public companies in the U.S. to follow Generally Accepted Accounting Standards (GAAP). China and Japan also declined to adopt IFRS.





Key Takeaways

International Accounting Standards were replaced in 2001 by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)Currently, the United States, Japan, and China are the only major capital markets without an IFRS mandateThe U.S. accounting standards body has been collaborating with the Financial Accounting Standards Board since 2002 to improve and converge American accounting principles (GAAP) and IFRS.


   Understanding International Accounting Standards (IAS)  

International Accounting Standards (IAS) were the first international accounting standards that were issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC), formed in 1973. The goal then, as it remains today, was to make it easier to compare businesses around the world, increase transparency and trust in financial reporting, and foster global trade and investment.



Globally comparable accounting standards promote transparency, accountability, and efficiency in financial markets around the world. This enables investors and other market participants to make informed economic decisions about investment opportunities and risks and improves capital allocation. Universal standards also significantly reduce reporting and regulatory costs, especially for companies with international operations and subsidiaries in multiple countries.


   Moving Toward New Global Accounting Standards  

There has been significant progress towards developing a single set of high-quality global accounting standards since the IASC was replaced by the IASB. IFRS have been adopted by the European Union, leaving the United States, Japan (where voluntary adoption is allowed), and China (which says it is working towards IFRS) as the only major capital markets without an IFRS mandate.



As of 2022, 144 jurisdictions required the use of IFRS for all or most publicly listed companies, and a further 12 jurisdictions permit its use.






Globally comparable accounting standards promote transparency, accountability, and efficiency in financial markets around the world.



The United States is exploring adopting international accounting standards. Since 2002, America's accounting-standards body, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the IASB have collaborated on a project to improve and converge the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and IFRS. However, while the FASB and IASB have issued norms together, the convergence process is taking much longer than was expected—in part because of the complexity of implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which regulates U.S. securities markets, has long supported high-quality global accounting standards in principle and continues to do so. In the meantime, because U.S. investors and companies routinely invest trillions of dollars abroad, fully understanding the similarities and differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS is crucial. One conceptual difference: IFRS is thought to be a more principles-based accounting system, while GAAP is more rules-based.
What Is an International Bank Account Number (IBAN)?  

An IBAN, or international bank account number, is a standard international numbering system developed to identify an overseas bank account. The number starts with a two-digit country code, then two numbers, followed by several more alphanumeric characters. Note that an IBAN does not replace a bank's own account numbering, as it’s only meant to provide additional information that helps in identifying overseas payments. 





Key Takeaways


An international bank account number (IBAN) is a standard international numbering system for individual bank accounts around the world.
Banks in Europe originally developed the system to simplify transactions involving bank accounts from other countries.
An IBAN is used to identify an individual account involved in an international transaction.
The IBAN also acts as a method of verifying that transaction details are correct.
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) codes are another form of international identification systems, but they differ because SWIFT codes are used to identify a specific bank during an international transaction.



   How International Bank Account Numbers (IBANs) Work  

The IBAN number consists of a two-letter country code, followed by two check digits, and up to thirty-five alphanumeric characters. These alphanumeric characters are known as the basic bank account number (BBAN). It is up to the banking association of each country to determine which BBAN they will select as the standard for that country's bank accounts.



An IBAN number will be used when sending interbank transfers or wiring money from one bank to another, especially across international borders. In the register of countries currently using the IBAN system, several examples are as follows:



Albania: AL47 2121 1009 0000 0002 3569 8741Cyprus: CY 17 002 00128 0000001200527600Kuwait: KW81CBKU0000000000001234560101Luxembourg: LU 28 001 9400644750000Norway: NO 93 8601 1117947






The U.S. and Canada are two major countries that do not use the IBAN system. However, they recognize the system and process payments according to the system.


   IBAN Example  

An IBAN is made up of a maximum 34 alphanumeric characters. It is comprised of the following components:



Country code: The country code is the ISO (International Organization for Standardization) country code. Countries that participate have one code that designates their country.Check digits: The check digits are provided by the issuing financial institution.Bank identifier: Code that identifies the financial institution. (When appropriate, the bank identifier may also identify the specific branch of the financial institution.)Basic bank account number (BBAN): This is a code that identifies an individual account at a specific financial institution in a specific country.



The chart below shows an example of an IBAN for a hypothetical bank in Finland. The IBAN number would be: FI21 1234 5698 7654 3210.











Country code
Check digits
Bank Identifier
Basic Bank Account Number (BBAN) 


FI
21
123456
 9876543210





   IBAN vs. SWIFT Codes  

There are two internationally recognized, standardized methods of identifying bank accounts when a transfer is being made from one country to another: the International Bank Account Number (IBAN) and the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) code. The difference between the two methods lies in what they identify.



A SWIFT code is used to identify a specific bank during an international transaction, whereas IBAN is used to identify an individual account involved in the international transaction. Both play an essential role in the smooth running of the international financial market.



The SWIFT system predates attempts to standardize international banking transactions through IBAN. It remains the method by which the majority of international fund transfers are made. One of the main reasons for this is that the SWIFT messaging system allows banks to share a significant amount of financial data.



This data includes the status of the account, debit and credit amounts, and details related to the money transfer. Banks often use the bank identifier code (BIC) instead of the SWIFT code. However, the two are easily interchangeable; both contain a mix of letters and numbers and are generally between eight and 11 characters in length.


   Requirements for International Bank Account Numbers  

The IBAN developed out of diverging national standards for bank account identification. Varying uses of alphanumeric forms to represent specific banks, branches, routing codes, and account numbers often led to misinterpretations and/or omissions of critical information from payments.



To smooth this process the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) published ISO 13616:1997 in 1997. Shortly after the European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS) published a smaller version, believing the original flexibility allowed in the ISO version was unworkable. In the ECBS’s version, they allowed only upper-case letters and a fixed-length IBAN for each country.



Since 1997, a new version, the ISO 13616:2003, replaced the initial ECBS version. A subsequent version in 2007 stipulated that IBAN elements must facilitate the processing of data internationally, in both financial environments and among other industries. However, it does not specify any internal procedures—including, but not limited to, file organization techniques, storage media, or languages.




Who Uses an IBAN?
IBAN was first created to facilitate electronic payments between banks across the Eurozone. Since then, it has expanded worldwide, although not all banks and not all regions have joined the standard and you may still need to rely on an alternative system such as SWIFT. North American, Australian, and Asian countries do not use the IBAN for domestic money transfers, and will only do so when sending a payment to a country that has adopted the IBAN.




Why Was IBAN Created?
IBAN was developed to reduce errors and improve verification of cross-border payments by reducing rejected payments, transfer delays, and associated bank charges and fees.




What Does an IBAN Number Look Like?
An IBAN number contains up to 34 alphanumeric characters. It is prefaced by a two-character country code, two check digits, and a Basic Bank Account Number (BBAN) that contains specific bank and account details. The format of the BBAN portion varies from country to country, which will typically include a bank code and branch code.




How Can I Get an IBAN?
You can request an IBAN if you are a customer of a bank in an IBAN region. Note that an IBAN can only be used to receive payments, and is not used when making withdrawals.


   The Bottom Line  

An IBAN is only used during international financial transfers/transactions. The latest information states that there are 82 countries using IBAN. If your country doesn't use IBAN, it may use another system, such as SWIFT. Transferring money internationally can be tricky. These systems are designed to reduce issues with international transfers.
What Is the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)?  

The International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is a development bank administered by the World Bank. The IBRD offers financial products and policy advice to countries aiming to reduce poverty and promote sustainable development. The International Bank of Reconstruction and Development is a cooperative owned by 189 member countries.





Key Takeaways

The International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is one of two major institutions that make up the World Bank. The IBRD advises countries that are interested in limiting poverty and enabling sustainable development.   Its main focus is on providing financing and economic policy advice to help the leaders of middle-income countries navigate the path toward greater prosperity.


   Understanding the IBRD  

The International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is one of the two major institutions that make up the World Bank, with the other being the International Development Association (IDA). The IDA is a financial institution dedicated to making developmental loans to the world’s poorest countries. The IBRD was founded in 1944 with the goal of helping war-torn European countries rebuild their infrastructure and their economies.



Following the recovery from World War II, the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development broadened its mandate to increasing global economic growth and eliminating poverty. Today, the IBRD focuses its services on middle-income countries or countries where the per capita income ranges from $1,026 to $12,375 per year. The IBRD adjusts these and other figures a bit yearly to account for inflation, economic changes within middle-income countries, and other factors.



These countries, like Indonesia, India, and Thailand, are often home to fast-growing economies that attract a lot of foreign investment and large infrastructure building projects. At the same time, middle-income countries are home to 70% of the world’s poor people, as the benefits of this economic growth are unevenly distributed across their populations. The success of middle-income countries is precarious, as many economies that look promising will collapse under the weight of corruption and economic mismanagement. 



The goal of the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development is to provide financing and economic policy advice to help the leaders of middle-income countries navigate the path toward greater prosperity. It will often help finance infrastructure projects that grow a country’s economic potential while helping governments manage public finances and cultivate the confidence of foreign investors.


  History of the IBRD  

The IBRD was founded in anticipation of the end of World War II, during the Bretton Woods Conference of 1944, a gathering of the 44 Allied Nations of the Second World War meant to establish the post-war global financial order. Along with establishing a new global monetary policy regime, the Bretton Woods Conference was also where the International Monetary Fund and the IBRD were formed.



The first loan ever issued by the International Bank Of Reconstruction and Development was to the government of France, to help finance the reconstruction of critical infrastructure. Following the reconstruction of Europe, the IBRD shifted its focus to promoting economic development in other parts of the world.
What Is an International Banking Facility (IBF)?  

An International Banking Facility allows depository institutions in the U.S. to offer deposit, loan, and other banking services to foreign residents and institutions while being exempted from the Federal Reserve's reserve requirements as well as some state and local income taxes.





Key Takeaways

International banking facilities (IBFs) allow depository institutions in the U.S. to offer services to foreign residents and institutions free of some Federal Reserve requirements and some state and local income taxes.IBFs enable U.S. institutions to compete more effectively for foreign-source deposits and loan business.Banks may conduct their IBF activities in their existing U.S.-based offices, but they must maintain separate IBF accounting books.


   Understanding International Banking Facilities  

Banks are permitted to conduct International Banking Facility (IBF) activities from their existing offices but must keep separate books for IBF business. The Federal Reserve approved the establishment of IBFs and exempted them from its reserve requirements in 1981. IBF operations remain under the jurisdiction of the Federal Reserve and other state and federal regulators. They are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).



Competition to attract IBF business has led some states to offer additional tax breaks. In Florida, for example, IBFs are exempt from state income tax, intangible personal property tax, and documentary stamp tax.



Because of the exemptions they enjoy, IBFs enable U.S. banks and U.S.-based financial institutions to compete more effectively for overseas deposits and loans business in the Eurocurrency markets.


   International Banking Facility Regulation  

IBFs permit U.S. banks to use their domestic U.S. offices to offer foreign customers deposit and loan services which formerly could be provided competitively only from foreign offices.



Among depository institutions which may establish an IBF are U.S. commercial banks, Edge Act corporations, foreign commercial banks through branches, and agencies in the U.S., savings and loan associations and mutual savings banks. An Edge Act corporation (EAC) is a subsidiary of a U.S. or foreign bank that engages in foreign banking operations; these subsidiaries are named after the 1919 Edge Act, which authorized them. The Edge Act, named after the U.S. senator who sponsored it, was an amendment to the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 that was introduced to increase the competitiveness of American financial firms on a global stage.



A similar vehicle, an Agreement corporation, is essentially a state-chartered Edge Act corporation. In the U.S., banks may operate nationally as part of the National Association (NA) or as state-chartered banks within its borders. An agreement corporation is a permission given to a bank by a state that allows it to engage in international banking and transactions. Congress passed the Agreement Corporation Act in 1916. This new law authorized American banks to invest 10% of their capital into state-chartered banks and corporations permitted to finance projects internationally. The state-chartered bank would need to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve, agreeing to be bound by the rules and regulations set out in the Act. It was from these agreements that the term "agreement corporation" arose.
What Is an International Bond?  

An international bond is an investment in debt that is issued by a foreign entity. For example, a U.S.-based international bond fund might invest in Australian government bonds, Chinese corporate bonds, and other government and corporate bonds issued in foreign countries.



As with any bond, international bonds pay interest at specified intervals and repay the principal amount back to bondholders at the maturity date.



Many mutual funds in the United States hold these bonds. Some investors buy international bonds in order to diversify their portfolios and add some exposure to foreign investments.





key takeaways

An international bond is generally a debt obligation that is issued by a non-domestic entity in its native currency.Most international bonds are corporate bonds but some government bonds are investable assets.International bonds offer portfolio diversification but are subject to currency risk.


   Understanding International Bonds  

As business becomes more globalized, companies discover ways to access cheaper sources of financing outside of their country of operations. Instead of relying on investors in domestic markets, businesses and governments can tap into the pockets of global investors for much-needed capital.



One way companies can access the international lending scene is by issuing international bonds.



Most international bonds are issued within the nation's borders and in its local currency. From the perspective of an investor residing in the United States, an international bond is one that is issued by a corporation or government in any country that uses a currency other than the U.S. dollar.


   Types of International Bonds  

There are several broad categories of international bonds that are of greatest interest to investors in the U.S. They include eurobonds, global bonds, and Brady bonds.


  Eurobonds  

Eurobonds are issued in a currency other than the native currency of the corporation or other issuer.



For example, a company that is based in Switzerland that plans to build a manufacturing plant in Mexico might issue a bond that is denominated in pesos. The company is getting direct access to the Mexican pesos it will need for the project, probably at a lower cost than borrowing from a Mexican bank. Mexican investors are getting an investment that does not involve the currency risk of exchanging Swiss francs for pesos.



It can get more complicated. For example, a French company might issue a bond in Japan that is denominated in U.S. dollars rather than euros. This also is a Eurobond or, more specifically, a eurodollar bond.



Other common types of Eurobonds are Euroyen bonds, issued in Japanese yen, and Euroswiss bonds, issued in Swiss francs.


  Global Bonds  

Global bonds are similar to Eurobonds, but they can also be traded and issued in the country whose currency is used to value the bond.



For example, a global bond could be issued by a French company, denominated in U.S. dollars, and offered to investors in both Japan and America.


  Brady Bonds  

Brady bonds are sovereign debt securities denominated in U.S. dollars and backed by U.S. Treasury bonds, but they are issued by other nations. Classified by the Federal Reserve as a type of emerging markets bond, they were created by the U.S. to help developing nations with burdensome foreign debts.



Part of a program developed in 1989 and named after then-Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, the bonds are meant to help emerging nations restructure their debts and reach financial stability.



Most Brady bonds are rated below investment grade.


   International Bonds vs. Foreign Bonds  

Although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably, international bonds and foreign bonds are not the same.



Foreign bonds are issued in one market and denominated in its currency but issued by a foreign company. For example, a U.S. company that does business in Canada might issue a bond in Canada that is valued in Canadian dollars.



Often, foreign bonds bear cute names that reflect the local currency or country in which they're issued. The bond in the example above would be referred to as a Maple bond. Other types of foreign bonds include:



Samurai bonds (issued in Japanese yen)Yankee bonds (issued in U.S. dollars)Matilda bonds (issued in Australian dollars)Bulldog bonds (issued in British pounds sterling)


   Special Considerations  


Are International Bonds the Same as Foreign Bonds?
No. Foreign bonds are issued in one country and priced in that country's currency, but the corporation that issues it is foreign-based. The buyers will primarily be investors who live in the country in which the bonds are issued.International bonds are, for the most part, issued in one country and sold to investors in other countries.




Are There International Bond Funds for Investors?
There are many international bond funds that invest in the corporate and government debt of other countries. A few of these funds include the Fidelity Global Credit Fund (FGBFX), the Templeton Global Bond Fund (TPINX), and the PIMCO Global Bond Fund Unhedged.




Are There International Bond ETFs for Investors?
There are a number of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that either focus on or include international bonds.A few of them are iShares International Treasury Bond ETF (IGOV), SPDR Bloomberg International Treasure Bond ETF (BWX), and Invesco Total Return Bond ETF (GTO).A note of caution: "high-yield bond" can be a euphemism for "junk bond." When investing in bonds, foreign or domestic, check their credit ratings and be sure you know the degree of risk you're taking on.


   The Bottom Line  

International bonds are a great way to diversify a portfolio as the investor can gain exposure to foreign securities that may not necessarily move in tandem with securities trading on local markets.



However, since international bonds are typically denominated and pay interest in a foreign currency, the value of the bond will fluctuate depending on the economic conditions and exchange rates between the domestic host country and the foreign country that houses the issuer.



That means international bonds are subject to currency risk. Investors should take caution when investing in international bonds because they may be subject to different regulatory and taxation requirements than the ones with which they are familiar.
What Is the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)?  

The International Chamber of Commerce is the largest, most diverse business organization in the world. The ICC represents 45 million companies in over 100 countries with broad business interests.



The ICC's networks of committees and experts represent the full range of business sectors. They also maintain contact with the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and other intergovernmental agencies.





Key Takeaways

The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) is the largest business organization in the world, with 45 million member companies from more than 100 countries. The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) aims to foster international trade and commerce to promote and protect open markets for goods and services and the free flow of capital.The ICC performs a number of functions for businesses, including the establishment of rules, dispute resolution, policy advocacy, and training.The ICC's vast networks of committees and experts belong to a full range of business sectors and keep members informed of all issues that affect their industries.The ICC maintains contact with the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and other intergovernmental agencies.


   Understanding the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)  

The ICC aims to foster international trade and commerce to promote and protect open markets for goods and services and the free flow of capital. The ICC is responsible for a number of functions, including the establishment of rules, dispute resolution, policy advocacy, and training. The ICC also wages war on commercial crime and corruption to bolster economic growth, create jobs and stabilize employment, and ensure overall economic prosperity.



Because members of the ICC and their associates engage in international business, the ICC has unparalleled authority in setting rules that govern cross-border business. While these rules are voluntary, thousands of daily transactions abide by the ICC-established rules as part of regular international trade.


   The History of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)  

The ICC was founded in Paris, France in 1919. The organization’s international secretariat was also established in Paris, and its International Court of Arbitration was formed in 1923. The first chair of the chamber was Étienne Clémentel, the early-20th-century French politician.


   The ICC’s Governing Bodies  

There are four primary governing bodies of the ICC. The lead governing body is the World Council, which is composed of national committee representatives. The highest officers of the ICC, the chair, and vice-chair are elected by the World Council every two years. 



The executive board provides strategic direction for the ICC. The board is elected by the World Council and is comprised of 30 business leaders and ex-officio members. The executive board's prominent duties are the development of ICC strategies and policy implementation.



The international secretariat is the operational arm of the ICC and is responsible for developing and implementing the ICC’s work program and introducing business perspectives to intergovernmental organizations. The secretary-general, who is appointed by the World Council, oversees this governing body.



The finance committee acts as an advisor to the executive board on all financial aspects. This committee prepares the budget on behalf of the board, submits regular reports, reviews the financial implications of ICC activities, and oversees all expenses and revenue flow.
International Depository Receipt (IDR): An Overview  

An international depository receipt (IDR) is a negotiable certificate issued by a bank. It represents ownership of a number of shares of stock in a foreign company that the bank holds in trust.



International depository receipts are more often known in the U.S. as American depository receipts (ADRs). In Europe, they are known as Global Depository Receipts and trade on the London, Luxembourg, and Frankfurt exchanges.



The acronym IDR also is used to identify Indian Depository Receipts.


   Understanding the IDR  

IDRs are purchased by investors as an alternative to the direct purchase of foreign stocks on foreign exchanges. For example, American traders can buy shares of the Swiss bank Credit Suisse Group AG or Swedish automaker Volvo AB directly from American exchanges via ADRs.





Key Takeaways

An IDR or ADR is a certificate of ownership of a number of shares in a company that trades on a foreign exchange.Investing in IDRs is an alternative to purchasing stock on a foreign exchange.For the companies, it enables greater access to foreign investors.



For the companies, the IDR makes it easier and cheaper to reach international buyers. The company is not required to comply with all of the listing and regulatory requirements of every country in which it wishes to sell shares.



IDRs generally represent fractional ownership of the underlying stock, with each IDR representing one, two, three, or 10 shares. The price of the IDR usually trades close to the value of the underlying shares on a currency-conversion basis.



Occasional divergences in price are exploited for arbitrage opportunities. Arbitrage is the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset with the aim of profiting from an imbalance in the price on various exchanges and various currencies. The trade exploits the price differences of identical or near-identical financial instruments. Arbitrage can exist as a result of market inefficiencies.


   Special Considerations on IDRs  

The regulatory body for the capital markets of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), issued new guidelines in 2019 for companies listing depository receipts. The guidelines allow for Indian companies to list depository receipts on a limited number of foreign exchanges, including the NASDAQ, the NYSE, and the London Stock Exchange.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



This is a departure for regulators of the markets in India. While Indian companies were able to issue debt securities, called masala bonds, on international exchanges, the same option was not available for equity shares.






The value of an ADR should precisely match the value of the underlying stock. Tiny discrepancies in prices among exchanges are exploited by arbitrage traders.



The National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) was founded in 1992 and started trading in 1994, in contrast with the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), which has been in existence since 1875. Both exchanges follow the same trading mechanism, trading hours, and settlement process.
What Is International Finance?  

International finance, sometimes known as international macroeconomics, is the study of monetary interactions between two or more countries, focusing on areas such as foreign direct investment and currency exchange rates.





Key Takeaways

International finance is the study of monetary interactions that transpire between two or more countries.International finance focuses on areas such as foreign direct investment and currency exchange rates.Increased globalization has magnified the importance of international finance.An initiative known as the Bretton Woods system emerged from a 1944 conference attended by 40 nations and aims to standardize international monetary exchanges and policies in a broader effort to nurture post World War II economic stability.


   Understanding International Finance  

International finance deals with the economic interactions between multiple countries, rather than narrowly focusing on individual markets. International finance research is conducted by large institutions such as the International Finance Corp. (IFC), and the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). Furthermore, the U.S. Federal Reserve has a division dedicated to analyzing policies germane to U.S. capital flow, external trade, and the development of global markets.



International finance analyzes the following specific areas of study:



The Mundell-Fleming Model, which studies the interaction between the goods market and the money market, is based on the assumption that price levels of said goods are fixed.International Fisher Effect is an international finance theory that assumes nominal interest rates mirror fluctuations in the spot exchange rate between nations.The optimum currency area theory states that certain geographical regions would maximize economic efficiency if the entire area adopted a single currency.Purchasing power parity is the measurement of prices in different areas using a specific good or a specific set of goods to compare the absolute purchasing power between different currencies.Interest rate parity describes an equilibrium state in which investors are indifferent to interest rates attached to bank deposits in two separate countries.


   Example of International Institutions of International Finance  
  The Bretton Woods System  

The Bretton Woods system was created at the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, where the 40 participating countries agreed to establish a fixed exchange rate system. The collective goal of this initiative was to standardize international monetary exchanges and policies in a broader effort to create post World War II stability.



The Bretton Woods conference catalyzed the development of international institutions that play a foundational role in the global economy. These include the International Monetary Fund (IMF), a consortium of 189 countries dedicated to creating global monetary cooperation, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which later became known as the World Bank.


   Special Considerations  

International trade is arguably the most important influencer of global prosperity and growth. But there are worries related to the fact the United States has shifted from being the largest international creditor, to becoming the world's largest international debtor, absorbing excess amounts of funding from organizations and countries on a global basis. This may affect international finance in unforeseen ways.






International finance involves measuring the political and foreign exchange risk associated with managing multinational corporations.
What Is the International Finance Corporation (IFC)?  

The International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides financing of private-enterprise investment in developing countries around the world, through both loans and direct investments. Affiliated with the World Bank, it also provides advisory services to encourage the development of private enterprise in nations that might be lacking the necessary infrastructure or liquidity for businesses to secure financing.





Key Takeaways

A member of the World Bank Group, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) provides financing for private enterprise investments in developing countries.The IFC says its focus is eliminating poverty through economic development, but critics claim it is more focused on profits than people.In fiscal year 2021, the IFC invested $31.5 billion in financing initiatives. 


   How the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Works  

The IFC was established in 1956 as a member of the World Bank Group, focused on investing in economic development. It claims to be the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in developing countries. The IFC says it also seeks to ensure that private enterprises in developing nations have access to markets and financing.



The IFC's most recent stated goals include the development of sustainable agriculture, expanding small businesses' access to microfinance, supporting infrastructure improvements, as well as promoting climate, health, and education policies. The IFC is governed by its 184 member countries and is headquartered in Washington, D.C.


   IFC Global Financing  

To raise money, the IFC issues bonds in markets around the world. As of 2021, the IFC has issued $10.553 billion worth across 178 bonds in 20 currencies.



In fiscal year 2021, the IFC invested $31.5 billion in long-term and short-term finance, including $10.8 billion mobilized from other investors.





$14 Billion

The total amount of fast-track financing to support private companies and developing countries impacted by the economic downturn caused by the spread of COVID-19. The $14 million results from an $8 million increase announced in March 2020.


   Example of an IFC Investment  

The IFC provided $145 million in financing to help one of the world’s largest dairy producers, FrieslandCampina, acquire a controlling stake of 51% of Engro Foods, Pakistan’s leading dairy processor. Although Pakistan is the fourth-largest milk-producing country in the world, demand has consistently outpaced supply due to poor infrastructure and an outdated supply chain. Small subsistence farms account for nearly 80% of the industry’s output. 



FrieslandCampina has promised to share its experience and best practices with the smaller farmers who supply Engro Foods, along with the majority of the dairy processors in Pakistan. The stated goal is to help these small farmers increase productivity and reduce waste.



The IFC said it expects that 200,000 farmers and 270,000 distributors will benefit from FrieslandCampina's acquisition of Engro Foods. In addition, the investment is projected to create 1,000 new jobs in the dairy supply chain.


   Criticism of the IFC  

The IFC has faced criticism as its size and influence around the globe have grown. It says one of its primary goals is to reduce poverty through economic development, but critics say it has begun to act more like a private investment bank with a focus on corporate profit, sometimes with disregard for the environmental and social impacts of its projects.
What Are International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)?  

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of accounting rules for the financial statements of public companies that are intended to make them consistent, transparent, and easily comparable around the world.



IFRS currently has complete profiles for 167 jurisdictions, including those in the European Union. The United States uses a different system, the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



The IFRS is issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).



The IFRS system is sometimes confused with International Accounting Standards (IAS), which are the older standards that IFRS replaced in 2001.





Key Takeaways

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) were created to bring consistency and integrity to accounting standards and practices, regardless of the company or the country.They were issued by the London-based Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and address record keeping, account reporting, and other aspects of financial reporting.The IFRS system replaced the International Accounting Standards (IAS) in 2001.IFRS fosters greater corporate transparency.IFRS is not used by all countries; for example, the U.S. uses generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  

IFRS specify in detail how companies must maintain their records and report their expenses and income. They were established to create a common accounting language that could be understood globally by investors, auditors, government regulators, and other interested parties.



The standards are designed to bring consistency to accounting language, practices, and statements, and to help businesses and investors make educated financial analyses and decisions.



They were developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, which is part of the not-for-profit, London-based IFRS Foundation. The Foundation says it sets the standards to “bring transparency, accountability, and efficiency to financial markets around the world."


   IFRS vs. GAAP  

Public companies in the U.S. are required to use a rival system, the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The GAAP standards were developed by the Financial Standards Accounting Board (FSAB) and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB).



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has said it won't switch to International Financial Reporting Standards but will continue reviewing a proposal to allow IFRS information to supplement U.S. financial filings.



There are differences between IFRS and GAAP reporting. For example, IFRS is not as strict in defining revenue and allows companies to report revenue sooner. A balance sheet using this system might show a higher stream of revenue than a GAAP version of the same balance sheet.



IFRS also has different requirements for reporting expenses. For example, if a company is spending money on development or on investment for the future, it doesn't necessarily have to be reported as an expense. It can be capitalized instead.


   Standard IFRS Requirements  

IFRS covers a wide range of accounting activities. There are certain aspects of business practice for which IFRS set mandatory rules.



Statement of Financial Position: This is the balance sheet. IFRS influences the ways in which the components of a balance sheet are reported.
Statement of Comprehensive Income: This can take the form of one statement or be separated into a profit and loss statement and a statement of other income, including property and equipment.
Statement of Changes in Equity: Also known as a statement of retained earnings, this documents the company's change in earnings or profit for the given financial period.
Statement of Cash Flows: This report summarizes the company's financial transactions in the given period, separating cash flow into operations, investing, and financing.



In addition to these basic reports, a company must give a summary of its accounting policies. The full report is often seen side by side with the previous report to show the changes in profit and loss.



A parent company must create separate account reports for each of its subsidiary companies.






Chinese companies do not use IFRS or GAAP. They use Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBEs).


   History of IFRS  

IFRS originated in the European Union with the intention of making business affairs and accounts accessible across the continent. It was quickly adopted as a common accounting language.



Although the U.S. and some other countries don't use IFRS, currently 167 jurisdictions do, making IFRS the most-used set of standards globally.




Who Uses IFRS?
IFRS is required to be used by public companies based in 167 jurisdictions, including all of the nations in the European Union as well as Canada, India, Russia, South Korea, South Africa, and Chile. The U.S. and China each have their own systems.




How Does IFRS Differ From GAAP?
The two systems have the same goal: clarity and honesty in financial reporting by publicly-traded companies.IFRS was designed as a standards-based approach that could be used internationally. GAAP is a rules-based system used primarily in the U.S.Although most of the world uses IFRS standards, it is still not part of the U.S. financial accounting world. The SEC continues to review switching to the IFRS but has yet to do so.Several methodological differences exist between the two systems. For instance, GAAP allows a company to use either of two inventory cost methods: First in, First out (FIFO) or Last in, First out (LIFO). LIFO, however, is banned under IFRS.




Why Is IFRS Important?
IFRS fosters transparency and trust in the global financial markets and the companies that list their shares on them. If such standards did not exist, investors would be more reluctant to believe the financial statements and other information presented to them by companies. Without that trust, we might see fewer transactions and a less robust economy.IFRS also helps investors analyze companies by making it easier to perform “apples to apples” comparisons between one company and another and for fundamental analysis of a company's performance.


   The Bottom Line  

The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of accounting rules for public companies with the goal of making company financial statements consistent, transparent, and easily comparable around the world. This helps for auditing, tax purposes, and investing.
What Is the International Fisher Effect?  

The International Fisher Effect (IFE) is an economic theory stating that the expected disparity between the exchange rate of two currencies is approximately equal to the difference between their countries' nominal interest rates.





Key Takeaways

The International Fisher Effect (IFE) states that differences in nominal interest rates between countries can be used to predict changes in exchange rates.According to the IFE, countries with higher nominal interest rates experience higher rates of inflation, which will result in currency depreciation against other currencies. In practice, evidence for the IFE is mixed and in recent years direct estimation of currency exchange movements from expected inflation is more common.


   Understanding the International Fisher Effect (IFE)  

The IFE is based on the analysis of interest rates associated with present and future risk-free investments, such as Treasuries, and is used to help predict currency movements. This is in contrast to other methods that solely use inflation rates in the prediction of exchange rate shifts, instead functioning as a combined view relating inflation and interest rates to a currency's appreciation or depreciation.



The theory stems from the concept that real interest rates are independent of other monetary variables, such as changes in a nation's monetary policy, and provide a better indication of the health of a particular currency within a global market. The IFE provides for the assumption that countries with lower interest rates will likely also experience lower levels of inflation, which can result in increases in the real value of the associated currency when compared to other nations. By contrast, nations with higher interest rates will experience depreciation in the value of their currency.



This theory was named after U.S. economist Irving Fisher. 


   Calculating the International Fisher Effect  

IFE is calculated as:



﻿















E


=





i


1



−



i


2





1


+



i


2





 


≈


 



i


1



−



i


2

















where:
















E


=


the percent change in the exchange rate

















i


1



=


country A’s interest rate








\begin{aligned}&E=\frac{i_1-i_2}{1+i_2}\ \approx\ i_1-i_2\\&\textbf{where:}\\&E=\text{the percent change in the exchange rate}\\&i_1=\text{country A's interest rate}\\&i_2=\text{country B's interest rate}\end{aligned}


​E=1+i2​i1​−i2​​ ≈ i1​−i2​where:E=the percent change in the exchange ratei1​=country A’s interest rate​﻿



For example, if country A's interest rate is 10% and country B's interest rate is 5%, country B's currency should appreciate roughly 5% compared to country A's currency. The rationale for the IFE is that a country with a higher interest rate will also tend to have a higher inflation rate. This increased amount of inflation should cause the currency in the country with a higher interest rate to depreciate against a country with lower interest rates.


   The Fisher Effect and the International Fisher Effect  

The Fisher Effect and the IFE are related models but are not interchangeable. The Fisher Effect claims that the combination of the anticipated rate of inflation and the real rate of return are represented in the nominal interest rates. The IFE expands on the Fisher Effect, suggesting that because nominal interest rates reflect anticipated inflation rates and currency exchange rate changes are driven by inflation rates, then currency changes are proportionate to the difference between the two nations' nominal interest rates.


   Application of the International Fisher Effect  

Empirical research testing the IFE has shown mixed results, and it is likely that other factors also influence movements in currency exchange rates. Historically, in times when interest rates were adjusted by more significant magnitudes, the IFE held more validity. However, in recent years inflation expectations and nominal interest rates around the world are generally low, and the size of interest rate changes is correspondingly relatively small. Direct indications of inflation rates, such as consumer price indexes (CPI), are more often used to estimate expected changes in currency exchange rates.
What Is International Investing?  

International investing involves selecting global investment instruments as part of a diversified portfolio. People often invest internationally to increase the diversification of their portfolios and spread investment risk among foreign markets and companies.





Key Takeaways

International investing means holding securities issued by companies or governments outside an investor's home country.Through global investment, portfolios are more diversified and may enhance returns and reduce portfolio risk.Owning foreign assets exposes investors to unique risks such as changes in exchange rates, foreign interest rates, and geopolitical events.


   Understanding International Investing  

International investing provides investors with a broader investment universe for selecting portfolio selections. It can broaden an investor’s diversification, potentially adding new sources of return. In some cases, it can also help mitigate some systematic risks associated with a specific country’s economy.



International investing provides a wide range of eligible instruments for an investment portfolio beyond just domestic investments. An investor can look to the same types of investment options internationally that they have domestically, including variations of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. Investors can also invest in options and futures on underlying international investments and currencies.






While economists and advisors advocate investing internationally, most portfolios are dominated by domestic securities.


   International Investing Options  

Investors will find an array of investment options in the international markets. Looking to government debt and international equity indexes provides a basis for international investing.


  International Government Debt  

Global governments issue debt to help fund their financial budgets. Government debt is issued in the form of notes and bonds with varying maturities and interest rates derived from the underlying investment duration.



Countries can be classified as developed, emerging or frontier to better understand their economies and country risks. Developed countries are the world’s most advanced economies and therefore provide less risk. Emerging and frontier markets can offer long-term opportunities for investment as economies and infrastructures develop over time.



Credit market ratings can help to provide an investor with an understanding of a fixed income investment’s risk. Globally, countries receive credit ratings from credit rating agencies that help to determine the risk to investors. Comprehensive lists of country credit ratings are available online.


  International Indexes  

In the equity markets, international indexes provide a basis for international investment considerations. For comprehensive global market exposure, investors can look to world index funds. These funds include stocks from countries across the globe. Two leading index examples are the FTSE Global All Cap Index and the Vanguard Total World Stock Index Fund.



Developed, emerging and frontier market indexes also help to break down the global equity markets into three categories. Developed market equities typically offer the lowest risk since financial market infrastructures and corporate markets are more advanced.



Emerging and frontier markets have greater risks. Emerging markets are often a category in high demand for international investors. These markets have higher risks due to their emerging growth but have greater potential for returns.



MSCI is an index provider that is well known for its international indexes and provides global indexes such as the MSCI All Country World Index, the MSCI EAFE Index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, and the MSCI Frontier Markets Index.


   International Investing Risks  

All types of investments involve risk and international investing may include the following:



Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, or foreign exchange risk 
Changes in market value, or price risk
Changes in foreign interest rates
Significant political, economic, and social events 
Lower liquidity
Less access to important information
Varying market operations and procedures, or jurisdiction risk.
What Is the International Labour Organization (ILO)?  

The International Labour Organization (ILO) is a United Nations (U.N.) agency. The goal of the ILO is to advance social and economic justice by setting international labor standards. The ILO has 187 member states and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, with approximately 40 field offices around the world. The standards upheld by the ILO are broadly intended to ensure accessible, productive, and sustainable work worldwide in conditions of freedom, equity, security, and dignity.





Key Takeaways

The International Labour Organization (ILO) is a United Nations (U.N.) agency.The goal of the International Labour Organization (ILO) is to advance social and economic justice by setting international labor standards.The conventions and protocols of the International Labour Organization (ILO) are a major contributor to international labor law.


   Understanding the ILO  

The International Labour Organization (ILO) was founded in 1919 under the League of Nations and incorporated into the U.N. as a specialized agency in 1946. The ILO is the first and oldest specialized agency of the U.N. The organization’s goal is to serve as a uniting force among governments, businesses, and workers. It emphasizes the need for workers to enjoy conditions of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity through their employment.



The ILO promotes international labor standards through its field offices in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Arab States, Asia and the Pacific, and Europe and Central Asia. The organization provides training on fair employment standards, offers technical cooperation for projects in partner countries, analyzes labor statistics and publishes related research, and regularly holds events and conferences to examine critical social and labor issues. The ILO was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969. The organization was recognized for improving fraternity and peace among nations, pursuing decent work and justice for workers, and providing technical assistance to developing nations.



The labor standards set forth by the ILO have been published in 190 conventions and six protocols. These standards recognize the right to collective bargaining, attempt to eliminate forced or compulsory labor and abolish child labor, and eliminate acts of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. As a result, the protocols and conventions of the ILO are a major contributor to international labor law.



The organization has a three-tiered structure that brings together governments, employers, and workers. The three main bodies of the ILO are the International Labour Conference, the Governing Body, and the International Labour Office. The International Labour Conference meets annually to formulate international labor standards; the Governing Body meets three times a year, serving as the executive council and deciding the agency’s policy and budget; and the International Labour Office is the permanent secretariat that administers the organization and implements activities. 


   ILO List of International Labor Standards  

These are legal instruments created by governments, employers, and workers that set basic principles and rights at work. They take the form of either conventions/protocols, which are legally binding international treaties ratified by member states, or recommendations, which are nonbinding guidelines. The former are created and adopted at the annual International Labour Conference, after which they must be ratified by the governing bodies, such as a parliament or congress, of member states. There are eight fundamental conventions:



Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) (and its 2014 Protocol )Abolition of Forced Labour Convention, 1957 (No. 105) Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182) Equal Remuneration Convention, 1951 (No. 100) Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention, 1958 (No. 111) 



There are also four governance conventions, which are considered important for “the functioning of the international labour standards system”:



Labour Inspection Convention, 1947 (No. 81) Employment Policy Convention, 1964 (No. 122) Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention, 1969 (No. 129) Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention, 1976 (No. 144) 


   ILO Programs  

The ILO has consolidated its current technical projects into five “flagship programmes designed to enhance the efficiency and impact of its development cooperation with constituents on a global scale.” These programs are:


  BetterWork  

Devoted to improving working conditions in the factories of the garment and footwear industries, this program is jointly run with the World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation. The emphasis is on “lasting improvements rather than quick fixes” and involves eight countries on three continents, working hands-on with 1,250 factories and in excess of 1.5 million workers. The program’s goal is to “prove that safe, dignified work means more productive factories, and a more profitable business model that benefits workers, managers, countries, and consumers alike.“


  Global Flagship Programme on Building Special Protection Floors (SPFs) for All  

This program was launched in 2016 and its long-term intention is "to extend social protection to the five billion people who are partially covered or living without social protection and the dignity it affords."



According to the ILO, 73% of the globe’s population lacks social protection, with five billion people living with daily anxiety. The ILO hopes to change that by creating “nationally appropriate social protection systems and measures for all, including floors.” It will “support governments, workers’ and employers’ confederations, and civil society organizations in 21 countries, in collaboration with other U.N. agencies.”



The first goal of the Global Flagship Programme was to “change 130 million lives by 2020 through establishing comprehensive social protection systems in 21 countries and conducting a global knowledge development and education campaign.” As of April 2021, the website gives no indication of whether or not that goal was met.



With the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has also taken on the challenge of including countries’ responses to the pandemic in its mission to protect workers.


  International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour and Forced Labour (IPEC+)  

According to the ILO, there are 152 million children performing child labor, 40 million men, women, and children in “modern slavery,” 24.9 million people in forced labor, and 15.4 million people in forced marriages. This program hopes to put an end to these scourges. It is a relatively new program that combined two older ones on child labor and forced labor. IPEC+ collaborates with governments, employers, and workers to:



Strengthen technical and governance capacity to create transformative change in public institutions, laws, and practices at all levelsEncourage effective engagement and cooperation between the constituents and other stakeholdersSignificantly expand knowledge and policy-oriented advice and information



The goals are to eliminate child labor by 2025 and end forced labor and human trafficking by 2030, in accordance with the U.N.’s 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, which was adopted in 2015.


  Safety + Health for All  

Originally known as the Global Action for Prevention on Occupational Safety and Health (GAP-OSH) program, this was meant to “improve the health and safety of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises through fostering a global culture of prevention.” Created in 2016, it has been active in 15 countries and globally.



According to the ILO, 2.78 million workers die every year from work-related injuries and illnesses and 374 million more suffer nonfatal ones. The lost workdays account for nearly 4% of the world's annual gross domestic product (GDP). Its particular targets are:



Hazardous sectors, such as agriculture and constructionWorkers with higher vulnerability to occupational injuries and diseases, including young workers (15-24), women, and migrant workersSmall and medium enterprisesGlobal supply chains



With the advent of COVID-19, it has been repurposed to offer “a tailored set of interventions to address the immediate and longer-term safety and health needs of constituents related to COVID-19.”


  Jobs for Peace and Resilience  

This program focuses on creating jobs in countries where there are conflicts and disasters, with an emphasis on employment for young people and women. Its key objectives, which it hopes to achieve through building institutions, social dialogue, and establishing fundamental principles and rights at work, are:



Providing direct job creation and income securityEnhancing skills for employabilitySupporting self-employment, enterprises, and cooperativesBridging labor supply and demand





24 million

The number of new jobs that could be created around the world through transitioning to a green economy.


   The Future of the International Labour Organization (ILO)  

In 2019 the ILO convened for the Global Commission on the Future of Work. In preparation for the conference, about 110 countries participated in dialogues at the regional and national levels. The ensuing report made recommendations for governments on how best to approach the challenges of the 21st-century labor environment. Among these recommendations were a universal labor guarantee, social protection from birth to old age, and entitlement to lifelong learning.



The ILO also assessed what impact a transition to a green economy would have on employment. According to the ILO, if the right policies are put in place, a transition to a greener economy could create 24 million new jobs around the world by 2030.
What Is the International Maritime Organization (IMO)?  

The International Maritime Organization (IMO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that is responsible for measures to improve the safety and security of international shipping and prevent marine pollution from ships.



The IMO sets standards for the safety and security of international shipping. It oversees every aspect of worldwide shipping regulations, including legal issues, shipbuilding, and cargo size.





Key Takeaways

The International Maritime Organization is an agency tasked with improving the security and safety of international shipping.One of its key duties is to devise strategies and measures to keep the waterways clean by preventing marine pollution from ships.The IMO’s governing body, the Assembly, meets every two years, with the first meeting in 1959. The IMO is not responsible for enforcing its policies. When a government accepts an IMO policy, that policy becomes a national law that is the government's responsibility to enforce.Funding for the IMO comes from contributions by member states, as well as voluntary donations and commercial activities.


   Understanding the International Maritime Organization (IMO)  

The International Maritime Organization's objectives can be best summed up by its slogan—"Safe, secure, and efficient shipping on clean oceans." Basically, the IMO sets policy for international shipping and sets regulations on safety, security, and environmental best practices.



The IMO is also involved in legal issues matters pertaining to international shipping, such as liability and compensation matters, and facilitating of international maritime traffic. The Assembly, the IMO's governing body, meets every two years to address issues in international shipping, and looking at the organization's budget.



To break down the workload and to ensure each area of concern of the IMO is getting the attention it deserves, there are five committees tasked with making policies and developing, going over, and overhauling rules and guidelines. Those committees include the Technical Co-operation Committee, the Maritime Safety Committee, the Marine Environmental Protection Committee, the Legal Committee, and the Facilitation Committee. Furthermore, there are seven sub-committees working under these committees.



The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification, and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW), and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) are some of the vital International Maritime Organization treaties.






The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea is regarded as the most crucial treaty regarding safety at sea. The first draft of it was adopted in 1914 following the sinking of the Titanic, before the creation of the IMO.






   Member States and Organizations of the International Maritime Organization (IMO)  

The IMO has 175 member states, accounting for most of the membership of the United Nations. In addition, there are three associate members that are not considered states: Hong Kong, Macao, and the Faroe Islands.



In addition, the IMO regularly interacts with Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and intergovernmental organizations on maritime policy. There are 66 intergovernmental organizations with observer status in the IMO, including the Council of Europe, the Organization of American States, and OPEC. There are also 85 NGOs with consultative status, most of them associated with the maritime or shipping industries.


   International Maritime Organization (IMO) Structure  

The governance structures of the IMO consist of the Assembly, representing the member states, and a Council elected by the members at two-year intervals. The council acts as an executive body and performs all the responsibilities of the Assembly when it is not in session. The Council is also responsible for appointing the secretary-general of the organization.



In addition, there are several committees and sub-committees responsible for various aspects of maritime regulation. For example, the Marine Safety Committee is responsible for setting the rules of navigation, construction, and transportation to reduce hazards on the seas. The Marine Environmental Protection Committee considers matters relating to pollution, and the Legal Committee is responsible for questions of maritime law.


   Strategic Plan of the International Maritime Organization (IMO)  

Every six years, the assembly of the IMO established a strategic plan describing the organization's mission and priorities. The current strategic plan, enacted in 2018, is "to promote safe, secure, environmentally sound, efficient and sustainable shipping through cooperation."



The plan also sets out the strategic direction of the IMO and establishes performance indicators to measure the success of the organization's work. In addition to the traditional goals relating to facilitating trade and ocean governance, the current strategic plan also sets the goal of responding to climate change. In its vision statement, the IMO is pledged to support member states in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.


   Special Considerations   

It's important to note that the IMO does not implement or enforce policies. The IMO was created to adopt policy, not enforce it. When a government accepts an IMO convention, those policies become national laws that the government is responsible for enforcing.



The IMO developed a program to audit compliance with maritime policies, effective as of January 2016. However, there are no countermeasure available if a country does not enforce the policies set by the IMO. Instead, the IMO provides feedback and advice on a country's current performance.



Beyond shipping, an IMO is also an independent marketing organization. This is an organization that works with insurance companies to market its products. The duties of an IMO can include other marketing tasks, such as distribution. 




What Is the Purpose of the International Maritime Organization (IMO)?
The purpose of the IMO is to establish intergovernmental regulations concerning maritime trade, safe shipping, and access to the seas. In addition, it also sets the rules for preventing ocean pollution and accidents.




How Many Countries Are in the International Maritime Organization (IMO)?
There are 175 member states of the IMO, as well as three associate members that are not considered states.




Who Funds the International Maritime Organization (IMO)?
Funding for the International Maritime Organization (IMO) is provided by contributions from member states, as well as through various trusts, donations, and partnership agreements. The organization also makes money from certain commercial activities, such as selling books or hosting conferences.
What Is the International Monetary Fund (IMF)?  

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an international organization that promotes global economic growth and financial stability, encourages international trade, and reduces poverty.



Quotas of member countries are a key determinant of the voting power in IMF decisions. Votes comprise one vote per 100,000 special drawing rights (SDR) of quota plus basic votes. SDRs are an international type of monetary reserve currency created by the IMF as a supplement to the existing money reserves of member countries.





Key Takeaways

The IMF's mission is to promote global economic growth and financial stability, encourage international trade, and reduce poverty around the world.The IMF was originally created in 1945 as part of the Bretton Woods agreement, which attempted to encourage international financial cooperation by introducing a system of convertible currencies at fixed exchange rates.The IMF collects massive amounts of data on national economies, international trade, and the global economy in aggregate and provides economic forecasts.One of the IMF's most important functions is to make loans to countries that are experiencing economic distress to prevent or mitigate financial crises.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding the International Monetary Fund (IMF)  

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is based in Washington, D.C. The organization is currently composed of 190 member countries, each of which has representation on the IMF's executive board in proportion to its financial importance. Quotas are a key determinant of the voting power in IMF decisions. Votes comprise one vote per SDR100,000 of quota plus basic votes (same for all members).



The IMF's website describes its mission as "to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world."


   History of the IMF  

The IMF was originally created in 1945 as part of the Bretton Woods Agreement, which attempted to encourage international financial cooperation by introducing a system of convertible currencies at fixed exchange rates. The dollar was redeemable for gold at $35 per ounce at the time.



The IMF also acted as a gatekeeper: Countries were not eligible for membership in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)—a World Bank forerunner that the Bretton Woods agreement created in order to fund the reconstruction of Europe after World War II—unless they were members of the IMF.



Since the Bretton Woods system collapsed in the 1970s, the IMF has promoted the system of floating exchange rates, meaning that market forces determine the value of currencies relative to one another. This system remains in place today.


   IMF Activities  

The IMF's primary methods for achieving these goals are monitoring capacity building and lending.






The reports the IMF publishes on its monetary surveillance include the "World Economic Outlook," the "Global Financial Stability Report," and the "Fiscal Monitor."


  Surveillance  

The IMF collects massive amounts of data on national economies, international trade, and the global economy in aggregate. The organization also provides regularly updated economic forecasts at the national and international levels. These forecasts, published in the World Economic Outlook, are accompanied by lengthy discussions on the effect of fiscal, monetary, and trade policies on growth prospects and financial stability.


  Capacity Building  

The IMF provides technical assistance, training, and policy advice to member countries through its capacity-building programs. These programs include training in data collection and analysis, which feed into the IMF's project of monitoring national and global economies.


  Lending  

The IMF makes loans to countries that are experiencing economic distress to prevent or mitigate financial crises. Members contribute the funds for this lending to a pool based on a quota system. In 2019, loan resources in the amount of SDR 11.4 billion (SDR 0.4 billion above target) were secured to support the IMF’s concessional lending activities into the next decade.



IMF funds are often conditional on recipients making reforms to increase their growth potential and financial stability. Structural adjustment programs, as these conditional loans are known, have attracted criticism for exacerbating poverty and reproducing colonialist structures.




Where Does the IMF Get Its Money?
The IMF gets its money through quotas and subscriptions from its member countries. These contributions are based on the size of the country's economy, making the U.S., with the world's largest economy, the largest contributor.




How Much Are the IMF Grants?
IMF grants are given to charities in Washington, D.C., and member countries. The grants are meant to foster economic independence through education and economic development. The average grant size is $15,000.




What Is the Difference Between the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank?
The International Monetary Fund is primarily focused on the stability of the global monetary system and monitoring the currencies of the world. The aim of the World Bank is to reduce poverty across the world and strengthen the low- to middle-class populations.


   The Bottom Line  

The IMF works to help reduce poverty, encourage trade, and promote financial stability and economic growth around the world. It accomplishes this by monitoring capacity building and providing loans. While the IMF is currently working on these goals with its 190 member nations, the organization has still faced criticism for the possible negative impacts of its structural adjustment programs.
What Is the International Monetary Market?  

The International Money Market or IMM is a division of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) that deals with the trading of currency and interest rate futures and options. Trading on the IMM started in May 1972, when the CME and the IMM merged.


   International Monetary Market Explained  

The IMM division of the CME includes such currencies as the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. Along with currencies, the IMM trades the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR), the 10-year Japanese bond, and the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI).


   History of the International Monetary Market (IMM)  

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange was founded in 1898. Its original name was the "Chicago Butter and Egg Board" although it changed its name in 1919. The CME was the first financial exchange to "demutualize" and become publicly traded in 2002. In 1961, the CME launched its first futures market for frozen pork bellies. In 1969, it added financial futures and currency contracts. The first interest rate, bond, and futures contracts commenced in 1972.﻿﻿﻿﻿



According to its 2019 annual report, the CME on average handles an average daily volume of 19.2 million contracts, a slight decline from 2018.﻿﻿﻿﻿ While some trading continues to take place in the traditional open outcry method, 80% of trading is done electronically through its CME Globex electronic trading platform.



In 2007, the CME merged with the Chicago Board of Trade to create the CME Group, one of the largest financial exchanges in the world. The CME acquired NYMEX Holdings, Inc., the parent of the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Commodity Exchange, Inc. (COMEX) – all in 2008.﻿﻿ In 2010, the CME had expanded further, purchasing a 90% interest in the Dow Jones stock and financial indexes.﻿﻿﻿﻿ In 2012, it continued on its growth spree CME with the purchase of the Kansas City Board of Trade, which was the dominant player in hard red winter wheat.﻿﻿ In 2017, the CME began trading in Bitcoin futures.﻿﻿



Additionally, CME Group operates CME Clearing, a leading central counter-party clearing provider.


   Limitations of the International Monetary Market  

While significant rewards are possible when trading financials futures, the CME outlines specific risks related to this segment of its business, including:



Economic, political and geopolitical market conditionsLegislative and regulatory changesBroad or quick changes in the industry and financial marketsShifts in price levels, contract volumes and/or volatility in the derivatives markets, along with underlying markets in equities, foreign exchange, interest rates and commoditiesChanges in global or regional demand or supply for commodities
What Is the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)?  

The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) is an international nongovernmental organization made up of national standards bodies; it develops and publishes a wide range of proprietary, industrial, and commercial standards and is comprised of representatives from various national standards organizations.



The organization's abbreviated name—ISO—is not an acronym; it derives from the ancient Greek word ísos, meaning equal or equivalent. Because the organization would have different acronyms in different languages, the founders of the organization decided to call it by the short form ISO.





Key Takeaways

The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) is an international nongovernmental organization made up of national standards bodies that develops and publishes a wide range of proprietary, industrial, and commercial standards.The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was founded in 1947 and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.In addition to producing standards, ISO also publishes technical reports, technical specifications, publicly available specifications, technical corrigenda, and guides.The ISO plays an important role in facilitating world trade by providing common standards among different countries.ISO standards cover all fields, from healthcare to technology to manufacturing to security to the environment.


   Understanding the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)  

The International Organization for Standardization was founded in 1947 and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. The organization began in the 1920s as the International Federation of the National Standardizing Associations (ISA). After being suspended during World War II, the United Nations Standards Coordinating Committee (UNSCC) proposed a new global standards body, and the International Organization for Standardization was formed.



The ISO works in 167 countries. Members of the organization are the foremost standards organizations in their countries; there is only one member per country. While individuals and companies cannot become members of ISO, there are various ways that industry experts can collaborate with the ISO.



Members of ISO meet annually at a General Assembly to discuss the strategic objectives of the organization. In addition, there is a 20-person council with rotating membership that provides guidance and governance for the organization.


   Activities of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)  

ISO develops and publishes standards for a vast range of products, materials, and processes. Currently, the organization has over 24,362 standards, which are included in the ISO Standards catalog, which is broken down into various segments, such as healthcare technology, railway engineering, jewelry, clothing, metallurgy, weapons, paint, civil engineering, agriculture, and aircraft. In addition to producing standards, ISO also publishes technical reports, technical specifications, publicly available specifications, technical corrigenda, and guides.



The ISO plays an important role in facilitating world trade by providing common standards among different countries. These standards are intended to ensure that products and services are safe, reliable, and of good quality.



For the end-user and consumer, these standards ensure that certified products conform to the minimum standards set internationally.



In some cases, "ISO" is used to describe the product that conforms to an ISO standard as a result of the ubiquity of these standards. For example, the speed of film, or the sensitivity of a photographic film to light, is referred to by its ISO number (ISO 6, ISO 2240, and ISO 5800).




Who Approves ISO International Standards?
The ISO standards are internationally agreed upon by experts in the related fields. These are people who know what their industries need, individuals such as manufacturers, sellers, buyers, customers, trade associations, users, or regulators.




What Are the 2 Most Popular ISO Standards?
The two most popular ISO standards are ISO 9001 and 14001. 9001 provides criteria for quality management systems, while 14001 provides criteria for environmental management systems.




What Is an Example of an ISO Standard?
Some examples of ISO standards include the calibration of thermometers, food safety regulations, and the manufacturing of wine glasses. ISO standards also cover shoe sizes, musical pitches, security management, and environmental management.




What Is ISO 9000?
ISO 9000 is a standard that focuses on quality management and quality assurance. The standard is used by companies to develop and maintain their quality systems. The goal of ISO 9000 is to apply to companies in all industries. Areas of focus include relationship management, customer focus, and leadership.
What Is an International Securities Identification Number (ISIN)?  

An International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) is a 12-digit alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies a specific security. The organization that allocates ISINs in any particular country is the country's respective National Numbering Agency (NNA).





Key Takeaways

An ISIN is a 12-digit alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies a specific security.The numbers are allocated by a country's respective national numbering agency (NNA).An ISIN is not the same as the ticker symbol, which identifies the stock at the exchange level. The ISIN is a unique number assigned to a security that is universally recognizable.ISINs are used for numerous reasons including clearing and settlement. The numbers ensure a consistent format so that holdings of institutional investors can be tracked consistently across markets worldwide.






   Understanding International Securities Identification Numbers (ISINs)  

An ISIN is often confused with a ticker symbol, which identifies the stock at the exchange level. For example, according to ISIN Organization, IBM common stock is traded on close to 25 trading exchanges and platforms, and its stock has a different ticker symbol depending on where it is traded. However, IBM stock has only one ISIN for each security. The ISIN code is the only common securities identification number that is universally recognized. ISINs are used for numerous reasons, including clearing and settlement.



All internationally traded securities issuers are urged to use the ISIN numbering scheme, which is now the accepted standard by virtually all countries. Both the United States and Canada use a similar scheme, known as a CUSIP number.



ISIN codes have a total of 12 characters that consist of both letters and numbers. These include the country in which the issuing company is headquartered (first two digits), along with a number specific to the security (middle nine digits), and a final character, which acts as a check.



An example of an ISIN number for a US company’s stock certificate could look like this: US-000402625-0 (dashes incorporated for simplicity). On the other hand, a theoretical Namibian company could have an ISIN, which appears as NA-000K0VF05-4. The middle nine digits of the ISIN are computer-generated in a complex formula. These are critical in helping protect against counterfeiting and forgery.






An ISIN should not be confused with a ticker symbol, which identifies stock at the exchange level. A company's security could have more than one ticker symbol depending on the trading platform, but the security will have only one ISIN.


   History of ISINs  

Universal acceptance of ISIN allows global straight-through processing (GSTP), which is the electronic handling of trade clearing and settlement. ISINs are used to track the holdings of institutional investors in a format that is consistent across markets worldwide.



ISINs were first used in 1981 but were not widely accepted until 1989 when the G30 countries recommended their adoption. A year later they were endorsed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). In 1994, the Global ISIN Access Mechanism was created to electronically exchange ISIN information across regions through a digital information exchange process called GIAM-2.



The relevant National Numbering Agency (NNA) in each country issues ISINs. In the United States, this is the CUSIP Service Bureau. Established in 1964, the CUSIP Service Bureau was created to improve country-wide standards for the financial services industry.



In the United States, ISINs are extended versions of 9-character CUSIP numbers and are formed by adding a two-digit country code at the beginning of the CUSIP number and appending a check digit at its end.



The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 6166 currently defines an ISIN’s structure. Currently, an ISIN can be assigned to most forms of securities including (but not limited to) equity shares; units and/or depositary receipts; debt instruments including bonds; commercial paper; stripped coupons and principal amounts; T-bills; rights and warrants; derivatives; commodities; and currencies.




How Do You Find an ISIN?
You can find the ISIN number for U.S. securities listed on the stock certificate or the prospectus for the shares in question.




What's the Difference Between ISIN and CUSIP?
CUSIP is a nine-digit standard for identifying securities, but it is only used for securities issued in the United States and Canada. ISIN is a worldwide standard that uses twelve characters as a unique identifier for any security issued anywhere in the world.




What Is the Difference Between a Ticker and an ISIN?
A stock ticker is an abbreviation for certain stocks or securities that are listed in the order books for an exchange, usually limited to three letters or fewer. An ISIN is a unique twelve-digit code that identifies any public security in the world. Unlike the ISIN, ticker symbols are not unique: the same company can have a different ticker symbol on each exchange where it is traded, and two companies can use the same ticker symbol if they trade in different markets. However, a given security can only have one ISIN and vice versa.


   The Bottom Line  

An International Securities Identification Number, or ISIN, is a unique twelve-digit code that is assigned to every security issuance in the world. This number is used to facilitate the trading, clearing, and settlement of securities transactions, especially across borders.
What Is the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA)?  

The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) is a private trade organization whose members, mainly banks, transact in the OTC derivatives market. This association helps to improve the market for privately negotiated over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives by identifying and reducing risks in that market.



For nearly three decades, the industry has used the ISDA master agreement as a template for entering into a contractual obligation for derivatives, creating a basic structure and standardization where there were only bespoke transactions before.





Key Takeaways

The International Swaps and Derivatives Association is a professional association that has been operating since 1985 to promote and improve the trading of swaps and derivatives.The ISDA developed a standardized agreement to serve as a template for swaps traders.The ISDA sees its mission as reducing counterparty risk, increasing transparency, and improving infrastructure.


   Understanding the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA)  

The International Swaps and Derivatives Association was created to make the world of privately negotiated derivatives safer and more efficient. The ISDA fulfills this role by providing templates for counterparties in derivatives contracts to use in negotiation and by providing a platform for the institutions that deal in the market to network and raise common concerns and issues. The ISDA identifies its three key work areas as:



Reducing counterparty credit riskIncreasing transparencyImproving the operational infrastructure of the derivatives industry



The ISDA was created due to the challenges the growing derivatives market posed for financial institutions. The demand for derivatives grew with the increasingly global nature of finance, but a lack of clarity on what the parties in a derivatives transaction were risking and receiving hurt the industry. The ISDA was created to help demystify the derivatives market, thereby enabling further growth.



Created in 1985, the ISDA has members from institutions around the world. As of June 2021, ISDA boasts of having over 950 member institutions spread over 76 countries. These member institutions include participants in all levels of the derivatives market, spanning everyone from commodity companies, law firms, and investment managers to international banks, derivatives exchanges, and clearinghouses.


   The ISDA Master Agreement  

The ISDA is responsible for creating and maintaining the ISDA Master Agreement that is used as a template for discussions between a dealer and the counterparty looking to enter a derivatives transaction. The ISDA Master Agreement was first published in 1992 and was updated in 2002 and provides an outline of all the areas for negotiation in a typical transaction. This includes events of default and termination events, how the agreement will be closed out if an event occurs, and even how tax consequences will be dealt with.



The ISDA Master Agreement is also supported by a variety of materials that establish the definitions for the terms in the contract and user guides for counterparties and dealers. Beyond the ISDA Master Agreement, the ISDA is a source for new industry tools, information on best practices, and a general resource for all things derivatives.
What Is Internationalization?  

Internationalization describes the process of designing products to meet the needs of users in many countries or designing them so they can be easily modified, to achieve this goal. Internationalization might mean designing a website so that when it's translated from English to Spanish, the aesthetic layout still works properly. This may be difficult to achieve because many words in Spanish have more characters than their English counterparts. They may thus take up more space on the page in Spanish than in English.



In the context of economics, internationalization can refer to a company that takes steps to increase its footprint or capture greater market share outside of its country of domicile by branching out into international markets. The global corporate trend toward internationalization has helped push the world economy into a state of globalization, in which economies throughout the world become highly interconnected due to cross-border commerce and finance. As such, they are greatly impacted by each others' national activities and economic well-being.





Key Takeaways

Internationalization describes designing a product in a way that it may be readily consumed across multiple countries.This process is used by companies looking to expand their global footprint beyond their own domestic market understanding consumers abroad may have different tastes or habits.Internationalization often requires modifying products to conform to the technical or cultural needs of a given country, such as creating plugs suitable for different types of electrical outlets.


   Understanding Internationalization  

When a company seeks to sell its goods abroad, it may find that there are several roadblocks in the way. Some may be technical barriers that need to be overcome; for instance, different voltages of household electricity or different plug shapes found around the world. These may be remedied via technological adaptations. Other barriers may be cultural, for instance in India many Hindus do not eat beef. This means that to internationalize, Mcdonald's must focus on chicken, fish, and other non-beef menu items that better conform to local custom and culture. Being able to flexibly adapt lends itself to greater internationalization.



There are many incentives that might inspire companies to strive for internationalization. For example, in the United States companies that pay exorbitant overhead costs can shave expenses by selling products in nations with relatively weaker currencies or in countries that have lower costs of living. Companies may also benefit from internationalization by reducing the cost of business via reduced labor costs that are outsourced to foreign markets where goods will be sold. Internationalization can thus lead to product internationalization since products sold by multinational companies are now often used in several different countries.



As of 2019, over 50% of the revenue earned by companies in the U.S S&P 500 Index came from sources outside of the United States. This is a clear sign that large U.S. companies are conducting a large amount of their business internationally.






Companies looking to step up internationalization efforts should be cognizant of potential trade barriers that may restrict their prospects for overseas commerce.


   Examples of Internationalization  

When a company produces goods for a wide range of customers in different countries, the products that are internationalized often must be localized to fit the needs of a given country's consumers.



For example, an internationalized software program must be localized so that it displays the date convention as "November 14" in the United States, but as "14 November" in England. Likewise, units in America are measured in feet or miles, while in Europe and Canada they use the metric system. This means that cars sold across these markets must be able to quickly interchange between miles and kilometers.
What Is the Internet of Things (IoT)?  

The Internet of Things (IoT) is a name for the aggregate collection of network-enabled devices, excluding traditional computers like laptops and servers. Types of network connections can include Wi-Fi connections, Bluetooth connections, and near-field communication (NFC). The IoT includes devices such as "smart" appliances, like refrigerators and thermostats; home security systems; computer peripherals, like webcams and printers; wearable technology, such as Apple Watches and Fitbits; routers; and smart speaker devices, like Amazon Echo and Google Home.


   How the Internet of Things Works  

These devices use Internet protocol (IP), the same protocol that identifies computers over the world wide web and allows them to communicate with one another. The goal behind the Internet of things is to have devices that self report in real-time, improving efficiency and bringing important information to the surface more quickly than a system depending on human intervention.






The term “Internet of Things” is attributed to Kevin Ashton of Procter & Gamble, who in 1999 used the phrase to describe the role of RFID tags in making supply chains more efficient.﻿﻿


  Benefits of the Internet of Things  

The Internet of Things promises to transform a wide range of fields. In medicine, for example, connected devices can help medical professionals monitor patients inside and outside of a hospital setting. Computers can then evaluate the data to help practitioners adjust treatments and improve patient outcomes.





Key Takeaways


The Internet of Things (IoT) is a name for the aggregate collection of network-enabled devices, excluding traditional computers like laptops and servers.
Types of network connections can include Wi-Fi connections, Bluetooth connections, and near-field communication (NFC). 
IoT includes devices such as "smart" appliances, home security systems, computer peripherals, wearable technology, routers, and smart speaker devices.
The Internet of Things is transforming a wide range of fields, from medicine to urban planning to consumer data collection.




Another field that’s also experiencing a transformation is urban planning. When sensors that have an IP address are placed under a busy street, for instance, city officials can alert drivers about upcoming delays or accidents. Meanwhile, intelligent trash cans are able to notify the city when they become full, thus optimizing waste collection routes.



The use of smart devices will also likely mean a competitive advantage for businesses that use them strategically. For instance, by tracking data about energy use and inventory levels, a firm can significantly reduce its overall costs. Connectivity may also help companies market to consumers more effectively.



By tracking a consumer’s behavior inside a store, a retailer could theoretically make tailored product recommendations that increase the overall size of the sale. Once a product is in a consumer's home, that product can be used to alert the owner of upcoming service schedules and even prompt the owner to book the appointment.



As with all questions of personal data, there are many privacy concerns that have yet to be addressed when it comes to the Internet of Things. The technology has advanced much faster than the regulatory environment, so there are potential regulatory risks facing companies that are continuing to expand the range of Internet-connected devices.
What Are Interpersonal Skills?  

Interpersonal skills are the behaviors and tactics a person uses to interact with others effectively. People use interpersonal skills all the time when dealing with others, whether in the workplace, in social situations, or within a family.



In the business world, the term generally refers to an employee's ability to work well with others. Interpersonal skills range from ways of communicating and listening to attitude and deportment.





Key Takeaways


Interpersonal skills are behaviors we use to interact with others effectively on the job and in the larger world.
Some people are born with good interpersonal skills but everyone can learn, develop and improve them.
Expressing appreciation, resolving disputes, and listening well are all interpersonal skills worth practicing.
Excellent interpersonal skills in the workplace can enhance camaraderie, improve working results, and support career development.
A lack of solid interpersonal skills can put an employee at a disadvantage where group involvement, desired assignments, positive reviews, and job advancement are concerned.













Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Interpersonal Skills  

Interpersonal skills are often referred to as people skills, social skills, or social intelligence. They involve reading the signals that others send and interpreting them accurately in order to form effective responses. Individuals show their interpersonal skills all the time simply by interacting with others.



Everyone has a personal style and an interpersonal style. Some people are more successful than others at using interpersonal skills for specific, desired results. Interpersonal skills may be based in part on personality and instinct. However, good ones can also be introduced to people and improved upon.



While interpersonal skills can be developed, they cannot be learned solely from a textbook. For some people, they should be practiced, used daily, observed, and then tweaked. That is to say, these skills may come naturally to certain individuals, but others have to work at cultivating them. This cultivation often happens through continuous interaction with other individuals.



In many organizations, employees with strong interpersonal skills are valued for their pleasant demeanor and positive, solution-oriented attitude.



These employees are seen as team players who work well with others to achieve a goal. In more human terms, everyone likes being around them. That's a welcome attribute in any social interaction, including those involving work.



Interpersonal skills are strongly linked to a knowledge of social expectations and customs, whether that knowledge is inherent or learned. People with the strongest interpersonal skills adjust their tactics and communications as needed, depending on the reactions of others to their messages and meanings.



Those without good interpersonal skills can still succeed in business if they are allowed to work in areas that don't require regular interactions with a variety of people. These areas might include research, development, coding, and system testing.


   Examples of Interpersonal Skills  

The many types of interpersonal skills that can lead to great outcomes at work include:



Clear communication, whether you're explaining an idea or asking a question in person, in writing, or by phoneAttentive, careful listeningConfirming that you comprehend what you've heard from a colleague or customerEmpathetic behavior that shows you understand and care about a colleague's situationSupporting the useful ideas and honest efforts of colleaguesResponding positively to communications from othersPresenting a willingness to get a job doneBuilding relationshipsBeing positive


   Benefits of Interpersonal Skills  

The importance of solid, properly-used interpersonal skills in the workplace can't be overstated. Their benefits provide advantages for individual employees and companies as a whole. These benefits can include:



Better camaraderieIncreased trust and dependabilityMore and better creativity through successful collaborationEffective and efficient task completionMore enthusiasm for a particular task or jobElimination of unnecessary problemsGreater productivityOpportunities for greater exposure to different, positive experiences with other employees or clientsOpportunities to display qualities of leadershipOpportunities for promotionsThe growth of a reliable professional network that can help build a career


   Can Interpersonal Skills Be Learned?  

Normally, social or interpersonal skills are learned by taking part in daily group activities, through specific daily actions involving others, and by watching other people succeed or fail in simple interactions.



Everyday life within a family, at school, at church, or on the playing field offers a wealth of opportunities to be introduced to and practice your interpersonal skills. These skills can be picked up naturally and used with sincerity. The best interpersonal skills are never forced, even if they are used with specific purposes in mind. They are a tool for positive results and living, whether at work or within a community or a family.






Strong interpersonal skills are prerequisites for many professional jobs and for a successful career.


   Using Interpersonal Skills in the Job Search  

Interpersonal skills are highly valued in the business world. Job seekers should use every opportunity to show their interpersonal skills on resumés and at interviews.



Some of the highly valuable interpersonal skills for business that you can display include:



Active listening
Eliciting and fully processing information from a speaker
Negotiating in sales, marketing, law, and customer service
Public speaking
Conflict management
Team building
Collaboration


  Showing Interpersonal Skills on a Resumé  

On a resumé, a job seeker can highlight the interpersonal skills they have as they relate to the skills sought by the employer. They can underscore those accomplishments that tie directly to important interpersonal skills. For instance, they might highlight an example of teamwork that got a task done to rave reviews, successfully communicating useful ideas to others at a stressful time, or building relationships that underpinned a positive financial outcome.


  Showing Interpersonal Skills During an Interview  

It can be difficult for an interviewer to gauge a prospective employee's actual ability to perform a particular job in one, potentially short interview. Therefore, candidates should put their interpersonal skills to work during any such opportunity to meet.



Bear in mind that one of the most important interpersonal skills could be simply making a connection with the interviewer. Be friendly, empathetic, understanding, and enthusiastic. Then, look for opportunities in the conversation to drill down to some specifics. For instance:



Note how well you've worked with others to achieve specific goals and that such collaboration would be a priority for you in this new job.Explain how listening to customers carefully has been a key to success in your sales.Demonstrate how your patience and clear communications with fellow employees turned a brand new team into a success story.



Sharing your positive interpersonal skill experiences on a resumé and during job interviews in this way can help a company determine how well your skills would fit, not just the job that you've applied for but also, within the larger organization.


   Using Interpersonal Skills in the Workplace  

Strong interpersonal skills such as negotiating, problem-solving, and knowledge-sharing can be the main requirements for certain jobs. Other interpersonal skills seen as essential for all employees include:



TeamworkVerbal and written communication (e.g., in-person meetings, emails, phone)Non-verbal communication (e.g., eye contact, facial expressions, gestures)DependabilityResponsibilityEmpathy



To showcase these skills, try to get involved with colleagues to solve problems. Volunteer to take on tasks that no one else will. Or, be enthusiastic about tasks you're given that you may not enjoy.



Be confident and positive in every dealing with colleagues or managers. Ultimately, being successful with interpersonal skills in the workplace comes down to coming up with and using ideas smartly to build good relationships with others.



It's difficult to imagine a company thriving if its employees do not have interpersonal skills. Most jobs are not isolated and require interaction between many individuals within a firm. These can be colleagues on your level or those more highly placed in the firm, such as a managing director or CEO.



Poor interpersonal skills can be a detriment to an individual and to the workplace, overall. Even if an employee does their work well, poor interpersonal skills could limit their career development at a firm. It could even be a factor in their termination.



Remember that people want to work with individuals that they like and whose personalities improve their workday. Strong interpersonal skills help every employee and company.





Fast Fact

According to research firm Gartner, just 8% of communications executives feel that their staffs have the communications skills that are necessary to meet their companies' business needs.


   How to Improve Interpersonal Skills  

Once acquired, interpersonal skills can be improved. They are best honed by practice. Expressing appreciation for team members and support staff, displaying empathy, moderating and resolving disputes quickly, and controlling displays of temper are all good activities for improving your interpersonal skills.



Active listening can be practiced by repeating back a speaker's comment to make sure true communication is taking place. Furthermore, people can demonstrate their active listening skill by providing a carefully considered and appropriate answer.



Courses often teach these skills and many firms offer them to their employees as a part of cultivating a strong workforce.




What Is an Example of Interpersonal Skills?
Types of interpersonal skills include being a good listener, understanding what's being said, and providing a positive, useful response. Someone with good interpersonal skills might decide to resolve an argument among colleagues that's preventing them from getting an important task done.




How Do You Show Interpersonal Skills?
You show interpersonal skills by the way you behave toward other people. Someone with good interpersonal skills will be supportive, kind, empathetic, patient, and respectful in the way they work with colleagues. Typically, they'll be a pleasure to be around.




How Can I Improve My Intrapersonal Skills?
The way to improve your interpersonal skills is to practice them every day in your daily activities, whether at work, home, or in social situations. Remember that these skills essentially are relationship skills—skills you use to get along with others. When you notice someone who uses these skills well, you might observe them as they put them to work and try to emulate their behavior as you practice.
What Is an Interpolated Yield Curve (I Curve)?  

An interpolated yield curve (I curve) is a yield curve derived by using on-the-run Treasuries. Because on-the-run Treasuries are limited to specific maturities, the yield of maturities that lies between the on-the-run treasuries must be interpolated. Interpolation is a way to determine the value of an unknown entity, often by using numerical analysis to estimate the value of that entity.



Financial analysts and investors interpolate yield curves in order to help predict future economic activity and bond market price levels. They can accomplish this by using a number of methodologies, including bootstrapping and regression analysis.





Key Takeaways

An interpolated yield curve or "I curve" refers to a yield curve that has been plotted using data on the yield and maturities of on-the-run Treasuries.On-the-run Treasuries are the most recently issued U.S. Treasury bonds or notes of a specific maturity.Interpolation refers to the methods used to create new estimated data points between known data points on a graph.Two of the most common methods to interpolate a yield curve are bootstrapping and regression analysis.Investors and financial analysts often interpolate yield curves in order to gain a better understanding of where the bond markets and the economy might be going in the future. 


   Understanding the Interpolated Yield Curve (I Curve)  

The yield curve is the curve that is formed on a graph when the yield and various maturities of Treasury securities are plotted. The graph is plotted with the y-axis depicting interest rates and the x-axis showing the increasing time durations. Since short-term bonds typically have lower yields than longer-term bonds, the curve slopes upwards from the bottom left to the right.



When the yield curve is plotted using data on the yield and maturities of on-the-run Treasuries, it is referred to as an interpolated yield curve or I curve. On-the-run Treasuries are the most recently issued U.S. Treasury bills, notes, or bonds of a particular maturity.



Conversely, off-the-run Treasuries are marketable Treasury debt consisting of more seasoned issues. The on-the-run Treasury will have a lower yield and higher price than a similar off-the-run issue, and they only make up a small percentage of the total issued Treasury securities.


   Interpolation  

Interpolation is simply a method used to determine the value of an unknown entity. Treasury securities issued by the U.S. government are not available for every period of time. For example, you will be able to find the yield for a 1-year bond, but not a 1.5-year bond.



To determine the value of a missing yield or interest rate to derive a yield curve, the missing information can be interpolated using various methods including bootstrapping or regression analysis. Once the interpolated yield curve has been derived, yield spreads can be calculated from it as few of the bonds have maturities comparable to those of the on-the-run Treasuries.






Because yield curves reflect the bond market's opinion of future levels of inflation, interest rates, and overall economic growth, investors can use yield curves to help them make investing decisions.


   Bootstrapping  

The bootstrapping method uses interpolation to determine the yields for Treasury zero-coupon securities with various maturities. Using this method, a coupon-bearing bond is stripped of its future cash flows—that is, coupon payments—and converted into multiple zero-coupon bonds. Typically, some rates at the short end of the curve will be known. For rates that are unknown due to insufficient liquidity at the short end, you can use inter-bank money market rates.



To recap, first interpolate rates for each missing maturity. You can do this using a linear interpolation method. Once you have determined all the term structure rates, use the bootstrapping method to derive the zero curve from the par term structure. It is an iterative process that makes it possible to derive a zero-coupon yield curve from the rates and prices of coupon-bearing bonds.


   Special Considerations  

Several different types of fixed-income securities trade at yield spreads to the interpolated yield curve, making it an important benchmark. For example, certain agency collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) trade at a spread to the I curve at a spot on the curve equal to their weighted average lives. A CMO's weighted average life will most likely lie somewhere within the on-the-run treasuries, which makes the derivation of the interpolated yield curve necessary.
What Is Interpolation?  

Interpolation is a statistical method by which related known values are used to estimate an unknown value or set of values. In investing, interpolation is used to estimate prices or the potential yield of a security. Interpolation is achieved by using other established values that are located in sequence with the unknown value.



If there is a generally consistent trend across a set of data points, one can reasonably estimate the value of the set at points that haven't been explicitly calculated. Investors and stock analysts frequently create a line chart with interpolated data points. These charts help them visualize the changes in the price of securities and are an important part of technical analysis.



Interpolation can be compared with extrapolation, which estimates unknown values that extend beyond the known data, rather than values that fall in between known data points.





Key Takeaways

Interpolation is a simple mathematical method investors use to estimate an unknown price or potential yield of a security or asset by using related known values.By using a consistent trend across a set of data points, investors can estimate unknown values and plot these values on charts representing a stock's price movement over time.One of the criticisms of using interpolation in investment analysis is that it lacks precision and does not always accurately reflect the volatility of publicly traded stocks.


   Understanding Interpolation  

Investors use interpolation to create new estimated data points between known data points on a chart. Charts representing a security's price action and volume are examples where interpolation might be used. While computer algorithms commonly generate these data points today, the concept of interpolation is not a new one. Interpolation has been used by human civilizations since antiquity, particularly by early astronomers in Mesopotamia and Asia Minor attempting to fill in gaps in their observations of the movements of the planets.



There are several formal kinds of interpolation, including linear interpolation, polynomial interpolation, and piecewise constant interpolation. Financial analysts use an interpolated yield curve to plot a graph representing the yields of recently issued U.S. Treasury bonds or notes of a specific maturity. This type of interpolation helps analysts gain insight into where the bond markets and the economy might be headed in the future.






Interpolation should not be confused with extrapolation, which refers to the estimation of a data point outside of the observable range of data. Extrapolation has a higher risk of producing inaccurate results compared to interpolation.


   Example of Interpolation  

The easiest and most prevalent kind of interpolation is a linear interpolation. This type of interpolation is useful if one is trying to estimate the value of a security or interest rate for a point at which there is no data.



Let's assume, for example, we're tracking a security price over a period of time. We'll call the line on which the value of the security is tracked the function f(x). We would plot the current price of the stock over a series of points representing moments in time. So if we record f(x) for August, October, and December, those points would be mathematically represented as xAug, xOct, and xDec, or x1, x3 and x5. 



For a number of reasons, we might want to know the value of the security during September, a month for which we don't have any data. We could use a linear interpolation algorithm to estimate the value of f(x) at plot point xSep, or x2 that appears within the existing data range.


   Criticism of Interpolation  

One of the biggest criticisms of interpolation is that although it's a fairly simple methodology that's been around for eons, it lacks precision. Interpolation in ancient Greece and Babylon was primarily about making astronomical predictions that would help farmers time their planting strategies to improve crop yields.



While the movement of planetary bodies is subject to many factors, they are still better suited to the imprecision of interpolation than the wildly variant, unpredictable volatility of publicly-traded stocks. Nevertheless, with the overwhelming mass of data involved in securities analysis, large interpolations of price movements are fairly unavoidable.



Most charts representing a stock's history are in fact widely interpolated. Linear regression is used to make the curves which approximately represent the price variations of a security. Even if a chart measuring a stock over a year included data points for every day of the year, one could never say with complete confidence where a stock will have been valued at a specific moment in time.




What Type of Interpolation Is Used in Technical Analysis?
In technical analysis, there are two main types of interpolation: linear interpolation and exponential interpolation. Linear interpolation calculates the average of two adjacent data points by drawing a straight line of best fit. Exponential interpolation instead calculates the weighted average of the adjacent data points, which can adjust for trading volume or other criteria.




How Is Interpolation Used in Trading?
Traders may employ a particular type of interpolation (also called smoothing) to represent the high-low range of price movement between a series of closing price prints. This is done by creating a linear regression line through the highs and lows of a two-day chart as shown above. Then, the slope of the regression line corresponds to (roughly) the shape of the price movement over those consecutive days. This slope can then be used as an approximation for the moving average (MA) of the high-low range. If prices are trading above the regression line (of the moving average), then traders can assume the low-range will support higher prices. On the other hand, if prices fall below the moving average, the low-range is deemed to support lower prices.




What Is Interpolation vs. Extrapolation?
Interpolation estimates unknown values that fall between two or more known data points, filling in the blanks. Extrapolation instead extends known data points outward.


   The Bottom Line  

Interpolation is a mathematical technique to estimate the values of unknown data points that fall in between existing, known data points. This process helps fill in the blanks. Technical traders use interpolation to understand how prices have behaved in the past, even when they do not have full information. Doing so can thus help predict future trends based on a more complete picture of past price action.
What Is Intertemporal Choice?  

Intertemporal choice is an economic term describing how current decisions affect what options become available in the future.  Theoretically, by not consuming today, consumption levels could increase significantly in the future, and vice versa.





Key Takeaways

Intertemporal choice refers to decisions, such as spending habits, made in the near-term that can affect future financial opportunities.Theoretically, by not consuming today, consumption levels could increase significantly in the future, and vice versa.A preference for focusing on current consumption leads many individuals to make intertemporal choices that accommodate near-term needs and wants.


   Understanding Intertemporal Choice  

Many of the choices we make have consequences for the future. For instance, deciding how much money to spend in the present and how much to squirrel away can greatly impact our quality of life both now and in the years ahead.



For companies, various investment decisions involve intertemporal choice. For individuals, on the other hand, decisions made in the near-term that can affect future financial opportunities relate mostly to saving and retirement.



An individual who saves today consumes less, causing their current utility to decline. Over time, the savings grow, increasing the number of goods the individual can consume and, therefore, the person's future utility.



Most individuals tend to be limited by budget constraints that prevent them from consuming to the extent of their desires. Nevertheless, behavioral finance theorists generally find that present bias is common, suggesting that people prefer to spend now, regardless of the impact it might have in later years.






It is common for people to make intertemporal choices that accommodate near-term needs and wants over long-term objectives.


   Intertemporal Choice Example  

If an individual makes an exorbitant purchase, such as paying for an around-the-world vacation that exceeds their usual budget and requires additional financing to cover, this could have a substantial impact on the person’s long-term wealth. The individual might take out a personal loan, max out credit cards, or, when possible, even withdraw funds from retirement accounts in order to cover the expense.



Making such a choice would reduce the assets the individual has available to continue to save for retirement. The person may have to fund supplemental forms of income to augment their salary to compensate for the decline in assets.



This could be further exacerbated if unforeseen events affect current income. A sudden loss of employment, for example, would make it difficult to recoup recent expenses and set aside funds for retirement. If a consumer made a sizable purchase and then was laid off, their intertemporal choices combined with those external factors stand to change their future opportunities.



Perhaps the individual planned to retire by a certain age or was on track to finish paying off a mortgage. The shortfall in assets could mean postponing retirement or taking out a second mortgage to help deal with the more immediate issues.


   Other Types of Intertemporal Choice  

Decisions on employment can also factor into intertemporal choices. A professional might be presented with two job opportunities with salaries that vary depending on the intensity and demands of the role.



One position may be high-stress with long hours required. The compensation might also be higher than what is standard for such a position.



As an intertemporal choice, taking such a job might allow for more options on later pension plans. Conversely, taking the job that offers a lower salary but a better work-life balance may mean having fewer retirement options with less funding available.
What Is an Inter-Vivos Trust?  

An inter-vivos trust is a fiduciary relationship used in estate planning created during the lifetime of the trustor. Also known as a living trust, this trust has a duration that is determined at the time of the trust's creation and can entail the distribution of assets to the beneficiary during or after the trustor's lifetime. The opposite of an inter-vivos trust is a testamentary trust, which goes into effect upon the death of the trustor.





Key Takeaways

An inter-vivos trust is a living trust created that holds assets of a trustor.A benefit of an inter-vivos trust is that it helps avoid probate or the legal process of distributing the owner's assets after his or her death.The trustor can also be the trustee in an inter-vivos trust during their lifetime or until a backup named in the trust is allowed to take over.


   How an Inter-Vivos Trust Works  

A trust is typically established to hold assets for the benefit of a party called the trust beneficiaries. A trustee is typically assigned to manage those assets and to ensure that the trust agreement is followed, which would include making sure the assets are distributed to the named beneficiaries.



However, an inter-vivos trust is a living trust since it allows the owner or trustor to use the assets and benefit from the trust during the trustor's lifetime. Once the trustor passes away, the assets would be distributed by the trustee to the beneficiaries. While living, the trustor, or trustors in the case of a married couple, can be the trustee, managing the assets until they are no longer able, at which time a named backup trustee assumes the duties. There are two categories of trusts that a living trust can fall under; revocable or irrevocable.


  Revocable Trust  

A revocable trust is a trust that allows changes to be made to the trust by the trustor or grantor. The trust can also be canceled by the trustor, and any income earned in the revocable trust is paid to the trustor. Following the death of the trustor, the income and assets are transferred to the beneficiaries of the trust. Revocable trusts are helpful since they’re flexible during the lifetime of the trustor but also allow the distribution of the assets from the trustor’s estate.


  Irrevocable Trust  

An irrevocable trust is a trust that does not allow changes to be made to the trust by the trustor or grantor. The trust cannot be canceled or altered once established as an irrevocable trust. Once assets are placed in an irrevocable trust, the trustor has essentially given up legal ownership of those assets. The trustee would manage the assets and distribute them to the beneficiaries upon the death of the trustor. 


   Benefits of an Inter-Vivos Trust  

An inter-vivos trust is an important estate-planning tool because it helps avoid probate, which is the process of distributing the deceased's assets in court. The probate process can be lengthy, costly, and expose a family's private financial matters by making them a matter of public record. A properly established trust helps to ensure that the assets get distributed to their intended recipients in a timely and private manner. As a result, the surviving family members receive the assets in a smooth transition without any disruption in their use.



In a living revocable trust, the trustor can also be the trustee, which means that the assets are controlled by the owner. However, since the assets are in the trustor’s name, estate taxes might apply if the value of the assets exceeds the estate-tax exemption at the time of the trustor's death.



If the trustor creates a living irrevocable trust, the trustor essentially reduces the value of the estate, (since all rights to the assets have been relinquished), and would thus reduce the taxes on the estate.






A living trust is typically established as a revocable trust and essentially becomes an irrevocable trust after the death of the trustor.


   Establishing an Inter-Vivos Trust  

In establishing a trust, the grantor names the trust parties, which include the grantors, typically the spouse; the beneficiaries; and the trustee. Sometimes, the spouses are named as trustees. However, a contingent trustee should be named in the event both spouses die.



Just about any asset can be owned by a trust. Assets such as real estate, investments, and business interests can be re-titled in the name of the trust. Some assets, such as life insurance and retirement plans, pass to a designated beneficiary so they need not be included.



In addition to assigning assets to specific beneficiaries, a trust can include instructions for the trustee to guide the timing of distribution and management of the assets while they are still held by the trust.



A will is needed to execute the trust. Essentially, the trust becomes the primary beneficiary of a will. In addition, a will acts as a “catch-all” mechanism that determines the disposition of assets that might have been excluded from the trust. It is also the will that establishes guardianship for minor children.
What Is Intestate?  

Intestate refers to dying without a legal will. When a person dies intestate, deciding how their assets will be distributed becomes the responsibility of a state probate court. An intestate estate can also be one in which the will presented to the court was deemed to be invalid.





Key Takeaways

When a person dies intestate, it means they left no legal will.If there is no will to go by, a state probate court will determine how the person’s estate will be distributed.Courts generally establish a hierarchy, with spouses and other close relatives being first in line to receive the assets.


   Understanding Intestate  

When an individual who has a valid will dies, their assets will be divided among the beneficiaries listed in that will as well as through any trusts that they might have established.



However, many people die without preparing a will. In fact, a 2021 Gallup poll showed that only 46% of Americans age 18 or older had a will. The percentage does rise among older people, Gallup found, but even at ages 65 and up, only 76% of Americans reported having one.



If a person dies without a will, they are said to have died intestate. Dying “in intestacy” means that a state probate court will have to determine how their assets are to be distributed.






It is crucial for most people to make a will, often with the assistance of an attorney, to ensure that their assets will go to the people or organizations that they want them to go to. Otherwise, a court may decide to distribute the estate to people whom the deceased person never would have chosen. It is also important for people to make sure their will is kept up to date, in case their wishes change.


   How the Probate Process Works If You Die Intestate  

Probate courts typically begin the process by appointing an administrator to oversee the estate of the deceased. The administrator will compile a list of the deceased’s assets, pay off any debts, and then distribute the remaining assets to the parties deemed beneficiaries by a probate judge.



In other words, an administrator functions like an executor (a legal representative normally named in a will).



One of the administrator’s duties is to locate the legal heirs of the deceased, which could include surviving spouses, children, parents, siblings, and other relatives. The order in which heirs inherit from a decedent’s estate when there is no will to rely on is called intestate succession. The probate court will decide who gets what.



How assets will be distributed can vary from state to state. The laws in most states divide property among the surviving spouse (if any) and children (if any) of the deceased.



In community property states, spouses are considered to be joint owners of any property acquired during the marriage and are typically entitled to at least half of the estate. Current community property states are Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin, along with the U.S. territories of Guam and Puerto Rico.



In other states, mostly common law states, the distribution hierarchy also starts with the surviving spouse. Depending on the court’s determination, they may receive less than half, more than half, or even the entire estate if the dead person left no living children or grandchildren.



If the person was unmarried or widowed at the time of their death, their assets will be divided among any surviving children before any other relative. If no next of kin can be located, then the assets in the estate will become the property of the state. This is referred to as escheatment.



Close friends of the deceased are not usually part of the list of beneficiaries under a state’s probate laws for intestate estates. However, if the deceased had a joint account with right of survivorship or owned property jointly with another person, then the joint asset will automatically belong to the surviving party (or parties).




What Does It Cost to Make a Will?
According to Investopedia’s estimates, the cost of making a will can be as little as $10 or so if you use a do-it-yourself kit. If you engage a lawyer (often a good idea), expect to pay anywhere from $150 for a simple will to $1,000 and up for a more complicated one.




What Is the Advantage of a Trust?
A trust can be a way to bypass the probate process (which all wills typically go through) so that heirs receive their inheritances more smoothly and quickly. People with trusts often have a pour-over will as well, to handle the disposition of any assets that aren’t accounted for in their trust.




What Is a Testamentary Will?
A testamentary will is another name for a traditional will, sometimes referred to as a last will and testament. The person whose wishes the will represents is known as the testator.


   The Bottom Line  

When a person dies intestate, it means that they didn’t leave behind a legal will. In that case, a state probate court will determine who will receive their assets. To avoid that possibility and to ensure that their assets go to the people or organizations that they want them to go to, most people should have a will and keep it up to date.
What Is the Intraday Momentum Index (IMI)?  

The Intraday Momentum Index (IMI), is a technical indicator that combines aspects of candlestick analysis with the relative strength index (RSI) in order to generate overbought or oversold signals.



The intraday indicator was developed by market technician Tushar Chande to aid investors with their trading decisions.





Key Takeaways

The Intraday Momentum Index (IMI) generates trading signals using relative strength (RSI) in conjunction with candlestick charting.The IMI looks at the relationship between a security’s open and close price over the course of the day, rather than how the open/close price varies between days.Technical analysts can use the IMI to anticipate when a security is overbought or oversold.


   Understanding the Intraday Momentum Index (IMI)  

Investors use technical indicators to estimate when a security, such as a stock, should be bought or sold. Technical analysis, which uses technical indicators, examines the relationship between a security's price and volume over varied periods of time. Indicators, such as the relative strength index and Bollinger bands, seek to generate buy and sell signals without examining a security’s fundamentals. As such, they are generally considered more useful for short-term traders than long-term investors.



The IMI looks at the relationship between a security’s open and close price over the course of the day, rather than how the open/close price varies between days. It combines some features of the relative strength index, namely the relationship between "up closes" and "down closes" and whether there is an indication that a stock is overbought or oversold, with candlestick charts. Candlestick charts for a given day contain a "real body" highlighting the gap between the open and close price, and price points above the high and low called upper and lower shadows.






Technical analysts can use the IMI to anticipate when a security is overbought or oversold.


   The Formula for IMI  
















IMI


=



(





∑



d


=


1



n



Gains





∑



d


=


1



n



Gains


+



∑



d


=


1



n



Losses




)



×


100
















where:
















Gains


=


CP


−


OP, on Up Days – i.e. Close


>


Open
















CP


=


Closing price
















OP


=


Opening price
















Losses


=


OP


−


CP, on Down Days – i.e. Open


<


Close
















d


=


Days
















n


=


Number of days (14 is typical)







\begin{aligned} &\text{IMI} = \left ( \frac{ \sum_{d=1}^{n} \text{Gains} }{ \sum_{d=1}^{n} \text{Gains} + \sum_{d=1}^{n} \text{Losses} } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Gains} = \text{CP} - \text{OP, on Up Days -- i.e. Close} > \text{Open} \\ &\text{CP} = \text{Closing price} \\ &\text{OP} = \text{Opening price} \\ &\text{Losses} = \text{OP} - \text{CP, on Down Days -- i.e. Open} < \text{Close} \\ &d = \text{Days} \\ &n = \text{Number of days (14 is typical)} \\ \end{aligned}


​IMI=(∑d=1n​Gains+∑d=1n​Losses∑d=1n​Gains​)×100where:Gains=CP−OP, on Up Days – i.e. Close>OpenCP=Closing priceOP=Opening priceLosses=OP−CP, on Down Days – i.e. Open<Closed=Daysn=Number of days (14 is typical)​



The IMI is calculated as the sum of gains on up days divided by the sum of gains on up days plus the sum of losses on down days. This is then multiplied by 100. If the resulting number is greater than 70 then the security is considered overbought, while a reading of less than 30 indicates that a security is oversold. The investor will look at the IMI over a period of days, with 14 days being the most common time frame to look at.


   Example Using the Intraday Momentum Index  

Let's take a look at the Intraday Momentum Index applied to the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY):












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The chart above shows how oversold or overbought IMI readings can generate buy and sell trade signals on a popular index. While these signals aren't always accurate, they may provide a greater degree of accuracy than simply using the RSI. Many traders combine these insights with other forms of technical analysis to maximize their chances of a successful trade. For example, they may look for oversold conditions and a breakout from a chart pattern before entering into a long position.
What Is Intraday?  

Intraday means "within the day." In the financial world, the term is shorthand used to describe securities that trade on the markets during regular business hours. These securities include stocks and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Intraday also signifies the highs and lows that the asset crossed throughout the day. Intraday price movements are particularly significant to short-term or day traders looking to make multiple trades over the course of a single trading session. These busy traders will settle all their positions when the market closes.





Key Takeaways

Intraday is shorthand for securities that trade on the markets during regular business hours and their price movements.Day traders pay close attention to intraday price movements, timing trades in an attempt to benefit from the short-term price fluctuations.Scalping, range trading, and news-based trading are types of intraday strategies used by traders.


   The Basics of Intraday Trading  

Intraday is often used to refer to the new highs and lows of any particular security. For example, "a new intraday high" means the security reached a new high relative to all other prices during a trading session. In some cases, an intraday high can be equal to the closing price.



Traders pay close attention to intraday price movements by using real-time charts in an attempt to benefit from short-term price fluctuations. Short-term traders typically use one-, five-, 15-, 30- and 60-minute intraday charts when trading within the market day. Typically, intraday scalping uses one- and five-minute charts for high-speed trading. Other intraday trading strategies may use 30- and 60-minute charts for trades that have hold times of several hours. Scalping is a strategy of transacting many trades per day that hopes to profit from small movements in a stock's price. The intraday trader may hold their positions for a longer period but still operate under high risks.



Volume weighted average price (VWAP) orders are often used on an intraday basis to increase trade execution efficiency by giving an order exposure to a variety of prices throughout the trading day. VWAP gives an averaged price that particular securities trade at throughout the trading day.


   Intraday Trading Strategies  

Traders use numerous intraday strategies. These strategies include:



Scalping, which attempts to make numerous small profits on small prices changes throughout the day
Range trading, which primarily uses support and resistance levels to determine their buy and sell decisions
News-based trading, which typically seizes trading opportunities from the heightened volatility around news events
High-frequency trading strategies that use sophisticated algorithms to exploit small or short-term market inefficiencies


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading  

The most significant benefit of intraday trading is that positions are not affected by the possibility of negative overnight news that has the potential to impact the price of securities materially. Such news includes vital economic and earnings reports, as well as broker upgrades and downgrades that occur either before the market opens or after the market closes.



Trading in an intraday basis offers several other key advantages. One advantage is the ability to use tight stop-loss orders—the act of raising a stop price to minimize losses from a long position. Another includes the increased access to margin—and hence, greater leverage. Intraday trading also provides traders with more learning opportunities. 



However, with every silver lining, there are also storm clouds. Disadvantages of intraday trading include insufficient time for a position to see increases in profit, in some cases any profit at all, and increased commission costs due to trading more frequently which eats away at the profit margins a trader can expect.





Pros

Positions are unaffected by risk from overnight news or off-hours broker moves.
Tight stop-loss orders can protect positions.
Regular traders have access to increased leverage.
Numerous trades increase hands-on learning experience.



Cons

Frequent trades mean multiple commission costs.
Some assets are off-limits, like mutual funds.
There may not be sufficient time for a position to realize a profit before it has to be closed out.
Losses can mount quickly, especially if margin is used to finance purchases.





   Intraday Pricing and Mutual Funds  

Mutual funds are off-limits for intraday trading. The design of these funds is for the long-term investor, and they can only be bought and sold through a broker or the fund's investment company. Also, a mutual fund's price posts only once, at the close of the trading day. This price is known as the net asset value (NAV) and reflects all of the intraday movement of the fund's assets, less its liabilities, calculated on a per-share basis.



So, mutual funds do not offer intraday pricing, as their assets fluctuate in market value and their managers make buy and sell decisions all day. However, ETFs—their passively managed cousins—are priced according to their intraday market value within a trading session.


   Real World Example of Intraday  

The price movements of any stock are posted throughout the trading day and summarized at the end of the trading day. For example, April 4, 2022, shares of Apple Inc. (AAPL) opened at $174.57 and closed at $178.44. During the day, as indicated in the "day's range" listed to the right of the closing price, shares dropped as low as $174.44—the intraday low—and hit a peak of $178.49—the intraday high.



Day traders and technical analysts who follow Apple would study the shares' moves, to see if they could discern any pattern or uncover any significant gap—that is, a sudden jump in the price with no trading in-between.
What Is an Intrapreneur?  

An intrapreneur is an employee who is tasked with developing an innovative idea or project within a company. The intrapreneur may not face the outsized risks or reap the outsized rewards of an entrepreneur; however, the intrapreneur has access to the resources and capabilities of an established company.





Key Takeaways

An intrapreneur works inside a company to develop an innovative idea or project that will enhance the company's future.The term "intrapreneur" is a portmanteau of the two words "internal" and "entrepreneur." It was first coined by Gifford Pinchot III and Elizabeth S. Pinchot in a 1978 white paper.The intrapreneur is generally given autonomy to work on a project that may have a considerable impact on the company.Over time, an intrapreneur may turn into an entrepreneur and start their own venture outside of the established organization.Intrapreneurs are typically highly motivated individuals who have specific skill sets—as well as leadership abilities and an innovative vision that others in the corporation can get behind.


   Roles of Intrapreneurs  

Intrapreneurs are employees of a company who are assigned to work on a special idea or project. They are given the time and freedom to develop the project as an entrepreneur would.



However, they are not working solo. Intrapreneurs have the resources and capabilities of the firm at their disposal.






An entrepreneur starts a company as a means of providing a good or service. An intrapreneur seeks to improve an existing company.



Intrapreneurs and entrepreneurs have different objectives. An entrepreneur envisions creating a company from the ground up. An intrapreneur has a broader vision for an established company. This vision may involve radical changes to company traditions, processes, or products. The intrapreneur typically has direct applicable skills and experience to bring to the job.


   History of Intrapreneurship  

The term "intrapreneur" is a portmanteau of the two words "internal" (or the prefix "intra" to mean internal) and "entrepreneur." It was first coined by the couple Gifford Pinchot III and Elizabeth S. Pinchot in a 1978 white paper titled "Intra-Corporate Entrepreneurship" for the Tarrytown School for Entrepreneurs. After this white paper was released, the term began to gain traction in various academic studies. In February 1985, Time magazine had an article "Here Come the Intrapreneurs" which popularized the term even further.


   Benefits of Intrapreneurship  

An entrepreneur starts a company as a means of providing a good or service. An intrapreneur explores policies, technologies, or applications that will help improve the performance of an existing company. Inevitably, as an intrapreneur develops the skills needed to recognize and solve important problems, that intrapreneur may turn into an entrepreneur.



An intrapreneur can expect to be given the freedom and autonomy needed for such a project. Day-to-day deliverables are generally not demanded. The intrapreneur is expected to analyze and understand the trends necessary for planning the company’s future. Intrapreneurs synthesize their findings and make proposals for staying ahead of their competitors.






An intrapreneur is usually given the freedom and autonomy needed to explore new projects, but sometimes they have to do this in addition to their regular day job.



Intrapreneurs often become a company’s executive leaders over time. They move the business forward and rise to the top with a deep understanding of the business from all levels. When intrapreneurs work at solving problems, they foster the growth of other talented intrapreneurs and integrate more new ideas for the good of the entire company.


   Characteristics of an Intrapreneur  

In the original "Intra-Corporate Entrepreneurship" whitepaper, Pinchot outlines that intrapreneurs are people who follow some of the following principles, including:



Risk something of value to themselves; such as time or financial sacrifice.Share the reward of an intrapreneurial project between a corporation and the intrapreneur in a defined and equitable way.Give the intrapreneur the ability to build something akin to capital.Are given independence by the corporation, after it is earned.Become their own "venture capitalist" within a corporation



Intrapreneurs are typically highly motivated individuals who have specific skill sets—as well as leadership abilities and an innovative vision that others in the corporation can get behind. Although intrapreneurs may have their "day job" and usual assignments on top of their new venture, they are willing to take certain risks and interpret trends in the marketplace to visualize the next steps that a company may need to innovate or stay ahead of the competition.


   Example of an Intrapreneur  

In less than a year on the job as eBay’s chief of staff of global product management, Healey Cypher realized the company was missing out on a major business opportunity.



At the time, eBay offered only e-commerce services to its clients. Despite the growth of Internet retail, the majority of consumer purchases are still made within 15 miles of a consumer’s home. Many eBay retailers told Cypher they wanted a physical retail presence as well.



After consulting with eBay’s chief executive officer (CEO), Cypher assembled a team of engineers to develop tools that could be used to create an eBay presence in physical stores. The engineers created an interactive storefront that Toys"R"Us eventually installed. Over the following two years, the engineers did the same for TOMS, Sony, and Rebecca Minkoff.



Cypher’s success became a new division of eBay, giving workers autonomy for solving problems and moving the company forward. Cypher became eBay's Head of Retail Innovation.




What Is the Difference Between an Entrepreneur and an Intrapreneur?
An entrepreneur envisions creating a company from the ground up. An intrapreneur works within an established corporation to develop an innovative idea or project.




Who Is Called an Intrapreneur?
Intrapreneurs are employees of a company who are assigned to work on a special idea or project. They are given the time and freedom to develop the project as an entrepreneur would.




What Is the Role of an Intrapreneur?
An intrapreneur explores policies, technologies, or applications that will help improve the performance of an existing company.




What Is the Intrapreneurial Mindset?
An intrapreneur has a broader vision for an established company. This vision may involve radical changes to company traditions, processes, or products. The intrapreneur typically has direct applicable skills and experience to bring to the job.




How Do You Become an Intrapreneur?
Intrapreneurs are high-performing employees who are typically assigned to explore new ways for a company to innovate, improve its existing products, or stay ahead of the competition; however, intrapreneurs are not always assigned this role and individuals with innovative ideas can also surface them or work on these projects on the side, before introducing them to senior leadership.


   The Bottom Line  

Intrapreneurs are often overlooked within the realm of entrepreneurship, but innovation with already established corporations can also be world-changing. In many senses, intrapreneurs get the best of both worlds: the autonomy to pursue innovative projects and the financial backing of a company that has resources and attention to devote to these strides.
What Is Intrapreneurship?  

The term intrapreneurship refers to a system that allows an employee to act like an entrepreneur within a company or other organization. Intrapreneurs are self-motivated, proactive, and action-oriented people who take the initiative to pursue an innovative product or service. An intrapreneur knows failure does not have a personal cost as it does for an entrepreneur since the organization absorbs losses that arise from failure.





Key Takeaways

Intrapreneurship is a system which allows an employee to act like an entrepreneur within an organization.Intrapreneurs are self-motivated, proactive, and action-oriented people who have leadership skills and think outside the box.Intrapreneurship is one step toward entrepreneurship—intrepreneurs can use what they've learned as part of a team to develop their own businesses.


   Understanding Intrapreneurships  

An intrapreneurship creates an entrepreneurial environment by allowing employees to use their entrepreneurial skills for the benefit of both the company and the employee. It gives employees the freedom to experiment, as well as the potential for growth within an organization.



Intrapreneurships foster autonomy and independence, while attempting to find the best resolution. For example, an intrapreneurship may require an employee to research and recommend a more efficient workflow chart to a company’s brand within a target group or implement a way to benefit company culture.



It's important for employers to recognize these employees. By not promoting intrapreneurship or recognizing employees who demonstrate an intrapreneurial spirit can be detrimental to a brand or company. Employers who encourage intrapreneurship stand to benefit because it leads to the success of the department or the company as a whole. Keeping these employees can help lead to innovation and growth. Companies that don't promote them may lose intrapreneurs to other companies, or they may end up working for themselves.



Identifying intrapreneurs can sometimes be difficult. These employees are generally self-starters who are both ambitious and goal oriented. They are often able to solve problems on their own, and come up with ideas that lead to process improvements. An intrapreneur may also take certain risks by assuming multiple tasks—even some that they may not be comfortable with—and look for new challenges.






Intrapreneurs are tasked with using the company's resources, while entrepreneurs use their own.


   Special Considerations  

Intrapreneurship is one step toward entrepreneurship. Intrapreneurs can develop and use their creativity to enhance existing goods and services within the context of the business, all without any of the risk attached to being an entrepreneur. Using these skills as part of a team lets the intrapreneur test theories and determine which methods are most effective for solving problems.



Intrapreneurs may use what they've learned as part of an organization's team to create their own company and reap the benefits of their hard work rather than letting another organization profit from their ideas.


   Types of Intrapreneurs  

By including employees from every age group when resolving issues, a variety of answers are proposed and resolutions determined in a more efficient manner, benefiting everyone in the organization. A majority of millennials are embracing the intrapreneurial style of work. They desire meaning, creativity and autonomy when working. Millennials want their own projects to develop as they help their companies grow.


   Characteristics of Intrapreneurs  

Intrapreneurs are able to resolve specific issues such as increasing productivity or cutting costs. This requires a high level of skill—namely leadership skills and thinking outside the box—directly applicable to the assignment. An intrapreneur also takes risks and drives innovation within a business to better serve the market through increased goods and services.



A successful intrapreneur is comfortable being uncomfortable while testing their ideas until achieving the desired results. They are also able to interpret trends in the marketplace and visualize how the company needs to evolve to stay ahead of its competition. The intrapreneur is part of a company's backbone and the driving force mapping out the organization’s future.


   Example of Intrapreneurship  

Ramzi Haidamus, the president of Nokia Technologies, is often considered an intrapreneur because of his initiatives with the company. He decided to do away with individual offices within three months of starting his job in 2014. He believed an open office led to more sharing of ideas and added greater value to the organization. Haidamus interviewed more than 100 engineers individually to determine which technologies had the greatest chance of being successful in the marketplace at the time.
What Is Intrinsic Value?  

Intrinsic value is a measure of what an asset is worth. This measure is arrived at by means of an objective calculation or complex financial model. Intrinsic value is different from the current market price of an asset. However, comparing it to that current price can give investors an idea of whether the asset is undervalued or overvalued.



Financial analysis uses cash flow to determine the intrinsic, or underlying, value of a company or stock. In options pricing, intrinsic value is the difference between the strike price of the option and the current market price of the underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

There are various ways to calculate intrinsic, or true, value.Discounted cash flow analysis is used for many intrinsic value calculations.Intrinsic value is a core concept that value investors use to uncover hidden investment opportunities.In options trading, intrinsic value is the difference between the current price of an asset and the strike price of the option.When an asset's market price is below its intrinsic value, it may be a smart investment.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Intrinsic Value  

There is no universal standard for calculating the intrinsic value of a company or stock. Financial analysts attempt to determine an asset's intrinsic value by using fundamental and technical analyses to gauge its actual financial performance.



While they may build valuation models using qualitative, quantitative and perceptual business factors, the metric often used in calculations for intrinsic value is discounted cash flows.



Typically, investors try to use both qualitative and quantitative factors to measure the intrinsic value of a company, but investors should keep in mind that the result is still only an estimate.



Qualitative factors are such things as business model, governance, and target markets—items specific to the what the business does. Quantitative factors refer to financial performance and include financial ratios and financial statement analysis. Perceptual factors refer to investors' perceptions of the relative worth of an asset. They're largely accounted for by means of technical analysis.



Generally speaking, intrinsic value can be considered to be how much the business is worth, as determined by selling off the whole business and its assets.


   How to Calculate Intrinsic Value  

Using discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis, cash flows are estimated based on how a business may perform in the future. Those cash flows are then discounted to today’s value to obtain the company's intrinsic value. The discount rate used is often a risk-free rate of return, such as that of the 30-year Treasury bond. It can also be the company's weighted average cost of capital (WAAC).



Discounted cash flow formula



DCF = CF1/(1+r)1 + CF2/(1+r)2 + . . . + TV/(1+r)n



CF = the expected cash flow for a specific period (e.g., CF1 = cash flow year one)



r = the discount rate



TV = the terminal value (estimated cash flow after the projection period)



n = the specific period (e.g., years, quarters, months, etc.)


  Example  

As an example, let's use the earnings available to investors from our Acme Bolt Company as cash flow. Say this figure is $200 (after adding depreciation and subtracting capital expenditures) for the latest year. If a hypothetical P/E multiple for the S&P 500 is 15, Acme's per share market value is $3,000 (15 x $200). We'll use that figure for the comparison to intrinsic value.



Using an estimated growth rate of 7%, the estimated cash flow for each of 10 years is:



Year 1: $214.00 (200 x 1.07)Year 2: $228.98 (200 x 1.072)Year 3: $245.00 (200 x 1.073 and so forth)Year 4: $262.16Year 5: $280.51Year 6: $300.15Year 7: $321.16Year 8: $343.64Year 9: $367.70Year 10: $393.43



Next, we discount these cash flows using a theoretical 30-year T-Bond rate of 3.3%. We apply it using the discounted cash flow formula (shown above) for each year. For example, the formula for the first year is CF/1 + r. The discounted cash flow for each of 10 years is:



Year 1: $207.16 (214/1.033)Year 2: $214.58 (228.98/1.0332)Year 3: $222.26 (245/1.0333 and so forth)Year 4: $230.23Year 5: $238.48Year 6: $247.02Year 7: $255.87Year 8: $265.03Year 9: $274.53Year 10: 284.35



The total discounted cash flow is $2439.51.



Then, a quick and common way to estimate the terminal value is to multiply the earnings in the final year of the projection period by a multiple of 15. That's $393.43 X 15 = $5897.10. That amount discounted is $4262.21 (5897.10/1.03310).



Finally, combine the first 10 years of discounted cash flows with the terminal cash flow for the intrinsic value:



$2439.51 + $4262.21 = $6703.72



Compared to Acme's current share price of $3000, the intrinsic value of $6701.72 indicates the stock is undervalued and is worth considering as an investment.


   Market Risk and Intrinsic Value  

A market risk element is also estimated in many valuation models. For stocks, the risk is measured by beta—an estimation of how much the stock price could fluctuate or its volatility.



A beta of one is considered neutral or correlated with the overall market. A beta greater than one means a stock has an increased risk of volatility while a beta of less than one means it has less risk than the overall market. If a stock has a high beta, there should be greater return from the cash flows to compensate for the increased risks as compared to an investment with a low beta.






Intrinsic value is a core concept that value investors use to uncover hidden investment opportunities. Investopedia's Fundamental Analysis Course will show you how to calculate the true value of a stock and capitalize on undervalued opportunities. You'll learn how to read financial statements, use ratios to determine value quickly, and more in over five hours of on-demand videos, exercises, and interactive content.


   Intrinsic Value of Options Contracts  

Intrinsic value is also used in options pricing to determine how in-the-money an option is or how much profit currently exists.



To review, an options contract grants the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying security at a preset price called the strike price. Options have expiration dates by which they must be exercised or converted to the shares of the underlying security.



The intrinsic value of both call and put options is the difference between the underlying stock's price and the strike price. If the calculated value is negative, the intrinsic value is zero. In other words, intrinsic value only measures the profit as determined by the difference between the option's strike price and market price. So, an option with a strike price that equals the market price at expiration—an at-the-money option—will have zero intrinsic value.



However, other factors such as extrinsic value can affect the value of an option and its resulting premium. It takes into account other external factors such as how much time is remaining until expiration.



If an option has no intrinsic value, meaning the strike price and the market price are equal, it might still have extrinsic value if there's enough time left before expiration to make a profit.



As a result, the amount of time value that an option has can impact an option's premium. Both intrinsic value and extrinsic value combine to make up the total value of an option's price.





Pros

Intrinsic value helps determine the value of an asset, an investment, or a company.
Intrinsic value provides the amount of profit that exists in an options contract.



Cons

Calculating the intrinsic value of a company can be subjective since it estimates risk and future cash flows.
The intrinsic value of an option is incomplete since it doesn't include the premium paid and time value.





  Example of an Option's Intrinsic Value  

Let's say a call option's strike price is $15, and the underlying stock's market price is $25 per share. The intrinsic value of the call option is $10 ($25 minus $15). If the option premium paid at the onset of the trade were $2, the total profit would be $8 if the intrinsic value was $10 at expiry.



On the other hand, let's say an investor purchases a put option with a strike price of $20 for a $5 premium when the underlying stock was trading at $16 per share. The intrinsic value of the put option is the $20 strike price less the $16 stock price, or $4 in-the-money.



An intrinsic value of $4 at expiry combined with the premium paid of $5 means the investor has a loss despite the option being in-the-money.



It's important to note that the intrinsic value does not include the premium. It's not the same as the actual profit on the trade since it doesn't include the initial cost. Intrinsic value only shows how in-the-money an option is, considering its strike price and the market price of the underlying asset.








Why Is Intrinsic Value Useful to Know?
It's useful because it can help an investor understand whether a potential investment is overvalued or undervalued. Meaning, if the market price of stock of a particular company is currently $125 and the intrinsic—or true— value is calculated at $118, then an investor may decide the stock is too expensive at this time and not worth purchasing.




What's the Difference Between Market Value and Intrinsic Value?
Market value equates to the current price of a particular asset. For example, the market price of a share of ABC Company stock may be $50 as of yesterday's market close. It may have a market price (value) of $55 at some point today, depending on buying interest. However, intrinsic value is the true value of the company, as determined using a valuation model.




Is Intrinsic Value Better Than Market Value for Investing?
Some people believe it is. Market value is determined by what people are willing to buy an asset for, based on any number of reasons. These might include someone's financial needs, short-term trading goals, and trading impulses. On the other hand, intrinsic value measures the value of an investment based on specific information about it, such as its cash flows and its actual financial performance.


   The Bottom Line  

Knowing how to calculate intrinsic value is useful for investors trying to get at an investment's true value. That's because intrinsic value is based on future cash flows, not simply where an investment may be trading currently.



Value investors in particular seek to know intrinsic value because it helps them understand whether an investment is appropriately priced, according to their investing approach. Since knowing intrinsic value is considered fundamental to analyzing securities, it's a good idea for investors to understand how to calculate it.
What Is an Introducing Broker?  

An introducing broker (IB) is a broker in the futures markets who has a direct relationship with a client, but delegates the work of the floor operation and trade execution to another futures merchant, typically a futures commission merchant (FCM). The IB is usually affiliated with the FCM, either as an independent entity that is partnered with that merchant firm or as a direct subsidiary of that FCM.





Key Takeaways

An introducing broker (IB) advises clients in the futures market but delegates trade execution and back office operations to others.The IB is usually affiliated with the FCM, either as an independent entity that is partnered with that merchant firm or as a direct subsidiary of that FCM.IBs are better able to service their clients as they are local, and their primary goal is customer service.


   Understanding Introducing Broker (IB)  

An introducing broker (IB) acts as a middleman by matching an entity seeking access to markets with a counterparty willing to take the other side of the transaction. Generally speaking, IBs make recommendations while delegating the task of executing trades to someone who operates on a trading floor. The introducing broker and whoever executes a transaction split the fees and commissions according to some agreed upon arrangement.



Introducing brokers play the same role in the futures markets as stock brokers do in the equities markets. However, they are regulated by different authorities. Stock brokers are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and are regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).﻿﻿ Futures introducing brokers are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and regulated by the National Futures Association (NFA).﻿﻿



Introducing brokers help increase efficiency and lower the work load for futures commission merchants. The arrangement allows for specialization where the IB focuses on the client while the FCM focuses on trading floor operations.



FCMs supply trading platforms on which clients have the ability to place trades online and are responsible for account management. However, the majority of FCMs would find it financially impossible to open offices around the country to serve their customers. This is where IBs excel since they typically operate out of smaller offices located all over the country.


   Examples of Introducing Brokers  

Many IBs are one-person operations, while others are larger, multi-location businesses. IBs are better able to service their clients as they are local, and their primary goal is customer service. Outsourcing the prospecting and servicing of clients to the IBs creates economies of scale for FCMs and the futures industry.



Most IBs do not have the financial resources to execute trades for their clients directly because that requires a direct relationship with futures exchanges and the large overhead of maintaining accounts, trades, and reporting, as well as developing and maintaining trading platforms.



IBs allow FCMs to do business on a local basis while using the FCM's infrastructure for trading.
What Is Inventory?  

The term inventory refers to the raw materials used in production as well as the goods produced that are available for sale. A company's inventory represents one of the most important assets it has because the turnover of inventory represents one of the primary sources of revenue generation and subsequent earnings for the company's shareholders. There are three types of inventory, including raw materials, work-in-progress, and finished goods. It is categorized as a current asset on a company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Inventory is the raw materials used to produce goods as well as the goods that are available for sale.It is classified as a current asset on a company's balance sheet.The three types of inventory include raw materials, work-in-progress, and finished goods. Inventory is valued in one of three ways, including the first-in, first-out method; the last-in, first-out method; and the weighted average method.Inventory management allows businesses to minimize inventory costs as they create or receive goods on an as-needed basis.


   Understanding Inventory   

Inventory is a very important asset for any company. It is defined as the array of goods used in production or finished goods held by a company during its normal course of business. There are three general categories of inventory, including raw materials (any supplies that are used to produce finished goods), work-in-progress (WIP), and finished goods or those that are ready for sale.



As noted above, inventory is classified as a current asset on a company's balance sheet, and it serves as a buffer between manufacturing and order fulfillment. When an inventory item is sold, its carrying cost transfers to the cost of goods sold (COGS) category on the income statement.



Inventory can be valued in three ways. These methods are the:



First-in, first-out (FIFO) method, which says that the cost of goods sold is based on the cost of the earliest purchased materials. The carrying cost of remaining inventory, on the other hand, is based on the cost of the latest purchased materials
Last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, which states that the cost of goods sold is valued using the cost of the latest purchased materials, while the value of the remaining inventory is based on the earliest purchased materials.
Weighted average method, which requires valuing both inventory and the COGS based on the average cost of all materials bought during the period.






Company management, analysts, and investors can use a company's inventory turnover to determine how many times it sells its products over a certain period of time. Inventory turnover can indicate whether a company has too much or too little inventory on hand.


   Special Considerations   

Many producers partner with retailers to consign their inventory. Consignment inventory is the inventory owned by the supplier/producer (generally a wholesaler) but held by a customer (generally a retailer). The customer then purchases the inventory once it has been sold to the end customer or once they consume it (e.g., to produce their own products).



The benefit to the supplier is that their product is promoted by the customer and readily accessible to end users. The benefit to the customer is that they do not expend capital until it becomes profitable to them. This means they only purchase it when the end user purchases it from them or until they consume the inventory for their operations.


  Inventory Management  

Possessing a high amount of inventory for a long time is usually not a good idea for a business. That's because of the challenges it presents, including storage costs, spoilage costs, and the threat of obsolescence.



Possessing too little inventory also has its disadvantages. For instance, a company runs the risk of market share erosion and losing profit from potential sales.



Inventory management forecasts and strategies, such as a just-in-time (JIT) inventory system (with backflush costing), can help companies minimize inventory costs because goods are created or received only when needed.


   Types of Inventory  

Remember that inventory is generally categorized as raw materials, work-in-progress, and finished goods. The IRS also classifies merchandise and supplies as additional categories of inventory.



Raw materials are unprocessed materials used to produce a good. Examples of raw materials include:



Aluminum and steel for the manufacture of carsFlour for bakeries that produce breadCrude oil held by refineries



Work-in-progress inventory is the partially finished goods waiting for completion and resale. WIP inventory is also known as inventory on the production floor. A half-assembled airliner or a partially completed yacht is often considered to be work-in-process inventory.



Finished goods are products that go through the production process, and are completed and ready for sale. Retailers typically refer to this inventory as merchandise. Common examples of merchandise include electronics, clothes, and cars held by retailers.




How Do You Define Inventory?
Inventory refers to a company’s goods and products that are ready to sell, along with the raw materials that are used to produce them. Inventory can be categorized in three different ways, including raw materials, work-in-progress, and finished goods.In accounting, inventory is considered a current asset because a company typically plans to sell the finished products within a year.Methods to value the inventory include last-in, first-out (LIFO); first-in, first-out (FIFO); and the weighted average method.




What Is an Example of Inventory?
Consider a fashion retailer such as Zara, which operates on a seasonal schedule. Because of the fast fashion nature of turnover, Zara, like other fashion retailers is under pressure to sell inventory rapidly. Zara's merchandise is an example of inventory in the finished product stage. On the other hand, the fabric and other production materials are considered a raw material form of inventory.




What Can Inventory Tell You About a Business?
One way to track the performance of a business is the speed of its inventory turnover. When a business sells inventory at a faster rate than its competitors, it incurs lower holding costs and decreased opportunity costs. As a result, they often outperform, since this helps with the efficiency of its sale of goods.
What Is Inventory Accounting?  

Inventory accounting is the body of accounting that deals with valuing and accounting for changes in inventoried assets. A company's inventory typically involves goods in three stages of production: raw goods, in-progress goods, and finished goods that are ready for sale. Inventory accounting will assign values to the items in each of these three processes and record them as company assets. Assets are goods that will likely be of future value to the company, so they need to be accurately valued in order for the company to have a precise valuation.





Key Takeaways

Inventory accounting determines the specific value of assets at certain stages in their development and production. This accounting method ensures an accurate representation of the value of all assets, company-wide. Careful examination by a company of these values could lead to increased profit margins at each stage of the product. 



Inventory items at any of the three production stages can change in value. Changes in value can occur for a number of reasons including depreciation, deterioration, obsolescence, change in customer taste, increased demand, decreased market supply, and so on. An accurate inventory accounting system will keep track of these changes to inventory goods at all three production stages and adjust company asset values and the costs associated with the inventory accordingly.


   How Inventory Accounting Works  

GAAP requires inventory to be properly accounted for according to a very particular set of standards, to limit the potential of overstating profit by understating inventory value. Profit is revenue minus costs. Revenue is generated by selling inventory. If the inventory value (or cost) is understated, then the profit associated with the sale of the inventory may be overstated. That can potentially inflate the company's valuation.



The other item the GAAP rules guard against is the potential for a company to overstate its value by overstating the value of inventory. Since inventory is an asset, it affects the overall value of the company. A company which is manufacturing or selling an outdated item might see a decrease in the value of its inventory. Unless this is accurately captured in the company financials, the value of the company's assets and thus the company itself might be inflated.


   Advantages of Inventory Accounting  

The main advantage of inventory accounting is to have an accurate representation of the company's financial health. However, there are some additional advantages to keeping track of the value of items through their respective production stages. Namely, inventory accounting allows businesses to assess where they may be able to increase profit margins on a product at a particular place in that product's cycle.



This can be seen most prominently in products that require exceptional time or expense in secondary stages of production. Items such as pharmaceuticals, machinery, and technology are three products that require large amounts of expense after their initial designing. By evaluating the value of the product at a certain stage⁠—such as clinical trials or transportation of the product⁠—a company can adjust the variables at that stage to keep the product value the same while increasing their profit margins by decreasing expenses.
What Is Inventory Financing?  

The term inventory financing refers to a short-term loan or a revolving line of credit that is acquired by a company so it can purchase products to sell at a later date. These products serve as the collateral for the loan.



Inventory financing—also known as warehouse financing—is useful for companies that must pay their suppliers for stock that will be warehoused before being sold to customers. It is particularly critical as a way to smooth out the financial effects of seasonal fluctuations in cash flows and can help a company achieve higher sales volumes by allowing it to acquire extra inventory for use on demand.





Key Takeaways

Inventory financing is credit obtained by businesses to pay for products that aren't intended for immediate sale.Financing is collateralized by the inventory it is used to purchase.Inventory financing is often used by smaller privately-owned businesses that don't have access to other options.Businesses rely on it to keep cash flow steady, update product lines, increase inventory supplies, and respond to high demand.Although businesses don't have to rely on personal or business credit history and assets to qualify, they may be stressed by additional debt if they're new or struggling.


   How Inventory Financing Works  

Inventory financing is a form of asset-based financing. Businesses turn to lenders so they can purchase the materials they need to manufacture products they intend to sell at a later date.



This kind of financing is common for small to mid-sized retailers and wholesalers, especially those with a large amount of available stock. That's because they typically lack the financial history and available assets to secure the institutional-sized financing options larger corporations are able to access, such as Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT).



Because they are generally private companies, they cannot raise money by issuing bonds or new rounds of stock. Companies may use all or part of their existing stock or the material they purchase as collateral for a loan that is used for general business expenses.



As noted above, inventory financing allows businesses to purchase inventory to run their businesses. The reasons why they rely on this kind of financing include:



Keeping cash flow steady through busy and slow seasons
Updating product lines
Increasing supplies of inventory
Responding to (high) customer demand






Some banks are wary of inventory financing because they don't want the burden of collecting the collateral in case of default.


   Special Considerations  

Banks and their credit teams consider inventory financing on a case-by-case basis, looking at factors like resale value, perishability, theft, and loss provisions as well as business, economic, and industry inventory cycles, logistical and shipping constraints. This may explain why so many businesses weren't able to get inventory financing after the credit crisis of 2008. When an economy is mired in recession and unemployment rises, consumer goods that aren't staples remain unsold.



Depreciation is another factor lenders consider. And not all forms of collateral are equal. Inventory of any kind tends to depreciate in value over time. The business owner who seeks inventory financing may not be able to obtain the full upfront cost of the inventory. As such, any potential hiccup is factored into setting an interest rate on an asset-backed loan.



Inventory financing is not always the solution. Banks may view inventory financing as a type of unsecured loan. That's because if the business can't sell its inventory, the bank may not be able to either. If a retailer or a wholesaler makes a bad bet on a trend, the bank could get stuck with the goods.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Inventory Financing  

There are a variety of reasons why businesses may want to turn to inventory financing. But while there are plenty of positives, there are downsides. We've listed some of the most common ones below.


  Advantages  

By turning to lenders for inventory financing, companies don't have to rely on their business or personal credit ratings or history. And smaller business owners don't have to put up their personal or business assets in order to secure financing.



Being able to access credit allows companies to sell more products to their consumers over a longer stretch of time. Without financing, business owners may need to rely on their own sources of income or personal assets in order to make the purchases they need to keep their operations going.



Businesses don't need to be established to be eligible for inventory financing. In fact, most lenders only require companies to be up and running for a minimum of six months to a year in order to qualify. This allows newer business owners to access credit quickly.


  Disadvantages  

New businesses may already be saddled with debt as they try to establish themselves. Getting inventory financing can add to their liabilities. As a result, these companies may not have the means to repay, which can lead to restrictions on future credit as well as an undue burden on existing finances.



In some cases, lenders may not issue the full amount required to purchase inventory. This can lead to delays and shortfalls. This may be common in the cases of newer businesses or those that have a harder time securing the amount of money they need to keep their operations running smoothly.



The costs to borrow may be high. Fees and interest rates may be high for businesses that are struggling. Having to pay more in additional charges may put more stress on these companies.





Pros

Businesses don't need to rely on business credit ratings/history and assets to qualify
Companies can sell more products to customers over longer periods of time
Newer businesses are eligible and can access credit quickly



Cons

Repayment may be problematic for new and struggling companies
Lenders may not advance the full amount requested
Higher fees and interest rates for new and struggling businesses





   Types of Inventory Financing  

Lenders provide businesses with two different kinds of inventory financing. The option that the company chooses is dependent on its business operations. Interest rates and fees depend on the lender and the type of business.



Inventory loan: Also referred to as term loans, this kind of financing is based on the total value of the company's inventory. Just like a regular loan, the lender issues the company a specific amount of money. The company agrees to make fixed payments every month or to pay the loan off in full once the inventory is sold.
Line of credit: This form of financing provides businesses with revolving credit, unlike a loan. It gives them regular access to credit as long as they make regular monthly payments to satisfy the terms and conditions of the contract.
What Is Inventory Management?  

Inventory management refers to the process of ordering, storing, using, and selling a company's inventory. This includes the management of raw materials, components, and finished products, as well as warehousing and processing of such items. There are different types of inventory management, each with its pros and cons, depending on a company’s needs.





Key Takeaways

Inventory management is the entire process of managing inventories from raw materials to finished products.Inventory management tries to efficiently streamline inventories to avoid both gluts and shortages.Four major inventory management methods include just-in-time management (JIT), materials requirement planning (MRP), economic order quantity (EOQ) , and days sales of inventory (DSI).There are pros and cons to each of the methods, reviewed below.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   The Benefits of Inventory Management  

A company's inventory is one of its most valuable assets. In retail, manufacturing, food services, and other inventory-intensive sectors, a company's inputs and finished products are the core of its business. A shortage of inventory when and where it's needed can be extremely detrimental.



At the same time, inventory can be thought of as a liability (if not in an accounting sense). A large inventory carries the risk of spoilage, theft, damage, or shifts in demand. Inventory must be insured, and if it is not sold in time it may have to be disposed of at clearance prices—or simply destroyed.



For these reasons, inventory management is important for businesses of any size. Knowing when to restock inventory, what amounts to purchase or produce, what price to pay—as well as when to sell and at what price—can easily become complex decisions. Small businesses will often keep track of stock manually and determine the reorder points and quantities using spreadsheet (Excel) formulas. Larger businesses will use specialized enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. The largest corporations use highly customized software as a service (SaaS) applications.



Appropriate inventory management strategies vary depending on the industry. An oil depot is able to store large amounts of inventory for extended periods of time, allowing it to wait for demand to pick up. While storing oil is expensive and risky—a fire in the U.K. in 2005 led to millions of pounds in damage and fines—there is no risk that the inventory will spoil or go out of style. For businesses dealing in perishable goods or products for which demand is extremely time-sensitive—2021 calendars or fast-fashion items, for example—sitting on inventory is not an option, and misjudging the timing or quantities of orders can be costly.



For companies with complex supply chains and manufacturing processes, balancing the risks of inventory glut and shortages is especially difficult. To achieve these balances, firms have developed several methods for inventory management, including just-in-time (JIT) and materials requirement planning (MRP).






Some companies, such as financial services firms, do not have physical inventory and so must rely on service process management.


   Accounting for Inventory  

Inventory represents a current asset since a company typically intends to sell its finished goods within a short amount of time, typically a year. Inventory has to be physically counted or measured before it can be put on a balance sheet. Companies typically maintain sophisticated inventory management systems capable of tracking real-time inventory levels.



Inventory is accounted for using one of three methods: first-in-first-out (FIFO) costing; last-in-first-out (LIFO) costing; or weighted-average costing. An inventory account typically consists of four separate categories: 



Raw materials — represent various materials a company purchases for its production process. These materials must undergo significant work before a company can transform them into a finished good ready for sale. 
Work in process (also known as goods-in-process) — represents raw materials in the process of being transformed into a finished product.
Finished goods — are completed products readily available for sale to a company's customers.
Merchandise — represents finished goods a company buys from a supplier for future resale.


   Inventory Management Methods  

Depending on the type of business or product being analyzed, a company will use various inventory management methods. Some of these management methods include just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing, materials requirement planning (MRP), economic order quantity (EOQ), and days sales of inventory (DSI). There are others, but these are the four most common methods used to analyze inventory.


  1. Just-in-Time Management (JIT)  

This manufacturing model originated in Japan in the 1960s and 1970s. Toyota Motor (TM) contributed the most to its development. The method allows companies to save significant amounts of money and reduce waste by keeping only the inventory they need to produce and sell products. This approach reduces storage and insurance costs, as well as the cost of liquidating or discarding excess inventory.



JIT inventory management can be risky. If demand unexpectedly spikes, the manufacturer may not be able to source the inventory it needs to meet that demand, damaging its reputation with customers and driving business toward competitors. Even the smallest delays can be problematic; if a key input does not arrive "just in time," a bottleneck can result.


  2. Materials Requirement Planning (MRP)  

This inventory management method is sales-forecast dependent, meaning that manufacturers must have accurate sales records to enable accurate planning of inventory needs and to communicate those needs with materials suppliers in a timely manner. For example, a ski manufacturer using an MRP inventory system might ensure that materials such as plastic, fiberglass, wood, and aluminum are in stock based on forecasted orders. Inability to accurately forecast sales and plan inventory acquisitions results in a manufacturer's inability to fulfill orders.


  3. Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)  

This model is used in inventory management by calculating the number of units a company should add to its inventory with each batch order to reduce the total costs of its inventory while assuming constant consumer demand. The costs of inventory in the model include holding and setup costs.



The EOQ model seeks to ensure that the right amount of inventory is ordered per batch so a company does not have to make orders too frequently and there is not an excess of inventory sitting on hand. It assumes that there is a trade-off between inventory holding costs and inventory setup costs, and total inventory costs are minimized when both setup costs and holding costs are minimized.


  4. Days Sales of Inventory (DSI)  

This financial ratio indicates the average time in days that a company takes to turn its inventory, including goods that are a work in progress, into sales. DSI is also known as the average age of inventory, days inventory outstanding (DIO), days in inventory (DII), days sales in inventory or days inventory and is interpreted in multiple ways.



Indicating the liquidity of the inventory, the figure represents how many days a company’s current stock of inventory will last. Generally, a lower DSI is preferred as it indicates a shorter duration to clear off the inventory, though the average DSI varies from one industry to another.


   Inventory Management Red Flags  

If a company frequently switches its method of inventory accounting without reasonable justification, it is likely its management is trying to paint a brighter picture of its business than what is true. The SEC requires public companies to disclose LIFO reserve that can make inventories under LIFO costing comparable to FIFO costing.



Frequent inventory write-offs can indicate a company's issues with selling its finished goods or inventory obsolescence. This can also raise red flags with a company's ability to stay competitive and manufacture products that appeal to consumers going forward.




What Are the Four Main Types of Inventory Management?
The four types of inventory management are just-in-time management (JIT), materials requirement planning (MRP), economic order quantity (EOQ) , and days sales of inventory (DSI). Each inventory management style works better for different businesses, and there are pros and cons to each type.




How Did Tim Cook Use Inventory Management at Apple?
Tim Cook is known as an inventory genius. “Inventory is like dairy products,” Cook is quoted saying. “No one wants to buy spoiled milk.” For this reason, inventory management can save a company millions.




What Is an Example of Inventory Management?
Let's look at an example of a just-in-time (JIT) inventory system. With this method, a company receives goods as close as possible to when they are actually needed. So, if a car manufacturer needs to install airbags into a car, it receives airbags as those cars come onto the assembly line instead of having a stock on supply at all times.


   The Bottom Line  

Inventory management is a crucial part of business operations. Proper inventory management depends on the type of business and what type of product it sells. There may not be one perfect type of inventory management, because there are pros and cons to each. But taking advantage of the most fitting type of inventory management style can go a long way.
What Is Inventory Turnover?  

Inventory turnover is a financial ratio showing how many times a company turned over its inventory relative to its cost of goods sold (COGS) in a given period. A company can then divide the days in the period, typically a fiscal year, by the inventory turnover ratio to calculate how many days it takes, on average, to sell its inventory.



The inventory turnover ratio can help businesses make better decisions on pricing, manufacturing, marketing, and purchasing. It is one of the efficiency ratios measuring how effectively a company uses its assets.





Key Takeaways

Inventory turnover measures how efficiently a company uses its inventory by dividing the cost of goods sold by the average inventory value during the period.Inventory turnover ratios are only useful for comparing similar companies, and are particularly important for retailers.A relatively low inventory turnover ratio may be a sign of weak sales or excess inventory, while a higher ratio signals strong sales but may also indicate inadequate inventory stocking.Accounting policies, rapid changes in costs, and seasonal factors may distort inventory turnover comparisons.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Inventory Turnover Formula and Calculation  
















Inventory Turnover


=



COGS


Average Value of Inventory

















where:
















COGS


=


Cost of goods sold







\begin{aligned} &\text{Inventory Turnover} = \frac{ \text{COGS} }{ \text{Average Value of Inventory} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{COGS} = \text{Cost of goods sold} \\ \end{aligned}


​Inventory Turnover=Average Value of InventoryCOGS​where:COGS=Cost of goods sold​
Cost of goods sold (COGS) is also known as cost of sales. Analysts use COGS instead of sales in the formula for inventory turnover because inventory is typically valued at cost, whereas the sales figure includes the company’s markup. Some companies may use sales instead of COGS in the calculation, which would tend to inflate the resulting ratio.
Secondly, average value of inventory is used to offset seasonality effects. It is calculated by adding the value of inventory at the end of a period to the value of inventory at the end of the prior period and dividing the sum by 2.


   What Can Inventory Turnover Tell You?  

Inventory turnover measures how often a company replaces inventory relative to its cost of sales. Generally, the higher the ratio, the better.



A low inventory turnover ratio might be a sign of weak sales or excessive inventory, also known as overstocking. It could indicate a problem with a retail chain’s merchandising strategy, or inadequate marketing.



A high inventory turnover ratio, on the other hand, suggests strong sales. Alternatively, it could be the result of insufficient inventory. As problems go, ensuring a company has sufficient inventory to support strong sales is a better one to have than needing to scale down inventory because business is lagging.






A low inventory turnover ratio can be an advantage during periods of inflation or supply chain disruptions, if it reflects an inventory increase ahead of supplier price hikes or higher demand. Retail inventories fell sharply in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving the industry scrambling to meet demand during the ensuing recovery.



The speed with which a company can turn over inventory is a critical measure of business performance. Retailers that turn inventory into sales faster tend to outperform comparable competitors. The longer an inventory item remains in stock, the higher its holding cost, and the lower the likelihood that customers will return to shop.



The fast fashion business is an example. Competitors including H&M and Zara typically limit runs and replace depleted inventory quickly with new items. Slow-selling items equate to higher holding costs. There is also the opportunity cost of low inventory turnover; an item that takes a long time to sell delays the stocking of new merchandise that might prove more popular.



A decline in the inventory turnover ratio may signal diminished demand, leading businesses to reduce output.


   Inventory Turnover and Dead Stock  

Inventory turnover is an especially important piece of data for maximizing efficiency in the sale of perishable and other time-sensitive goods. Examples include groceries, fashion, autos, and periodicals.



An overabundance of cashmere sweaters, for instance, may lead to unsold inventory and lost profits, especially as seasons change and retailers restock accordingly. Such unsold stock is known as obsolete inventory, or dead stock.


   Related Inventory Ratios  

The inventory-to-saIes ratio is the inverse of the inventory turnover ratio, with the additional distinction that it compares inventories with net sales rather than the cost of sales.



Another ratio inverse to inventory turnover is days sales of inventory (DSI), marking the average number of days it takes to turn inventory into sales. DSI is calculated as average value of inventory divided by cost of sales or COGS, and multiplied by 365.


   Example of an Inventory Turnover Calculation  
  Walmart Inc. (WMT)  

For fiscal year 2022, Walmart Inc. (WMT) reported cost of sales of $429 billion and year-end inventory of $56.5 billion, up from $44.9 billion a year earlier.



Walmart’s inventory turnover ratio for the year was:



$429 billion ÷ [($56.5 billion + $44.9 billion)/2], or about 8.5



Its days inventory equaled:



(365 ÷ 8.5), or about 42 days



This showed that Walmart turned over its inventory every 42 days on average during the year.


   What Are the Limitations of Inventory Turnover?  

Inventory turnover is only useful for comparing similar companies, because the ratio varies widely by industry. For example, listed U.S. auto dealers turned over their inventory every 55 days on average in 2021, compared with every 23 days for publicly traded food store chains.



A relatively high inventory turnover ratio might indicate insufficient stocking that is costing the company sales, while low inventory turnover could reflect bulk orders helping the company cut costs or preparations for a product launch, rather than inefficient inventory management.



Because the inventory turnover ratio uses cost of sales or COGS in its numerator, the result depends crucially on the company’s cost accounting policies and is sensitive to changes in costs. For example, a cost pool allocation to inventory might be recorded as an expense in future periods, affecting the average value of inventory used in the inventory turnover ratio’s denominator.



Meanwhile, if inventory turnover ratio increases as a result of discounts or closeouts, profitability and return on investment (ROI) might suffer.




How Do You Calculate Inventory Turnover?
Inventory turnover measures how efficiently a company uses its inventory by dividing its cost of sales, or cost of goods sold (COGS), by the average value of its inventory for the same period. It is an especially important efficiency ratio for retailers.




What Is a Good Inventory Turnover?
What counts as a “good” inventory turnover ratio will depend on the benchmark for a given industry. In general, industries stocking products that are relatively inexpensive will tend to have higher inventory turnover ratios than those selling big-ticket items.




Is High Inventory Turnover Good or Bad?
Companies will almost always aspire to have a high inventory turnover. After all, high inventory turnover reduces the amount of capital that they have tied up in their inventory. It also helps increase profitability by increasing revenue relative to fixed costs such as store leases, as well as the cost of labor. In some cases, however, high inventory turnover can be a sign of inadequate inventory that is costing the company sales.




How Can Inventory Turnover Be Improved?
Some retailers may employ open-to-buy purchase budgeting or inventory management software to ensure that they’re stocking enough to maximize sales without wasting capital or taking unnecessary risks. Companies with localized supply chains and short production lead times may also use a pull-through production system, which procures the production materials and starts manufacturing only after a customer orders the finished product.


   The Bottom Line  

A company's inventory turnover ratio reveals the number of times a company turned over its inventory relative to its COGS in a given time period. This ratio is useful to a business in guiding its decisions regarding pricing, manufacturing, marketing, and purchasing. It is of particular importance in retail.
What Is an Inventory Write-Off?  

An inventory write-off is an accounting term for the formal recognition of a portion of a company's inventory that no longer has value. An inventory write-off may be recorded in one of two ways. It may be expensed directly to the cost of goods sold (COGS) account, or it may offset the inventory asset account in a contra asset account, commonly referred to as the allowance for obsolete inventory or inventory reserve.





Key Takeaways

An inventory write-off is the formal recognition of a portion of a company's inventory that no longer has value.Write-offs typically happen when inventory becomes obsolete, spoils, becomes damaged, or is stolen or lost.The two methods of writing off inventory include the direct write off method and the allowance method.If inventory only decreases in value, instead of losing it completely, it will be written down instead of written off.


   Understanding Inventory Write-Off  

Inventory refers to assets owned by a business to be sold for revenue or converted into goods to be sold for revenue. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that any item that represents a future economic value to a company be defined as an asset.﻿﻿﻿﻿ Since inventory meets the requirements of an asset, it is reported at cost on a company’s balance sheet under the section for current assets.



In some cases, inventory may become obsolete, spoil, become damaged, or be stolen or lost. When these situations occur, a company must write off the inventory.


   Accounting for Inventory Write-Off  

An inventory write-off is a process of removing from the general ledger any inventory that has no value. There are two methods companies can use to write off inventory: the direct write-off, and the allowance method.


  Direct Write-Off Method vs. Allowance Method  

Using the direct write-off method, a business will record a credit to the inventory asset account and a debit to the expense account. For example, say a company with $100,000 worth of inventory decides to write off $10,000 in inventory at the end of the year. First, the firm will credit the inventory account with the value of the write-off to reduce the balance. The value of the gross inventory will be reduced as such: $100,000 - $10,000 = $90,000. Next, the inventory write-off expense account will be increased with a debit to reflect the loss.



The expense account is reflected in the income statement, reducing the firm’s net income and thus its retained earnings. A decrease in retained earnings translates into a corresponding decrease in the shareholders’ equity section of the balance sheet.



If the inventory write-off is immaterial, a business will often charge the inventory write-off to the cost of goods sold (COGS) account. The problem with charging the amount to the COGS account is that it distorts the gross margin of the business, as there is no corresponding revenue entered for the sale of the product. Most inventory write-offs are small, annual expenses. A large inventory write-off (such as one caused by a warehouse fire) may be categorized as a non-recurring loss.



The other method for writing off inventory, known as the allowance method, may be more appropriate when inventory can be reasonably estimated to have lost value, but the inventory has not yet been disposed of. Using the allowance method, a business will record a journal entry with a credit to a contra asset account, such as inventory reserve or the allowance for obsolete inventory. An offsetting debit will be made to an expense account.



When the asset is actually disposed of, the inventory account will be credited and the inventory reserve account will be debited to reduce both. This is useful in preserving the historical cost in the original inventory account.


   Special Consideration  

Large, recurring inventory write-offs can indicate that a company has poor inventory management. The company may be purchasing excessive or duplicate inventory because it has lost track of certain items, or it is using existing inventory inefficiently. Companies that don't want to admit to such problems may resort to dishonest techniques to reduce the apparent size of the obsolete or unusable inventory. These tactics may constitute inventory fraud.


   Inventory Write-Off vs. Write-Down  

If the inventory still has some fair market value, but its fair market value is found to be less than its book value, it will be written down instead of written off. When the market price of the inventory falls below its cost, accounting rules require that a company write down or reduce the reported value of the inventory on the financial statement to the market value.﻿



The amount to be written down is the difference between the book value of the inventory and the amount of cash that the business can obtain by disposing of the inventory in the most optimal manner. Write-downs are reported in the same way as write-offs, but instead of debiting an inventory write-off expense account, an inventory write-down expense account is debited.



An inventory write-off (or write-down) should be recognized at once. The loss or reduction in value cannot be spread and recognized over multiple periods, as this would imply that there is some future benefit associated with the inventory item.
What Is an Inverse Correlation?  

An inverse correlation, also known as negative correlation, is a contrary relationship between two variables such that when the value of one variable is high then the value of the other variable is probably low.



For example, with variables A and B, as A has a high value, B has a low value, and as A has a low value, B has a high value. In statistical terminology, an inverse correlation is often denoted by the correlation coefficient "r" having a value between -1 and 0, with r = -1 indicating perfect inverse correlation.





Key Takeaways

Inverse (or negative) correlation is when two variables in a data set are related such that when one is high the other is low.Even though two variables may have a strong negative correlation, this does not necessarily imply that the behavior of one has any causal influence on the other.The relationship between two variables can change over time and may have periods of positive correlation as well.


   Graphing Inverse Correlation  

Two sets of data points can be plotted on a graph on an x and y-axis to check for correlation. This is called a scatter diagram, and it represents a visual way to check for a positive or negative correlation. The graph below illustrates a strong inverse correlation between two sets of data points plotted on the graph.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Example of Calculating Inverse Correlation  

Correlation can be calculated between variables within a set of data to arrive at a numerical result, the most common of which is known as Pearson's r. When r is less than 0, this indicates an inverse correlation. Here is an arithmetic example calculation of Pearson's r, with a result that shows an inverse correlation between two variables.



Assume an analyst needs to calculate the degree of correlation between the X and Y in the following data set with seven observations on the two variables:



X: 55, 37, 100, 40, 23, 66, 88Y: 91, 60, 70, 83, 75, 76, 30



There are three steps involved in finding the correlation. First, add up all the X values to find SUM(X), add up all the Y values to find SUM(Y) and multiply each X value with its corresponding Y value and sum them to find SUM(X,Y):












SUM


(


X


)









=


55


+


37


+


100


+


40


+


23


+


66


+


88
















=


409







\begin{aligned} \text{SUM}(X) &= 55 + 37 + 100 + 40 + 23 + 66 + 88 \\ &= 409 \\ \end{aligned}


SUM(X)​=55+37+100+40+23+66+88=409​












SUM


(


Y


)









=


91


+


60


+


70


+


83


+


75


+


76


+


30
















=


485







\begin{aligned} \text{SUM}(Y) &= 91 + 60 + 70 + 83 + 75 + 76 + 30 \\ &= 485 \\ \end{aligned}


SUM(Y)​=91+60+70+83+75+76+30=485​



















SUM


(


X


,


Y


)









=


(


55


×


91


)


+


(


37


×


60


)


+


…


+


(


88


×


30


)
















=


26


,


926







\begin{aligned} \\\text{SUM}(X,Y) &= (55 \times 91) + (37 \times 60) + \dotso + (88 \times 30) \\&= 26,926 \\\end{aligned}


SUM(X,Y)​=(55×91)+(37×60)+…+(88×30)=26,926​



The next step is to take each X value, square it and sum up all these values to find SUM(x2). The same must be done for the Y values:








SUM


(



X


2



)


=


(


5



5


2



)


+


(


3



7


2



)


+


(


10



0


2



)


+


…


+


(


8



8


2



)


=


28


,


623



\text{SUM}(X^2) = (55^2) + (37^2) + (100^2) + \dotso + (88^2) = 28,623


SUM(X2)=(552)+(372)+(1002)+…+(882)=28,623








SUM


(



Y


2



)


=


(


9



1


2



)


+


(


6



0


2



)


+


(


7



0


2



)


+


…


+


(


3



0


2



)


=


35


,


971



\text{SUM}(Y^2) = (91^2) + (60^2) + (70^2) + \dotso + (30^2) = 35,971


SUM(Y2)=(912)+(602)+(702)+…+(302)=35,971



Noting there are seven observations, n, the following formula can be used to find the correlation coefficient, r:








r


=




[


n


×


(


SUM


(


X


,


Y


)


−


(


SUM


(


X


)


×


(


SUM


(


Y


)


)


]





[


(


n


×


SUM


(



X


2



)


−


SUM


(


X



)


2



]


×


[


n


×


SUM


(



Y


2



)


−


SUM


(


Y



)


2



)


]






r = \frac{[n \times (\text{SUM}(X,Y) - (\text{SUM}(X) \times ( \text{SUM}(Y) ) ]} {\sqrt{[(n \times \text{SUM}(X^2) - \text{SUM}(X)^2 ] \times [n \times \text{SUM}(Y^2) - \text{SUM}(Y)^2)]}}


r=[(n×SUM(X2)−SUM(X)2]×[n×SUM(Y2)−SUM(Y)2)]​[n×(SUM(X,Y)−(SUM(X)×(SUM(Y))]​



In this example, the correlation is:








r


=




(


7


×


26


,


926


−


(


409


×


485


)


)





(


(


7


×


28


,


623


−


40



9


2



)


×


(


7


×


35


,


971


−


48



5


2



)


)






r = \frac{(7 \times 26,926 - (409 \times 485))} {\sqrt{((7 \times 28,623 - 409^2) \times (7 \times 35,971 - 485^2))}}


r=((7×28,623−4092)×(7×35,971−4852))​(7×26,926−(409×485))​





r


=


9


,


883


÷


23


,


414



r = 9,883 \div 23,414


r=9,883÷23,414





r


=


−


0.42



r = -0.42


r=−0.42



The two data sets have a correlation of -0.42, which is called an inverse correlation because it is a negative number.


   What Does Inverse Correlation Tell You?  

Inverse correlation tells you that when one variable is high, the other tends to be low. Correlation analysis can reveal useful information about the relationship between two variables, such as how the stock and bond markets often move in opposite directions.



The correlation coefficient is often used in a predictive manner to estimate metrics like the risk reduction benefits of portfolio diversification and other important data. If the returns on two different assets are negatively correlated, then they can balance each other out if included in the same portfolio.



In financial markets, a well-known example of an inverse correlation is probably the one between the U.S. dollar and gold. As the U.S. dollar depreciates against major currencies, the dollar price of gold is generally observed to rise, and as the U.S. dollar appreciates, gold declines in price.


   Limitations of Using Inverse Correlation  

Two points need to be kept in mind with regard to a negative correlation. First, the existence of a negative correlation, or positive correlation for that matter, does not necessarily imply a causal relationship. Even though two variables have a very strong inverse correlation, this result by itself does not demonstrate a cause-and-effect relationship between the two.



Second, when dealing with time series data, such as most financial data, the relationship between two variables is not static and can change over time. This means the variables may display an inverse correlation during some periods and a positive correlation during others. Because of this, using the results of correlation analysis to extrapolate the same conclusion to future data carries a high degree of risk.
What Is an Inverse ETF?  

An inverse ETF is an exchange traded fund (ETF) constructed by using various derivatives to profit from a decline in the value of an underlying benchmark. Investing in inverse ETFs is similar to holding various short positions, which involve borrowing securities and selling them with the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price.



An inverse ETF is also known as a "Short ETF" or "Bear ETF."





Key Takeaways

An inverse ETF is an exchange traded fund (ETF) constructed by using various derivatives to profit from a decline in the value of an underlying benchmark.Inverse ETFs allow investors to make money when the market or the underlying index declines, but without having to sell anything short.Higher fees tend to correspond with inverse ETFs versus traditional ETFs.


   Understanding Inverse ETFs  

Many inverse ETFs utilize daily futures contracts to produce their returns. A futures contract is a contract to buy or sell an asset or security at a set time and price. Futures allow investors to make a bet on the direction of a securities price.



Inverse ETFs' use of derivatives—like futures contracts—allows investors to make a bet that the market will decline. If the market falls, the inverse ETF rises by roughly the same percentage minus fees and commissions from the broker.



Inverse ETFs are not long-term investments since the derivative contracts are bought and sold daily by the fund's manager. As a result, there is no way to guarantee that the inverse ETF will match the long-term performance of the index or stocks it is tracking. Frequent trading often increases fund expenses, and some inverse ETFs can carry expense ratios of 1% or more.


   Inverse ETFs vs. Short Selling  

An advantage of inverse ETFs is that they do not require the investor to hold a margin account as would be the case for investors looking to enter into short positions. A margin account is one where a broker lends money to an investor to trade. Margin is used with shorting—an advanced trading activity.



Investors who enter into short positions borrow the securities—they don't own them—so that they can sell them to other traders. The goal is to buy the asset back at a lower price and unwind the trade by returning the shares to the margin lender. However, there is the risk that the value of the security rises instead of falling and the investor has to buy back the securities at a higher price than the original margined sale price.



In addition to a margin account, short selling requires a stock loan fee paid to a broker for borrowing the shares necessary to sell short. Stocks with high short interest may result in difficulty finding shares to be short, which drives up the cost of short selling. In many cases, the cost of borrowing shares to short can exceed 3% of the borrowed amount. You can see why inexperienced traders can quickly get in over their heads.



Conversely, inverse ETFs often have expense ratios of less than 2% and can be purchased by anyone with a brokerage account. Despite the expense ratios, it is still easier and less costly for an investor to take a position in an inverse ETF than it is to sell stocks short.





Pros

Inverse ETFs allow investors to make money when the market or the underlying index declines.
Inverse ETFs can help investors hedge their investment portfolio.
There are multiple inverse ETFs for many of the major market indices.



Cons

Inverse ETFs can lead to losses quickly if investors bet wrong on the market's direction.
Inverse ETFs held for more than one day can lead to losses.
Higher fees exist with inverse ETFs versus traditional ETFs.





   Types of Inverse ETFs  

There are several inverse ETFs that can be used to profit from declines in broad market indexes, such as the Russell 2000 or the Nasdaq 100. Also, there are inverse ETFs that focus on specific sectors, such as financials, energy, or consumer staples.



Some investors use inverse ETFs to profit from market declines while others use them to hedge their portfolios against falling prices. For example, investors who own an ETF that matches the S&P 500 can hedge declines in the S&P by owning an inverse ETF for the S&P. However, hedging has risks as well. If the S&P rises, investors would have to sell their inverse ETFs since they'll be experiencing losses offsetting any gains in their original S&P investment.



Inverse ETFs are short-term trading instruments that must be timed perfectly for investors to make money. There's a significant risk of losses if investors allocate too much money to inverse ETFs and time their entries and exit poorly.


   Double and Triple Inverse ETFs  

A leveraged ETF is a fund that uses derivatives and debt to magnify the returns of an underlying index. Typically, an ETF's price rises or falls on a one-to-one basis compared to the index it tracks. A leveraged ETF is designed to boost the returns to 2:1 or 3:1 compared to the index.



Leveraged inverse ETFs use the same concept as leveraged products and aim to deliver a magnified return when the market is falling. For example, if the S&P has declined by 2%, a 2X-leveraged inverse ETF will deliver a 4% return to the investor excluding fees and commissions.


   Real-World Example of an Inverse ETF  

ProShares Short S&P 500 (SH) provides inverse exposure to large and midsize companies in the S&P 500. It has an expense ratio of 0.90% and over $1.77 billion in net assets. The ETF aims to provide a one-day trading bet and is not designed to be held for more than one day.



In Feb. 2020, the S&P declined, and as a result, beginning Feb. 17, 2020, the SH rose from $23.19 to $28.22 by March 23, 2020. If investors had been in the SH during those days, they would have realized gains.
What Is the Inverse Head and Shoulders?  

An inverse head and shoulders, also called a "head and shoulders bottom," is similar to the standard head and shoulders pattern, but inverted: with the head and shoulders top used to predict reversals in downtrends.



This pattern is identified when the price action of a security meets the following characteristics: the price falls to a trough and then rises; the price falls below the former trough and then rises again; finally, the price falls again but not as far as the second trough. Once the final trough is made, the price heads upward, toward the resistance found near the top of the previous troughs.





Key Takeaways

An inverse head and shoulders is similar to the standard head and shoulders pattern, but inverted.It may be used to predict reversals in downtrends.An inverse head and shoulders pattern, upon completion, signals a bull market.Investors typically enter into a long position when the price rises above the resistance of the neckline.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020






   What Does the Inverse Head and Shoulders Tell You?  

Investors typically enter into a long position when the price rises above the resistance of the neckline. The first and third troughs are considered shoulders and the second peak forms the head. A move above the resistance, also known as the neckline, is used as a signal of a sharp move higher. Many traders watch for a large spike in volume to confirm the validity of the breakout. This pattern is the opposite of the popular head and shoulders pattern but is used to predict shifts in a downtrend rather than an uptrend.



A suitable profit target can be ascertained by measuring the distance between the bottom of the head and the pattern's neckline and using that same distance to project how far the price may move in the direction of the breakout.



For example, if the distance between the head and neckline is 10 points, the profit target is set 10 points above the pattern's neckline. An aggressive stop-loss order can be placed below the breakout price bar or candle. Alternatively, a conservative stop-loss order can be placed below the right shoulder of the inverse head and shoulders pattern.


   Example of How to Use the Inverse Head and Shoulders  

An inverse head and shoulders pattern is comprised of three component parts:



After long bearish trends, the price falls to a trough and subsequently rises to form a peak.The price falls again to form a second trough substantially below the initial low and rises yet again.The price falls for a third time, but only to the level of the first trough, before rising once more and reversing the trend.


  Trading the Inverse Head and Shoulders Aggressively  

A buy-stop order can be placed just above the neckline of the inverse head and shoulders pattern. This ensures the investor enters on the first break of the neckline, catching upward momentum. Disadvantages of this strategy include the possibility of a false breakout and higher slippage in relation to order execution.


  Trading the Inverse Head and Shoulders Conservatively  

An investor can wait for the price to close above the neckline; this is effectively waiting for confirmation that the breakout is valid. Using this strategy, an investor can enter on the first close above the neckline. Alternatively, a limit order can be placed at or just below the broken neckline, attempting to get an execution on a retrace in price. Waiting for a retrace is likely to result in less slippage; however, there is the possibility of missing the trade if a pullback does not occur.


   The Difference Between Inverse Head and Shoulders and Head and Shoulders  

The opposite of an inverse head and shoulders chart is the standard head and shoulders, used to predict reversals in up-trends. This pattern is identified when the price action of a security meets the following characteristics: the price rises to a peak and then falls; the price rises above the former peak and then falls again; finally, the price rises again but not as far as the second peak. Once the final peak is made, the price heads downward, toward the resistance found near the bottom of the previous peaks.


   Limitations of Using the Inverse Head and Shoulders  

Like all charting patterns, the ups and downs of the head and shoulders pattern tell a very specific story about the battle being waged between bulls and bears.



The initial decline and subsequent peak represent the building momentum of the prior bearish trend into the first shoulder portion. Wanting to sustain the downward movement as long as possible, bears try to push the price back down past the initial trough after the shoulder to reach a new low (the head). At this point, it is still possible that bears could reinstate their market dominance and continue the downward trend.



However, once the price rises a second time and reaches a point above the initial peak, it is clear that bulls are gaining ground. Bears try one more time to push the price downward but succeed only in hitting the lesser lower reached in the initial trough. This failure to surpass the lowest low signals the bears' defeat and bulls take over, driving the price upward and completing the reversal.




What Does an Inverse Head and Shoulders Indicate?
The inverse head and shoulders chart is thought to predict a bearish-to-bullish trend reversal and signals that a downward trend is nearing its end. Investors consider it to be among the most reliable trend reversal patterns.




How Should One Use the Inverse Head and Shoulders Pattern?
The most common entry point is a breakout of the neckline, with a stop below (market bottom) or above (market top) the right shoulder. The profit target is the difference between the high and low with the pattern added (market bottom) or subtracted (market top) from the breakout price. The system is not perfect, but it does provide a method of trading the markets based on logical price movements.




What Is the Neckline in an Inverse Head and Shoulders?
The neckline is the level of support used to determine where to place orders. To identify the neckline, first locate the left shoulder, head, and right shoulder on the chart. In the inverse head and shoulders pattern (market bottom), you connect the high after the left shoulder with the high created after the head.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors employing technical analysis in their trading styles can utilize the inverse head and shoulders pattern to predict a reversal in a downtrend, where the pattern signals a bull market and when to buy stocks.
What Is an Inverted Yield Curve?  

An inverted yield curve shows that long-term interest rates are less than short-term interest rates. With an inverted yield curve, the yield decreases the farther away the maturity date is. Sometimes referred to as a negative yield curve, the inverted curve has proven in the past to be a reliable indicator of a recession.





Key Takeaways


The yield curve graphically represents yields on similar bonds across a variety of maturities.
An inverted yield curve occurs when short-term debt instruments have higher yields than long-term instruments of the same credit risk profile.
An inverted yield curve is unusual; it reflects bond investors’ expectations for a decline in longer-term interest rates, typically associated with recessions.
Market participants and economists use a variety of yield spreads as a proxy for the yield curve.













Laura Porter / Investopedia


   Understanding Inverted Yield Curves  

The yield curve graphically represents yields on similar bonds across a variety of maturities. It is also known as the term structure of interest rates. For example, the U.S. Treasury publishes daily Treasury bill and bond yields that can be charted as a curve.



Analysts often distill yield curve signals to a spread between two maturities. This simplifies the task of interpreting a yield curve in which an inversion exists between some maturities but not others. The downside is that there is no general agreement as to which spread serves as the most reliable recession indicator.



Usually, the yield curve slopes upward, reflecting the fact that holders of longer-term debt have taken on more risk.















Inverted Yield Curve.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



A yield curve inverts when long-term interest rates drop below short-term rates, indicating that investors are moving money away from short-term bonds and into long-term ones. This suggests that the market as a whole is becoming more pessimistic about the economic prospects for the near future.



Such an inversion has served as a relatively reliable recession indicator in the modern era. Because yield curve inversions are relatively rare yet have often preceded recessions, they typically draw heavy scrutiny from financial market participants.






An inverted Treasury yield curve is one of the most reliable leading indicators of a recession.


   Choose Your Spread  

Academic studies of the relationship between an inverted yield curve and recessions have tended to look at the spread between the yields on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond and the three-month Treasury bill, while market participants have more often focused on the yield spread between the 10-year and two-year bonds.



Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said in March 2022 that he prefers to gauge recession risk by focusing on the difference between the current three-month Treasury bill rate and the market pricing of derivatives predicting the same rate 18 months later.


   Historical Examples of Inverted Yield Curves  

The 10-year to two-year Treasury spread has been a generally reliable recession indicator since providing a false positive in the mid-1960s. That hasn’t stopped a long list of senior U.S. economic officials from discounting its predictive powers over the years.



In 1998, the 10-year/two-year spread briefly inverted after the Russian debt default. Quick interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve helped avert a U.S. recession.






While an inverted yield curve has often preceded recessions in recent decades, it does not cause them. Rather, bond prices reflect investors’ expectations that longer-term yields will decline, as typically happens in a recession.



In 2006, the spread inverted for much of the year. Long-term Treasury bonds went on to outperform stocks during 2007. The Great Recession began in December 2007.



On Aug. 28, 2019, the 10-year/two-year spread briefly went negative. The U.S. economy suffered a two-month recession in February and March of 2020 amid the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could not have been a consideration embedded in bond prices six months earlier.


  Does Today’s Inverted Yield Curve Signal a Forthcoming Recession?  

At the end of 2022, against a backdrop of surging inflation, the yield curve got inverted again.



As of Dec. 2, 2022, Treasury yields were as follows:



Three-month Treasury yield: 4.22%Two-year Treasury yield: 4.28%10-year Treasury yield: 3.51%30-year Treasury yield: 3.56%



As you can see above, the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate is 0.77 percentage points below the two-year yield. That is an unusually large negative gap and the widest since late 1981—when the economy was pushed into a deep recession.















ustreasuryyieldcurve.com.



The state of the yield curve suggests that investors believe we are entering hard times and that the Fed will have to respond by slashing borrowing costs. Or maybe not.



Plenty of economists think the U.S. economy is heading for a recession. However, there are others who believe that the inverted yield curve of December 2022 is telling a different story. Rather than signaling economic turmoil, some say the negative gap might indicate that investors are confident that rocketing inflation has been brought under control and that normality will be restored.




What is a yield curve?
A yield curve is a line that plots yields (interest rates) of bonds of the same credit quality but differing maturities. The most closely watched yield curve is that for U.S. Treasury debt. 




What can an inverted yield curve tell an investor?
Historically, protracted inversions of the yield curve have preceded recessions in the United States. An inverted yield curve reflects investors’ expectations for a decline in longer-term interest rates as a result of a deteriorating economic performance.




Why is the 10-year to 2-year spread important?
Many investors use the spread between the yields on 10-year and two-year U.S. Treasury bonds as yield curve proxy and a relatively reliable leading indicator of a recession in recent decades. Some Federal Reserve officials have argued that a focus on shorter-term maturities is more informative about the likelihood of a recession.


   The Bottom Line  

A yield curve that inverts for an extended period of time appears to be a more reliable recession signal than one that inverts briefly, whichever yield spread you use as a proxy.



Fortunately, however, recessions are a rare enough event that we haven’t had enough to draw definitive conclusions. As one Federal Reserve researcher has noted, “It’s hard to predict recessions. We haven’t had many, and we don’t fully understand the causes of the ones we’ve had. Nevertheless, we persist in trying.”
What Is Invested Capital?  

Invested capital is the total amount of money raised by a company by issuing securities to equity shareholders and debt to bondholders, where the total debt and capital lease obligations are added to the amount of equity issued to investors. Invested capital is not a line item in the company's financial statement because debt, capital leases, and stockholder’s equity are each listed separately in the balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Invested capital refers to the combined value of equity and debt capital raised by a firm, inclusive of capital leases.Return on invested capital (ROIC) measures how well a firm uses its capital to generate profits.A company's weighted average cost of capital calculates how much invested capital costs the firm to maintain.


   Understanding Invested Capital  

Companies must generate more in earnings than the cost to raise the capital provided by bondholders, shareholders, and other financing sources, or else the firm does not earn an economic profit. Businesses use several metrics to assess how well the company uses capital, including return on invested capital, economic value added, and return on capital employed.



A firm’s total capitalization is the sum total of debt, including capital leases, issued plus equity sold to investors, and the two types of capital are reported in different sections of the balance sheet. Assume, for example, that IBM issues 1,000 shares of $10 par value stock, and each share is sold for a total of $30 per share. In the stockholder’s equity section of the balance sheet, IBM increases the common stock balance for the total par value of $10,000, and the remaining $20,000 received increases the additional paid-in capital account. On the other hand, if IBM issues $50,000 in corporate bond debt, the long-term debt section of the balance sheet increases by $50,000. In total, IBM’s capitalization increases by $80,000, due to issuing both new stock and new debt.


   How Issuers Earn a Return on Capital  

A successful company maximizes the rate of return it earns on the capital it raises, and investors look carefully at how businesses use the proceeds received from issuing stock and debt. Assume, for example, that a plumbing company issues $60,000 in additional shares of stock and uses the sales proceeds to buy more plumbing trucks and equipment. If the plumbing firm can use the new assets to perform more residential plumbing work, the company’s earnings increase and business can pay a dividend to shareholders. The dividend increases each investor’s rate of return on a stock investment, and investors also profit from stock price increases, which are driven by increasing company earnings and sales.



Companies may also use a portion of earnings to buy back stock previously issued to investors and retire the stock, and a stock repurchase plan reduces the number of shares outstanding and lowers the equity balance. Analysts also look closely at a firm’s earnings per share (EPS), or the net income earned per share of stock. If the business repurchases shares, the number of outstanding shares decreases, and that means that the EPS increases, which makes the stock more attractive to investors.


   Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)  

Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a calculation used to assess a company's efficiency at allocating the capital under its control to profitable investments.



The return on invested capital ratio gives a sense of how well a company is using its money to generate returns. Comparing a company's return on invested capital with its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) reveals whether invested capital is being used effectively. This measure is also known simply as return on capital.



ROIC is always calculated as a percentage and is usually expressed as an annualized or trailing 12-month value. It should be compared to a company's cost of capital to determine whether the company is creating value. If ROIC is greater than a firm's weighted average cost of capital (WACC), the most common cost of capital metric, value is being created and these firms will trade at a premium. A common benchmark for evidence of value creation is a return in excess of 2% of the firm's cost of capital. If a company's ROIC is less than 2%, it is considered a value destroyer. Some firms run at a zero-return level, and while they may not be destroying value, these companies have no excess capital to invest in future growth.



ROIC is one of the most important and informative valuation metrics to calculate. That said, it is more important for some sectors than others, since companies that operate oil rigs or manufacture semiconductors invest capital much more intensively than those that require less equipment.
What Are New Indications?  

New indications is a term pharmaceutical companies use to refer to new evidence signifying that there may be new applications for an existing drug or procedure. This type of news is closely followed by investors, who can access such findings through the press releases issued on companies’ investor relations pages.





Key Takeaways

New indications refers to news signifying that an existing drug may have a broader range of medical applications.Repurposing existing drugs in this manner can prove less costly than developing new drugs from scratch.Investors often view new indications as a bullish indicator, anticipating that the company in question will have access to new revenue streams at a relatively low cost.


   How New Indications Work  

New indications are an early sign that a particular drug or procedure may be worth investing in further. For example, a company that has already obtained regulatory approval for a particular drug would report new indications if their research suggests that additional applications for that drug might be possible. New indications are therefore viewed as a positive development by most investors because they could signify additional revenue-generating opportunities for a company’s existing drugs.



In the United States, companies must go through a rigorous and lengthy process in order to bring new drugs to the market. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) oversees the development and approval of new drugs through their New Drug Application (NDA) process. The process routinely takes years to complete, with some stretching over a decade. Despite this lengthy process, only about 30% of new applicants have their NDAs approved.





Important

Although repurposing an existing drug can lead to reduced research and development (R&D) costs, there are nevertheless major costs involved in obtaining final FDA approval for such repurposed drugs. Nevertheless, because these drugs have already passed through the FDA’s NDA process, many companies view them as a less risky investment as compared to developing new drugs from scratch.



For these reasons, one of the most efficient ways for pharmaceutical companies to expand into new markets would be to find new or expanded applications for products that have already received FDA approval. In fact, some companies specialize in repurposing already approved drugs in an effort to reach the commercialization of new medicines more quickly.


   Real-World Example of a New Indication  

New indications often appear in news releases for medical treatments and pharmaceutical companies when referring to drugs or equipment involved. For example, on Aug. 16, 2018, the FDA released a new indication approval for the drug Opdivo (nivolumab), which treats cancers such as advanced melanoma, advanced renal cell carcinoma, and advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.



When it was first approved in December 2014, this drug had a more narrow intended usage, specializing in patients with advanced melanoma that could not be removed with surgery or that no longer responded to other drugs. The new indication therefore represents an opportunity for the drug to be sold into a larger addressable market than previously anticipated.
What Is Investing?  

Investing, broadly, is putting money to work for a period of time in some sort of project or undertaking in order to generate positive returns (i.e., profits that exceed the amount of the initial investment). It is the act of allocating resources, usually capital (i.e., money), with the expectation of generating an income, profit, or gains.



One can invest in many types of endeavors (either directly or indirectly) such as using money to start a business, or in assets such as purchasing real estate in hopes of generating rental income and/or reselling it later at a higher price.



Investing differs from saving in that the money used is put to work, meaning that there is some implicit risk that the related project(s) may fail, resulting in a loss of money. Investing also differs from speculation in that with the latter, the money is not put to work per-se, but is betting on the short-term price fluctuations.





Key Takeaways

Investing involves deploying capital (money) toward projects or activities that are expected to generate a positive return over time.The type of returns generated depends on the type of project or asset; real estate can produce both rents and capital gains; many stocks pay quarterly dividends; bonds tend to pay regular interest.In investing, risk and return are two sides of the same coin; low risk generally means low expected returns, while higher returns are usually accompanied by higher risk.Investors can take the do-it-yourself approach or employ the services of a professional money manager.Whether buying a security qualifies as investing or speculation depends on three factors—the amount of risk taken, the holding period, and the source of returns.


   Understanding Investing  

Investing is to grow one's money over time. The expectation of a positive return in the form of income or price appreciation with statistical significance is the core premise of investing. The spectrum of assets in which one can invest and earn a return is a very wide one.



Risk and return go hand-in-hand in investing; low risk generally means low expected returns, while higher returns are usually accompanied by higher risk. At the low-risk end of the spectrum are basic investments such as Certificates of Deposit (CDs); bonds or fixed-income instruments are higher up on the risk scale, while stocks or equities are regarded as riskier. Commodities and derivatives are generally considered to be among the riskiest investments. One can also invest in something practical, such as land or real estate, or delicate items, such as fine art and antiques.



Risk and return expectations can vary widely within the same asset class. For example, a blue chip that trades on the New York Stock Exchange will have a very different risk-return profile from a micro-cap that trades on a small exchange.



The returns generated by an asset depend on the type of asset. For instance, many stocks pay quarterly dividends, whereas bonds generally pay interest every quarter. In many jurisdictions, different types of income are taxed at different rates.



In addition to regular income, such as a dividend or interest, price appreciation is an important component of return. Total return from an investment can thus be regarded as the sum of income and capital appreciation. Standard & Poor's estimates that since 1926, dividends have contributed nearly a third of total equity return for the S&P 500 while capital gains have contributed two-thirds. Capital gains are therefore an important piece of investing.






Economists view investing and saving to be two sides of the same coin. This is because when you save money by depositing in a bank, the bank then lends that money to individuals or companies that want to borrow that money to put it to good use. Therefore your savings is often someone else's investment.


   Types of Investments  

Today, investment is mostly associated with financial instruments that allow individuals or businesses to raise and deploy capital to firms. These firms then rake that capital and use it for growth or profit-generating activities.



While the universe of investments is a vast one, here are the most common types of investments:


  Stocks  

A buyer of a company's stock becomes a fractional owner of that company. Owners of a company's stock are known as its shareholders and can participate in its growth and success through appreciation in the stock price and regular dividends paid out of the company's profits.


  Bonds  

Bonds are debt obligations of entities, such as governments, municipalities, and corporations. Buying a bond implies that you hold a share of an entity's debt and are entitled to receive periodic interest payments and the return of the bond's face value when it matures.


  Funds  

Funds are pooled instruments managed by investment managers that enable investors to invest in stocks, bonds, preferred shares, commodities, etc. Two of the most common types of funds are mutual funds and exchange-traded funds or ETFs. Mutual funds do not trade on an exchange and are valued at the end of the trading day; ETFs trade on stock exchanges and, like stocks, are valued constantly throughout the trading day. Mutual funds and ETFs can either passively track indices, such as the S&P 500 or the Dow Jones Industrial Average, or can be actively managed by fund managers.


  Investment Trusts  

Trusts are another type of pooled investment. Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are one of the most popular in this category. REITs invest in commercial or residential properties and pay regular distributions to their investors from the rental income received from these properties. REITs trade on stock exchanges and thus offer their investors the advantage of instant liquidity.


  Alternative Investments  

Alternative investments is a catch-all category that includes hedge funds and private equity. Hedge funds are so-called because they can hedge their investment bets by going long and short on stocks and other investments. Private equity enables companies to raise capital without going public. Hedge funds and private equity were typically only available to affluent investors deemed "accredited investors" who met certain income and net worth requirements. However, in recent years, alternative investments have been introduced in fund formats that are accessible to retail investors.


  Options and Other Derivatives  

Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from another instrument, such as a stock or index. Options contracts are a popular derivative that gives the buyer the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a security at a fixed price within a specific time period. Derivatives usually employ leverage, making them a high-risk, high-reward proposition.


  Commodities  

Commodities include metals, oil, grain, and animal products, as well as financial instruments and currencies. They can either be traded through commodity futures—which are agreements to buy or sell a specific quantity of a commodity at a specified price on a particular future date—or ETFs. Commodities can be used for hedging risk or for speculative purposes.


   Comparing Investing Styles  

Let's compare a couple of the most common investing styles:



Active versus passive investing: The goal of active investing is to "beat the index" by actively managing the investment portfolio. Passive investing, on the other hand, advocates a passive approach, such as buying an index fund, in tacit recognition of the fact that it is difficult to beat the market consistently. While there are pros and cons to both approaches, in reality, few fund managers beat their benchmarks consistently enough to justify the higher costs of active management.
Growth versus value: Growth investors prefer to invest in high-growth companies, which typically have higher valuation ratios such as Price-Earnings (P/E) than value companies. Value investors look for companies that have significantly lower PE's and higher dividend yields than growth companies because they may be out of favor with investors, either temporarily or for a prolonged period of time.


   How to Invest  
  Do-It-Yourself Investing  

The question of "how to invest" boils down to whether you are a Do-It-Yourself (DIY) kind of investor or would prefer to have your money managed by a professional. Many investors who prefer to manage their money themselves have accounts at discount or online brokerages because of their low commissions and the ease of executing trades on their platforms.



DIY investing is sometimes called self-directed investing, and requires a fair amount of education, skill, time commitment, and the ability to control one's emotions. If these attributes do not describe you well, it may be smarter to let a professional help manage your investments.


  Professionally-Managed Investing  

Investors who prefer professional money management generally have wealth managers looking after their investments. Wealth managers usually charge their clients a percentage of assets under management (AUM) as their fees. While professional money management is more expensive than managing money by oneself, such investors don't mind paying for the convenience of delegating the research, investment decision-making, and trading to an expert.






The SEC's Office of Investor Education and Advocacy urges investors to confirm that their investment professional is licensed and registered.


  Roboadvisor Investing  

Some investors opt to invest based on suggestions from automated financial advisors. Powered by algorithms and artificial intelligence, roboadvisors gather critical information about the investor and their risk profile to make suitable recommendations. With little to no human interference, roboadvisors offer a cost-effective way of investing with services similar to what a human investment advisor offers. With advancements in technology, roboadvisors are capable of more than selecting investments. They can also help people develop retirement plans and manage trusts and other retirement accounts, such as 401(k)s.


   A Brief History of Investing  

While the concept of investing has been around for millennia, investing in its present form can find its roots in the period between the 17th and 18th centuries, when the development of the first public markets connected investors with investment opportunities. The Amsterdam Stock Exchange was established in 1602, and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 1792.


  Industrial Revolution Investing  

The Industrial Revolutions of 1760-1840 and 1860-1914 resulted in greater prosperity as a result of which people amassed savings that could be invested, fostering the development of an advanced banking system. Most of the established banks that dominate the investing world began in the 1800s, including Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan.


  20th Century Investing  

The 20th century saw new ground being broken in investment theory, with the development of new concepts in asset pricing, portfolio theory, and risk management. In the second half of the 20th century, many new investment vehicles were introduced, including hedge funds, private equity, venture capital, REITs, and ETFs.



In the 1990s, the rapid spread of the Internet made online trading and research capabilities accessible to the general public, completing the democratization of investing that had commenced more than a century ago.


  21st Century Investing  

The bursting of the dot.com bubble—a bubble that created a new generation of millionaires from investments in technology-driven and online business stocks—ushered in the 21st century and perhaps set the scene for what was to come. In 2001, the collapse of Enron took center stage, with its full display of fraud that bankrupted the company and its accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, as well as many of its investors.



One of the most notable events in the 21st century, or history for that matter, is the Great Recession (2007-2009) when an overwhelming number of failed investments in mortgage-backed securities crippled economies around the world. Well-known banks and investment firms went under, foreclosures surmounted, and the wealth gap widened.



The 21st century also opened up the world of investing to newcomers and unconventional investors by saturating the market with discount online investment companies and free-trading apps, such as Robinhood.


   Investing vs. Speculation  

Whether buying a security qualifies as investing or speculation depends on three factors:



The amount of risk taken on: Investing usually involves a lower amount of risk compared with speculation.The holding period of the investment: Investing typically involves a longer holding period, measured quite frequently in years; speculation involves much shorter holding periods.Source of returns: Price appreciation may be a relatively less important part of returns from investing, while dividends or distributions may be a major part. In speculation, price appreciation is generally the main source of returns.



As price volatility is a common measure of risk, it stands to reason that a staid blue-chip is much less risky than a cryptocurrency. Thus, buying a dividend-paying blue chip with the expectation of holding it for several years would qualify as investing. On the other hand, a trader who buys a cryptocurrency to flip it for a quick profit in a couple of days is clearly speculating.


   Example of Return From Investing  

Assume you purchased 100 shares of XYZ stock for $310 and sold it exactly a year later for $460.20. What was your approximate total return, ignoring commissions? Keep in mind, XYZ does not issue stock dividends. The resulting capital gain would be (($460.20 - $310)/$310) x 100% = 48.5%.



Now, imagine that XYZ had issued dividends during your holding period, and you received $5 in dividends per share. Your approximate total return would then be 50.11% (Capital gains: 48.5% + Dividends: ($500/$31,000) x 100% = 1.61%).




How Can I Start Investing?
You can choose the do-it-yourself route, selecting investments based on your investing style, or enlist the help of an investment professional, such as an advisor or broker. Before investing, it's important to determine what your preferences and risk tolerance are. If risk-averse, choosing stocks and options, may not be the best choice. Develop a strategy, outlining how much to invest, how often to invest, and what to invest in based on goals and preferences. Before allocating your resources, research the target investment to make sure it aligns with your strategy and has the potential to deliver desired results. Remember, you don't need a lot of money to begin, and you can modify as your needs change.




What Are Some Types of Investments?
There are many types of investments to choose from. Perhaps the most common are stocks, bonds, real estate, and ETFs/mutual funds. Other types of investments to consider are real estate, CDs, annuities, cryptocurrencies, commodities, collectibles, and precious metals.




How Can Investing Grow My Money?
Investing is not reserved for the wealthy. You can invest nominal amounts. For example, you can purchase low-priced stocks, deposit small amounts into an interest-bearing savings account, or save until you accumulate a target amount to invest. If your employer offers a retirement plan, such as a 401(k), allocate small amounts from your pay until you can increase your investment. If your employer participates in matching, you may realize that your investment has doubled.You can begin investing in stocks, bonds, and mutual funds or even open an IRA. Starting with $1,000 is nothing to sneeze at. A $1,000 investment in Amazon's IPO in 1997 would yield millions today. This was largely due to several stock splits, but it does not change the result: monumental returns. Savings accounts are available at most financial institutions and don't usually require a large amount to invest. Savings accounts don't typically boast high-interest rates; so, shop around to find one with the best features and most competitive rates.Believe it or not, you can invest in real estate with $1,000. You may not be able to buy an income-producing property, but you can invest in a company that does. A real estate investment trust (REIT) is a company that invests in and manages real estate to drive profits and produce income. With $1,000, you can invest in REIT stocks, mutual funds, or exchange-traded funds.




Is Investing the Same as Gambling?
No, gambling and investing differ greatly. With investing you put your money to work in projects or activities that are expected to produce a positive return over time - they have positive expected returns. Gambling is to place bets on the outcomes of events or games. Your money is not being put to work at all. Often, gambling has a negative expected return. While an investment may lose money, it will do so because the project involved fails to deliver. The outcome of gambling, on the other hand, is due purely to chance.


   The Bottom Line  

Investing is the act of distributing resources into something to generate income or gain profits. The type of investment you choose might likely depend on you what you seek to gain and how sensitive you are to risk. Assuming little risk generally yields lower returns and vice versa for assuming high risk. Investments can be made in stocks, bonds, real estate, precious metals, and more. Investing can be made with money, assets, cryptocurrency, or other mediums of exchange.



There are different types of investment vehicles, such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and real estate, each carrying different levels of risks and rewards.



Investors can independently invest without the help of an investment professional or enlist the services of a licensed and registered investment advisor. Technology has also afforded investors the option of receiving automated investment solutions by way of roboadvisors.



The amount of consideration, or money, needed to invest depends largely on the type of investment and the investor's financial position, needs, and goals. However, many vehicles have lowered their minimum investment requirements, allowing more people to participate.



Despite how you choose to invest or what you choose to invest in, research your target, as well as your investment manager or platform. Possibly one of the best nuggets of wisdom is from veteran and accomplished investor Warren Buffet, "Never invest in a business you cannot understand."
What Is an Investment?  

An investment is an asset or item acquired with the goal of generating income or appreciation. Appreciation refers to an increase in the value of an asset over time. When an individual purchases a good as an investment, the intent is not to consume the good but rather to use it in the future to create wealth.



An investment always concerns the outlay of some resource today—time, effort, money, or an asset—in hopes of a greater payoff in the future than what was originally put in. For example, an investor may purchase a monetary asset now with the idea that the asset will provide income in the future or will later be sold at a higher price for a profit.





Key Takeaways

An investment involves putting capital to use today in order to increase its value over time.An investment requires putting capital to work, in the form of time, money, effort, etc., in hopes of a greater payoff in the future than what was originally put in.An investment can refer to any medium or mechanism used for generating future income, including bonds, stocks, real estate property, or alternative investments.Investments usually do not come with guarantees of appreciation; it is possible to end up with less money than with what you started.Investments can be diversified to reduce risk, though this may reduce the amount of earning potential. 












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   How an Investment Works  

The act of investing has the goal of generating income and increasing value over time. An investment can refer to any mechanism used for generating future income. This includes the purchase of bonds, stocks, or real estate property, among other examples. Additionally, purchasing a property that can be used to produce goods can be considered an investment.



In general, any action that is taken in the hopes of raising future revenue can also be considered an investment. For example, when choosing to pursue additional education, the goal is often to increase knowledge and improve skills. The upfront investment of time attending class and money to pay for tuition will hopefully result in increased earnings over the student's career.



Because investing is oriented toward the potential for future growth or income, there is always a certain level of risk associated with an investment. An investment may not generate any income, or may actually lose value over time. For example, a company you invest in may go bankrupt. Alternatively, the degree you investing time and money to obtain may not result in a strong job market in that field.



An investment bank provides a variety of services to individuals and businesses, including many services that are designed to assist individuals and businesses in the process of increasing their wealth. Investment banking may also refer to a specific division of banking related to the creation of capital for other companies, governments, and other entities. Investment banks underwrite new debt and equity securities for all types of corporations, aid in the sale of securities, and help to facilitate mergers and acquisitions.






   Types of Investments  

There's arguably endless opportunities to invest; after all, upgrading the tires on your vehicle could be seen as an investment that enhances the usefulness and future value of the asset. Below are common types of investments in which people use to appreciate their capital.


  Stocks/Equities  

A share of stock is a piece of ownership of a public or private company. By owning stock, the investor may be entitled to dividend distributions generated from the net profit of the company. As the company becomes more successful and other investors seek to buy that company's stock, it's value can also appreciate and be sold for capital gains.



The two primary types of stocks to invest in are common stock and preferred stock. Common stock often includes voting right and participation eligibility in certain matters. Preferred stock often have first claim to dividends and must be paid before common shareholders.



In addition, stocks are often classified as being either growth or value investments. Investments in growth stocks is the strategy of investing in a company while it is small and before it achieves market success. Investment in value stocks is the strategy of investing in a more established company whose stock price may not appropriate value the company.


  Bonds/Fixed-Income Securities  

A bond is an investment that often demands an upfront investment, then pays a reoccurring amount over the life of the bond. Then, when the bond matures, the investor receives the capital invested into the bond back. Similar to debt, bond investments are a mechanism for certain entities to raise money. Many government entities and companies issue bonds; then, investors can contribute capital to earn a yield.



The recurring payment awarded to bondholders is called a coupon payment. Because the coupon payment on a bond investment is usually fixed, the price of a bond will often fluctuate to change the bond's yield. For example, a bond paying 5% will become cheaper to buy if there are market opportunities to earn 6%; by falling in price, the bond will naturally earn a higher yield.






Many investments can be leveraged for higher returns (or higher losses) through derivative products. It's often recommended that investors not handle derivatives unless they are aware of the high risk involved.


  Index Funds and Mutual Funds  

Instead of selecting each individual company to invest in, index funds, mutual funds, and other types of funds often aggregate specific investments to craft one investment vehicle. For example, an investor can buy shares of a single mutual fund that holds ownership of small cap, emerging market companies instead of having to research and select each company on its own.



Mutual funds are actively managed by a firm, while index funds are often passively-managed. This means that the investment professionals overseeing the mutual fund is trying to beat a specific benchmark, while index funds often attempt to simply copy or imitate a benchmark. For this reason, mutual funds may be a more expense fund to invest in compared to more passive-style funds.


  Real Estate  

Real estate investments are often broadly defined as investments in physical, tangible spaces that can be utilized. Land can be built on, office buildings can be occupied, warehouses can store inventory, and residential properties can house families. Real estate investments may encompass acquiring sites, developing sites for specific uses, or purchasing ready-to-occupy operating sites.



In some contexts, real estate may broadly encompass certain types of investments that may yield commodities. For example, an investor can invest in farmland; in addition to reaping the reward of land value appreciation, the investment earns a return based on the crop yield and operating income.


  Commodities  

Commodities are often raw materials such as agriculture, energy, or metals. Investors can choose to invest in actual tangible commodities (i.e. owning a bar of gold) or can choose alternative investment products that represent digital ownership (i.e. a gold ETF).



Commodities can be an investment because they are often used as inputs to society. Consider oil, gas, or other forms of energy. During periods of economic growth, companies often have greater energy needs to ship more products or manufacture additional goods. In addition, consumers may have greater demand for energy due to travel. In this example, the price of commodities fluctuates and may yield a profit for an investor.


  Cryptocurrency  

Cryptocurrency is a blockchain-based currency used to transact or hold digital value. Cryptocurrency companies can issue coins or tokens that may appreciate in value. These tokens can be used to transact with or pay fees to transact using specific networks.



In addition to capital appreciation, cryptocurrency can be staked on a blockchain. This means that when investors agree to lock their tokens on a network to help validate transactions, these investors will be rewarded with additional tokens. In addition, cryptocurrency has given rise to decentralized finance, a digital branch of finance that enables users to loan, leverage, or alternatively utilize currency.


  Collectibles  

A less traditional form of investing, collecting or purchasing collectibles involves acquiring rare items in anticipation of those items becoming in higher demand. Ranging from sports memorabilia to comic books, these physical items often require substantial physical preservation especially considering that older items usually carry higher value.



The concept behind collectibles is no different than other forms of investing such as equities. Both predict that the popularity of something will increase in the future. For example, a current artist may not be popular but changes in global trends, styles, and market interest. However, their art may become more valuable in time should the general population take a stronger interest in their work.






An investment (i.e. stocks or bonds) is overseen at a financial institution (i.e. a broker). In addition, there are different vehicles (i.e an IRA) that hold the investments. As you start investing, you'll need to figure out what you want for both.


   How to Start Investing  

There are many different avenues one can take when learning how to invest or where to start when putting money aside. Here are some tips for getting started in investing:



Do your own research. A common phrase used in the investing industry, it is important for investors to understand the vehicles they are putting their money into. Whether it is a single share of a well-established company or a risky alternative investment endeavor, investors should do their homework in advance as opposed to relying on third-party (and often biased) advice.
Establish a personal spending plan. Before investing, individuals should consider their ability to put money away. This includes ensuring they have enough capital to pay monthly expenses and have already built up an emergency fund. As enticing as investing can be, individuals should be mindful to meet their daily life obligations first. 
Understand liquidity restrictions. Some investors may be less liquid than others, meaning it may be more difficult to sell. In some cases, an investment may be locked for a certain period and cannot be liquidated. Though not necessary fine print, it's important to understand whether certain investments can be bought or sold at any time. 
Research tax implications. On a similar note, though an investment can be bought or sold at any time, it may be tax-adverse to do so. With unfavorable short-term capital gains tax rates, investors should be mindful of strategies that extend beyond what product they hold but what tax vehicle they put that investment in.
Gauge your risk preference. As mentioned earlier, investing incurs risk. This means you may end up with less money than what you started with. Investors uncomfortable with this idea can (1) reduce the amount they invest to only what they are comfortable losing or (2) explore ways to mitigate risk. 
Consult an adviser. Many financial professionals would be happy to provide their guidance, let you know what they think about markets, and give you access to online platforms where you can invest money. 


   Return on Investment  

The primary way to gauge the success of an investment is to calculate the return on investment (ROI). ROI is measured as:



ROI = (Current Value of Investment - Original Value of Investment) / Original Value of Investment



ROI allows different investments across different industries to be appropriately compared. For example, consider two investments: a $1,000 investment in stock that increased to $1,100 over the past year, or a $150,000 investment in real estate that is now worth $160,000.



Stock ROI = ($1,100 - $1,000) / $1,000 = $100 / $1,000 = 10%



Real Estate ROI = ($160,000 - $150,000) / $150,000 = $10,000 / $150,000 = 6.67%



Though the real estate investment has increased in value $10,000, many would claim that the stock investment has outperformed the real estate investment. This is because every dollar invested in the stock gained more money than every dollar invested in real estate.






ROI isn't everything; consider an investment that earns a stead 10% ROI each year compared to a second investment that has an equal chance of earning 25% or losing 25%. For some, stable earnings outpace higher earning investment potential.


   Investments and Risk  

In its simplest form, investment return and risk should have a positive correlation. If an investment carries high risk, it should be accompanied by higher returns. If an investment is safer, it will often have lower returns.



When making investment decisions, investors must gauge their risk appetite. Every investor will be different, as some may be willing to risk the loss of principle in exchange for the chance at greater profits. Alternatively, extremely risk-averse investors seek only the safest vehicles where their investment will only consistently (but slowly) grow.



Investments and risk are often strongly related to prevailing conditions in the investor's life. As an investor approaches retirement, they will no longer have stable, ongoing income. For this reason, people usually choose safer investments towards the end of their working career. On the other hand, a young professional can often bear the burden of losing money as they have their entire career to make that capital back. For this reason, younger investors are often more likely to invest in riskier investments.


   Investments and Diversification  

One way investors can reduce portfolio risk is to have a broad range of what they are invested in. By holding different products or securities, an investor may not lose as much money as they are not fully exposed in any one way.



The concept of diversification was born from modern portfolio theory, the idea that holding both equities and bonds will positively impact the risk-adjusted rate of return in a portfolio. The argument is holding strictly equities may maximize returns but also maximizes volatility. Pairing it with a more stable investment with lower returns will decrease the risk an investor incurs.


   Investing vs. Speculation  

Speculation is a distinct activity from investing. Investing involves the purchase of assets with the intent of holding them for the long term, while speculation involves attempting to capitalize on market inefficiencies for short-term profit. Ownership is generally not a goal of speculators, while investors often look to build the number of assets in their portfolios over time.



Although speculators are often making informed decisions, speculation cannot usually be categorized as traditional investing. Speculation is generally considered a higher risk activity than traditional investing (although this can vary depending on the type of investment involved). Some experts compare speculation to gambling, but the veracity of this analogy may be a matter of personal opinion.


   Investing vs. Saving  

Saving is accumulating money for future use and entails no risk, whereas investment is the act of leveraging money for a potential future gain and it entails some risk. Though both have the intention of having more capital available in the future, each go about growing in a very different way.



One aspect this is most transparent is the process of saving for a down payment on a home. Many advisors will suggest parking cash in a safer investment vehicle when saving for an important major purchase. Because investing incurs a higher degree of risk, an individual must compare what implications of loss of principle would be to their future plans.



Saving and investing are often intertwined because each may have a stated yield or rate of return. Another primary difference is the federal insurance coverage on certain accounts. The FDIC offers insurance coverage for bank accounts balances up to $250,000; this type of financial guarantee is often not present in investing.




How Is an Investment Different From a Bet or Gamble?
In an investment, you are providing some individual or entity with funds to be put to work growing a business, starting new projects, or maintaining day-to-day revenue generation. Investments, while they can be risky, have a positive expected return. Gambles, on the other hand, are based on chance and not putting money to work. Gambles are highly risky and also have a negative expected return in most cases (e.g., at a casino).




Is Investment the Same As Speculation?
Not really. An investment is typically a long-term commitment, where the payoff from putting that money to work can take several years. Investments are typically made only after due diligence and proper analysis have been undertaken to understand the risks and benefits that could unfold. Speculation, on the other hand, is a pure directional bet on the price of something, and often for the short-term.




What Are Some Types of Investments I Can Make?
Most ordinary individuals can easily make investments in stocks, bonds, and CDs. With stocks, you are investing in the equity of a company, which means you invest in some residual claim to a company's future profit flows and often gain voting rights (based on the number of shares owned) to give your voice to the direction of the company. Bonds and CDs are debt investments, where the borrower puts that money to use in a pursuit that is expected to bring in cash flows greater than the interest owed to the investors.




Why Invest When You Can Save Money With Zero Risk?
As mentioned, investing is putting money to work in order to grow it. When you invest in stocks or bonds, you are putting that capital to work under the supervision of a firm and its management team. Although there is some risk, that risk is rewarded with a positive expected return in the form of capital gains and/or dividend & interest flows. Cash, on the other hand, will not grow, and may very well lose buying power over time due to inflation. Put simply, without investment, companies would not be able to raise the capital needed to grow the economy.


   The Bottom Line  

An investment is a plan to put money to work today in hopes of obtaining a greater amount of money in the future. Though that plan may not always work out and investments can lose money, it is also the primary way people save for major purchases or retirement. Ranging from stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities, and modern alternative investments, the digital age has brought about easy, transparent, and fast methods of investing money.
What Is the Investment Advisers Act of 1940?  

The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is a U.S. federal law that regulates and defines the role and responsibilities of an investment adviser.



Prompted in part by a 1935 report to Congress on investment trusts and investment companies prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the act provides the legal groundwork for monitoring those who advise pension funds, individuals, and institutions on matters of investing. It specifies what qualifies as investment advice and stipulates who must register with state and federal regulators in order to dispense it.





Key Takeaways

Financial advisers must adhere to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which calls on them to perform fiduciary duty and act primarily on behalf of their clients.The Act imposes upon the adviser the “affirmative duty of ‘utmost good faith’ and full and fair disclosure of material facts” as part of their duty to exercise client loyalty and care.Investment advisers are required to pass a qualifying exam and register with a regulatory body as part of the Act.


   Understanding the Investment Advisers Act of 1940  

The original impetus of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as with several other landmark financial regulations of the 1930s and 1940s, was the stock market crash of 1929 and its disastrous aftermath, the Great Depression. Those calamities inspired the Securities Act of 1933, which succeeded in introducing more transparency in financial statements and establishing laws against misrepresentation and fraudulent activities in the securities markets.



In 1935, a SEC report to Congress warned of the dangers posed by certain investment counselors and advocated the regulation of those who provided investment advice. The same year as the report, the Public Utility Holding Act of 1935 passed, allowing the SEC to examine investment trusts.



Those developments prompted Congress to begin work not only on the Investment Advisers Act but also the Investment Company Act of 1940. This related bill clearly defined the responsibilities and requirements of investment companies when offering publicly traded investment products, including open-end mutual funds, closed-end mutual funds, and unit investment trusts. 


   Financial Advisers and Fiduciary Duty  

Investment advisers are bound to a fiduciary standard that was established as part of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and can be regulated either by the SEC or state securities regulators, depending on the scale and scope of their business activities.



The act is very specific in defining what a fiduciary means. It stipulates a duty of loyalty and duty of care, which means that the adviser must put their client's interests above their own.



For example, the adviser cannot buy securities for their account prior to buying them for a client (front-running) and is prohibited from making trades that may result in higher commissions for the adviser or their investment firm (churning). It also means that the adviser must do their best to make sure investment advice is made using accurate and complete information—basically, that the analysis is thorough and as accurate as possible.



Additionally, the adviser needs to place trades under a "best execution" standard, meaning that they must strive to trade securities with the best combination of low-cost and efficient execution.






Avoiding conflicts of interest are important when acting as a fiduciary. An adviser must disclose any potential conflicts and always put their client's interests first.


   Establishing Adviser Criteria  

The Investment Advisers Act addressed who is and who is not an adviser by applying three criteria: what kind of advice is offered, how the individual is paid for their advice or method of compensation, and whether or not the lion's share of the adviser's income is generated by providing investment advice (the primary professional function). Also, if an individual leads a client to believe they are an investment adviser—by presenting themselves like that in advertising, for example—they can be considered one.



The act stipulates that anyone providing advice or making a recommendation on securities (as opposed to another type of investment) is considered an adviser. Individuals whose advice is merely incidental to their line of business may not be considered an adviser, however. Some financial planners and accountants may be considered advisers while some may not, for example.



The detailed guidelines for the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 can be found in Title 15 of the United States Code.






Generally, only advisers who have at least $100 million of assets under management or advise a registered investment company are required to register with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.


   Registration as a Financial Adviser  

The agency with whom advisers need to register depends mostly on the value of the assets they manage, along with whether they advise corporate clients or only individuals. Before the 2010 reforms, advisers who had at least $25 million in assets under management or provided advice to investment companies were required to register with the SEC. Advisers managing smaller amounts typically registered with state securities authorities.



Those amounts were amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which allowed many advisers who previously registered with the SEC to now do so with their state regulators because they managed less money than the new federal rules required. However, the Dodd-Frank Act also initiated registration requirements for those who advise private funds, such as hedge funds and private equity funds. Previously, such advisers were exempt from registration, despite often managing very large sums of money for investors.
What Is an Investment Adviser?  

An investment adviser (also known as a stock broker) is any person or group that makes investment recommendations or conducts securities analysis in return for a fee, whether through direct management of clients' assets or by way of written publications. The precise definition of the term was established through the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.



An investment adviser with sufficient assets to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is known as a Registered Investment Adviser (RIA). Investment advisers are also referred to as “financial advisors” and can alternatively be spelled as “investment advisors” or “financial advisors.”





Key Takeaways

Investment advisers are financial professionals that make investment recommendations or conduct security analysis in exchange for a fee.In the U.S., investment advisers are required to register at the state level, and they also need to register with the SEC if they manage $100 million or more in client assets.Investment advisers often have discretionary authority over their clients’ assets and are required to uphold standards of fiduciary responsibility.


   How Investment Advisers Work  

Investment advisers work as professionals within the financial industry by providing guidance to clients in exchange for specific fees. Investment advisers owe a fiduciary duty to their clients and are required to put their clients’ interests first at all times.



For example, investment advisers must ensure that clients’ transactions are given priority over their own and that any recommendations made to clients are well tailored to those clients’ needs, preferences, and financial circumstances. Investment advisers must also be careful to avoid any real or perceived conflicts of interest.



One way in which investment advisers seek to minimize real or perceived conflicts of interest is through their compensation structure. Investment advisers are paid through fees which cause their own success to be linked to that of the client.



For example, an investment adviser might charge a management fee based on the size or performance of the client’s assets. That way, the investment adviser has a clear financial motive to work toward the client’s success.



Investment advisers often have a level of discretionary authority allowing them to act on behalf of their clients without having to obtain formal permission prior to executing a transaction. However, this authority must be formally provided by the client, generally as part of the client onboarding process.



If investment advisers are operating within the U.S. they must register with the SEC if they manage assets totaling $100 million or more. Investment advisers with lesser amounts of assets are still eligible to register, but they are only required to register at the state level. Additionally, records regarding investment advisers and their associated firms must also be kept, to enable oversight of the industry.


   Real World Example of an Investment Adviser  

Suppose you are a 65 year-old retiree that has just hired an investment adviser to manage your retirement funds. The adviser you chose was recommended for her close adherence to the best practices of the investment management industry.



You recently downsized your home and have $1 million in combined retirement savings. You have some experience investing and are comfortable buying blue-chip stocks. However, given your age and risk tolerance you are mostly interested in preserving your principal and ensuring you have adequate money to fund your lifestyle for the next 20 or more years.



At your first meeting, your investment adviser began by asking you a series of questions designed to thoroughly understand your retirement plans, financial circumstances, risk tolerance, investment objectives, and other factors relevant for assessing your needs. She carefully explained her compensation structure (a mixture of flat fees and performance fees) and addressed the measures she takes to minimize real or perceived conflicts of interest. She explained that as part of the onboarding process she would obtain discretionary authority over your investment accounts and that she would have a fiduciary responsibility toward you as her client. Lastly, she directed you toward resources where you can verify and monitor her registration status.



After thoroughly answering your questions, your adviser suggested various potential investment strategies designed to best meet your needs given your budget and preferences. After careful discussion, you agreed on a course of action and completed the ongoing process.



In the months and years ahead, you would continue to have scheduled communication with your adviser where she would update you on the status of your investments and address your concerns.
What Is an Investment Advisory Representative (IAR)?  

Investment advisory representatives (IARs) are licensed and authorized personnel who work for investment advisory companies and are permitted to work with clients. The primary responsibility of an IAR is to provide investment-related advice as a financial advisor or financial planner.



In order to become an IAR, individuals must pass the appropriate licensing exam or exams and register with the appropriate regulatory bodies.





Key Takeaways

IARs are individuals employed by or associated with an investment advisor who make recommendations or otherwise give financial or investment advice.IARs receive compensation by charging fees either on a commission basis, at a flat or hourly rate, or as a percentage of assets under management (AUM).IARs must be properly registered, and, at a minimum, complete credentialing exams certified by FINRA and other required regulatory agencies.IARs are often required to pass the Series 63 and Series 65 exams, though requirements vary by state.IARs responsibilities include making financial recommendations, managing client accounts, providing advisory services to external parties, or overseeing other IARs.


   Understanding Investment Advisory Representatives (IARs)  

The Uniform Securities Act defines the term investment advisor representative (IAR) as:



"An individual employed by or associated with an investment advisor or federal-covered investment advisor and who makes any recommendations or otherwise gives investment advice regarding securities, manages accounts or portfolios of clients, determines which recommendation or advice regarding securities should be given, provides investment advice or holds herself or himself out as providing investment advice, receives compensation to solicit, offer, or negotiate for the sale of or for selling investment advice, or supervises employees who perform any of the foregoing."



IARs, as the name suggests, are representatives of investment advisory firms. They are typically tasked with duties and roles that would cast them as financial advisors and/or financial planners and often work with individual clients to help them achieve their financial goals and build investment portfolios.



More specifically, IARs commonly engage in the following:



Make Recommendations: IARs use their skill and judgment to make recommendations about different securities. They may use research produced by their firm to make an investment decision such as making a buy recommendation to a client after analyzing a research note.
Manages Client Accounts: This includes all aspects of account management, from managing discretionary accounts to following up on administration issues. For instance, an IAR may request additional funds from an investor to settle an outstanding trade.
Advisory Services: IARs may provide general investment advice. Examples include presenting a daily market report at a local television station or writing a weekly investment column for a newspaper.
Supervise Other IARs: An IAR might manage other IARs. This could include ensuring that new staff meet all regulatory requirements and helping to train junior team members as well as monitor the investment advice they give to investors.



An employee of an investment firm who does not directly engage in financial advice or investment recommendations to clients would not need to register as an IAR. This includes support staff, administrators, secretaries, etc.






According to regulatory terminology, the "registered investment advisor" or RIA is the firm and the IAR is the individual who represents the firm and must pass an exam.


   IAR Requirements  

It is essential for RIA firms to ensure their IARs are registered correctly to avoid significant penalties. The first step in the registration process is to create an account with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD). These accounts are managed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) on behalf of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and states. There are a few states that do not require this, so advisors who only do business in those states do not have to use this system.



Once the account is open, FINRA will supply the advisor or firm with a Central Registration Depository (CRD) number and account ID information. With this, the firm can then file Form ADV and the U4 forms with either the SEC or states.



According to regulations, IARs can only offer advice on topics for which they have passed the appropriate examinations. In addition to obtaining the minimum qualifications, they must register with a registered investment advisor (RIA) firm and the proper state authorities.



IARs register in the state in which they provide investment advice; they do not require SEC registration. In the majority of states, IARs are required to file Form U4, which is the Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration. The form then gets filed on the CRD system.


   IAR Qualifications  

To expand their knowledge of financial products and principles, many IARs go above and beyond by acquiring either the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) or Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designations. These designations are not required to be an IAR or financial advisor but provide more legitimacy, opportunity, and knowledge to the charter holder.



IARs in most states are typically required to pass the Series 63 and/or Series 65 exams. The FINRA administered exam consists of 130 scored questions which candidates have 180 minutes to complete. As an alternative to passing the Series 65 exam, IARs may pass the Series 66 and Series 7 exams.



Some states allow for the substitution of licensing credentials. For example, an individual may not have to pass the Series 65 exam if they hold a CFP designation. IARs may also have continuing education requirements depending on their jurisdiction.




What Does an IAR Do?
An IAR is a specific type of financial advisor that provides general advice to clients, oversees their accounts, and provides advisory services to external parties.




How Do I Become an IAR?
You can become an IAR by creating an account with the IARD. Once your account is open, your firm can submit Forms ADV and U4 with the SEC and states, if applicable.




What Are the Benefits of Becoming an IAR?
Becoming an IAR legitimizes your status and knowledge as a financial advisor. IARs are recognized by regulatory bodies and often require passing specific tests to provide proficiency.
What Is Investment Analysis?  

Investment analysis is a broad term for many different methods of evaluating investments, industry sectors, and economic trends. It can include charting past returns to predict future performance, selecting the type of investment that best suits an investor's needs, or evaluating individual securities such as stocks and bonds to determine their risks, yield potential, or price movements.



Investment analysis is key to a sound portfolio management strategy.


   Understanding Investment Analysis  

The aim of investment analysis is to determine how an investment is likely to perform and how suitable it is for a particular investor. Key factors in investment analysis include the appropriate entry price, the expected time horizon for holding an investment, and the role the investment will play in the portfolio as a whole.



In conducting an investment analysis of a mutual fund, for example, an investor looks at how the fund performed over time compared to its benchmark and to its main competitors. Peer fund comparison includes investigating the differences in performance, expense ratios, management stability, sector weighting, investment style, and asset allocation.



In investing, one size does not fit all. Just as there are many different types of investors with unique goals, time horizons, and incomes, there are investment opportunities that match those individual parameters.


  Strategic Thinking  

Investment analysis can also involve evaluating an overall investment strategy in terms of the thought process that went into making it, the person's needs and financial situation at the time, how the portfolio performed, and whether it's time for a correction or adjustment.



Investors who are not comfortable doing investment analysis on their own can seek advice from an investment advisor or another financial professional.





Key Takeaways

Investment analysis involves researching and evaluating a security or an industry to predict its future performance and determine its suitability to a specific investor.Investment analysis may also involve evaluating or creating an overall financial strategy.Types of investment analysis include bottom-up, top-down, fundamental, and technical.


   Types of Investment Analysis  

While there are countless ways to analyze securities, sectors, and markets, investment analysis can be divided into several basic approaches.


  Top-Down vs. Bottom-Up  

When making investment decisions, investors can use a bottom-up investment analysis approach or a top-down approach.



Bottom-up investment analysis entails analyzing individual stocks for their merits, such as their valuation, management competence, pricing power, and other unique characteristics.



Bottom-up investment analysis does not focus on economic cycles or market cycles. Instead, it aims to find the best companies and stocks regardless of the overarching trends. In essence, bottom-up investing takes a microeconomic approach to investing rather than a macroeconomic or global approach.



The global approach is a hallmark of top-down investment analysis. It starts with an analysis of the economic, market, and industry trends before zeroing in on the investments that will benefit from those trends.


  Top-Down and Bottom-Up Examples  

In a top-down approach, an investor might evaluate various sectors and conclude that financials will likely perform better than industrials. As a result, the investor decides the investment portfolio will be overweight financials and underweight industrials. Then it's time to find the best stocks in the financial sector.






Proponents of bottom-up analysis include Warren Buffett and his mentor, Benjamin Graham.



In contrast, the bottom-up investor may have found that an industrial company made for a compelling investment and allocated a significant amount of capital to it even though the outlook for the broader industry was relatively negative. The investor has concluded that the stock will outperform its industry.


  Fundamental vs. Technical Analysis  

Other investment analysis methods include fundamental analysis and technical analysis.



The fundamental analyst stresses the financial health of companies as well as the broader economic outlook. Practitioners of fundamental analysis seek stocks they believe the market has mispriced. That is, they are trading at a price lower than is warranted by their intrinsic value.



Often using bottom-up analysis, these investors will evaluate a company's financial soundness, future business prospects, and dividend potential to determine whether it will make a satisfactory investment. Proponents of this style include Warren Buffett and his mentor, Benjamin Graham.﻿﻿ 


  Technical Analysis  

The technical analyst evaluates patterns of stock prices and statistical parameters, using computer-calculated charts and graphs. Unlike fundamental analysts, who attempt to evaluate a security's intrinsic value, technical analysts focus on patterns of price movements, trading signals, and various other analytical charting tools to evaluate a security's strength or weakness.



Day traders make frequent use of technical analysis in devising their strategies and timing their buying and selling activity.


   Real-World Example of Investment Analysis  

Research analysts frequently release investment analysis reports on individual securities, asset classes, and market sectors, with a recommendation to buy, sell or hold them.



For example, on Feb. 11, 2021, Charles Schwab issued Sector Insights: A View on 11 Equity sectors. The report gives a three-to-six month outlook on the 11 main stock sectors that represent the broader economy.﻿﻿



Among the highlights, Schwab analysts looked at the communication services sector, which includes telecommunication service providers, media, entertainment, and interactive media. In the note, the analysts said that while the pandemic-related stay-at-home behaviors have been good for some companies in the sector, with streaming demand rising, the demand for traditional TV and cable had dropped, which has hurt ad revenues.



The analysts then assigned an overall neutral assessment rating of "market perform." This neutral rating means the communication services sector should provide returns in line with that of the S&P 500.﻿﻿



Schwab also looked at the financial sector, which includes banks, savings and loans, insurers, investment banking, brokerages, mortgage finance companies, and mortgage real estate investment trusts. Schwab noted that the sector should benefit from the likelihood of continued fiscal stimulus coming out of Washington, a Federal Reserve that is likely to maintain stimulus for years, the positive impact of the vaccine rollout, and the likelihood of a continued rise in long-term interest rates.



Schwab rated the financials sector "outperform," meaning that the sector and its underlying issues are likely to see returns that surpass the S&P 500.﻿﻿
What Is an Investment Bank?  

An investment bank is a financial services company that acts as an intermediary in large and complex financial transactions. An investment bank is usually involved when a startup company prepares for its launch of an initial public offering (IPO) and when a corporation merges with a competitor. It also has a role as a broker or financial adviser for large institutional clients such as pension funds.



Global investment banks include JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Bank of America, Credit Suisse, and Deutsche Bank.



Many of these names also offer storefront community banking and have divisions that cater to the investment needs of high-net-worth individuals.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   How an Investment Bank Works   

The advisory division of an investment bank is paid a fee for its services. The trading division earns commissions based on its market performance. As noted, many also have retail banking divisions that make money by loaning money to consumers and businesses.



Professionals who work for investment banks may have careers as financial advisors, traders, or salespeople. An investment banking career is lucrative but typically comes with long hours and significant stress.


  The Intermediary Role  

Investment banks are best known for their work as intermediaries between a corporation and the financial markets. That is, they help corporations issue shares of stock in an IPO or an additional stock offering. They also arrange debt financing for corporations by finding large-scale investors for corporate bonds.



The investment bank's advisory role begins with pre-underwriting counseling and continues after the distribution of securities.



The investment bank is responsible for examining a company’s financial statements for accuracy and publishing a prospectus that describes the offering in detail to investors before the securities are available for purchase.



Investment bank clients include corporations, pension funds, other financial institutions, governments, and hedge funds.





Key Takeaways

Investment banks specialize in managing complex financial transactions such as IPOs and mergers for corporate clients.Modern investment banking is typically a division of a bigger bank institution such as Citibank and JPMorgan Chase.A 'Chinese wall' is supposed to separate investment banking activities from the company's trading division to prevent conflicts of interest. 



Size is an asset for investment banks. The more connections the bank has within the global financial community, the more likely it is to profit by matching buyers with sellers, especially for unique transactions.



Investment bank operations can be roughly divided into three main functions.






  Financial Advisors  

As a financial advisor to large institutional investors, an investment bank may provide strategic advice on a variety of financial matters.



They accomplish this mission by combining a thorough understanding of their clients' objectives, industry, and global markets with the strategic vision necessary to spot and evaluate short- and long-term opportunities and challenges.


  Mergers and Acquisitions  

Facilitating mergers and acquisitions is a key element of an investment bank's work.



The investment bank estimates the value of a potential acquisition and helps negotiate a fair price for it. It also assists in structuring and facilitating the acquisition to make the deal go as smoothly as possible.


  Research  

Investment banks have research divisions that review companies and write reports about their prospects, often with buy, hold, or sell ratings. This research may not generate revenue directly but it assists its traders and sales department.



The research division also provides investment advice to outside clients who can complete a trade through the trading desk of the bank, which would generate revenue for the bank.



Research maintains an investment bank's institutional knowledge on credit research, fixed income research, macroeconomic research, and quantitative analysis, all of which are used internally and externally to advise clients.






Size is an asset in the investment banking business, where the biggest investment banks rely on a global network to match buyers and sellers.


  Criticism of Investment Banks  

Investment banks advise external clients in one division and trade their own accounts in another. That is a potential conflict of interest.



To prevent it, investment banks must maintain what is called a Chinese wall between divisions. This figurative barrier is meant to prevent the sharing of information that would allow one side or the other to unfairly profit at the expense of its own clients.
What Is an Investment Banker?  

An investment banker is an individual who often works as part of a financial institution and is primarily concerned with raising capital for corporations, governments, or other entities.Examples of investment banker employers are Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAC), and Deutsche Bank (DB).





Key Takeaways:

An investment banker works for a financial institution and is primarily concerned with raising capital for corporations, governments, or other entities.The investment banking field is popular because it is typically well paid.Investment bankers must have excellent number-crunching abilities, strong verbal and written communication skills, and the capacity to work long and grueling hours.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Investment Banking  

Investment bankers facilitate large, complicated financial transactions. These transactions may include structuring an acquisition, merger, or sale for clients. Another responsibility of investment bankers is issuing securities as a means of raising capital. This involves creating detailed documentation for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) necessary for a company to go public.



An investment banker can save a client time and money by identifying the risks associated with a particular project before a company moves forward. In theory, the investment banker is an expert in their field or industry, who has a finger on the pulse of the current investing climate. Businesses and nonprofit institutions often turn to investment bankers for advice on how best to plan their development.



An investment banker also assists with pricing financial instruments and navigating regulatory requirements. When a company holds its initial public offering (IPO), an investment bank will buy all or much of that company’s shares directly, acting as an intermediary. In this case, acting on behalf of the company going public, the investment bank will subsequently sell the company’s shares into the public market, creating immediate liquidity.



An investment bank stands to make a profit in this scenario, generally pricing its shares at a markup. In doing so, the investment bank takes on a substantial amount of risk. While experienced analysts at the investment bank use their expertise to price the stock accurately, an investment banker can lose money on the deal if they have overvalued the shares.


   An Example of Investment Banking and an IPO  

For example, suppose that Pete’s Paints Co., a chain supplying paints and other hardware, wants to go public. Pete, the owner, gets in touch with Katherine, a prominent investment banker. Pete and Katherine strike a deal in which Katherine (on behalf of her firm) agrees to buy 100,000 shares of Pete’s Paints for the company’s IPO at the price of $24 per share, based on her analyst team's recommendations. The investment bank pays $2.4 million for the 100,000 shares.



After filing the appropriate paperwork, such as SEC Form S-1, and setting the IPO's date and time, Katherine and her team begin selling the stock into the open market at $26 per share. However, the investment bank cannot sell more than 20% of the shares at this price given weak demand and is forced to reduce the price to $23 to sell the rest of the holdings. This ultimately leads to a loss for Katherine and her team.


  Required Skills for Investment Bankers  

The investment banking field is popular because investment bankers are typically well paid. However, these positions require specific skills, such as excellent number-crunching abilities, strong verbal and written communication skills, and the capacity to work long and grueling hours.






Educational requirements usually include an MBA from a top-notch institution and potentially the chartered financial analyst (CFA) designation.



Investment bankers must abide by their firm's stipulated code of conduct and typically sign a confidentiality agreement because of the sensitive nature of the information they receive. Moreover, there is potential for conflict of interest if the advisory and trading divisions of investment banks interact.



A hierarchy of positions typically exists in investment banking: (from junior to senior) analyst, associate, vice president, senior vice president, and then managing director.
What Is Investment Banking?  

Investment banking is a type of banking that organizes large, complex financial transactions such as mergers or initial public offering (IPO) underwriting. These banks may raise money for companies in a variety of ways, including underwriting the issuance of new securities for a corporation, municipality, or other institution. They may manage a corporation's IPO. Investment banks also provide advice in mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations.



In essence, investment bankers are experts who have their fingers on the pulse of the current investment climate. They help their clients navigate the complex world of high finance.





Key Takeaways

Investment banking deals primarily with raising money for companies, governments, and other entities.Investment banking activities include underwriting new debt and equity securities for all types of corporations.Investment banks will also facilitate mergers and acquisitions, reorganizations, and broker trades for institutions and private investors.Investment bankers work with corporations, governments, and other groups. They plan and manage the financial aspects of large projects.Investment banks were legally separated from other types of commercial banks in the United States from 1933 to 1999, when the Glass-Steagall Act that segregated them was repealed.












Ellen Lindner / Investopedia


   Understanding Investment Banking  

Investment banks underwrite new debt and equity securities for all types of corporations, aid in the sale of securities, and help facilitate mergers and acquisitions, reorganizations, and broker trades for institutions and private investors. Investment banks also provide guidance to issuers regarding the offering and placement of stock.



Many large investment banking systems are affiliated with or subsidiaries of larger banking institutions, and many have become household names, the largest being Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, and Deutsche Bank.



Broadly speaking, investment banks assist in large, complicated financial transactions. They may provide advice on how much a company is worth and how best to structure a deal if the investment banker's client is considering an acquisition, merger, or sale. Investment banks' activities also may include issuing securities as a means of raising money for the client groups and creating the documentation for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) necessary for a company to go public.






Investment banks employ investment bankers who help corporations, governments, and other groups plan and manage large projects, saving their clients time and money by identifying risks associated with the project before the client moves forward.



In theory, investment bankers are experts who have their finger on the pulse of the current investing climate, so businesses and institutions turn to investment banks for advice on how best to plan their development, as investment bankers can tailor their recommendations to the present state of economic affairs.






   Regulation and Investment Banking  

The Glass-Steagall Act was passed in 1933 after the 1929 stock market crash led to massive bank failures. The purpose of the law was to separate commercial and investment banking activities. The mixing of commercial and investment banking activities was considered very risky and may have worsened the 1929 crash. This is because, when the stock market crashed, investors rushed to draw their money from banks to meet margin calls and for other purposes, but some banks were unable to honor these requests because they too had invested their clients' money in the stock market.



Before Glass-Steagall was passed, banks could divert retail depositors' funds into speculative operations such as investing in the equity markets. As such operations became more lucrative, banks took larger and larger speculative positions, eventually putting depositors' funds at risk.



However, the stipulations of the act were considered harsh by some in the financial sector, and Congress eventually repealed the Glass-Steagall Act in 1999. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 thus eliminated the separation between investment and commercial banks. Since the repeal, most major banks have resumed combined investment and commercial banking operations.


   Initial Public Offering (IPO) Underwriting  

Essentially, investment banks serve as middlemen between a company and investors when the company wants to issue stock or bonds. The investment bank assists with pricing financial instruments to maximize revenue and with navigating regulatory requirements.



Often, when a company holds its IPO, an investment bank will buy all or much of that company's shares directly from the company. Subsequently, as a proxy for the company launching the IPO, the investment bank will sell the shares on the market. This makes things much easier for the company itself, as it effectively contracts out the IPO to the investment bank.



Moreover, the investment bank stands to make a profit, as it will generally price its shares at a markup from what it initially paid for them. In doing so, it also takes on a substantial amount of risk. Although experienced analysts use their expertise to accurately price the stock as best they can, the investment bank can lose money on the deal if it turns out that it has overvalued the stock, as in this case, it will often have to sell the stock for less than it initially paid for it.


   Example of Investment Banking  

Suppose that Pete's Paints Co., a chain supplying paints and other hardware, wants to go public. Pete, the owner, gets in touch with José, an investment banker working for a larger investment banking firm. Pete and José strike a deal wherein José (on behalf of his firm) agrees to buy 100,000 shares of Pete's Paints for the company's IPO at the price of $24 per share, a price at which the investment bank's analysts arrived after careful consideration.



The investment bank pays $2.4 million for the 100,000 shares and, after filing the appropriate paperwork, begins selling the stock for $26 per share. However, the investment bank is unable to sell more than 20% of the shares at this price and is forced to reduce the price to $23 per share to sell the remaining shares.



For the IPO deal with Pete's Paints, then, the investment bank has made $2.36 million [(20,000 × $26) + (80,000 × $23) = $520,000 + $1,840,000 = $2,360,000]. In other words, José's firm has lost $40,000 on the deal because it overvalued Pete's Paints.



Investment banks often will compete with one another to secure IPO projects, which can force them to increase the price they are willing to pay to secure the deal with the company that is going public. If competition is particularly fierce, this can lead to a substantial blow to the investment bank's bottom line.



Most often, however, there will be more than one investment bank underwriting securities in this way, rather than just one. While this means that each investment bank has less to gain, it also means that each one will have reduced risk.




What Do Investment Banks Do?
Broadly speaking, investment banks assist in large, complicated financial transactions. They may provide advice on how much a company is worth and how best to structure a deal if the investment banker's client is considering an acquisition, merger, or sale. Essentially, their services include underwriting new debt and equity securities for all types of corporations, providing aid in the sale of securities, and helping to facilitate mergers and acquisitions, reorganizations, and broker trades for both institutions and private investors. They also may issue securities as a means of raising money for the client groups and create the necessary U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) documentation for a company to go public.




What Is the Role of Investment Bankers?
Investment banks employ people who help corporations, governments, and other groups plan and manage large projects, saving their clients time and money by identifying risks associated with the project before the client moves forward. In theory, investment bankers should be experts who have their finger on the pulse of the current investing climate. Businesses and institutions turn to investment banks for advice on how best to plan their development. Investment bankers, using their expertise, tailor their recommendations to the present state of economic affairs.




What Is an Initial Public Offering (IPO)?
An initial public offering (IPO) refers to the process of offering shares of a private corporation to the public in a new stock issuance. Public share issuance allows a company to raise capital from public investors. Companies must meet requirements set by exchanges and the SEC to hold an IPO. Companies hire investment banks to underwrite their IPOs. The underwriters are involved in every aspect of the IPO due diligence, document preparation, filing, marketing, and issuance.


   The Bottom Line  

The names of investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley come up frequently in discussions about the financial market, highlighting the importance of these institutions in the financial world. In general, investment banks assist clients with large and complex financial transactions. This includes underwriting new debt and equity securities, aiding in the sale of securities, and helping to facilitate mergers and acquisitions, reorganizations, and broker trades. Investment banks may help other organizations raise capital by underwriting initial public offerings (IPOs) and creating the documentation required for a company to go public.
What Is an Investment Center?  

An investment center is a business unit in a firm that can utilize capital to contribute directly to a company's profitability. You may compare and contrast some parallels like the terms "profit center" or "cost center."



Companies evaluate the performance of an investment center according to the revenues it brings in through investments in capital assets compared to the overall expenses.



An investment center is sometimes called an investment division.





Key Takeaways

An investment center is a business unit that a firm utilizes with its own capital to generate returns that benefit the firm.The financing arm of an automobile maker or department store is a common example of an investment center.Investment centers are increasingly important for firms as financialization leads companies to seek profits from investment and lending activities in addition to core production.


   Understanding Investment Centers  

The different departmental units within a company are categorized as either generating profits or running expenses. Organizational departments are classified into three different units: cost center, profit center, and investment center. A cost center focuses on minimizing costs and is assessed by how much expenses it incurs.



Examples of departments that make up the cost center are the human resource and marketing departments. A profit center is evaluated on the amount of profit that is generated and attempts to increase profits by increasing sales or reducing costs. Units that fall under a profit center include the manufacturing and sales department. In addition to departments, profit and cost centers can be divisions, projects, teams, subsidiary companies, production lines, or machines.



An investment center is a center that is responsible for its own revenues, expenses, and assets and manages its own financial statements which are typically a balance sheet and an income statement. Because costs, revenue, and assets have to be identified separately, an investment center would usually be a subsidiary company or a division.



One can classify an investment center as an extension of the profit center where revenues and expenses are measured. However, only in an investment center are the assets employed also measured and compared to the profit made.


   Investment Center vs. Profit Center  

Instead of looking at how much profit or expenses a unit has as with a firm's profit centers, the investment center focuses on generating returns on the fixed assets or working capital invested specifically in the investment center.



Unlike a profit center, an investment center might invest in activities and assets that are not necessarily related to the company's operations. It could be investments or acquisitions of other companies enabling diversification of the company's risk. A new trend is the proliferation of venture arms within established corporations to enable investments in the next wave of trends through acquiring stakes in startups.



In simpler terms, the performance of a department is analyzed by examining the assets and resources given to the department and how well it used those assets to generate revenues compared with its overall expenses. By focusing on return on capital, the investment center philosophy gives a more accurate picture of how much a division is contributing to the economic well-being of the company.



Using this approach of measuring a department’s performance, managers have insight as to whether to increase capital to increase profits or whether to shut down a department that is inefficiently making use of its invested capital. An investment center that cannot earn a return on invested funds in excess of the cost of those funds is deemed not economically profitable.


   Investment Center vs. Cost Center  

An investment center is different from a cost center, which does not directly contribute to the company’s profit and is evaluated according to the cost it incurs to run its operations. Moreover, unlike a profit center, investment centers can utilize capital in order to purchase other assets.



Because of this complexity, companies have to use a variety of metrics, including return on investment (ROI), residual income, and economic value added (EVA) to evaluate the performance of a department. For example, a manager can compare the ROI to the cost of capital to evaluate a division’s performance. If the ROI is 9% and the cost of capital is 13%, the manager can conclude that the investment center is managing its capital or assets poorly.
What Is an Investment Club?  

An investment club refers to a group of people who pool their money to make investments. Usually, investment clubs are organized as partnerships—after the members study different investments, the group decides to buy or sell based on a majority vote of the members. Club meetings may be educational and each member may actively participate in investment decisions.





Key Takeaways

An investment club refers to a group of individuals who each contribute money to a pool that is then invested for the shared benefit of the group members.You can think of an investment club as a small-scale mutual fund where decisions are made by a committee of non-professional club members. Clubs can be informal or established as a legal entity such as a partnership. Either way, the club may be subject to regulatory oversight and must account for taxes properly.


   Understanding Investment Clubs  

Investment clubs are usually a group of amateur investors who learn about investing by pooling their money and investing it is a group. In the United States, there are two formal definitions of investment clubs that are complimentary. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined investment clubs as:



"Generally a group of people who pool their money to invest together. Club members generally study different investments and then make investment decisions together — for example, the group might buy or sell based on a member vote. Club meetings may be educational, and each member may actively help make investment decisions."



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has also defined investment clubs:



"An investment club is formed when a group of friends, neighbors, business associates, or others pool their money to invest in stock or other securities. The club may or may not have a written agreement, a charter, or bylaws."



The IRS goes on to say that investment clubs tend to operate informally, with dues paid regularly (such as monthly). Some clubs employ committees that recommend investments while others involve each member in the process. Clubs subject any actions to a vote by membership. For more information, interested parties can refer to the chapter in IRS Publication 550 on investment clubs.


   Advantages of Investment Clubs  

The advantages to investment clubs are that they are the easiest and most economical entities to form, operate, and maintain. Pooling money to do larger market transactions means that the members all enjoy lower transaction fees. The investment club's income and losses are passed through to its partners and are reported on their individual tax returns. Investment clubs are, above all else, a terrific way to learn, make valuable contacts, and meet people interested in the same topics. Some clubs have made significant returns for their members, but even the money losing investment clubs provide important lessons that members will take with them into the future.


   Special Considerations  
  How to Start a Club  

When setting up an investment club the following steps are recommended:



Organize membership: Be sure to find candidates that want to actively participate. Consider utilizing an entry fee and a monthly membership fee to weed out the unengaged. Members should be trustworthy, open to performing research and able to afford such activity.
Choose an organizational structure: Who will lead the club and how will they be selected and succeeded? How often will it meet? What are its rules? How will records be kept?
Choose a legal structure: The most common structure is a partnership. This is important because a brokerage account cannot be opened without a legal structure. The club will need to get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the IRS.
Decide on goals and objectives, and create an operational plan on how to achieve them. This should be a group effort to build a consensus.


  Taxation and Regulation of Investment Clubs  

In general, investment clubs are unregulated. In United States, the SEC requires any entity with more that $25 million to register under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Individual states may require registration but generally investment clubs do not have to if they have a small number of clients or participants.



In the United Kingdom, investment clubs are considered unincorporated associations and are not regulated or taxed as corporations. In each case, individual members are responsible for reporting gains and losses on their individual tax returns. In the U.S., income earned by investment club members is treated as partnership pass-through income. As such, members are required to file a Form 1065 and a Schedule K-1 each year. In the U.K., investment club members are required to file Form 185 Capital Gains Tax: investment club certificate.


  Alternatives to Investment Clubs  

An investment club usually refers to pooled money being managed by members through an established structure, but there are alternatives that also use the name. Informal investment clubs exist online and in the real world where members simply meet to discuss investing and what they are looking at. The members of these informal investment clubs can then choose whether or not to trade a particular asset that was discussed in their personal portfolio. Moreover, the advent of low and no fee brokerage accounts have removed one of the key advantages to investment clubs in terms of lower overall commissions and fees. This may well lead more people to join informal investment clubs for the knowledge and insight without the commitment.
What Is an Investment Company?  

An investment company is a corporation or trust engaged in the business of investing the pooled capital of investors in financial securities. This is most often done either through a closed-end fund or an open-end fund (also referred to as a mutual fund). In the U.S., most investment companies are registered with and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Investment Company Act of 1940.



An investment company may be known as a "fund company" or "fund sponsor." They often partner with third-party distributors to sell mutual funds.





Key Takeaways

An investment company is a specialized business that is engaged in the business of investing pooled capital into financial securities.Investment companies can be privately or publicly owned, and they engage in the management, sale, and marketing of investment products to the public.Investment companies make profits by buying and selling shares, property, bonds, cash, other funds and other assets.


   Understanding an Investment Company  

Investment companies are business entities, both privately and publicly owned, that manage, sell and market funds to the public. The main business of an investment company is to hold and manage securities for investment purposes, but they typically offer investors a variety of funds and investment services, which include portfolio management, recordkeeping, custodial, legal, accounting and tax management services.



An investment company can be a corporation, partnership, business trust or limited liability company (LLC) that pools money from investors on a collective basis. The money pooled is invested, and the investors share any profits and losses incurred by the company according to each investor’s interest in the company. For example, assume an investment company pooled and invested $10 million from a number of clients, who represent the fund company's shareholders. A client who contributed $1 million will have a vested interest of 10% in the company, which would also translate into any losses or profits earned.



Investment companies are categorized into three types: closed-end funds, mutual funds (or open-end funds) and unit investment trusts (UITs). Each of these three investment companies must register under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.






Investment companies may charge fees on their products, including management fees and other expenses, which can reduce returns. Investors should carefully review the fund's prospectus and performance before investing in a closed-end fund.


   Closed-End Funds  

Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares that may then be traded on stock exchanges. As demand increases or wanes for fund shares, the supply of them remains the same. The price of the shares is thus determined by demand in the market and can trade at a premium or discount to the fund's net asset value (NAV) (although the units or shares of closed-end funds are typically offered at an initial discount to their NAV).



Investors who want to sell shares will sell them to other investors on the secondary market at a price determined by market forces and participants, making them not redeemable. Since investment companies with a closed-end structure issue only a fixed number of shares, back-and-forth trading of the shares in the market has no impact on the portfolio.


   Mutual Funds  

Mutual funds have a floating number of issued shares and sell or redeem their shares at their current net asset value by selling them back to the fund or the broker acting for the fund, at each trading day's closing NAV. As investors move their money in and out of the fund, the fund expands and contracts, respectively. Open-ended funds are often restricted to investing in liquid assets, given that the investment managers have to plan in a way that the fund is able to meet the demands for investors who may want their money back at any time. 



Mutual fund companies may charge fees, including management fees, 12b-1 fees, and other expenses, which can reduce returns (although the trend has been that fees have getting lower over time). Mutual funds are popular among investors because they can offer diversification and professional management. However, investors should carefully review the fund's prospectus and performance before investing in a mutual fund.


   Unit Investment Trusts (UITs)  

A unit investment trust (UIT) issues a set number of units that represent undivided interests in a specific, fixed portfolio of securities. They have a specified termination date, and investors receive a pro-rata share of the UIT's net assets upon termination. UITs are passive investments in that they typically invest in a fixed portfolio of securities, such as stocks or bonds, and are not actively traded or rebalanced like the portfolios of mutual funds or closed-end funds. UITs may charge fees, including a creation and development fee, a trustee fee, and other expenses, which can reduce returns.






Each of these fund types can invest in a variety of securities, such as stocks, bonds, and commodities. Some may also use leverage to enhance returns, but this also increases the risk involved.




Is a Hedge Fund an Investment Company?
Private investment funds that only accept money from investors with a substantial amount of assets (i.e., accredited investors) are not considered to be investment companies under the federal securities laws. These funds are exempt from the registration requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, but they are still subject to other securities laws and regulations. Private investment funds include hedge funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds.




What Was the First Investment Company?
Investment companies have been around for nearly a century. The first registered investment company, the Massachusetts Investors Trust, was established in 1924 to allow small investors to invest in the stock market. It was an open-end fund, which is now the most popular type of investment company. An iteration of this fund is still around today under the ticker MITTX.




How Can Investment Companies Be Socially Responsible?
Socially responsible investing (SRI) is a growing trend in the investment industry, and some investment companies specialize in SRI strategies. These companies invest in companies that have a positive impact on society and the environment, while avoiding companies that engage in practices that are harmful to people or the planet.Investment companies can play a role in philanthropy. Donor-advised funds (DAFs) allow individuals to donate money to a charitable organization, while still retaining some control over how the funds are invested and distributed. This can be a tax-efficient way to support charitable causes while also benefiting from the investment returns.


   The Bottom Line  

Investment companies are legally-defined and regulated entities that pool money from investors to invest in a portfolio of securities, such as stocks, bonds, and commodities. They are regulated by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940, which set forth various registration, disclosure, and reporting requirements. Investment companies are categorized into three types: closed-end funds, mutual funds (open-end funds), and unit investment trusts (UITs). Each type of investment company has its own characteristics, benefits, and risks. Investors should carefully review the offering documents, past performance, and risk factors before investing in any investment company or fund.
What Is the Investment Company Act of 1940?  

The Investment Company Act of 1940 is an act of Congress that regulates the organization of investment companies and the activities they engage in. It sets standards for the investment company industry. A primary purpose of the Act is to protect investors by ensuring that they're aware of the risks associated with buying and owning securities.



Investment companies are required by the Act to provide investors with information about their investment objectives, investment policies, and financial condition when stock is first sold and, henceforth, at regular intervals. Investment companies must also inform investors about investment company structure and operations.



The Act was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt along with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Both give the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) power to regulate investment trusts and investment counselors.





Key Takeaways

The Investment Company Act of 1940 is an act of Congress that regulates the formation of investment companies and their activities.The legislation in the Investment Company Act of 1940 is enforced and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Companies seeking to avoid the product obligations and requirements of the Act may be eligible for an exemption.The Act was signed into law by FDR who wanted to protect investors after the Stock Market Crash of 1929 and the Great Depression that followed.The Act has gone through many changes over the decades as financial markets have evolved and become more complex.


   Understanding the Investment Company Act of 1940  

The legislation in the Investment Company Act of 1940 is enforced and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This legislation defines the responsibilities and requirements of investment companies and the requirements for any publicly traded investment product offerings, such as open-end mutual funds, closed-end mutual funds, and unit investment trusts. The Act primarily targets publicly traded retail investment products.



The Investment Company Act of 1940 was passed in order to establish and integrate a more stable financial market regulatory framework following the Stock Market Crash of 1929. It is the primary legislation governing investment companies and their investment product offerings. The Securities Act of 1933 was also passed in response to the crash, but it focused on greater transparency for investors; the Investment Company Act of 1940 is focused primarily on the regulatory framework for retail investment products.



The Act details rules and regulations that U.S. investment companies must abide by when offering and maintaining investment product securities. Provisions of the Act address requirements for filings, service charges, financial disclosures, and the fiduciary duties of investment companies.



The Act also provides regulations for transactions of certain affiliated persons and underwriters; accounting methodologies; record-keeping requirements; auditing requirements; how securities may be distributed, redeemed, and repurchased; changes to investment policies; and actions in the event of fraud or breach of fiduciary duty.






The Investment Company Act of 1940 has greatly protected the retirement savings of individuals, as mutual funds are a large component of retirement plans, such as 401(k)s, and annuities.



Further, it sets forth specific guidelines for different types of classified investment companies and includes provisions governing the rules of companies' operating products, including unit investment trusts, open-end mutual funds, closed-end mutual funds, and more.


   Defining an Investment Company  

The Act also defines what qualifies as an “investment company.” Companies seeking to avoid the product obligations and requirements of the Act may be eligible for an exemption. For example, hedge funds sometimes fall under the Act's definition of "investment company" but may be able to avoid the Act's requirements by requesting an exemption under sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)7.



In accordance with the Investment Company Act of 1940, investment companies must register with the SEC before they can offer their securities in the public market. The Act also lays out the steps an investment company is required to take during this registration process.



Companies register for different classifications based on the type of product or the range of products that they wish to manage and issue to the investing public. In the U.S., there are three types of investment companies (categorized according to federal securities laws): mutual funds/open-end management investment companies; unit investment trusts (UITs); and closed-end funds/closed-end management investment companies. Requirements for investment companies are based on their classification and their product offerings.


   Dodd-Frank Act and Partial Repeal  

After the Great Recession, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010. It is an extremely large piece of legislation that resulted in the creation of new government agencies to oversee different aspects of the act, and hence, the entire financial system in the U.S. The act impacted several areas, including "consumer protection, trading restrictions, credit ratings, financial products, corporate governance, and transparency."



Dodd-Frank impacted the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 more than it did the Investment Company Act of 1940; however, hedge funds have been impacted by Dodd-Frank.



Under the Investment Company Act, hedge funds were not required to register. This gave hedge funds a significant amount of carte blanche in their trading activities. Dodd-Frank established new rules for hedge funds and private equity funds to register with the SEC and abide by certain disclosure requirements based on their size.




Why Was the Investment Company Act of 1940 Passed?
The Investment Company Act of 1940 was established after the 1929 Stock Market Crash and the Great Depression that followed in order to protect investors and bring more stability to the financial markets in the U.S.




What Constitutes an Investment Company Under the 1940 Act?
The Act defines an investment company as "an issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire 'investment securities' having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis."




Which Companies Are Qualified for an Exemption?
There are a variety of companies that can qualify for exemptions based on how they are structured, their activities, as well as their size. This includes companies that only give advice about the economy but not on securities, certain subsidiaries, and companies having less than 100 investors.




How Did the Investment Company Act of 1940 Impact Financial Regulation?
The Act impacted the registration and requirements of many investment companies and made financial regulation tighter, giving the SEC more power to oversee the financial markets. It created rules that protected investors and required investment companies to disclose certain information. Financial regulation became more robust under the Act.


   The Bottom Line  

The Investment Company Act of 1940 was passed by FDR in the aftermath of the Great Depression after many individuals and families lost everything they had. The purpose of the Act was to provide the SEC with the power to oversee investment companies and ensure they are acting according to law and in the best interest of their investors. The purpose of the Act was to protect investors at all costs. As financial markets have evolved over the decades, so has the Investment Company Act, though at its core its purpose remains the same.
What Is an Investment Consultant?  

An investment consultant is a financial professional who provides investors with investment products, advice, and/or planning. Investment consultants do in-depth work on formulating investment strategies for clients, helping them fulfill their needs and reach their financial goals. Many financial advisors and financial planners would be considered investment consultants.



Investment consultants have experience in many different facets of the financial world and may work independently for a bank or an investment firm. They are usually educated in a financial field, have experience in the financial services industry, and be licensed to work.





Key Takeaways

An investment consultant helps clients formulate and put into place investment strategies as well as construct and maintain their portfolios.As with other financial advisors, investment consultants actively monitor their client's investments and work with them as their financial objectives change over time to adjust their holdings.The job market for personal financial consultants is poised to grow in the next decade (2020-2030).Becoming an investment consultant typically requires a college degree and some work experience.Professional investment consultants must also be properly licensed to advise clients.


   Understanding Investment Consultants  

An investment consultant works with clients to form an investment strategy. Clients may be individuals or businesses—small businesses to larger corporations. The investment consultant is responsible for reviewing the client's financial situation and formulating a plan to meet their goals. Their duties include actively monitoring the client's investments and working with them as their financial objectives change over time. Because of the nature of their work, many investment consultants develop long-term working relationships with their clients.



These financial professionals work in various settings, including banks, asset management firms, and private investment companies, or work independently. They provide an essential service to their clients, helping them organize their finances and improve their financial situation.






Many investment consultants are experienced in tax and estate planning, asset allocation, risk management, education savings, and retirement planning.


   Experience and Pay for Investment Consultants  

Becoming an investment consultant requires a college degree and work experience. Some of the critical skills an investment consultant needs are problem-solving, math ability, and communicating clearly and effectively. This last skill is important because consultants may need to explain complex financial ideas to their clients and be objective in the face of emotion.



Investment consultants receive remuneration by charging fees and/or commission and may also receive a set salary. PayScale reported the average annual base salary for an investment consultant was $73,057.



The closest occupation to an investment consultant under the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a personal financial advisor. The median pay for a personal financial advisor in 2020 was $42.95 per hour or $89,330 per year. The job market for personal financial advisors is expected to grow 5% from 2020 to 2030.






Before you hire an investment consultant, ask about their fees and fee structure, and whether they receive any commissions.


   Types of Investment Consultants  

Investment consultants may fall into four main categories:


  Registered Representatives  

These are investment consultants, including stockbrokers and banking representatives, who are paid a commission to sell investment and insurance products. They work for what is known as sell-side firms—financial organizations that create, promote, and sell financial instruments. Registered representatives typically hold a Series 6 or Series 7 license.


  Financial Planners  

Investment consultants who manage their clients’ personal finances are known as financial planners. They may develop a financial plan to help a client manage college tuition fees. Qualified financial planners hold a certified financial planner (CFP), certified public accountant (CPA), or personal financial specialist (PFS) certification.


  Financial Advisors  

These investment consultants give general and personalized financial advice. Their compensation is based on charging fees, and they typically hold a Series 65 or Series 66 license.


  Money Managers  

Investment consultants who make investment decisions on behalf of a client are called money managers. Money managers work for buy-side firms such as asset management firms, fund managers, or hedge funds.


   Qualifications for Investment Consultants  

Investment consultants usually have a bachelor’s or graduate degree in a finance-related discipline such as accounting, business, or economics. Although it's not a requirement, they may also complete coursework in investments, taxes, risk management, and estate planning. In addition, investment consultants may seek professional credentials such as the chartered financial analyst (CFA) or certified financial planner designation.






Investment consultants must be licensed to work in the United States, as always, before working with an investment consultant check to see if their license is up to date, and review their credentials before hiring one.



In the United States, most investment consultants are licensed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), an independent regulator. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) oversees the activities of investment consultants from the government level.


   Choosing an Investment Consultant  

Research an investment consultant's background before hiring their services. Review their compliance records and check for any serious breaches. For instance, check to see if they have been investigated for insider trading. It’s also prudent to check their fiduciary status and criminal record.



Check an investment consultant’s certifications to ensure they hold the correct licenses. Assess their education and association memberships to determine if they have the necessary experience and expertise. Before selecting an investment consultant, it's always a good idea to organize an in-person meeting to determine if they understand your financial goals and are accessible.




How Much Does an Investment Consultant Make?
Investment consultants receive their earnings by charging fees and/or commission, and some earn a base salary as well. According to PayScale, average annual base salary for an investment consultant is $73,057.




How Do I Become an Investment Consultant?
Most institutions require an individual to have a bachelor's degree for an investment consultant position. Preferred concentrations include business and finance, though not necessarily required. Many investment consultants have a master's degree, typically an MBA. Investment consultants are required to hold Series 7 and Series 63 licenses, which involve passing those exams. For an entry-level position, not much experience is required; however, to move up the corporate ladder, individuals will need to have significant on-the-job experience.




Is an Investment Consultant Considered a Good Job?
What is considered a good job will vary depending on the individual, but an investment consultant position provides many benefits that many jobs do not. An investment consultant comes with the job satisfaction of helping others achieve their financial goals. The salary potential is very high and often without caps depending on how much business one does. The hours can be flexible depending on how an investment consultant would like to structure their day, which would include meeting clients and making investment plans and choices.
What Is an Investment Fund  

An investment fund is a supply of capital belonging to numerous investors used to collectively purchase securities while each investor retains ownership and control of his own shares. An investment fund provides a broader selection of investment opportunities, greater management expertise, and lower investment fees than investors might be able to obtain on their own. Types of investment funds include mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, money market funds, and hedge funds.


   Breaking Down Investment Fund  

With investment funds, individual investors do not make decisions about how a fund's assets should be invested. They simply choose a fund based on its goals, risk, fees and other factors. A fund manager oversees the fund and decides which securities it should hold, in what quantities and when the securities should be bought and sold. An investment fund can be broad-based, such as an index fund that tracks the S&P 500, or it can be tightly focused, such as an ETF that invests only in small technology stocks.



While investment funds in various forms have been around for many years, the Massachusetts Investors Trust Fund is generally considered the first open-end mutual fund in the industry. The fund, investing in a mix of large-cap stocks, launched in 1924.


   Open-end vs. Closed-end  

The majority of investment fund assets belong to open-end mutual funds. These funds issue new shares as investors add money to the pool, and retire shares as investors redeem. These funds are typically priced just once at the end of the trading day.



Closed-end funds trade more similarly to stocks than open-end funds. Closed-end funds are managed investment funds that issue a fixed number of shares, and trade on an exchange. While a net asset value (NAV) for the fund is calculated, the fund trades based on investor supply and demand. Therefore, a closed-end fund may trade at a premium or a discount to its NAV.


   Emergence of ETFs  

Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) emerged as an alternative to mutual funds for traders who wanted more flexibility with their investment funds. Similar to closed-end funds, ETFs trade on exchanges, and are priced and available for trading throughout the business day. Many mutual funds, such as the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, have ETF counterparts. The Vanguard S&P 500 ETF is essentially the same fund, but came to be bought and sold intraday. ETFs frequently have the additional advantage of slightly lower expense ratios than their mutual fund equal.



The first ETF, the SPDR S&P 500 ETF, debuted in the United States in 1993. By the end of 2018, ETFs had roughly $3.4 trillion in assets under management.


   Investment Funds: Hedge Funds  

A hedge fund is an investment type that is distinct from mutual funds or ETFs. This fund is an actively managed fund made available to accredited investors. A hedge fund faces less federal regulation and is therefore able to invest in a variety of asset classes using a wide range of strategies. For example, a hedge find might pairs stocks it wants to short (bet will decrease) with stocks it expects to go up in order to decrease the potential for loss.



Hedge funds also tend to invest in riskier assets in addition to stocks, bonds, ETFs, commodities and alternative assets. These include derivatives such as futures and options that may also be purchased with leverage, or borrowed money. 




Are UK and US investment funds similar?
Yes, UK investment funds are quite similar to American mutual funds, allowing investors to invest in a single fund to buy shares in a diverse portfolio of securities.




Do Investmennt funds charge fees?
Yes, investment funds can charge fees, including ongoing management costs, transaction fees, and other one-off costs.




How can you choose the right investment fund?
To choose the right investment fund, you must consider your investing goals and risk tolerance. Examine funds that invest in assets that match your tolerance for risk and look for management that has a strong track record. Also try to keep fees low.


   The Bottom Line  

An investment fund is a pool of capital from many investors that can purchase a wide variety of securities. By investing in one, you can easily build a diversified portfolio at a relatively low cost. Before investing, consider a fund's management style and fees.
What Is Investment Grade?  

An investment grade is a rating that signifies a municipal or corporate bond presents a relatively low risk of default. Bond rating firms like Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody's, and Fitch use different designations, consisting of the upper- and lower-case letters "A" and "B," to identify a bond's credit quality rating.



"AAA" and "AA" (high credit quality) and "A" and "BBB" (medium credit quality) are considered investment grade. Credit ratings for bonds below these designations ("BB," "B," "CCC," etc.) are considered low credit quality and are commonly referred to as junk bonds.





Key Takeaways

An investment grade rating signals that a corporate or municipal bond has a relatively low risk of default.Different bond rating agencies have different rating symbols to signify investment-grade bonds.Investors and analysts commonly look at grades from rating agencies like Standard & Poor's, Moody's, and Fitch.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   How Investment Grade Works  

Individuals and businesses are given credit ratings based on their credit histories. Lenders use these ratings to decide whether they will do business with and extend credit to potential borrowers. Similarly, investments are given credit ratings that can lenders and investors can use to determine whether they want to invest in them.



Grades work just like credit scores for consumers and companies. An investment grade credit rating indicates a low risk of a credit default, making it an attractive investment vehicle, especially for conservative investors. A speculative grade, on the other hand, is the opposite of an investment grade. This grade indicates that the investment comes with a greater degree of risk.



Ratings are given to investments by different agencies, including S&P, Moody's, and Fitch. How they are rated varies based on the agency. For instance:



S&P hands out letter grades with plus (+) and minus (-) suffixes. Triple-letter ratings are higher, followed by double-letter ratings, then single-letter ratings.
Moody's rates investments with triple-letter ratings as the highest, followed by those with a combination of letters and numbers.
The Fitch rating scale is similar to that of S&P's



We go into more detail on these ratings and their scales below.


   Special Considerations  

Investors should note that U.S. government bonds, also known as Treasuries, are generally granted the highest possible credit quality rating. In the case of municipal and corporate bond funds, a fund company's literature, such as its fund prospectus and independent investment research reports, reports an "average credit quality" for the fund's portfolio as a whole.



In August 2023, Fitch downgraded the credit rating for the United States, moving it from a AAA rating to AA+. The agency cited potential issues with the country's fiscal condition over the next three years because of the political climate. According to Fitch,



"...repeated debt-limit political standoffs and last-minute resolutions have eroded confidence in fiscal management."



Fitch also stated that shocks to the economy related to tax cuts and increased government spending are raising the national debt, which could be problematic for the country's ability to pay its bills.






Many institutional investors have a rigid policy of limiting their bond investments solely to investment-grade issues.


   Investment Grade Credit Rating Details  

Investment grade issuer credit ratings are those rated above BBB- or Baa. The exact ratings depend on the credit rating agency.


  Standard & Poor's (S&P)  

Investment grade credit ratings include:



AAAAA+AAAA-



Companies with any credit rating in this category boast a high capacity to repay their loans; however, those awarded a AAA rating stand at the top of the heap and are deemed to have the highest capacity of all to repay loans.



The next category down includes the following ratings:



A+AA-



Companies with these ratings are considered to be stable entities with robust capacities for repaying their financial commitments. However, such companies may encounter challenges during deteriorating economic conditions.



The bottom tier of investment grade credit ratings delivered by Standard and Poor's include:



BBB+BBBBBB-



Companies with these ratings are widely considered to be speculative grade and are even more vulnerable to changing economic conditions than the prior group. Nevertheless, these companies largely demonstrate the ability to meet their debt payment obligations.


  Moody's  

According to Moody's, investment-grade bonds comprise the following credit ratings:



AaaAa1Aa2Aa3A1A2A3Baa1Baa2Baa3



The highest-rated Aaa bonds possess the least credit risk of a company's potential failure to repay loans. By contrast, the mid-tier Baa-rated companies may still have speculative elements, presenting high credit risk—especially those companies that paid debt with expected future cash flows that failed to materialize as projected.


  Fitch  

As noted above, Fitch ratings are similar to those issued by S&P. Investment grade ratings are as follows:










Fitch Investment Grade Ratings


Rating
What it Means
Given to




AAA 
Highest credit quality
Entities with exceptionally high quality (established, with consistent cash flows) 


AA 
Very high credit quality
Those with high quality and low default risk. 


A 
High credit quality
Entities with some business or economic vulnerability but low default risk 


BBB
Good credit quality
Those with higher degree of business or economic vulnerability but a low expectation of default



Source: Fitch Ratings


   Downgrading from Investment Grade  

Investors should be aware that an agency downgrade of a company's bonds from 'BBB' to 'BB' reclassifies its debt from investment grade to junk status. Although this is merely a one-step drop in credit rating, the repercussions can be severe.



The drop to junk status telegraphs that a company may struggle to pay its debts. The downgraded status can make it even more difficult for companies to source financing options, causing a downward spiral as costs of capital increase.




What Is Investment Grade vs. High Yield?
High yield bonds are generally considered higher risk than investment grade bonds. High yield bonds, however, tend to offer a higher return—to compensate for the higher risk of default of the issuer.




What Is Considered Investment Grade?
Investment grade is considered to be rated BBB- or higher for Fitch and S&P Global. Investment grade for Moody’s is considered Baa3 or higher.




What Are AAA Bonds?
Bonds that are rated AAA have the highest possible rating. The issuers of these bonds have the highest creditworthiness and are expected to easily meet financial obligations. AAA bonds have the lowest risk of default.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit ratings help banks, lenders, and financial institutions decide how likely consumers and businesses are to repay their debts using credit scores. Similarly, investors can determine whether to put their money into certain investments based on ratings by agencies like S&P, Moody's, and Fitch. The higher the grade, the safer the investment. Investments with lower ratings have a greater risk of default. Keep in mind that ratings can go up and down based on financial and economic conditions, so it's always a good idea to keep up-to-date with the news and your portfolio.
What Is an Investment Horizon?  

Investment horizon is the term used to describe the total length of time that an investor expects to hold a security or a portfolio.


   Basics of Investment Horizon  

Investment horizons can range from short-term, just a few days long, to much longer-term, potentially spanning decades. For example, a young professional with a 401(k) plan would have an investment horizon that would span decades. However, a corporation’s treasury department might have an investment horizon that’s only a few days long.



In fact, some trading strategies, especially those based on technical analysis, can employ investment horizons of days, hours, or even minutes.



The length of an investment horizon will often determine how much risk an investor is exposed to and what their income needs are. Generally, when portfolios have a shorter investment horizon, that means investors are willing to take on less risk. When investors construct an investment portfolio, establishing an investment horizon is one of the first steps they need to take.


   Investment Horizons and Portfolio Construction  

When investors have a longer investment horizon, they can take on more risk, since the market has many years to recover in the event of a pullback. For example, an investor with an investment horizon of 30 years would typically have most of their assets allocated to equities.



Beyond that, an investor with a long time horizon may invest their assets in what are considered riskier types of equities, such as mid-cap and small-cap stocks. These types of stocks, or sub-asset classes, tend to exhibit much larger price swings over short time periods than do large-cap stocks because they tend to be less well-established and are more susceptible to outside economic forces.



Thus, while they may be risky for investors with shorter investment horizons, these short-term swings have little to no impact on investors looking to hold on to those stocks for the next 30 years.



Investors adjust their portfolio as their investment horizon shortens, typically in the direction of reducing the portfolio's level of risk. For example, most retirement portfolios decrease their exposure to equities and increase their holdings of fixed income assets as they near retirement. Fixed-income investments typically provide a lower potential return over the long run relative to stocks, but they add stability to a portfolio's value since they typically experience less pronounced short-term price swings.





Key Takeaways

An investment horizon refers to the length of time that an investor is willing to hold the portfolio.It is generally commensurate with the amount of risk that an investor is willing to undertake.


   Example of Investment Horizon  

Carol is 30-years-old and works as a software engineer. She has a long-term investment horizon and is risk-averse. Hence, she invests her savings in a home and fixed-income securities that will mature in the next 30 years.
What Is Investment Income?  

Investment income is money received in interest payments, dividends, capital gains realized with the sale of stock or other assets, and any profit made through another investment type. Additionally, interest earned on bank accounts, dividends received from stock owned by mutual fund holdings, and the profits on the sale of gold coins are all considered investment income.



Income from long-term investments undergoes different—and often preferential—tax treatment, which varies by country and locality. Learn more about investment income and the types of investments you can generate income from.





Key Takeaways

Investment income is the profit earned from investments such as real estate and stock sales.Dividends from bonds also are investment income.Investment income is taxed at a different rate than earned income.The profits from the sale of gold coins or fine wine could be considered investment income.If you have a savings account, the interest you earn on it is considered investment income.


   Understanding Investment Income  

Investment income refers solely to the financial gains above the original cost of the investment. The form the income takes, such as interest or dividend payments, is irrelevant to it being considered investment income so long as the income stems from a previous installment.



Generally, people earn most of their net income each year through regular employment income. However, disciplined saving and investment in the financial markets can grow moderate savings into large investment portfolios, yielding an investor a sizeable annual income over time.



Businesses often have income from investments. On the income statements of publicly traded companies, an item called investment income or losses is commonly listed. This is where the company reports the portion of its net income obtained through investments made with surplus cash instead of being earned in its usual line of business. For a business, this may include all of the above, as well as interest earned or lost on its own bonds that have been issued, share buybacks, corporate spinoffs, and acquisitions.






Investment income may be received as a lump sum or in regular interest installments paid out over time.


  Investment Income Made Simple  

The interest accrued on a basic savings account is considered investment income. It is earned on top of the original investments—the deposits placed into the account—which can make the account a source of income.



Options, stocks, and bonds can also generate investment income. Whether through regular interest or dividend payments or by selling a security at a higher price than was paid. Any amount received above the original cost of the investment qualifies as investment income.


  Investment Income and Taxes  

Most but not all investment income is subject to preferential tax treatment when the income is realized. The associated tax rate is based on how long an investment is held, its type, and an individual taxpayer's situation.



For example, retirement accounts such as a 401(k) or traditional IRA are subject to taxes once the funds are withdrawn. Certain tax-favorable investments, such as a Roth IRA, are not taxed on eligible gains associated with a qualified distribution. Meanwhile, long-term capital gains and qualified dividend income are subject only to a maximum federal tax of 20%, even if that amount exceeds a half-million dollars in a given year.



Compare that to the tax rates on earned income, which range from 12% to 37%. For the tax year 2022, the threshold for the top rate is above $539,900 ($578,125 for 2023) for individuals and $647,850 ($693,750 for 2023) for married couples filing jointly.



Investment income can also be used in conjunction with an individual's earnings to provide income tax credits. For example, one of the criteria used to evaluate individuals for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) is earning from running a small business and not having investment income over $10,300 for 2022 and $11,000 in 2023.


  Investment Income from Properties  

Real estate transactions can also be considered investment income. Some investors purchase real estate specifically to generate investment income—either from the cash flows generated from rents or any capital gains realized when selling the property. 



Once the original cost of the property is repaid by the investor and rent payments received are not used to cover other property-related expenses, the income qualifies as investment income.


   Example of Investment Income  

Suppose an investor buys stock in company ABC for $50. Two weeks later, the investor sells them for $70, netting a profit of $20. This is a short-term investment, so the gain is taxed at the investor's regular earned income tax rate (federal tax law defines a short-term investment as one owned for less than a year).



Suppose the same individual invests $500,000 in real estate property. The investor sells the property for $1.5 million 10 years later. The investment is categorized as long-term investment income and taxed at the long-term capital gains tax.



The tax percentage depends on the overall income of the taxpayer. Here's how long-term capital gain brackets work.














 Rate
Single 2022 
Single 2023 
Joint 2022
Joint 2023
Head of House 2022
Head of House 2023 


0%
$0 - $41,675
$0 - $44,625
$0 - $83,350
$0 - $89,250
$0 - $55,800
$0 - $59,750


15%
$41,676 - $459,750
$44,626 - $492,300
$83,351 - $517,200
$89,251 - $553,850
$55,801 - $488,500
$59,751 - $523,050


20%
$459,751+
$492,301+
$517,201+
$553,851+
$488,501+
$523,051+







What Is Income Earned on an Investment?
Income earned on an investment is any gains made on a principal amount. The gains become income when they are realized—sold for a profit or withdrawn from the account they are in.




How Do You Calculate Investment Income?
In general, you add up all of the interest, dividends, rents, payments, and royalties received in a year to get your investment income.




What Does the IRS Consider Investment Income?
The IRS considers any asset value gain investment income if the owner receives that gain. For example, assume you've owned a stock for three months, and it grew $10 in value over that time. That $10 is only income if you sell the stock and net a profit.
What Is Investment Management?  

Investment management refers to the handling of financial assets and other investments—not only buying and selling them. Management includes devising a short- or long-term strategy for acquiring and disposing of portfolio holdings. It can also include banking, budgeting, and tax services and duties, as well.



The term most often refers to managing the holdings within an investment portfolio, and the trading of them to achieve a specific investment objective. Investment management is also known as money management, portfolio management, or wealth management.





Key Takeaways

Investment management refers to the handling of financial assets and other investments by professionals for clientsClients of investment managers can be either individual or institutional investors.Investment management includes devising strategies and executing trades within a financial portfolio.Investment management firms handling over $25 million in assets must register with the SEC and accept fiduciary responsibility toward clients.


   Understanding Investment Management  

Professional investment management aims to meet particular investment goals for the benefit of clients whose money they have the responsibility of overseeing. These clients may be individual investors or institutional investors such as pension funds, retirement plans, governments, educational institutions, and insurance companies.



Investment management services include asset allocation, financial statement analysis, stock selection, monitoring of existing investments, and portfolio strategy and implementation. Investment management may also include financial planning and advising services, not only overseeing a client's portfolio but coordinating it with other assets and life goals.



Professional managers deal with a variety of different securities and financial assets, including bonds, equities, commodities, and real estate. The manager may also manage real assets such as precious metals, commodities, and artwork. Managers can help align investment to match retirement and estate planning as well as asset distribution.



According to an annual study by research and advisory firm Willis Towers Watson, the investment management industry is growing. Based on the combined holdings of the 500 biggest investment managers, the global industry had approximately $131 trillion in assets under management at the start of 2022, an increase of more than 10% from the previous year.






In corporate finance, investment management includes ensuring a company's tangible and intangible assets are maintained, accounted for, and well-utilized.


  Running an Investment Management Firm  

Running an investment management business involves many responsibilities. The firm must hire professional managers to deal, market, settle, and prepare reports for clients. Other duties include conducting internal audits and researching individual assets—or asset classes and industrial sectors.



Aside from hiring marketers and training managers who direct the flow of investments, those who head investment management firms must ensure they move within legislative and regulatory constraints, examine internal systems and controls, account for cash flow and properly track record transactions and fund valuations.



In general, investment managers who have at least $25 million in assets under management (AUM) or who provide advice to investment companies offering mutual funds are required to be registered investment advisors (RIA).



As a registered advisor, they must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and state securities administrators. It also means they accept the fiduciary duty to their clients. As a fiduciary, these advisors promise to act in their client's best interests or face criminal liability. Firms or advisors managing less than $25 million in assets typically register only in their states of operation.



Investment managers are usually compensated via a management fee, usually a percentage of the value of the portfolio held for a client. Management fees range from 0.35% to 2% annually. Also, fees are typically on a sliding scale—the more assets a client has, the lower the fee they can negotiate. The average management fee is around 1%.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Investment Management  

Though the investment management industry may provide lucrative returns, there are also key problems that come with running such a firm. The revenues of investment management firms are directly linked to the market's behavior.



This direct connection means that the company's profits depend on market valuations. A major decline in asset prices can cause a decline in the firm's revenue, especially if the price reduction is great compared to the ongoing and steady company costs of operation. Also, clients may be impatient during hard times and bear markets, and even above-average fund performance may not be able to sustain a client's portfolio.





Pros

Professional analysis
Full-time diligence
Ability to time or outperform market
Ability to protect portfolio in down times



Cons

Sizeable fees
Profits fluctuate with market
Challenges from passively managed vehicles, robo-advisors






Since the mid-2000s, the industry has also faced challenges from two other sources.



The growth of roboadvisors—digital platforms that provide automated, algorithm-driven investment strategies and asset allocation
The availability of exchange-traded funds (ETFs), whose portfolios mirror that of a benchmark index



The latter exemplifies passive management since few investment decisions have to be made by human fund managers. The former challenge does not use human beings at all—other than the programmer writing the algorithm. As a result, both can charge far lower fees than human fund managers can charge. However, according to some surveys, these lower-cost alternatives will often outperform actively managed funds—either outright or in terms of overall return—primarily due to them not having heavy fees dragging them down.



The pressure from this dual competition is why investment management firms must hire talented, intelligent professionals. Though some clients look at the performance of individual investment managers, others check out the overall performance of the firm. One key sign of an investment management company's ability is not just how much money their clients make in good times—but how little they lose in the bad.


   Investment Management Firms  

The top 20 investment management firms control nearly half of all the global assets under management, according to the Willis Towers Watson report mentioned earlier—some $65 trillion worth.



As of year-end 2022, the U.S., the five leading asset management firms include, in descending order, were:



BlackRock ($8.6 trillion)Vanguard Group ($8.1 trillion)Fidelity Investments ($3.9 trillion)The Capital Group Cos. ($2.2 trillion)PIMCO ($1.7 trillion).


   The Current State of the Investment Management Industry  

The investment management industry is facing challenges, changing client expectations, and evolving technologies that will continue to be huge factors throughout 2023 and beyond. Increased competition from fintech firms will keep fee compression going in the industry, which is good for consumers but cuts into profits. Big data and AI will also continue to be drivers of innovation in investment management, helping to increase the effectiveness of strategies like smart beta.



Here are some of the key findings from Deloitte’s 2023 investment management outlook:



The industry is expected to grow at a rate of 5.6% CAGR from 2023 through 2027.The industry is expected to reach $147.4 trillion in AUM by 2025.The industry is expected to continue longer-term trends towards passive investing, smart beta/factor investing, and pure alpha investing.The industry is expected to see increased competition among active managers.


   Investment Management Process  

Investment managers typically design a portfolio with the client's interests in mind. This can include meeting with the clients to discuss their investment goals and risk tolerance. Based on the client's feedback, the investment manager then buys the assets and securities to fill the client's portfolio.



From then on, the manager will occasionally rebalance the portfolio as the market changes. The frequency depends on their agreement with the client—in some cases, it may be assessed once a year, once a quarter, or even every month. The more actively a portfolio is being managed, the higher the management fees.



Investment managers may also provide advice to their clients in other areas, such as how to save for college or retirement.




What Does Investment Management Entail?
Investment management, also known as asset management or portfolio management, is the professional management of various securities (such as stocks and bonds) and assets (such as real estate) to meet specified investment goals for the benefit of investors. Investment management services can be provided by individual portfolio managers, investment management firms, or financial institutions.Investment managers conduct in-depth research and analysis of various financial instruments and market trends to make informed investment decisions. They develop and implement investment strategies, allocate assets, manage risk, and monitor the performance of their clients' portfolios. They also maintain ongoing communication with their clients to ensure that the investment objectives remain aligned with the clients' financial goals and risk tolerance.




What Is Quantitative Investment?
Quantitative investment refers to investment strategies that rely on mathematical formulas to identify assets with high profit potential or low risk. Quantitative asset managers are likely to use computer modeling or statistical tools to identify potential investments that have been neglected by the wider market.




What Is the Difference Between Wealth Management and Investment Banking?
Wealth management and investment banking are two common career paths in the financial sector. The main difference is their clients: wealth managers help individual clients invest their savings, while investment bankers serve corporate clients.




How Do Investment Management Firms Make Money?
Investment managers charge a fee for their services. The exact fee structure depends on the manager and the client's needs: most will charge a small percentage of the client's assets, a share of the annual gains, or an annual fee. Some managers may accept a flat fee for a one-time consult.




How Are Investment Management Fees Typically Structured?
Investment management fees can be structured in several ways, including a flat fee, a fixed percentage of assets under management (AUM), performance-based fees, or a combination of these. A fixed percentage fee is charged based on the total value of the client's portfolio and is typically assessed annually or quarterly. Performance-based fees are tied to the investment manager's ability to achieve specific performance targets, such as outperforming a benchmark index. In some cases, a hybrid fee structure combines both fixed and performance-based fees to align the interests of the investment manager and the client.


   The Bottom Line  

Investment management, also known as asset management or portfolio management, is a service that helps investors achieve their financial goals and objectives through the professional management of their securities and assets. By employing various investment strategies, conducting thorough research, and consistently monitoring market trends and portfolio performance, investment managers enable clients to optimize their investments and navigate the complexities of the financial markets. As fees and investment approaches vary, it is essential for investors to carefully evaluate their options and choose an investment manager whose expertise, strategies, and fee structures align with their unique financial goals and risk tolerance. Ultimately, a well-managed investment portfolio can significantly enhance an investor's long-term financial security and wealth.
Investment managers are individuals or organizations who handle activities related to financial planning, investing, and managing a portfolio for their clients.



From the day-to-day buying and selling of securities and assets to transaction settlement and performance measurement, investment managers oversee investments and act on behalf of their clients.





Key Takeaways

Investment managers are individuals or organizations who handle activities related to financial planning, investing, and managing a portfolio for their clients.Clients of investment managers can be individual or institutional investors.Investment managers devise strategies and execute trades within a financial portfolio.An investment manager is one type of investment adviser.The largest global investment management companies include BlackRock, Vanguard Group, and Fidelity Investments.


   Roles and Responsibilities  

Investment managers can range in size from one-person offices to large multi-disciplinary firms with global offices. They follow market activity closely to help dictate investment decisions they will make for their clients, ensuring that portfolios are balanced and meet each client's needs.



Investment managers may meet with clients individually, or if managing the investments of a large business, the relevant financial team members at each company. Their fee is often based on a percentage of client assets under management (AUM). An individual with a $5 million portfolio handled by an investment manager who charges 1.5 percent annually would pay $75,000 in fees per year.



Client portfolios can include assets in market sectors such as technology, utilities, healthcare, or energy. Investment managers consistently strategize to expand product offerings for their clients.



In 2022, 72% of managers increased the number of investment products they offer to clients, and the 3 largest investment management companies globally based on AUM were BlackRock at $10 trillion, The Vanguard Group at $8.5 trillion, and Fidelity Investments at $4.2 trillion.


   Investment Manager vs. Investment Adviser  

An investment manager is one type of investment adviser. An investment adviser is an individual or company who is paid for providing advice about securities to their clients.






"Investment adviser" is a legal term that refers to an individual or company that is registered with either the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a state securities regulator.



Asset managers, investment counselors, investment managers, portfolio managers, and wealth managers are all considered types of investment advisers.  



While they all provide tailored investment advice, investment advisers can manage investment portfolios, offer financial planning services, provide licensed brokerage services to buy or sell stocks, or a combination of all these services.


   Skills and Qualifications of Investment Managers  

Investment managers commonly hold undergraduate degrees in business, statistics, finance, mathematics, or accounting as well as an MBA or professional qualifications such as Certified Financial Planner (CFP). Graduates may enter the industry in an investment analyst role and move to a manager role with experience. Investment managers typically share the following skills:



Excellent communication skillsAbility to obtain and sustain a client's trust Analytical skills to interpret market information Ability to understand financial dataWork effectively under pressure





$131,607

The average annual salary of an Investment Manager as of September 2022.


   How to Become an Investment Manager  

Individuals interested in careers as investment managers should follow the same path as all regulated financial advisers:



Complete a bachelor's degree program with a major such as finance, accounting, or economics. An advanced degree, like an MBA, is often an asset for future promotions and salary increases.
Research job opportunities with clients such as banks, investment firms, and other financial institutions.
Take the Series 65 exam through the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). FINRA is a private institution that writes and enforces rules for registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States.
Gain additional knowledge and training through certification programs such as Certified Financial Planner (CFP), or Personal Financial Specialist (PFS).
Register with the SEC based on the regulations for your location, the size of the portfolios you will manage, and your level of certification.


   Choosing an Investment Manager  

The type of investment manager that investors choose depends on what stage they have reached in their financial planning process. A beginner investor may benefit by using a Certified Financial Planner (CFP) who can teach the basics of retirement planning. A seasoned investor interested in a wide range of securities may fare better with a portfolio manager.



Most investment managers outline their philosophy on their websites or in their disclosures. Data on investment returns and investment manager performance are often well-documented and ranked by media sites and financial watch groups.



Investors should consider fee structures when comparing investment managers. Fees and expenses typically include management fees, performance fees, custody fees, and commissions.




Is an Investment Manager the Same As an Advisor?
The term financial advisor (with the letter "o") is a generic term that refers to a broker or a registered representative. However, the term investment adviser (with the letter "e") is a legal term that refers to an individual or company that is registered with either the Securities and Exchange Commission or a state securities regulator. An investment manager is a type of legal financial adviser.




Do You Need CFA for Investment Management?
Certification as a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) is not a legal requirement for investment managers, but clients may likely prefer to work with an adviser that holds an industry-specific certification such as CFA, CFP, or Chartered Investment Counselor (CIC).




What Is the Difference Between an Investment Manager and a Fund Manager?
Investment managers focus primarily on individual securities and bond investments while fund managers work with mutual funds comprised of multiple securities and assets, often tailored to a particular market sector.


   The Bottom Line  

Investment managers are individuals or organizations who advise clients through financial planning, investing, and portfolio management. They commonly hold undergraduate degrees in finance, mathematics, or accounting and may have advanced degrees or professional certifications, and their fee is often calculated as a percentage of the portfolios they manage. An investment manager is a type of investment adviser, an individual or company who is paid for providing advice about securities to their clients and is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
What Is the Investment Multiplier?  

The term investment multiplier refers to the concept that any increase in public or private investment spending has a more than proportionate positive impact on aggregate income and the general economy. It is rooted in the economic theories of John Maynard Keynes.



The multiplier attempts to quantify the additional effects of investment spending beyond those immediately measurable. The larger an investment’s multiplier, the more efficient it is in creating and distributing wealth throughout the economy.





Key Takeaways

The investment multiplier refers to the stimulative effects of public or private investments.It is rooted in the economic theories of John Maynard Keynes.The extent of the investment multiplier depends on two factors: the marginal propensity to consume (MPC) and the marginal propensity to save (MPS).A higher investment multiplier suggests that the investment will have a larger stimulative effect on the economy.


   Understanding the Investment Multiplier  

The investment multiplier tries to determine the economic impact of public or private investment. For instance, extra government spending on roads can increase the income of construction workers, as well as the income of materials suppliers. These people may spend the extra income in the retail, consumer goods, or service industries, boosting the income of workers in those sectors.



As you can see, this cycle can repeat itself through several iterations; what began as an investment in roads quickly multiplied into an economic stimulus benefiting workers across a wide range of industries.



Mathematically, the investment multiplier is a function of two main factors: the marginal propensity to consume (MPC) and the marginal propensity to save (MPS).






John Maynard Keynes was among the first economists to illustrate how governments can use multipliers, such as the investment multiplier, to stimulate economic growth through spending.


   Investment Multiplier Examples  

Consider the road-construction workers in our previous example. If the average worker has an MPC of 70%, that means they consume $0.70 out of every dollar they earn, on average. In practice, they might spend that $0.70 on items such as rent, gasoline, groceries, and entertainment. If that same worker has an MPS of 30%, that means they would save $0.30 out of every dollar earned, on average.



These concepts also apply to businesses. Like individuals, businesses must “consume” a significant portion of their income by paying for expenditures such as employees’ wages, facilities’ rents, and the leases and repairs of equipment. A typical company might consume 90% of its income on such payments, meaning that its MPS—the profits earned by its shareholders—would be only 10%.


   Investment Multiplier Formula  

The formula for calculating the investment multiplier of a project is simply:








1


/


(


1


−


M


P


C


)



1 / (1 - MPC)


1/(1−MPC)



In our above examples, the investment multipliers would be 3.33 and 10 for the workers and the businesses, respectively. The reason the businesses are associated with a higher investment multiple is that their MPC is higher than that of the workers. In other words, they spend a greater percentage of their income on other parts of the economy, thereby spreading the economic stimulus caused by the initial investment more widely.




What Is the Investment Multiplier Formula?
To calculate the investment multiplier for a project the following formula can be used:1/(1−MPC)MPC is the acronym for marginal propensity to consume.




Who Was John Maynard Keynes?
John Maynard Keynes was a ground-breaking British economist who is considered the father of modern macroeconomics. His book, The General Theory of Unemployment, Interest, and Money, was published in 1936 and is the foundation for Keynesian economics.




What Are Examples of Multipliers?
A variety of multipliers are used in economics and finance. Examples other than investment multiplier include fiscal multiplier, earnings multiplier , and equity multiplier.


   The Bottom Line  

The investment multiplier is used to figure out the stimulative impact of public or private investments on the economy. The higher the investment multiplier, the more the investment will have a stimulative effect on the economy.



This economic concept is rooted in the economic theories of John Maynard Keynes, the renowned economist who is considered the father of modern macroeconomics. The investment multiplier is among the many multipliers used in economics and finance.
What Is an Investment Objective?  

An investment objective is used by asset managers to determine the optimal portfolio mix for a client. Investments are chosen using the guidelines of the investment objective.



An investor questionnaire often defines financial goals and objectives and determines the asset allocation within the portfolio based on an individual's time horizon, risk tolerance, and financial situation.





Key Takeaways


An investment objective is a set of goals that determines an investor's financial portfolio.
A financial advisor determines the optimal strategy for achieving the client's goals using an investment objective.
An investor's risk tolerance and time horizon help in determining an investment objective.



   Understanding an Investment Objective  

Commonly based on one of four strategies that include income, growth and income, growth, or trading, an individual's investment objective clarifies investment ideas to help achieve an individual's financial goals.



The information that an individual provides to determine their investment objective may include annual income and net worth, average annual expenses, timeline to withdraw the money, and the maximum decrease in the value of the portfolio with which the investor is comfortable. The portfolio is tailored according to the answers provided to these questions and a strategy is defined as an investment objective.





Risk Tolerance

Risk tolerance is the degree of risk that an investor is willing to endure given the volatility in the value of an investment.



A client with a high-risk tolerance interested in growth may have a short-term aggressive portfolio, which includes stocks and trading opportunities. A moderate-risk investor may have a balanced portfolio of growth and income instruments that may include stocks and bonds. A conservative investor with low-risk tolerance may focus on an income-generating portfolio using dividends and bonds.




What Factors Influence an Individual's Investment Objective?
In addition to an individual’s time horizon and risk profile, other factors that influence an individual’s investment decisions include income, capital gains tax, dividends tax, commission and fees for actively managed portfolios, and total wealth, which may include assets like Social Security benefits, expected inheritance, and pension value.




Where Can an Investor Find an Investment Objective Questionnaire?
Investors can find various free questionnaires online at brokerage sites. However, when choosing not to use a personal advisor, it is important to review the questionnaire's assumptions and limitations and accept the firm's terms and conditions. An investment objective will typically not be formally completed until a client has decided to use the services of the financial planner or advisor since the information that will be provided is highly sensitive.




Can an Investment Objective Change?
As financial circumstances or goals change, it may be helpful for an investor to complete an investment objective questionnaire again and reallocate the investments in a portfolio.
What Is an Investment Policy Statement (IPS)?  

An investment policy statement (IPS) is a document drafted between a portfolio manager and a client that outlines general rules for the manager. This statement provides the general investment goals and objectives of a client and describes the strategies that the manager should employ to meet these objectives. Specific information on matters such as asset allocation, risk tolerance, and liquidity requirements are included in an investment policy statement.



It's standard practice for portfolio managers to have an IPS in place for their institutional clients such as retirement plan sponsors and mutual funds. Many financial advisors will also draft one for their individual clients as well.





Key Takeaways

An investment policy statement (IPS) is a formal document drafted between a portfolio manager or financial advisor and a client that outlines general rules for the manager.This statement provides the general investment goals and objectives of a client and describes the strategies that the manager should employ to meet these objectives.Specific information on matters such as asset allocation, risk tolerance, and liquidity requirements are included in an investment policy statement.A well-conceived IPS enables both the manager and the investor to stay focused on the long-term objectives.


   Understanding the Investment Policy Statement (IPS)  

Investment policy statements are frequently, though not always, used by investment advisors and financial advisors to document an investment plan with a client. It provides guidance for informed decision-making and serves as both a roadmap to successful investing and a bulwark against potential mistakes or misdeeds.



An IPS lists the investor’s investment objectives, along with his time horizon. For example, an individual may have an IPS stating that by the time they are 60 years old, they want to have the option to retire, and their portfolio will annually return $65,000 in today's dollars given a certain rate of inflation.



A well-conceived IPS also delineates asset allocation targets as well. For instance, it specifies the target allocation between stocks and bonds, further breaking down the target allocation into sub-asset classes, such as global securities by region. The targets should then have a minimum and maximum deviation that, when exceeded, will trigger portfolio rebalancing.






An IPS should give special attention to describing the investor's risk/return profile. That includes naming asset classes that should be avoided—as well as those that are preferred.  


   Special Considerations  

In addition to specifying the investor's goals, priorities, and investment preferences, a well-conceived IPS establishes a systematic review process that enables the investor to stay focused on the long-term objectives, even if the market gyrates wildly in the short term. It should contain all current account information, current allocation, how much has been accumulated, and how much is currently being invested in various accounts.



The IPS should include monitoring and control procedures to be followed by everyone involved in the investment process. This includes establishing the frequency of monitoring, specifying benchmarks for comparison of portfolio returns, and concrete procedures for making any future changes to the IPS. Serious investors think through the possible reasons for changing their IPS, such as financial or lifestyle changes. More important, they specify the reasons not to change their IPS (i.e., short-term market performance).



Finally, a comprehensive IPS containing actionable provisions that are intended to be followed can help advisors dissuade clients who want to drastically (and potentially harmfully) change direction with their portfolios when markets start to falter. 


   Example of an Investment Policy Statement  

Napa Valley Wealth Management, an investment advisory firm located in Walnut Creek and Saint Helena, Calif., prepares investment policy statements for individual clients that might run about a dozen pages. "Your IPS helps ensure we’re both on the same page, and it serves as a roadmap for ongoing investment decisions about your portfolio," the document's introduction reads.



A Napa Valley IPS then summarizes the client's investment policy in a table:










STATEMENT OF YOUR FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES 




 
 
 SEE PAGE


PORTFOLIO DESCRIPTION
Together, we selected Sample Portfolio B/Balanced Income as the most appropriate investment portfolio for you now.
6


PORTFOLIO RATE OF RETURN
This portfolio recommendation is designed to generate an average, expected rate of return of 2.5-3.5% above inflation, net of fees and costs. Based on current projections, this equates to a current nominal return of 5.5-6.5%.
6 


YOUR CASH REQUIREMENTS
Currently you are not taking a monthly distribution.
2 


INVESTMENT PERIOD
Your investment period is over 10+ years
2


YOUR RISK TOLERANCE
Your risk tolerance is a maximum, aggregate loss of 5% over a one-year time frame.
3


PORTFOLIO TAX STRATEGIES
Your portfolio is to be managed as a taxable & tax deferred account, and your combined federal and state tax bracket is to be the marginal tax bracket of 32%.
 3


 
 
 



Source: Napa Valley Wealth Management


   The Bottom Line  

An investment policy statement essentially acts as a business plan for your portfolio. Developing a solid IPS is not a typical exercise for most investors. It requires a lot of thought. It also requires an understanding of how the market works as well as familiarity with investment principles and practices.
What is an Investment Product?  

An investment product is a product offered to investors based on an underlying security or group of securities that is purchased with the expectation of earning a favorable return. Investment products are based on a wide range of underlying securities and encompass a broad range of investment objectives.


   Understanding Investment Products  

Investment product is the umbrella term for all the stocks, bonds, options, derivatives and other financial instruments that people put money into in hopes of earning profits. The types of investment products available for individual and institutional investors can differ significantly but the basic profit motive is behind all of them. A wide range of investment products exist within the investment universe to help investors meet short-term and long-term investment goals. Overall, investors purchase investment products for their capital appreciation potential and income paying distributions.



Capital appreciation and income distribution are two standard classifications for investment products. Some investment products are purchased by an investor primarily for their potential to increase or appreciate in value over time given specified growth factors. Other investment products may have an additional income paying component. Fixed income investments such as bonds and commingled bond funds offer investors the opportunity to purchase an asset that may increase in value while also paying out fixed interest payments or capital distributions. Other income paying investment products include dividend-paying equities, real estate investment trusts and master limited partnerships. Modern portfolio theory suggests that an investor have a diversified portfolio of investments including a variety of investment products to obtain an optimal risk-return reward for their investments.





Key Takeaways

Investment product is the umbrella term for all the types of investments individual and institutional investors can access in the market. There are many, many investment products on the market and more are being created and customized for clients everyday.Investment products generally focus on some mix of capital appreciation and income generation.An investor's risk tolerance, market experience and knowledge helps to narrow down the types of investment products that should be considered. 


   Investment Product Examples  

Within the investment market, investment products can be structured in various ways. Thus, investors have a wide variety of options in addition to buying an investment product focused on the movement of a single security. Structured investment products can include mutual funds, exchange traded funds, money market funds, annuities and more. In the U.S. and globally, investment products are highly regulated requiring substantial documentation to provide investors with a detailed understanding of investment products for which they may choose to invest.



Below are some basic examples of investment products offered in the investment universe.



StocksStock investments represent equity ownership in a publicly traded company. Companies issue stock as part of a capital raising regime which funds the operations of the company. Stock investments have varying growth prospects and are typically analyzed based on characteristics such as estimated future earnings and price-to-earnings ratios. Stocks can be classified in various categories and may also offer dividends adding an income payout component to the investment.



BondsBonds are one of the most well known fixed income investment products. They can be offered by governments or corporations looking to raise capital. Bonds pay investors interest in the form of coupon payments and offer full principal repayment at maturity. Investors can also invest in bond funds which include a portfolio of bonds managed by a portfolio manager for various objectives. Bonds and bond funds are typically classified by a credit rating which offers insight on their capital structure and ability to make timely payments.



DerivativesDerivatives are investment products that are offered based on the movement of a specified underlying asset. Put or call options on stocks and futures based on the movement of commodities prices are a few of the market’s leading derivative investment products. There are also futures and customized investment products that allow investors to speculate on price movements or move risk between parties. Derivatives are complex investment products, so a certain level of market knowledge and experience is required.
What Is an Investment Property?  

An investment property is real estate property purchased with the intention of earning a return on the investment either through rental income, the future resale of the property, or both. The property may be held by an individual investor, a group of investors, or a corporation.



An investment property can be a long-term endeavor or a short-term investment. With the latter, investors will often engage in flipping, where real estate is bought, remodeled or renovated, and sold at a profit within a short time frame.



The term "investment property" may also be used to describe other assets an investor purchases for the sake of future appreciation such as art, securities, land, or other collectibles.





Key Takeaways

An investment property is purchased with the intention of earning a return through rental income, the future resale of the property, or both.Properties can represent a short- or long-term investment opportunity. Investment properties are not primary residences or second homes, which makes it harder for investors to secure financing. Selling an investment property must be reported, and may result in capital gains, which can have tax implications for investors. 


   Understanding Investment Properties  

Investment properties are those that are not used as a primary residence. They generate some form of income—dividends, interest, rents, or even royalties—that fall outside the scope of the property owner's regular line of business. And the way in which an investment property is used has a significant impact on its value.






Investment properties generate income and are not primary residences.



Investors sometimes conduct studies to determine the best, and most profitable, use of a property. This is often referred to as the property's highest and best use. For example, if an investment property is zoned for both commercial and residential use, the investor weighs the pros and cons of both until they ascertain which has the highest potential rate of return. They then utilize the property in that manner.



An investment property is often referred to as a second home. But the two don't necessarily mean the same thing. For instance, a family may purchase a cottage or other vacation property to use themselves, or someone with a primary home in the city may purchase a second property in the country as a retreat for weekends. In these cases, the second property is for personal use—not as an income property.


   Types of Investment Properties  
  Residential  

Rental homes are a popular way for investors to supplement their income. An investor who purchases a residential property and rents it out to tenants can collect monthly rents. These can be single-family homes, condominiums, apartments, townhomes, or other types of residential structures.


  Commercial  

Income-generating properties don't always have to be residential. Some investors—especially corporations—purchase commercial properties that are used specifically for business purposes. Maintenance and improvements to these properties can be higher, but these costs can be offset by bigger returns. That's because the leases for these properties often command higher rents. These buildings may be commercially-owned apartment buildings or retail store locations.


  Mixed-Use  

A mixed-use property can be used simultaneously for both commercial and residential purposes. For instance, a building may have a retail storefront on the main floor such as a convenience store, bar, or restaurant, while the upper portion of the structure houses residential units.


   Financing Investment Properties  

While borrowers who secure a loan for their primary residence have access to an array of financing options including FHA loans, VA loans, and conventional loans, it can be more challenging to procure financing for an investment property.



Insurers do not provide mortgage insurance for investment properties, and as a result, borrowers need to have at least 20% down to secure bank financing for investment properties.



Banks also insist on good credit scores and relatively low loan-to-value ratios before approving a borrower for an investment property mortgage. Some lenders also require the borrower to have ample savings to cover at least six months' worth of expenses on the investment property, thereby ensuring the mortgage and other obligations will be kept up to date.


   Tax Implications  

If an investor collects rent from an investment property, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires them to report the rent as income, but the agency also allows them to subtract relevant expenses from this amount. For example, if a landlord collects $100,000 in rent over the course of a year but pays $20,000 in repairs, lawn maintenance, and related expenses, they report the difference of $80,000 as self-employment income.



If an individual sells an investment property for more than the original purchase price, they have a capital gain, which must be reported to the IRS. For 2021 and 2022, capital gains tax rates are either 0%, 15%, or 20% for most assets that are being held for over a year.



In contrast, if a taxpayer sells their primary residence, they only have to report capital gains tax on a home sale in excess of $250,000 if they file individually and $500,000 if they are married and filing jointly. The capital gain on an investment property is its selling price minus its purchase price minus any major improvements.



To illustrate, imagine an investor buys a property for $100,000 and spends $20,000 installing new plumbing. A few years later, they sell the property for $200,000. After subtracting their initial investment and capital repairs, their gain is $80,000.
What Are Investment Securities?  

Investment securities are a category of securities—tradable financial assets such as equities or fixed income instruments—that are purchased with the intention of holding them for investment. As opposed to investment securities, in general, securities are purchased by a broker-dealer or other intermediary for quick resale.



Investment securities are subject to governance via Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).





Key Takeaways

Investment securities are a category of securities—tradable financial assets such as equities or fixed income instruments—that are purchased with the intention of holding them for investment.Banks often purchase marketable securities to hold in their portfolios; these are usually one of two main sources of revenue, along with loans.Investment securities held by banks as collateral can take the form of equity (ownership stakes) in corporations or debt securities. 


   Understanding Investment Securities  

Banks often purchase marketable securities to hold in their portfolios; these are usually one of two main sources of revenue, along with loans. Investment securities can be found on the balance sheet assets of many banks, carried at amortized book value (defined as the original cost less amortization until the present date).



The main difference between loans and investment securities is that loans are generally acquired through a process of direct negotiation between the borrower and lender, while the acquisition of investment securities is typically through a third-party broker or dealer. Investment securities at banks are subject to capital restrictions. For example, the number of Type II securities or securities issued by a state government is restricted to 10% of the bank's overall capital and surplus.



Investment securities provide banks with the advantage of liquidity, in addition to the profits from realized capital gains when these are sold. If they are investment-grade, these investment securities are often able to help banks meet their pledge requirements for government deposits. In this instance, investment securities can be viewed as collateral.


   Types of Investment Securities  
  Equity Stakes  

As with all securities, investment securities held by banks as collateral can take the form of equity (ownership stakes) in corporations or debt securities. Equity stakes can be in the form of preferred or common shares—although it is critical that they provide a measure of safety in this case. High-risk, high-reward securities, such as initial public offering (IPO) allocations or small gap growth companies, might not be appropriate for investment securities. Some companies offer dual-class stock, which provide distinct voting rights and dividend payments.


  Debt Securities  

Debt securities can take the common forms of secured or unsecured corporate debentures. (Secured corporate debentures can be backed by company assets, such as a mortgage or company equipment). In this scenario, secured debt (also called investment-grade) would be preferred. Treasury bonds or Treasury bills and municipal bonds (state, county, municipal issues) are also options for a bank’s investment securities portfolio. Again, these bonds should be investment-grade.



While securities, in general, include derivative securities—such as mortgage-backed securities, whose value is derived from the asset(s) underlying the financial instrument—these are higher risk and not often encouraged to be part of a bank’s investment securities portfolio.


  Money Market Securities  

Other types of investment securities can include money-market securities for quick conversion to cash. These generally take the form of commercial paper (unsecured, short-term corporate debt that matures in 270 days or less), repurchase agreements, negotiable certificates of deposit (CDs), bankers' acceptances, and/or federal funds.
What Is an Investment Strategy?  

The term investment strategy refers to a set of principles designed to help an individual investor achieve their financial and investment goals. This plan is what guides an investor's decisions based on goals, risk tolerance, and future needs for capital. They can vary from conservative (where they follow a low-risk strategy where the focus is on wealth protection) while others are highly aggressive (seeking rapid growth by focusing on capital appreciation).



Investors can use their strategies to formulate their own portfolios or do so through a financial professional. Strategies aren't static, which means they need to be reviewed periodically as circumstances change.





Key Takeaways

An investment strategy is a plan designed to help individual investors achieve their financial and investment goals.Your investment strategy depends on your personal circumstances, including your age, capital, risk tolerance, and goals.Investment strategies range from conservative to highly aggressive, and include value and growth investing.You should reevaluate your investment strategies as your personal situation changes.


   Understanding Investment Strategies  

Investment strategies are styles of investing that help individuals meet their short- and long-term goals. Strategies depend on a variety of factors, including:



Age
Goals
Lifestyles
Financial situations
Available capital
Personal situations (family, living situation)
Expected returns



This, of course, isn't an exhaustive list, and may include other details about the individual. These factors help an investor determine the kind of investments they choose to purchase, including stocks, bonds, money market funds, real estate, asset allocation, and how much risk they can tolerate.



Investment strategies vary greatly. There isn't a one-size-fits-all approach to investing, which means there isn't one particular plan that works for everyone. This also means that people need to reevaluate and realign their strategies as they get older in order to adapt their portfolios to their situation. Investors can choose from value investing to growth investing and conservative to more risky approaches.



As mentioned above, people can choose to make their investment decisions on their own or by using a financial professional. More experienced investors are able to make decisions and investment choices on their own. Keep in mind that there is no right way to manage a portfolio, but investors should behave rationally by doing their own research using facts and data to back up decisions by attempting to reduce risk and maintain sufficient liquidity.






Because investment strategies depend so heavily on your personal situation and goals, it's important for you to do your research before you commit your capital to any investment.


   Special Considerations  

Risk is a huge component of an investment strategy. Some individuals have a high tolerance for risk while other investors are risk-averse. Here are a few common risk-related rules:



Investors should only risk what they can afford to lose
Riskier investments carry the potential for higher returns
Investments that guarantee the preservation of capital also guarantee a minimal return



For example, U.S. Treasury bonds, bills, and certificates of deposit (CDs) are considered safe because they are backed by the credit of the United States. However, these investments provide a low return on investment. Once the cost of inflation and taxes have been included in the return on income equation, there may be little growth in the investment.



Along with risk, investors should also consider changing their investment strategies over time. For instance, a young investor saving for retirement may want to alter their investment strategy when they get older, shifting their choices from riskier investments to safer options.


   Types of Investment Strategies  

Investment strategies range from conservative plans to highly aggressive ones. Conservative investment plans employ safe investments that come with low risks and provide stable returns. Highly aggressive ones are those that involve risky investments, such as stocks, options, and junk bonds, with the goal of generating maximum returns.



People who have a greater investment horizon tend to employ aggressive plans because they have a longer timeline while those who want to preserve capital are more likely to take a conservative approach.



Many investors buy low-cost, diversified index funds, use dollar-cost averaging, and reinvest dividends. Dollar-cost averaging is an investment strategy where a fixed dollar amount of stocks or a particular investment are acquired on a regular schedule regardless of the cost or share price. Some experienced investors, though, select individual stocks and build a portfolio based on individual firm analysis with predictions on share price movements.


  Value Investing vs. Growth Investing  

Some investors may choose strategies such as value and growth investing. With value investing, an investor chooses stocks that look as they though trade for less than their intrinsic value. This means that these stocks that the market is underestimating. Growth investing, on the other hand, involves investing capital in the stocks of junior companies that have the potential for earnings growth.


   Example of Investment Strategy  

A 25-year-old who starts off their career and begins saving for retirement may consider riskier investments because they have more time to invest and are more tolerant to risk They can also afford to lose some money in the event that the market takes a dive because they still have time earn more money. This means they can invest in things like stocks and real estate.



A 45-year-old, on the other hand, doesn't have a lot of time to put money away for retirement and would be better off with a conservative plan. They may consider investing in things like bonds, government securities, and other safe bets.



Meanwhile, someone saving for a vacation or home won't have the same strategy as someone saving for retirement. They may be better off putting their money away in a savings account or a CD for short-term goals like these.
What Is an Investment Thesis?  

The term investment thesis refers to a reasoned argument for a particular investment strategy, backed up by research and analysis. Investment theses are commonly prepared by (and for) individual investors and businesses. These formal written documents may be prepared by analysts or other financial professionals for presentation to their clients.





Key Takeaways

An investment thesis is a written document that recommends a new investment, based on research and analysis of its potential for profit.Individual investors can use this technique to investigate and select investments that meet their goals. Financial professionals use the investment thesis to pitch their ideas.


   Understanding the Investment Thesis  

As noted above, an investment thesis is a written document that provides information about a potential investment. It is a research- and analysis-based proposal that is usually drafted by an investment or financial professional to provide insight into investments and to pitch investment ideas. In some cases, the investor will draft their own investment thesis, as is the case with venture capitalists and private equity firms.



This thesis can be used as a strategic decision-making tool. Investors and companies can use a thesis to decide whether or not to pursue a particular investment, such as a stock or acquiring another company. Or it can be used as a way to look back and analyze why a particular decision was made in the first place—and whether it was the right one. Putting things in writing can have a huge impact on the direction of a potential investment.



Let's say an investor purchases a stock based on the investment thesis that the stock is undervalued. The thesis states that the investor plans to hold the stock for three years, during which its price will rise to reflect its true worth. At that point, the stock will be sold at a profit. A year later, the stock market crashes, and the investor's pick crashes with it. The investor recalls the investment thesis, relies on the integrity of its conclusions, and continues to hold the stock.



That is a sound strategy unless some event that is totally unexpected and entirely absent from the investment thesis occurs. Examples of these might include the 2007-2008 financial crisis or the Brexit vote that forced the United Kingdom out of the European Union (EU) in 2016. These were highly unexpected events, and they might affect someone's investment thesis.






If you think your investment thesis holds up, stick with it through thick and thin.


   Special Considerations  

An investment thesis is generally formally documented, but there are no universal standards for the contents. Some require fast action and are not elaborate compositions. When a thesis concerns a big trend, such as a global macro perspective, the investment thesis may be well documented and might even include a fair amount of promotional materials for presentation to potential investing partners.



Portfolio management is now a science-based discipline, not unlike engineering or medicine. As in those fields, breakthroughs in basic theory, technology, and market structures continuously translate into improvements in products and in professional practices. The investment thesis has been strengthened with qualitative and quantitative methods that are now widely accepted.






As with any thesis, an idea may surface but it is methodical research that takes it from an abstract concept to a recommendation for action. In the world of investments, the thesis serves as a game plan.


   What's Included in an Investment Thesis?  

Although there's no industry standard, there are usually some common components to this document. Remember, an investment thesis is generally a proposal that is based on research and analysis. As such, it is meant to be a guide about the viability of a particular investment.



Most investment theses include (but aren't limited to) the following information:



The investment in question
The investment goal(s)
Viability of the investment, including any trends that support the investment
Potential downsides and risks that may be associated with the investment
Costs and potential returns as well as any losses that may result



Some theses also try to answer some key questions, including:



Does the investment align with the intended goal(s)?What could go wrong?What do the financial statements say?What is the growth potential of this investment?



Putting everything in writing can help investors make more informed decisions. For instance, a company's management team can use a thesis to decide whether or not to pursue the acquisition of a rival. The thesis may highlight whether the target's vision aligns with the acquirer or it may identify opportunities for growth in the market.



Keep in mind that the complexity of an investment thesis depends on the type of investor involved and the nature of the investment. So the investment thesis for a corporation looking to acquire a rival may be more in-depth and complicated compared to that of an individual investor who wants to develop an investment portfolio.


   Examples of an Investment Thesis  

Portfolio managers and investment companies often post information about their investment theses on their websites. The following are just two examples.


  Morgan Stanley  

Morgan Stanley (MS) is one of the world's leading financial services firms. It offers investment management services, investment banking, securities, and wealth management services. According to the company, it has five steps that make up its investment process, including idea generation, quality assessment, valuation, risk management, and portfolio construction.



When it comes to developing its investment thesis, the company tries to answer three questions as part of its quality assessment step:



"Is the company a disruptor or is it insulated from disruptive change? Does the company demonstrate financial strength with high returns on invested capital, high margins, strong cash conversion, low capital intensity and low leverage? Are there environmental or social externalities not borne by the company, or governance and accounting risks that may alter the investment thesis?"


  Connetic Ventures  

Connetic Adventures is a venture capital firm that invests in early-stage companies. The company uses data to develop its investment thesis, which is made up of three pillars. According to its blog, there were three pillars or principles that contributed to Connetic's venture capital investment strategy. These included diversification, value, and follow-on—each of which comes with a pro and con.




Why Is an Investment Thesis Important?
An investment thesis is a written proposal or research-based analysis of why investors or companies should pursue an investment. In some cases, it may also serve as a historical guide as to whether the investment was a good move or not. Whatever the reason, an investment thesis allows investors to make better, more informed decisions about whether to put their money into a specific investment. This written document provides insight into what the investment is, the goals of the investment, any associated costs, the potential for returns, as well as any possible risks and losses that may result.




Who Should Have an Investment Thesis?
An investment thesis is important for anyone who wants to invest their money. Individual investors can use a thesis to decide whether to purchase stock in a particular company and what strategy they should use, whether it's a buy-and-hold strategy or one where they only have the stock for a short period of time. A company can craft its own investment thesis to help weigh out whether an acquisition or growth strategy is worthwhile.




How Do You Create an Investment Thesis?
It's important to put your investment thesis in writing. Seeing your proposal in print can help you make a better decision. When you're writing your investment thesis, be sure to be clear and concise. Make sure you do your research and include any facts and figures that can help you make your decision. Be sure to include your goals, the potential for upside, and any risks that you may come across. Try to ask and answer some key questions, including whether the investment meets your investment goals and what could go wrong if you go ahead with the deal.


   The Bottom Line  

It's always important to have a plan, especially when it comes to investing. After all, you are putting your money at risk. Having an investment thesis can help you make more informed decisions about whether a potential investment is worth your while. Make sure you put your thesis in writing and answer some key questions about your goals, costs, and potential outcomes. Having a concrete proposal in place can spell the difference between earning returns and losing all your money. And that's if your thesis supports the investment in the first place.
What Is an Investment Vehicle?  

An investment vehicle is a product used by investors to gain positive returns. Investment vehicles can be low risk, such as certificates of deposit (CDs) or bonds, or they can carry a greater degree of risk, such as stocks, options, and futures. Other types of investment vehicles include annuities; collectibles, such as art or coins; mutual funds; and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).


   Investment Vehicles Explained  

Investment vehicles refer to any method by which individuals or businesses can invest and, ideally, grow their money. There is a wide variety of investment vehicles, and many investors choose to hold at least several types in their portfolios. Holding different types of investment in a portfolio minimizes risk through diversification because a portfolio constructed of different types of assets will, on average, yield higher long-term returns.


   Types of Investment Vehicles  

The different types of investment vehicles are subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which they are provided. Each type has its own risks and rewards. Deciding which vehicles fit particular portfolios depends on the investor's knowledge of the market, skills in financial investing, risk tolerance, financial goals, and current financial standing.





Key Takeaways

Investment vehicles are used by investors to gain positive returns on their money.Investment vehicles can be low risk, such as CDs or bonds, or high risk such as options and futures.Other investment vehicles include lending investments, such as bonds, CDs, and TIPS; cash equivalents; and pooled investments, such as pension plans and hedge funds.


   Ownership Investments  

Investors who delve into ownership investments own particular assets that they expect to grow in value. Ownership investments include stocks, real estate, precious objects, and businesses. Stocks, also called equity or shares, give investors a stake in a company and its profits and gains. Real estate owned by investors can be rented or sold to provide higher net profits for the owner. Precious objects such as collectibles, art, and precious metals are considered ownership investments if they are sold for a profit. Capital used to build businesses that provide products and services for profit is another type of ownership investment.


   Lending Investments  

With lending investments, people allow their money to be used by another person or entity with the expectation it will be repaid. The lendor typically charges interest on the loan so that they earn a profit once the loan is repaid including the interest charges. This type of investment is low risk and provides low rewards. Examples of lending investments include bonds, certificates of deposit, and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS).



Investors investing in bonds allow their money to be used by corporations or the government with the expectation it will be paid back with profit after a set period with a fixed interest rate.



Certificates of deposit (CDs) are offered by banks. A CD is a promissory note provided by banks that locks the investor's money in a savings account for a set period with a higher interest rate.



Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) are bonds provided by the U.S. Treasury and crafted to protect investors against inflation. Investors who put their money in TIPS get their principal and interest back when their investment matures over time. Both principal and interest are indexed for inflation.


   Cash Equivalents  

Cash equivalents are financial investments that are considered as good as cash. These are savings accounts or money market funds. The investments are liquid but have low returns.


   Pooled Investment Vehicles  

Multiple investors often pool their money to gain certain advantages they would not have as individual investors; this is known as a pooled investment vehicle and can take the form of mutual funds, pension funds, private funds, unit investment trusts (UITs), and hedge funds. 



In a mutual fund, a professional fund manager chooses the type of stocks, bonds, and other assets that should compose the client's portfolio. The fund manager charges a fee for this service. 



A pension plan is a retirement account established by an employer into which an employee pays part of their income. 



Private funds are composed of pooled investment vehicles, such as hedge funds and private equity funds, and are not considered investment companies by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 



Unit investment trusts provide a fixed portfolio with a specified period of investment. The investments are sold as redeemable units. 



Hedge funds group together client money to make what are often risky investments using a long and short strategy, leverage, and exotic securities in the aim of achieving higher than usual returns known as alpha. 


   Bottom Line  

The vehicles that investors can use to try to obtain returns are wide-ranging. However, the investor should understand the risks of any vehicle that they choose. A financial advisor can assess an investor's current financial situation, their goals, and their needs to develop the most appropriate portfolio and investment strategy.

What Is an Investor?  

An investor is any person or other entity (such as a firm or mutual fund) who commits capital with the expectation of receiving financial returns. Investors rely on different financial instruments to earn a rate of return and accomplish important financial objectives like building retirement savings, funding a college education, or merely accumulating additional wealth over time.



A wide variety of investment vehicles exist to accomplish goals, including (but not limited to) stocks, bonds, commodities, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), options, futures, foreign exchange, gold, silver, retirement plans, and real estate. Investors can analyze opportunities from different angles, and generally prefer to minimize risk while maximizing returns.



Investors typically generate returns by deploying capital as either equity or debt investments. Equity investments entail ownership stakes in the form of company stock that may pay dividends in addition to generating capital gains. Debt investments may be as loans extended to other individuals or firms, or in the form of purchasing bonds issued by governments or corporations which pay interest in the form of coupons.





Key Takeaways

Investors use different financial instruments to earn a rate of return to accomplish financial goals and objectives.Investment securities include stocks, bonds, mutual funds, derivatives, commodities, and real estate.Investors can be distinguished from traders in that investors take long-term strategic positions in companies or projects.Investors build portfolios either with an active orientation that tries to beat the benchmark index or a passive strategy that attempts to track an index.Investors may also be oriented toward either growth or value strategies.


   Styles and Risk Tolerance  

Investors are not a uniform bunch. They have varying risk tolerances, capital, styles, preferences, and time frames. For instance, some investors may prefer very low-risk investments that will lead to conservative gains, such as certificates of deposits and certain bond products.



Other investors, however, are more inclined to take on additional risk in an attempt to make a larger profit. These investors might invest in currencies, emerging markets, or stocks, all while dealing with a roller coaster of different factors on a daily basis.



Institutional investors are organizations such as financial firms or mutual funds that build sizable portfolios in stocks and other financial instruments. Often, they are able to accumulate and pool money from several smaller investors (individuals and/or firms) in order to make larger investments. Because of this, institutional investors often have far greater market power and influence over the markets than individual retail investors.


   Passive Investors vs. Active Investors  

Investors may also adopt various market strategies. Passive investors tend to buy and hold the components of various market indexes and may optimize their allocation weights to certain asset classes based on rules such as Modern Portfolio Theory's (MPT) mean-variance optimization. Others may be stock pickers who invest based on fundamental analysis of corporate financial statements and financial ratios—these are active investors.



One example of an active approach would be the "value" investors who seek to purchase stocks with low share prices relative to their book values. Others may seek to invest long-term in "growth" stocks that may be losing money at the moment but are growing rapidly and hold promise for the future.



Passive (indexed) investing is becoming increasingly popular, where it is overtaking active investment strategies as the dominant stock market logic. The growth of low-cost target-date mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and robo-advisors are partly responsible for this surge in popularity.



Those interested in learning more about investing, passive & active investors, and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.






Financial investments have the very specific goal of buying something that (hopefully) appreciates in value. Consider other forms of investing such as returning to school to complete your degree or embarking on a diet to ensure good health in the future.


   Types of Investors  
  Angel Investors  

An angel investor is a high-net-worth private individual that provides financial capital to a startup or entrepreneur. The capital is often provided in exchange for an equity stake in the company. Angel investors can provide a financial injection either once or on an ongoing basis. An angel investor typically provides capital in the early stages of a new business, when risk is high. They often use excess cash on hand to allocate towards high-risk investments.


  Venture Capitalists  

Venture capitalists are private equity investors, usually in the form of a company, that seek to invest in startups and other small businesses. Unlike angel investors, they do not seek to fund businesses in the early stages to help get them off the ground, but rather look at businesses that are already in the early stages with a potential for growth. These are companies often looking to expand but not having the means to do so. Venture capitalists seek an equity stake in return for their investment, help nurture the growth of the company, and then sell their stake for a profit.


  P2P Lending  

P2P lending, or peer-to-peer lending, is a form of financing where loans are obtained from other individuals, cutting out the traditional middleman, such as a bank. Examples of P2P lending include crowdsourcing, where businesses seek to raise capital from many investors online in exchange for products or other benefits.


  Personal Investors  

A personal investor can be any individual investing on their own and may take many forms. A personal investor invests their own capital, usually in stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Personal investors are not professional investors but rather those seeking higher returns than simple investment vehicles, like certificates of deposit or savings accounts.


  Institutional Investors  

Institutional investors are organizations that invest the money of other people. Examples of institutional investors are mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, hedge funds, and pension funds. Because institutional investors raise large amounts of capital from many investors, they are able to purchase large amounts of assets, usually big blocks of stocks. In many ways, institutional investors can influence the price of assets. Institutional investors are large and sophisticated.


   Investors vs. Traders  

An investor is typically distinct from a trader. An investor puts capital to use for long-term gain, while a trader seeks to generate short-term profits by buying and selling securities over and over again.



Investors typically hold positions for years to decades (also called a "position trader" or "buy and hold investor") while traders generally hold positions for shorter periods. Scalp traders, for example, hold positions for as little as a few seconds. Swing traders, on the other hand, seek positions that are held from several days to several weeks.



Investors and traders also focus on different types of analysis. Traders typically focus on the technical factors of a stock, known as technical analysis. A trader is concerned with what direction a stock will move in and how to take advantage of that movement. They are not as concerned about whether the value moves up or down.



Investors, on the other hand, are more concerned with the long-term prospects of a company, often focusing on its fundamental values. They make investment decisions based on the likelihood of appreciation of a stock's share price.






One of the absolute easiest ways to become an investor is to sign up for your company's 401(k) plan.


   How to Become an Investor  

Many individuals naturally become investors, especially considering those that prioritize long-term savings and putting money away for retirement. Begin by learning the basics of investing such as the various types of assets (e.g. stocks, bonds, real estate), investment strategies (e.g. value investing, growth investing), and risk management. Early in your investing career, be mindful of your risk tolerance. Though greater returns are often had by taking on greater risk, there is also greater downside or loss of original capital.



To invest in stocks, bonds, and other securities, you'll need to open a brokerage account with a reputable broker. To invest in real estate or physical property, you'll want to be well-versed in local real estate law. Other specific assets will have specific requires as well, such as a digital wallet for cryptocurrency or physical protection for bullion or tangible precious metals.



Because investing is much different from trading, it's critical to determine your investment goals, such as your target return and time horizon. This will help you choose the right investments (such as a target date fund) and make informed decisions. For example, if your goal is to invest money for retirement, you likely have a much long horizon compared to if your goal for investing is to purchase a new car in several years. Depending on what you are trying to achieve, you will want to frame your investing strategy around your long-term target.



Last, it is important to keep up with market trends and news that may impact your investments. This can help you make informed decisions and adjust your strategy as needed. Depending on your holdings, this may be related to financial, political, international, or social news that may have a ripple effect on the valuation of what you own.


   What Do Investors Invest in?  

The basic philosophy of investing is simple: a person contributes capital towards an asset with the expectation that the value of that asset will be higher when it comes time to sell or liquidate the asset. For this reason, an investor can literally invest in anything may appreciate in value. This is evident by the lucrative deals seen by investors buying and selling tiny rectangles of cardboard (i.e. baseball cards). A more comprehensive list of traditional or common things investors invest in is below:



Stocks: Investors can buy shares of publicly traded companies, which represent ownership in the company and provide a share of its profits. Many brokers now allow for partial share ownership, so investors are not necessarily required to own a full share of a company's stock.
Bonds: Investors can buy fixed-income securities such as government bonds or corporate bonds, which pay interest and return the principal investment at maturity. The risk with bonds is the value of the investment will fluctuate based on prevailing interest rates.
Real estate: Investors can buy properties, either directly or through real estate investment trusts (REITs), which provide rental income and may appreciate in value over time. In addition, landlords may collect cashflow from operations for properties being rented.
Mutual funds: Investors can invest in a professionally managed portfolio of stocks, bonds, or other assets. The goal behind mutual funds is to have diversification and lower risk compared to investing in individual, specific assets.
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs): Investors can invest in a basket of stocks, bonds, or other assets, similar to mutual funds. However, ETFs also have the added benefit of being traded on stock exchanges like individual stocks.
Commodities: Investors can invest in physical commodities such as gold, silver, oil, or agricultural products, which may offer protection against inflation and other economic risks. This can be traded as physical items or derivative contracts. Most often, these assets have value because of their real-world use as tangible items.
Alternative investments: Investors can invest in alternative assets such as private equity, venture capital, hedge funds, cryptocurrency, art, or collectibles. Though potentially riskier investments, the end goal is always the same: to own something increases in value over time.




What Are the 3 Types of Investors in a Business?
The three types of investors in a business are pre-investors, passive investors, and active investors. Pre-investors are those that are not professional investors. These include friends and family that are able to commit a small amount of capital towards your business. Passive investors are those that are professional investors that commit capital but do not play an active role in managing the business. An example would be angel investors. Active investors are those that commit capital but are also actively involved in the business. They make decisions on strategy, senior management, and more. Examples include venture capitalists and private equity firms.




How Do Investors Make Money?
Investors make money in two ways: appreciation and income. Appreciation occurs when an asset increases in value. An investor purchases an asset in the hopes that its value will grow and they can then sell it for more than they bought it for, earning a profit. Income is the regular payment of funds from the purchase of an asset. For example, a bond pays fixed payments at regular intervals.




What Qualities Make a Good Investor?
To be a successful investor, a certain set of skills are required. These include diligence, patience, acquisition of knowledge, risk management, discipline, optimism, and the setting of goals.


   The Bottom Line  

An investor is an individual or entity that utilizes its capital or the capital of others with the goal of receiving a return. Investors can range from a person buying stocks at home on their online brokerage account to multi-billion dollar funds investing globally. The end objective is always the same, to seek some return (profit) in order to build wealth.



Investors commit their capital to a wide variety of investment vehicles, such as stocks, bonds, real estate, mutual funds, hedge funds, businesses, and commodities. Investors encounter risk when they commit capital and walk a balance between managing risk and return.
What Are Investor Relations (IR)?  

The investor relations (IR) department is a division of a business, usually a public company, whose job it is to provide investors with an accurate account of company affairs. This helps private and institutional investors make informed decisions on whether to invest in the company. 





Key Takeaways

The investor relations (IR) department is a division of a business whose job it is to provide investors with an accurate account of company affairs.IR departments are required to be tightly integrated with a company's accounting department, legal department, and executive management team.IR departments have to be aware of changing regulatory requirements and advise the company on what can and cannot be done from a PR perspective.Legislation, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, has strengthened investor relations by requiring more transparency in the financial marketplace. 


   Understanding Investor Relations (IR)  

Investor relations ensures that a company's publicly traded stock is being fairly traded through the dissemination of key information that allows investors to determine whether a company is a good investment for their needs. IR departments are sub-departments of public relations (PR) departments and work to communicate with investors, shareholders, government organizations, and the overall financial community.



Companies normally start building their IR departments before going public. During this pre-initial public offering (IPO) phase, IR departments can help establish corporate governance, conduct internal financial audits, and start communicating with potential IPO investors.



For example, when a company goes on an IPO roadshow, it is common for some institutional investors to become interested in the company as an investment vehicle. Once interested, institutional investors require detailed information about the company, both qualitative and quantitative.



To obtain this information, the company's IR department is called upon to provide a description of its products and services, financial statements, financial statistics, and an overview of the company's organizational structure.






The IR department's largest role is its interactions with investment analysts who provide public opinion on the company as an investment opportunity.


   Investor Relations and Legislation  

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, also known as the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act, was passed in 2002, increasing reporting requirements for publicly traded companies. This expanded the need for public companies to have internal departments dedicated to investor relations, reporting compliance, and the accurate dissemination of financial information.



In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the Obama Administration passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 to prevent financial institutions from taking excessive risks and introduced new measures to prevent lenders from exploiting consumers. To achieve this, the legislation established an independent agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Burea (CFPB) tasked with setting and enforcing clear, standardized rules for companies providing financial services.



The legislation strengthened investor relations by requiring more transparency across the financial system. For example, the CFPB now requires that a mortgage disclosure comes in a single form that outlines associated risks and costs, allowing consumers to compare loans with other lenders. Similarly, the legislation strengthened the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act of 2009, requiring issuers to disclose rates and fees clearly to help customers make more informed financial decisions. Additionally, the reforms prohibit credit card companies from directly marketing promotions to young consumers.


   Investor Relations Functions  

IR teams are typically tasked with coordinating shareholder meetings and press conferences, releasing financial data, leading financial analyst briefings, publishing reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and handling the public side of any financial crisis.



In addition, IR departments have to be aware of changing regulatory requirements and advise the company on what can and cannot be done from a PR perspective. For example, IR departments have to lead companies in quiet periods, where it is illegal to discuss certain aspects of a company and its performance.



The IR department's largest role is its interactions with investment analysts who provide public opinion on the company as an investment opportunity. These opinions influence the overall investment community, and it is the IR department's job to manage analysts' expectations.


   Goals of Investor Relations  

IR is intended to increase and sustain investor and other stakeholder confidence by giving them accurate and timely information regarding the company's financial and operating performance. It's also used to communicate the strategic plans and objectives.



IR seeks to maximize shareholder value by giving investors a thorough picture of the business strategy and expansion objectives of the company. This may enhance interest from existing investors, boost demand for the company's shares, and ultimately raise the share price.



IR is also intended to enhance corporate governance by making sure that the business complies with pertinent laws, rules, and moral guidelines. This could increase the company's access to capital markets as well as its reputation and trust with investors. In this realm, IR is meant to invoke confidence that a company is adhering to all of the required laws set forth by governing bodies.



Communication is also made easier because to IR, which acts as a conduit between a firm's stakeholders and investors. This gives investors access to key decision-makers within the company. This can also support the company in addressing investor issues, giving management input, and fostering positive connections with its stakeholders.






Companies often have pages on their website dedicated to investor relations. This section will house financial statements, external disclosures, SEC filings, or annual reports.


   Benefits of Investor Relations  

By leveraging IR, companies can increase their access to capital markets which can enable them to obtain finance more effectively and at a reduced cost. This is done by developing relationships with investors and analysts.



IR contributes to greater transparency by delivering accurate and timely information to investors about a company's financial performance, strategic positioning, and other significant developments. Investor trust can be increased and the company's reputation can be enhanced as a result.



Effective IR may also assist businesses in growing their investor base and luring fresh capital. By attracting new investors and raising demand for the company's stock, effective IR can assist raise the liquidity of a company's shares. This could enhance the company's worth and make it easier for all investors to trade.



Companies can increase their access to capital markets, which can enable them to obtain finance more effectively and at a reduced cost, by developing relationships with investors and analysts. Effective IR may also assist businesses in growing their investor base and luring fresh capital.



Last, by ensuring that businesses adhere to pertinent laws, regulations, and moral standards, IR aids in enhancing corporate governance. This could increase the company's access to capital markets as well as its reputation and trust with investors.




Why Is It Important for a Company to Have an Investor Relations Division?
Companies require an investor relations division to provide current and prospective investors with relevant information so they can make informed investment decisions. Failure to disclose information that may have a material impact on a company’s share price could result in a fine or other disciplinary action from regulators.




What Are the Primary Functions of an Investor Relations Division?
The investor relations team oversees functions such as coordinating shareholder meetings and press conferences, releasing financial data, leading financial analyst briefings, publishing SEC filings, and handling the public relations of a company-specific financial crisis.




What Role Does an Investor Relations Division Play Before a Company Goes Public?
Before a company goes public, an investor relations division may assist with establishing corporate governance, conducting internal financial audits, and disseminating information to prospective IPO investors.




What Effect Does Government Legislation Have on Investor Relations?
Legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Dodd-Frank Act have strengthened investor relations by requiring financial institutions to provide greater transparency, particularly about fees and risk. Reforms have also increased reporting requirements for publicly traded companies. 


   The Bottom Line  

Investor relations refers to a division within a company that provides investors with information about its corporate affairs, helping them make more informed investment decisions. The IR division typically works closely with accounting and legal departments along with executive management to ensure the dissemination of essential financial information.



Often companies establish an IR department before going public, with the division assisting in areas such as corporate governance, financial auditing, and communicating with prospective IPO investors. Since the 2008 financial crisis, legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Dodd-Frank Act, has strengthened Investor relations by requiring greater reporting and transparency across the financial system to help consumers make more informed decisions.
What Is the Invisible Hand?  

The invisible hand is a metaphor for the unseen forces that move the free market economy. Through individual self-interest and freedom of production and consumption, the best interest of society, as a whole, are fulfilled. The constant interplay of individual pressures on market supply and demand causes the natural movement of prices and the flow of trade.



The term "invisible hand" first appeared in Adam Smith's famous work, The Wealth of Nations, to describe how free markets can incentivize individuals, acting in their own self-interest, to produce what is societally necessary.





Key Takeaways

The invisible hand is a metaphor for how, in a free market economy, self-interested individuals operate through a system of mutual interdependence.This interdependence incentivizes producers to make what is socially necessary, even though they may care only about their own well-being.Adam Smith introduced the concept in his 1759 book The Theory of Moral Sentiments and later in his 1776 book An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.Each free exchange creates signals about which goods and services are valuable and how difficult they are to bring to market.Critics argue that the invisible hand does not always produce socially beneficial outcomes, and can encourage greed, negative externalities, inequalities, and other harms.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   How the Invisible Hand Works  

The invisible hand is part of laissez-faire, meaning the "let do/let go," approach to the market. In other words, the approach holds that the market will find equilibrium without government or other interventions forcing it into unnatural patterns.



Scottish Enlightenment thinker Adam Smith introduced the concept in several of his writings, such as the economic interpretation in his book An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (often shortened to just The Wealth of Nations) published in 1776 and in The Theory of Moral Sentiments published in 1759. The term found use in an economic sense during the 1900s.



The invisible hand metaphor distills two critical ideas. First, voluntary trades in a free market produce unintentional and widespread benefits. Second, these benefits are greater than those of a regulated, planned economy.



Each free exchange creates signals about which goods and services are valuable and how difficult they are to bring to market. These signals, captured in the price system, spontaneously direct competing consumers, producers, distributors, and intermediaries—each pursuing their plans—to fulfill the needs and desires of others.
















The term "invisible hand" only appears twice in The Wealth of Nations, a volume of around 1,000 pages.


   The Invisible Hand and Market Economies  

Business productivity and profitability are improved when profits and losses accurately reflect what investors and consumers want. This concept is well-demonstrated through a famous example in Richard Cantillon’s An Essay on Economic Theory (1755), the book from which Smith developed his invisible hand concept.



Smith's An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations was published during the first Industrial Revolution and the same year as the American Declaration of Independence. Smith’s invisible hand became one of the primary justifications for an economic system of free-market capitalism.



As a result, the business climate of the U.S. developed with a general understanding that voluntary private markets are more productive than government-run economies. Even government rules sometimes try to incorporate the invisible hand.



Former Fed Chair Ben Bernanke explained the "market-based approach is regulation by the invisible hand" which "aims to align the incentives of market participants with the objectives of the regulator."


   Example of the Invisible Hand  

Consider an example of a small business facing stiff competition. To best position itself in the market, the small business decides it will invest in higher quality materials for its manufacturing process as well as reduce its prices. though the small business may be doing so out of the best interest of its company (i.e. to drive sales and steal market share), the invisible hand is at work as the market now has access to more affordable yet higher quality goods.



Another example of the invisible hand is the ripple effect a retail company can have when attempting to meet consumer demand. Consider a hardware store that anticipates demand for yard maintenance tools. The hardware store will coordinate with a manufacturer to secure the appropriate goods. Meanwhile, the manufacturer will communicate with a raw materials distributor to ensure it has the items it needs.



In this second example, each entity is acting in its own best interest. However, each entity is also creating economic activity for other parties. In addition, the entities are stringing together a process that results in a consumer receiving a product it needs. Though each individual action taken by itself may not amount to much, the invisible hand helps move resources along a process to deliver a final product.




Why Is the Invisible Hand Important?
The invisible hand allows the market to reach equilibrium without government or other interventions forcing it into unnatural patterns. When supply and demand find equilibrium naturally, oversupply and shortages are avoided. The best interest of society is achieved via self-interest and freedom of production and consumption.




How Is the Invisible Hand Used Today?
As former Fed Chair Ben Bernanke explained, the "market-based approach is regulation by the invisible hand" which "aims to align the incentives of market participants with the objectives of the regulator."




What Did Adam Smith Say About the Invisible Hand?
Adam Smith wrote about an invisible hand in his writings during the 1700s, noting that the mechanism of an invisible hand benefits the economy and society thanks to self-interested individuals. Smith mentions "an" invisible hand, which is the automatic pricing and distribution mechanisms in the economy that interact directly and indirectly with centralized, top-down planning authorities.




Why Is the Invisible Hand Controversial?
Critics argue that the idea that self-interested, profit-driven actors will converge on some social optimum is clearly false, and that instead it naturally leads to negative externalities, economic and social inequalities, greed, and exploitation. Moreover, competition driven by the invisible hand can ultimately result in monopolies and the concentration of economic power, both of which are undesirable for society.Other critiques hone in on the fact that the concept relies on the assumption that producers can easily switch from producing one type of good to any other, depending on its relative profitability at a given moment. This does not account for the sometimes enormous costs of switching and the idea that people may engage in a business that they enjoy doing, or which has been passed down in a family, regardless of profitability.


   The Bottom Line  

The invisible hand is the idea that specialization in production can lead self-interested individuals to produce what is socially necessary and for the good of all. This is because increased specialization naturally leads to a web of mutual interdependencies, such that a shoemaker will need others to produce their house, food, clothing, etc.; while a homebuilder will rely on the shoemaker for shoes and others for their own clothing, food, and so on. Market forces and competition will incentivize producers to make what is most profitable at the lowest cost, also encouraging technological progress and innovation, for the benefit of all.
What Is an Invoice?  

An invoice is a time-stamped commercial document that itemizes and records a transaction between a buyer and a seller. If goods or services were purchased on credit, the invoice usually specifies the terms of the deal and provides information on the available payment methods.



Types of invoices may include a paper receipt, a bill of sale, a debit note, a sales invoice, or an online electronic record.





Key Takeaways

An invoice is a document that maintains a record of a transaction between a buyer and seller, such as a paper receipt from a store or an online record from an e-tailer.Invoices are a critical element of accounting internal controls and audits.Charges found on an invoice must be approved by the responsible management personnel.Invoices generally outline payment terms, unit costs, shipping, handling, and any other terms outlined during the transaction.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   The Basics of an Invoice  

An invoice must state it is an invoice on the face of the bill. It typically has a unique identifier called the invoice number, which is useful for internal and external reference. An invoice typically contains contact information for the seller or service provider in case there is an error relating to the billing.


  Terms  

Payment terms may be outlined on the invoice, as well as the information relating to any discounts, early payment details or finance charges assessed for late payments. It also presents the unit cost of an item, total units purchased, freight, handling, shipping, and associated tax charges, and it outlines the full amount owed.


  Timing and Printing  

Companies may opt to send a month-end statement as the invoice for all outstanding transactions. If this is the case, the statement must indicate that no subsequent invoices will be sent. Historically, invoices have been recorded on paper, often with multiple copies generated, so the buyer and seller each have a transaction record.



Currently, computer-generated invoices are quite common. They can be printed on demand or sent by email to each party. Electronic records also allow you to search and sort transactions easier by number, date, goods, or client.


  Pro Forma  

A pro forma invoice is a preliminary bill of sale sent to buyers in advance of a shipment or delivery of goods. The invoice will typically describe the purchased items and other important information, such as the shipping weight and transport charges. Pro forma invoices often come into play with international transactions, especially for customs purposes on imports.






A pro-forma invoice is a binding agreement, although the terms of sale are subject to change.


  Invoice Date  

The invoice date represents the time-stamped time and date on which the goods have been billed and the transaction officially recorded. Therefore, the invoice date has essential payment information, as it dictates the bill's credit duration and due date. This is especially crucial for entities offering credit, such as net 30, which means payment is due in 30 days.



Likewise, companies that offer customers the option to return items typically have a deadline based on a specific number of days from proof of purchase, as indicated on the invoice.


  E-Invoicing  

Since the advent of the computer era, people and businesses have found it easier to rely on electronic invoicing as an alternative to paper documents. Electronic invoicing, or e-invoicing, is a form of electronic billing that generates, stores, and monitors transaction-related documents between parties and ensures the terms of their agreements are fulfilled.



These e-documents may include invoices and receipts, purchase orders, debit and credit notes, payment terms and instructions, and remittance slips. Digital invoices are typically sent via email, web page, or app. Advantages include the following:



Permanence and resistance to physical damageEase of searching and sorting for specific names, terms, or datesIncreased ability to auditThe ability to print or reproduce on demandThe capacity for data collection and business intelligenceReduction of paper use



E-invoicing includes several technologies and entry options and is used as a general term to describe any method by which an invoice is electronically presented to a customer for payment. Several e-invoicing standards, such as EDIFACT and UBL, have been developed around to world to facilitate adoption and efficiency.


   Invoices and Accounts Payable  

Invoices track the sale of a product for inventory control, accounting, and tax purposes, which help track accounts payable and similar obligations due. Many companies ship the product and expect payment later, so the total amount due becomes an account payable for the buyer and an account receivable for the seller.



Modern-day invoices are transmitted electronically rather than paper-based. If an invoice is lost, the buyer may request a copy from the seller. The use of an invoice represents the presence of credit, as the seller has sent a product or provided a service without receiving cash upfront.






Invoices differ from purchase orders, created before a customer orders a good or service.


   Invoices and Internal Controls  

Invoices are a critical element of accounting internal controls. Charges on an invoice must be approved by the responsible management personnel. Alternatively, an invoice is matched to a purchase order, and upon reconciling the information, payment is made for approved transactions. An auditing firm ensures invoices are entered into the appropriate accounting period when testing for expense cutoff.




Is an Invoice a Bill or Receipt?
An invoice is generally used to document products or services sold and delivered to a customer, so it is a bill. A receipt is a document that shows payment was received.




Does an Invoice Mean You've Been Paid?
An invoice generally serves as a notification that payment is owed.




What Is an Invoice Used for?
Besides notifying a customer that payment is due, it also serves as a paper trail for accounting purposes.


   The Bottom Line  

An invoice is a document used to notify a customer that payment is due. It also serves as a record for the issuing business so that it can track its receivables. In the past, invoices were only issued on paper due to the limitations of technology. More recently, electronic invoices become popular because they save time and money and can be generated and sent automatically.
What is Invoice Financing?  

Invoice financing is a way for businesses to borrow money against the amounts due from customers. Invoice financing helps businesses improve cash flow, pay employees and suppliers, and reinvest in operations and growth earlier than they could if they had to wait until their customers paid their balances in full. Businesses pay a percentage of the invoice amount to the lender as a fee for borrowing the money. Invoice financing can solve problems associated with customers taking a long time to pay as well as difficulties obtaining other types of business credit.



Invoice financing is also known as "accounts receivable financing" or simply "receivables financing."


   Understanding Invoice Financing  

When businesses sell goods or services to large customers, such as wholesalers or retailers, they usually do so on credit. This means that the customer does not have to pay immediately for the goods that it purchases. The purchasing company is given an invoice that has the total amount due and the bill's due date. However, offering credit to clients ties up funds that a business might otherwise use to invest or grow its operations. To finance slow-paying accounts receivable or to meet short-term liquidity, businesses may opt to finance their invoices.



Invoice financing is a form of short-term borrowing that is extended by a lender to its business customers based on unpaid invoices. Through invoice factoring, a company sells its accounts receivable to improve its working capital, which would provide the business with immediate funds that can be used to pay for company expenses.





Key Takeaways

Invoice financing allows a business to use its unpaid invoices as collateral for financing.A company may use invoice financing to improve cash flow for operational needs or speed up expansion and investment plans.Invoice financing can be structured so that the business' customer is unaware that their invoice has been financed or it can be explicitly managed by the lender. 


   Invoice Financing From the Lender's Perspective  

Invoice financing benefits lenders because, unlike extending a line of credit, which may be unsecured and leave little recourse if the business does not repay what it borrows, invoices act as collateral for invoice financing. The lender also limits its risk by not advancing 100% of the invoice amount to the borrowing business. Invoice financing does not eliminate all risk, though, since the customer might never pay the invoice. This would result in a difficult and expensive collections process involving both the bank and the business doing invoice financing with the bank.


   How Invoice Financing is Structured  

Invoice financing can be structured in a number of ways, most commonly via factoring or discounting. With invoice factoring, the company sells its outstanding invoices to a lender, who might pay the company 70% to 85% up front of what the invoices are ultimately worth. Assuming the lender receives full payment for the invoices, it will then remit the remaining 15% to 30% of the invoice amounts to the business, and the business will pay interest and/or fees for the service. Since the lender collects payments from the customers, the customers will be aware of this arrangement, which might reflect poorly on the business.



As an alternative, a business could use invoice discounting, which is similar to invoice factoring except that the business, not the lender, collects payments from customers, so customers are not aware of the arrangement. With invoice discounting, the lender will advance the business up to 95% of the invoice amount. When clients pay their invoices, the business repays the lender, minus a fee or interest.
What Is IOTA?  

IOTA (MIOTA) is a distributed ledger designed to record and execute transactions between machines and devices in the Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem. The ledger uses a cryptocurrency called MIOTA to account for transactions in its network. IOTA’s key innovation is Tangle, a system of nodes used for confirming transactions. IOTA claims that Tangle is faster and more efficient than typical blockchains used in cryptocurrencies.



The IOTA Foundation, the nonprofit foundation responsible for the ledger, has inked agreements with prominent companies, such as Bosch and Volkswagen, to extend the platform's utility among connected devices.





Key Takeaways

IOTA is a distributed ledger developed to handle transactions between connected devices in the IoT ecosystem, and its cryptocurrency is known as MIOTA.It began life as a hardware project whose goal was to design low-cost general-purpose processors.It aims to solve key scalability and performance issues with Bitcoin by replacing its blockchain with Tangle, a system of nodes in which each new transaction confirms two previous transactions.IOTA has its own set of scaling problems, and some aspects of this cryptocurrency were vulnerable to hacks.Although IOTA's market capitalization was still down substantially from its 2017 highs, this cryptocurrency's fortunes showed signs of improving by late 2020.


   Understanding IOTA  

Billions of devices were connected to the Internet by 2020. Within this Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem, devices can exchange data and payment information with multiple other devices in transactions conducted throughout the day.



IOTA intends to become the standard mode of conducting transactions on devices. Its founders have described the ledger as a “public permission-less backbone for the Internet of Things that enables interoperability between multiple devices.” In simple terms, this means that it will enable transactions between connected devices, and anyone will be able to access it.



IOTA’s founders claim that it solves multiple problems plaguing cryptocurrencies that are developed on standard blockchains. These problems include the centralization of mining to a specific group, low network speeds, and scalability. For cryptocurrencies, scalability refers to the problem of increasing the number of transactions processed by a blockchain without affecting other metrics.



Those problems are primarily caused due to a backlog of transactions on Bitcoin’s blockchain. The backlog itself is due to a variety of reasons, from small block sizes to the difficulty of puzzles that miners must solve to earn the cryptocurrency as a reward. IOTA solves these problems by reconfiguring the blockchain architecture into Tangle, a new way of organizing data and confirming transactions.


   History of IOTA  

Sergey Ivancheglo, Serguei Popov, David Sønstebø, and Dominik Schiener, who joined later, together co-founded IOTA.



The project was announced in October 2015 through a post announcing a token sale in an online bitcoin forum. The roots of IOTA go back to the Jinn project. That project aimed to develop ternary hardware or low-cost and energy-efficient hardware, primarily general-purpose processors, for use in the IoT ecosystem. Jinn held a crowd sale for its tokens in September 2014. Approximately 100,000 tokens were sold during the crowd sale, amounting to collections of $250,000.



The Jinn tokens were soon in hot water because they were marketed as profit-sharing tokens, which might be seen as security tokens. Initial coin offerings (ICOs) were still gaining traction at that time, and there was no clarity about their regulatory status. In 2015, Jinn was rebranded as IOTA, and another token sale was held. The tokens were marketed as utility tokens this time around. Jinn token holders could exchange their tokens at equivalency in the new system. According to David Sønstebø, IOTA was "spawned" due to the Jinn project, "so it only makes sense first to introduce IOTA and then Jinn afterward," he said.



The genesis transaction for IOTA was an address with a balance that contained all MIOTA, its cryptocurrency, that will ever be mined. But reports state that a snapshot of the genesis transaction is yet to be found online. These tokens were dispersed to other "founder" addresses. The total number of MIOTAs planned to be in existence is 27 quadrillion. According to IOTA's founders, the total number of MIOTAs fits in "nicely" with the maximum allowable integer value in JavaScript, a programming language. Within three months of its debut on cryptocurrency markets, mIOTA reached a peak valuation of $14.5 billion during the 2016-2017 bull market. However, its value later crashed along with most other cryptocurrencies.


   Concerns About IOTA  

Criticism of IOTA has mainly centered around its technical flaws. As with most cryptocurrencies, IOTA’s system is nascent and unproven. A phishing attack on its network resulted in the theft of MIOTA worth $3.94 million. In response to the attack, the IOTA development team wrote a blog post outlining steps to generate a strong seed for using its cryptocurrency.



IOTA's developers are supposed to have "rolled" their crypto. In other words, they created their encryption method from scratch, forgoing the widely-used SHA-256 hash function used in Bitcoin. The team at MIT's Digital Currency Initiative found serious vulnerabilities with IOTA's hash function, which is called Curl. The function produced the same output when it was given two different inputs. This property is known as collision and denotes a broken hash function. In their analysis of the vulnerability, the MIT team stated that a bad actor could have destroyed or stolen user funds from Tangle with their technique. IOTA’s team has corrected the vulnerability.



There are potential issues with IOTA's claims to eliminate scalability problems for blockchains through the use of DAGs. Vitalik Buterin, the co-founder of Ethereum, has cast doubt on the ability of hashgraphs (the underlying data structures for DAG) to solve scalability issues. As he explains it, current versions of hashgraphs do not solve for a blockchain’s dependency on computer memory and processing power. The scalability of a system using hashgraphs still depends on the capacity and speed of individual computers within its network.



As of 2020, IOTA’s network used a central server known as a Coordinator to ensure transaction security. This practice has diluted its claims of being a decentralized system since the introduction of a Coordinator has resulted in the introduction of a single point of failure. It has also slowed down the network’s speed because parallel processing does not occur in a Coordinator-based system. However, the IOTA Foundation had a plan called "The Coordicide" to remove the Coordinator in the future.


   Future of IOTA  

Although IOTA's market capitalization was still down substantially from its 2017 highs, this cryptocurrency's fortunes showed signs of improving by late 2020. It started 2020 with a market capitalization of $446 million and was above $900 million as of Dec. 19, 2020. That's a gain of over 100%, but it was a rocky road. IOTA's continued partnership with large corporations and focus on the growing Internet of Things (IoT) also help to set it apart from other cryptocurrencies and generate investor interest. It seems to be working because as of Sept. 28, 2021, IOTA's market cap is around $3.2 billion.






Cryptocurrencies need to offer something different to succeed, and IOTA aims for IoT optimization.


   How Is IOTA Different From Bitcoin?  

IOTA’s solution to Bitcoin’s problems is to do away with several key concepts and topographical constraints of a blockchain. MIOTA, IOTA’s cryptocurrency, is premined and consensus of transactions occurs differently compared to a blockchain. IOTA developers have proposed a new data structure (a way to organize numeric representations within a computer's memory) known as Tangle.



Tangle is a Decentralized Acyclic Graph (DAG), a system of nodes that is not sequential. Thus, each node can be connected to multiple other nodes in a Tangle. But they are connected only in a particular direction, meaning that a node cannot refer back to itself. A standard blockchain is also a DAG because it is a sequential linked set. But IOTA's Tangle is a parallel system in which transactions can be processed simultaneously instead of sequentially. As more systems are attached to it, the Tangle becomes more secure and efficient at processing transactions.



In Bitcoin, a group of systems running full nodes that contain the entire history of transactions for a ledger are required for confirmations and consensus. This process is energy—and computation—intensive.



Full node miners are not required in Tangle. Each new transaction is confirmed by referencing two previous transactions, reducing the amount of time and memory needed to verify a transaction. An easily solvable and straightforward Proof of Work (PoW) puzzle is added to the transaction as a final step. The two transactions that are chosen are referred to as tips. IOTA's system uses a tip selection algorithm with "confidence" as a measure to approve the transaction. Suppose a transaction has been approved 97 times in the past. Then, there is 97% confidence that a node will approve it in the future.



Related to the concept of "confidence" is a transaction's weight. As it moves through Tangle, a transaction gathers weight. A transaction's weight increases with the number of approvals. Once a transaction is confirmed, it is broadcast to the entire network. Then, another unconfirmed transaction can choose the newly-confirmed transaction as one of the tips to confirm itself.



This method of confirming a transaction results in no fees and low power consumption, enabling MIOTA to be used across a wide variety of devices and machines with different power requirements.
What Is an IOU?  

An IOU, a phonetic acronym of the words "I owe you," is a document that acknowledges the existence of a debt.



An IOU is often viewed as an informal written agreement rather than a legally binding commitment. Dating as far back as the 18th century, at least, IOUs are still very much in use. An IOU between two people conducting business may be followed up with a more formal written agreement.





Key Takeaways

An IOU is a written acknowledgement of debt that one party owes another.In business transactions, an IOU may be followed by a more formal written contract.The informality of the IOU can make it difficult to enforce, and usually impossible to sell or trade.The term IOU is also used in bookkeeping to refer to accounts receivable.IOUs are less formal and legally binding than promissory notes.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How an IOU Works  

Typically, IOUs are produced on the spur of the moment—towards the end of a business meeting, for example—as a sort of memorandum of intent. They then are often followed up with a more formal written agreement or contract.



No standard format or terminology exists for an IOU. At the very least, details such as the date of the agreement, the amount of debt, the date for repayment, the parties involved, and the signature of the borrower are (or should be) included in its contents. But often, details like the interest due, payment type, repayment plan/schedule (including a specific final due date), or consequences for nonpayment, are not.



The IOU's informal nature means there may be uncertainty about whether it is a binding—that is, a legally enforceable—contract, and whether it carries much weight in a court proceeding. As a result, legal remedies for nonpayment may be harder to enforce with IOUs than they would be with more formal agreements that deal with debt, such as a promissory note or a bond indenture.



Due to this uncertainty, an IOU is generally not considered a negotiable instrument, meaning it can't be assigned, transferred, or sold to someone else, or traded on an open market.



However, there are downloadable legal templates available now for IOUs, providing an outline of the kind of details that a well-written one should include. That may make IOUs easier to enforce and to stand up in court.


   Example of an IOU  

Say Smithco Bricks places an order for raw materials and does not have enough cash to pay for the entire order when it is delivered. Instead, it pays a down payment and issues an IOU promising to pay for the rest of the raw materials within 30 days with or without interest. Assuming that Smithco has an ongoing business relationship with the supplier, this might be quite acceptable to both parties.






The term IOU has become so familiar that it crops up in other contexts. A bond issue is sometimes called an IOU, for example. Accounts receivable may informally be referred to as IOUs.


   Special Considerations  

A bookkeeper may record an outstanding debt as an IOU. The IOU is thus an accounts receivable item and is counted as an asset on the balance sheet. How exactly it is recorded depends on the time frame:



If the money is due in one year or less, the IOU is recorded as a current asset.If the payment is due more than a year down the road, it is recorded as a long-term asset.


   IOU vs. Promissory Note  

IOUs have a lot in common with promissory notes. Both are written financial agreements that deal with debt—specifically, the promise of one party to repay another a certain sum, on or by a certain date.



The key difference is that the promissory note is more formal and complete than the IOU. It not only gives a due date for the debt to be repaid, it usually outlines other details of repayment: the interest rate of the loan, payment schedule, size of repayments, and often penalties for late or non-payments. The term "promissory note" must appear in the contents. The note is signed by both parties (lender and borrower), and often witnessed and notarized as well.



In short, promissory notes are more specific and serious than IOUs. Though still not as formal (and enforceable) as a loan agreement or contract, they tend to stand up better in court. In fact, promissory notes often accompany mortgage agreements or student loan agreements it's signing this note that actually obligates the borrower to repay.



If the terms are unconditional enough, promissory notes may be used as negotiable instruments.






Issuers of promissory notes should know: When it comes to filing a lawsuit for nonpayment, a promissory note is subject to the statute of limitations set by the local state on such agreements. Statutes of limitations can range from three to 15 years; the clock starts ticking from the date of the first breach. However, some courts have ruled that, within a note, each missed payment has its own statute of limitations starting on the date the specific payment became past due. 


   IOU FAQs  
  What Is an IOU in Finance?  

An IOU is a written, but largely informal, acknowledgement that a debt exists between two parties, and the amount the borrower owes the lender. Signed by the borrower, it often indicates a date for repayment of the debt, but often omits other specifics, like the payment schedule or any interest charged. It can't be sold or transferred to another party and offers the lender little legal recourse if it is not honored by the borrower.


  What Is an Example of an IOU?  

Amanda T.'s close friend Karen P. needs $1,500 in cash for a security deposit on a new apartment. She needs to put the money down right away, but won't have that sum available for another few months. Amanda wants to help Karen out, but also wants to have written evidence of the loan she's made to her friend.



Amanda types up a document that stipulates Karen owes her, Amanda T., $1,500, and that Karen will repay that sum on April 1, 2021—three months from the current date. Karen signs the document. In so doing, Karen officially gives Amanda an IOU for the $1,500 she has borrowed.


  How Do I Write an IOU?  

IOUs can take many shapes and forms. They can be typed or handwritten, drawn up by either party, and appear on any sort of document—including the proverbial cocktail napkin.



At a bare minimum, an IOU should include the borrower's name, the lender's name, the amount of the debt, the current date, the date the debt is due, and the borrower's signature. In addition, it's recommended that IOUs contain:



How the debt is to be repaid (lump sum or installments)A repayment schedule (size and frequency of payments, if in installments)Whether interest is charged, and if so, at what rateA guarantor for the debt, if anyThe state whose laws govern the agreementSignature of the lender



Increasingly, there are IOU forms and templates that can be accessed online.


  Is an IOU a Legal Document?  

An IOU is a legal document that can be introduced in a court of law—though whether or not it is binding is open to dispute. Some authorities feel an IOU isn't binding at all; it's merely the acknowledgement that a debt exists. Others feel it is binding, though whether it can actually be enforced is a different story.



Basically, the more detailed the IOU, the more likely it is to be enforceable. The fewer specifics an IOU has, the harder it is for a court to determine the obligations and rights of the principals involved in the IOU—or perhaps even who they are.


  Does an IOU Need to Be Notarized?  

An IOU doesn't have to be notarized. However, some legal authorities feel having a notary affix their seal to an IOU makes it more official, and thus more likely to be enforceable. Certainly, it formalizes the agreement, indicating a third party witnessed it—making it more likely that the lender would prevail in court, should a dispute over nonpayment occur. Notarizing an IOU makes it closer to a promissory note, a more official (and binding) document.


   The Bottom Line  

An IOU is a written but relatively informal contract between two parties recording a debt and an agreement to repay it. It outlines the basics of the arrangement, but often little else, such as the terms or repayment schedule of the loan. For that reason, it is not as binding or enforceable as more official contracts that have specifications and are witnessed and/or notarized.



IOUs are often for small sums and between individuals. However, they can be used by businesses as well, often between two firms that have regular, ongoing relationships, like vendors and suppliers. In effect, the company issuing an IOU is taking out a short-term loan or buying on credit, promising to pay in full for goods or services later on, instead of right away.



A firm's accountants may enter any sort of outstanding debt as an IOU. In fact, some bookkeeping systems record any accounts receivables as IOUs.
What Is an IRA Rollover?  

An IRA rollover is a transfer of funds from a retirement account, such as an employer-sponsored plan, into an individual retirement account (IRA). The purpose of a rollover is to maintain the tax-deferred status of those assets.



IRA rollovers are commonly used to hold 401(k), 403(b), or profit-sharing plan assets that are transferred from a former employer’s sponsored retirement account or qualified plan. An IRA rollover can also occur as an IRA-to-IRA transfer.





Key Takeaways

An IRA rollover allows you to transfer funds from a retirement account into an individual retirement account (IRA), while preserving the tax-deferred status of those assets.There are two main types of IRA rollovers—direct and indirect⁠—and it’s crucial to follow Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules to avoid paying taxes and penalties.A direct rollover is the safest way to move assets from one retirement account to another as the funds are transferred without you handling the funds.If you choose to handle the funds yourself in an indirect rollover, they must be transferred to the new IRA within 60 days. If not, you’ll be subject to taxes and penalties.


   Understanding IRA Rollovers  

IRA rollovers can occur from a retirement account, such as a 401(k) into an IRA, or as an IRA-to-IRA transfer. Most rollovers take place when people change jobs and wish to move 401(k) or 403(b) assets into an IRA, but IRA rollovers also happen when retirement savers want to switch to an IRA with better benefits or investment choices.



The are different types of IRA rollovers: direct and indirect. It’s crucial to follow Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules to avoid paying taxes and penalties.


   Direct IRA Rollover  

In a direct rollover, the transfer of assets from a retirement plan to an IRA is facilitated by the two financial institutions involved in the transfer. To engineer a direct rollover, you need to ask your plan administrator to send the funds directly to the IRA. In IRA-to-IRA transfers, the custodian from the old account sends the rollover amount to the custodian of the new IRA.


   Indirect IRA Rollover  

In an indirect rollover, the assets from your existing account or plan are liquidated and the custodian or plan sponsor mails a check made out to you or deposits the funds directly into your personal bank or brokerage account. This route leaves it up to you to redeposit the funds into the new IRA.



To be considered a tax-free rollover, the money must be deposited in the IRA within 60 days. If you miss the 60-day deadline, then the withdrawal will be considered a distribution in the eyes of the IRS, and some of it may be subject to income tax as well as an early withdrawal penalty. In general, withdrawals before age 59½ from a traditional IRA trigger a 10% penalty. If you withdraw Roth IRA earnings before age 59½, a 10% penalty usually applies. Roth contributions are not subject to the penalty. The same rules apply if you are doing an IRA-to-IRA rollover.



The IRS requires your previous employer to withhold 20% of your funds if you receive a check made out to you, which cannot be recovered until you file your annual tax return. But if the check is made out to the IRA, then you will not subject to withholding. Custodians will withhold 10% from IRA distributions that you intend to roll over unless you elect out of withholding.






Some people choose an indirect rollover if they want to take a short-term loan from their retirement account—in this case, less than 60 days.


   Special Considerations  
  IRA Rollover Limits  

The IRS limits IRA-to-IRA indirect rollovers to one every 12 months. The one-year calendar runs from when you made the distribution and applies to traditional IRA-to-traditional IRA rollovers or Roth IRA-to-Roth IRA rollovers.



The limit on IRA-to-IRA indirect rollovers does not apply to distributions from employer-sponsored retirement plans or rollovers from traditional IRAs to Roth IRAs. The latter is known as a Roth conversion. Direct IRA-to-IRA rollovers are also not subject to the one-year rule.


  Tax Traps  

Pay strict attention to which type of IRA or other retirement account you are transferring from—and which type you are transferring to. You can easily roll over funds from a Roth IRA or a Roth 401(k) to a new Roth IRA. The same is true if you’re rolling over monies from a traditional IRA or a standard 401(k) to a traditional IRA. Anything else has significant tax consequences that you need to work through carefully before you do the rollover. Traditional IRAs and 401(k)s contain pretax funds, while contributions to Roth IRAs and 401(k)s are made with after-tax monies.






Unlike 401(k) plans, IRAs allow you to invest in a wide array of assets such as stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and mutual funds.




What is a direct rollover?
A direct rollover is when a distribution from a retirement account is not paid directly to you. Instead, the financial institution or plan sponsor holding your existing retirement funds makes the transfer directly to your new individual retirement account (IRA). A direct transfer is the easiest way to avoid taxes and early withdrawal penalties.




What is an indirect rollover?
An indirect rollover is a transfer of money from a tax-deferred plan or account to another tax-deferred retirement account, such as an IRA, in which the funds are paid to you directly.You must redeposit the full distribution amount into another qualified retirement account within 60 days to avoid taxes and penalties.




Can I take a loan from my IRA?
While IRAs don’t allow for loans like many 401(k) plans do, you can borrow from your IRA without taxes and penalties by applying the 60-day rollover rule. It allows you to withdraw assets from your IRA if you repay the full amount within 60 days, which essentially amounts to an interest-free, short-term loan.
What Is the Iranian Rial (IRR)?  

IRR is the currency abbreviation, or FX symbol, for the Iranian rial, Iran's official currency. The rial, named after the Spanish real, first appeared in 1798 and is issued and managed by the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran.





Key Takeaways

The Iranian rial (IRR) is the national currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran.While the rial is not officially pegged to another currency, its value has remained stable at around 42,000 IRR per U.S. dollar for the past several years.Iran's economy is largely based on petroleum refining and exports, but economic sanctions due to its nuclear program have stifled its position as a player in global finance and trade.IRR is sometimes considered to be a blocked or inconvertible currency since it is not freely traded on the global foreign exchange market.There has been discussion and legislation in Iran to replace the rial with the toman, though this has not happened as yet.


   Understanding the Iranian Rial (IRR)  

One Iranian rial is made up of 100 dinars, but dinars are of no practical use because they are worth so little. Locally, the IRR uses the Arabic symbol ﷼. As of December 2021, one U.S. dollar is worth roughly 42,250 IRR.



While the rial was introduced in 1798, a currency called the toman was used from 1825 to 1930. The rial was reintroduced in 1932. Its value plummeted following the 1979 Islamic revolution.



Today, Iran is an oil-exporting country and an influential member of OPEC, with nearly half of the government's budget funded from the sale of oil. Banknotes of its currency are issued in denominations of 100, 200, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, 50,000, and 100,000 rials, while coins circulate in denominations of 50, 100, 250, 500, 1,000, 2,000, and 5,000 rials.






A stable exchange rate typically helps a country prevent capital flight or investment capital from fleeing the country in search of more stable returns.



The IRR is not pegged to the U.S. dollar or any currency, meaning it's a free-floating exchange rate; however, Iran's central bank implements currency controls to keep the exchange rate stable. Iran may be preparing regulations for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, according to reports.


   The Iranian Rial (IRR) Convertibility  

Since the early 2000s, the IRR exchange rate has fluctuated between 1,700 IRR to one U.S. dollar (USD) to as high as 43,000 IRR to one U.S. dollar.



The rial, however, is not easily exchanged for U.S. dollars. Relations between the two nations are frosty, with the U.S. applying decades-long economic sanctions and trade restrictions against the Islamic Republic of Iran, mainly as a way to punish the country for its nuclear ambitions and history of state sponsorship of terror groups.



Price controls, subsidies, and other rigid government policies also weigh down the economy, and corruption is widespread. This often makes the IRR a non-convertible (inconvertible) currency, which is any nation's legal tender that is not freely traded on the global foreign exchange market.





$1.08 Billion

The GDP of Iran in 2021, which is expected to grow to $1.14 billion in 2022.



For offshore investors seeking to engage in trade with nations such as Iran that have non-convertible currencies, they must do so through the use of a financial instrument known as a non-deliverable forward (NDF).



An NDF has no physical exchange in the local currency. Rather the net of the cash flows is settled in a convertible currency, usually the U.S. dollar, which gets around the non-convertibility of the domestic currency. NDFs are cash-settled and usually structured as short-term forward currency contracts.


   The Iranian Rial vs. Toman  

Although the Iranian rial is the official currency of Iran, citizens of the country also use the Iranian toman. One toman is equal to 10 rials. In 2020, there was a discussion of replacing the rial with the toman as the official currency of Iran due to inflation, causing the rial to lose value against the dollar. One toman would be worth 10,000 rials; in effect, Iran would be cutting zeros off of its currency.



The country's parliament actually passed measures to replace the rial with the toman; however, as of the end of 2021, the rial still remains the country's official currency.




Which Countries Use the Iranian Rial?
The only country to use the Iranian rial is Iran.




How Do You Calculate the Iranian Rial Exchange Rate?
The best way to calculate the Iranian rial exchange rate is to use a currency converter, such as the one found on XE.com. Depending on the currency exchange rate you are interested in finding, you can choose that currency in conjunction with the rial and get the exchange rate.




Why Is Iran’s Rial So Weak?
The Iranian rial is weak primarily because of the political instability of Iran. The country operates an authoritarian regime that is unpopular amongst many of its citizens. It also has been accused of supporting terrorism, which has resulted in strict economic sanctions on the country, which has decimated its economy. Furthermore, the country depends heavily on oil. With sanctions, the country has difficulty selling its oil globally. Furthermore, when the price of oil drops, Iran's economy is hit hard.




What Is the Rial to Toman Exchange Rate?
One toman is equal to 10,000 Iranian rials.
What is an Iron Butterfly?  

An iron butterfly is an options trade that uses four different contracts as part of a strategy to benefit from stocks or futures prices that move within a defined range. The trade is also constructed to benefit from a decline in implied volatility. The key to using this trade as part of a successful trading strategy is forecast a time when option prices are likely to decline in value generally. This usually occurs during periods of sideways movement or a mild upward trend. The trade is also known by the nickname "Iron Fly."





Key Takeaways

Iron Butterfly trades are used as a way to profit from price movement in a narrow range during a period of declining implied volatility.The construction of the trade is similar to that of a short-straddle trade with a long call and long put option purchased for protection.Traders need to be mindful of commissions to be sure they can use this technique effectively in their own account.Traders need to be aware that his trade could lead to a trader acquiring the stock after expiration.


   How an Iron Butterfly Works  

The Iron Butterfly trade is created with four options consisting of two call options and two put options. These calls and puts are spread out over three strike prices, all with the same expiration date. The goal is to profit from conditions where the price remains fairly stable and the options demonstrate declining implied and historical volatility.



It can also be thought of as a combined option trade using both a short straddle and a long strangle, with the straddle positioned on the middle of the three strike prices and the strangle positioned on two additional strikes above and below the middle strike price.



The trade earns the maximum profit when the underlying asset closes exactly on the middle strike price on the close of expiration. A trader will construct an Iron Butterfly trade with the following steps.



The trader first identifies a price at which they forecast the underlying asset will rest on a given day in the future. This is the target price.The trader will use options which expire at or near that day they forecast the target price.The trader buys one call option with a strike price well above the target price. This call option is expected to be out-of-the-money at the time of expiration. It will protect against a significant upward move in the underlying asset and cap any potential loss at a defined amount should the trade not go as forecast. The trader sells both a call and a put option using the strike price nearest the target price. This strike price will be lower than the call option purchased in the previous step and higher than the put option in the next step.The trader buys one put option with a strike price well below the target price. This put option is expected to be out-of-the-money at the time of expiration. It will protect against a significant downward move in the underlying asset and cap any potential loss at a defined amount should the trade not go as forecast. 



The strike prices for the option contracts sold in steps two and three should be far enough apart to account for a range of movement in the underlying. This will allow the trader to be able to forecast a range of successful price movement as opposed to a narrow range near the target price.



For example, if the trader thinks that, over the next two weeks, the underlying could land at the price of $50, and be within a range of five dollars higher or five dollars lower from that target price, then that trader should sell a call and a put option with a strike price of $50, and should purchase a call option at least five dollars higher, and a put option at least five dollars lower, than the $50 target price. In theory, this creates a higher probability that the price action can land and remain in a profitable range on or near the day that the options expire.


   Deconstructing the Iron Butterfly  

The strategy has limited upside profit potential by design. It is a credit-spread strategy, meaning that the trader sells option premiums and takes in a credit for the value of the options at the beginning of the trade. The trader hopes that the value of the options will diminish and culminate in a significantly lesser value, or no value at all. The trader thus hopes to keep as much of the credit as possible.



The strategy has defined risk because the high and low strike options (the wings), protect against significant moves in either direction. It should be noted that commission costs are always a factor with this strategy since four options are involved. Traders will want to make certain that the maximum potential profit is not significantly eroded by the commissions charged by their broker.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The Iron butterfly trade profits as expiration day approaches if the price lands within a range near the center strike price. The center strike is the price where the trader sells both a call option and a put option (a short strangle). The trade diminishes in value as the price drifts away from the center strike, either higher or lower, and reaches a point of maximum loss as the price moves either below the lower strike price or above the higher strike price.


   Iron Butterfly Trade Example  

The following chart depicts a trade setup that implements an Iron Butterfly on IBM.















Iron Butterfly Trade Example (IBM).



In this example the trader anticipates that the price of IBM shares will rise slightly over the next two weeks. The company released its earnings report two weeks previous and the reports were good. The trader believes that the implied volatility of the options will generally diminish in the coming two weeks, and that the share price will drift higher. Therefore the trader implements this trade by taking in an initial net credit of $550 ($5.50 per share). The trader will make a profit so long as the price of IBM shares moves in between 154.50 and 165.50.



If the price stays in that range on the day of expiration, or shortly before it, the trader can close the trade early for a profit. The trader does this by selling the call and put options that were previously purchased, and buying back the call and put options that were sold at the initiation of the trade. Most brokers allow this to be done with a single order.



An additional trading opportunity available to the trader occurs if the price stays below 160 on the day of expiration. At that time the trader can let the trade expire and have the shares of IBM (100 per put contract sold) put to them for the price of $160 per share.



For example, suppose the price of IBM closes at $158 per share on that day, and assuming the trader lets the options expire, the trader would then be obligated to buy the shares for $160. The other option contracts all expire worthless and the trader has no need to take any action. This may seem like the trader has simply made a purchase of stock at two dollars higher than necessary, but remember, the trader took in an initial credit of $5.50 per share. That means the net transaction can be seen differently. The trader was able to purchase shares of IBM and collect $2.50 profit per at the same time ($5.50 less $2.00).



Most of the effects of the Iron Butterfly trade can be accomplished in trades that require fewer options legs and therefore generate fewer commissions. These include selling a naked put or buying a put-calendar spread, however the Iron Butterfly provides inexpensive protection from sharp downward moves that the naked put does not have. The trade also benefits from declining implied volatility, which the put calendar spread cannot do.
What Is the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Rule?  

The internal rate of return (IRR) rule states that a project or investment should be pursued if its IRR is greater than the minimum required rate of return or the hurdle rate. Its root lies in the internal rate of return, which is the return required to break even or net present value (NPV). This rule is an important tool for companies and investors if they want to determine whether to take on a certain project or investment or to compare it to others they may be considering.





Key Takeaways

The internal rate of return rule states that a project or investment should be pursued if its IRR is greater than the minimum required rate of return or the hurdle rate.The IRR Rule helps companies decide whether or not to proceed with a project.A company may not rigidly follow the IRR rule if the project has other, less tangible, benefits.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Rule  

The IRR rule is essentially a guideline for deciding whether to proceed with a project or investment. Mathematically, IRR is the rate that would result in the net present value of future cash flows equaling exactly zero.



The higher the projected IRR on a project—and the greater the amount it exceeds the cost of capital—the more net cash the project generates for the company. So if the project looks profitable, management should proceed with it. On the other hand, if the IRR is lower than the cost of capital, the rule declares that the best course of action is to forego the project or investment.



Investors and firms use the IRR rule to evaluate projects in capital budgeting. But it may not always be rigidly enforced. Generally, the higher the IRR, the better. However, a company may prefer a project with a lower IRR because it has other intangible benefits, such as contributing to a bigger strategic plan or impeding competition.



A company may also prefer a larger project with a lower IRR to a much smaller project with a higher rate because of the higher cash flows generated by the larger project.






While companies typically follow the conclusions offered by the internal rate of return rule, other considerations, such as the size of the project and whether or not the project contributes to a larger strategy or goal of the company, may lead to management deciding to proceed with a project with a low IRR.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the IRR Rule  
  Advantages  

Anyone who uses the internal rate of return rule often finds it easy to determine and understand. Companies and investors can easily calculate it and compare it to other projects and investments that are under consideration.



Another advantage of using this rule is that it helps allows companies and investors to take the time value of money (TVM) into account. This is a concept that states that an amount of money will be worth more now than the same sum in the future. As, such, the future cash flow that results from an investment is discounted to its present value under the IRR rule.


  Disadvantages  

The IRR rule doesn't take the actual dollar value of the project or any anomalies in cash flows into account. If there are any irregular or uncommon forms of cash flow, the rule shouldn't be applied. If it is, it may result in flawed findings.



Another key disadvantage of the IRR rule is that it is flawed in its assumption of any reinvestments made from positive cash flow—notably, that they are made at the same internal rate of return.





Pros

Easy to calculate and understand
Allows for comparison between other projects and investments
Takes time value of money into account



Cons

Doesn't account for actual dollar value
Doesn't consider anomalies in cash flows
Assumes that reinvestments are made at the same internal rate of return





   Example of the IRR Rule  

Let's assume that a company is reviewing two projects in which to invest its money. Management must decide whether to move forward with one, both, or neither of the projects. Its cost of capital is 10%, The cash flow patterns for each project are highlighted in the following table:










 
Project A 
Project B 


Initial Outlay 
$5,000
$2,000 


Year One 
$1,700 
$400 


Year Two
$1,900
$700


Year Three
$1,600
$500


Year Four
$1,500
$400


Year Five
$700
$300






The company must calculate the IRR for each project. The initial outlay (period = 0) will be negative. Solving for IRR is an iterative process using the following equation:



$0 = Σ CFt ÷ (1 + IRR)t



Where:



CF = Net Cash flowIRR = internal rate of returnt = period (from 0 to last period)



-or-



$0 = (initial outlay * -1) + CF1 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + CF2 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + ... + CFX ÷ (1 + IRR)X



Using the above examples, the company can calculate IRR for each project as:



IRR Project A: $0 = (-$5,000) + $1,700 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + $1,900 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + $1,600 ÷ (1 + IRR)3 + $1,500 ÷ (1 + IRR)4 + $700 ÷ (1 + IRR)5IRR Project B: $0 = (-$2,000) + $400 ÷ (1 + IRR)1 + $700 ÷ (1 + IRR)2 + $500 ÷ (1 + IRR)3 + $400 ÷ (1 + IRR)4 + $300 ÷ (1 + IRR)5



We can determine that the IRR for Project A is 16.61% and the IRR for Project B is 5.23%.



Given that the company's cost of capital is 10%, management should proceed with Project A and reject Project B.




Is Using the IRR Rule the Same As Using the Discounted Cash Flow Method?
Yes, using IRR to obtain net present value is known as the discounted cash flow method of financial analysis. The internal rate of return is the interest rate (also known as the discount rate) that will bring a series of cash flows (positive and negative) to a net present value of zero or to the current value of cash invested. Investors and firms use IRR to evaluate whether an investment in a project can be justified.




How Is the IRR Rule Used?
The IRR rule is used as a guideline for deciding whether to proceed with a project or investment. The higher the projected IRR on a project, the higher the net cash flows to the company as long as the IRR exceeds the cost of capital. In this case, a company would be well off to proceed with the project or investment. But if the IRR is lower than the cost of capital, the rule declares that the best course of action is to forego the project or investment.




Do Firms Always Follow the IRR Rule?
The IRR rule may not always be rigidly enforced. Generally, the higher the IRR, the better. But a company may prefer a project with a lower IRR as long as it still exceeds the cost of capital. That's because it has other intangible benefits, such as contributing to a bigger strategic plan or impeding competition. Companies ultimately consider a number of factors when deciding whether to proceed with a project. There may be factors that outweigh the IRR rule.


   The Bottom Line  

It's important to weigh all of your options and determine if a project or investment is worth the risk or reward. This applies whether you're an individual investor or if you run a company. One way to ascertain this is to follow the internal rate of return rule. This rule states that you should only take on a new venture if its IRR exceeds the breakeven point. If it's lower, you may want to reconsider whether it's worth the investment.
What Is Irrational Exuberance?  

Irrational exuberance refers to investor enthusiasm that drives asset prices higher than those assets' fundamentals justify. The term was popularized by former Fed chair Alan Greenspan in a 1996 speech, "The Challenge of Central Banking in a Democratic Society." The speech was given near the beginning of the 1990s dot-com bubble, a textbook example of irrational exuberance:



"But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to unexpected and prolonged contractions as they have in Japan over the past decade? And how do we factor that assessment into monetary policy?"





Key Takeaways

Irrational exuberance is unfounded market optimism that lacks a real foundation of fundamental valuation, but instead rests on psychological factors.The term was popularized by former Fed chair Alan Greenspan in a 1996 speech addressing the burgeoning internet bubble in the stock market.Irrational exuberance has become synonymous with the creation of inflated asset prices associated with bubbles, which ultimately pop and can lead to market panic.


   Breaking Down Irrational Exuberance  

Irrational exuberance is widespread and undue economic optimism. When investors start believing that the rise in prices in the recent past predicts the future, they are acting as if there is no uncertainty in the market, causing a positive feedback loop of ever-higher prices.



It is believed to be a problem because it can give rise to bubbles in asset prices. But, when the ultimately bubble bursts, investors quickly turn to panic selling, sometimes selling their assets for less than they're worth based on fundamentals. The panic that follows a bubble can spread to other asset classes, and can even cause a recession. The investors who get hit the hardest — the ones who are still all-in just before the correction — are the overconfident ones who are sure that the bull run will last forever. Trusting that a bull won't turn on you is a sure way to get yourself gored. 



Alan Greenspan raised the question of whether central banks should address irrational exuberance via a preemptive tight monetary policy. He believed that central should raise interest rates when it appears that a speculative bubble is beginning to take shape.


   Example: The Late 1990's Dotcom Bubble  

Fed Chair Alan Greenspan warned the markets about their irrational exuberance on December 5, 1996. But he did not tighten monetary policy until the spring of 2000, after banks and brokerages had used the excess liquidity the Fed created in advance of the Y2K bug to fund internet stocks. Having poured gasoline on the fire, Greenspan had no choice but to burst the bubble.



The stock market crash that followed erased more than four years of gains in the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index and wiped out many billions of dollars in market capitalization.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Irrational Exuberance, The Book  

Irrational Exuberance is also the name of a 2000 book authored by economist Robert Shiller. The book analyzes the broader stock market boom that lasted from 1982 through the dotcom years. Shiller's book presents 12 factors that created this boom and suggests policy changes for better managing irrational exuberance. The book's second edition, published in 2005, warns of the housing bubble burst which ended up occurring three years later in 2008, and led to the Great Recession.
What Is an Irrevocable Beneficiary?  

An irrevocable beneficiary is a person or entity designated to receive the assets in a life insurance policy or a segregated fund contract. What is irrevocable is the beneficiary status. You can’t choose on your own to change the beneficiary or the terms of the policy, and you can’t cancel the policy without the beneficiary’s consent. The beneficiary must agree to any and all changes in the rights to compensation from these entities.





Key Takeaways

An irrevocable beneficiary is a person or entity designated to receive the assets in a life insurance policy or a segregated fund contract.An irrevocable beneficiary is a more ironclad version of a beneficiary. Their entitlements are guaranteed, and they often must approve any changes in the policy.Irrevocable beneficiaries cannot be removed once designated unless they agree to it—even if they are divorced spouses.Children are often named irrevocable beneficiaries to ensure their inheritance or secure child support payments.Naming an irrevocable beneficiary can also have estate-planning benefits, especially if the insurance policy is put in an irrevocable trust.


   Understanding an Irrevocable Beneficiary  

An irrevocable beneficiary has certain guaranteed rights to assets held in the policy or fund. It’s a more ironclad status than that of a revocable beneficiary, whose right to assets can be denied or amended under certain circumstances. 



With a life insurance policy, the policyholder may designate either an irrevocable or revocable beneficiary to receive a payout in the event of the insured’s death. If someone is listed as an irrevocable beneficiary, then denial of income from the policy after the death of the insured is not possible, nor are any changes made to policy payout terms—unless the beneficiary agrees to them.



For example, a spouse who is an irrevocable beneficiary has the right to a policy payout even after a divorce. The ex-spouse must agree to changes in the policy before or after the death of the insured. Even the insured cannot change the status of an irrevocable beneficiary once they are named. Irrevocable beneficiaries also have to be notified if either the policy lapses or an attempt is made to cancel it.



In some states, an irrevocable beneficiary has the right to veto any changes to an insurance policy, including cancellation. In other states, they may only challenge items that directly affect them, such as a payout.


   Advantages of an Irrevocable Beneficiary  

The main advantage to naming an irrevocable beneficiary is that it ensures that money goes where you want it to go. Difficult to change during your life and virtually impossible to alter after your death, it’s for the bequests that you’re 100% sure of and don’t want to have to worry about keeping up to date.



Children are often named irrevocable beneficiaries. If a parent wanted to guarantee money to a child, then the parent could designate that child as an irrevocable beneficiary, thus ensuring the child will receive death benefits from the life insurance policy or segregated fund contract. A parent might also make their spouse an irrevocable beneficiary to ensure that they have the means to support their offspring properly and not be dependent on someone else.



As a way to safeguard an inheritance, making a beneficiary irrevocable can be especially important in this era of multiple marriages and blended families. A stepparent can’t cut off a child from a previous marriage or alter or challenge a policy after the death of the insured. In case of a messy divorce, naming a child rather than a spouse as the policy’s irrevocable beneficiary could be preferable.






A beneficiary designation means that the funds in question don’t have to go through probate, so the recipient gets them faster.


   Irrevocable Trusts  

Beneficiaries can protect assets in other ways. A beneficiary designation overrides any sort of bequest made in a will, and it doesn’t have to go through probate. The recipient will get funds faster this way.



Irrevocable beneficiaries can also play a role in estate planning. If you name a beneficiary on a life insurance policy and then put that policy in an irrevocable life insurance trust (ILIT), the proceeds are then considered removed from your estate—thus avoiding potential estate and gift taxes after your death. An appointed trustee can supervise the trust and distribute the assets, which can be helpful in the case of irresponsible beneficiaries or when the beneficiary is a minor.



Although irrevocable beneficiaries are pretty well-shielded to begin with, irrevocable trusts offer an additional layer of protection against legal challenges. A beneficiary can’t be sued by a creditor for these funds because the money is owned by the trust, not the individual, while the beneficiary doesn’t own the money until the payout.


   Disadvantages of an Irrevocable Beneficiary  

The primary disadvantage of having an irrevocable beneficiary is inflexibility. You can’t make any changes without the beneficiary’s consent. Life has a way of surprising us, so you need to be very sure that circumstances won’t make you regret your choice.



As to irrevocable trusts, an additional disadvantage is that you lose control of the assets in the trust, ceding that control to a trustee. If you suddenly need to access the funds due to an emergency, you don’t have it.


   Irrevocable Beneficiaries and Divorces  

A policyholder can be ordered by a court to designate their ex-spouse as a designated beneficiary. Most often, this is seen in cases where there are dependent children, child support, or alimony involved.



In such a case, the ex-spouse can work with a divorce lawyer to persuade a court to make the policyholder designate the ex-spouse as an irrevocable beneficiary to secure child support. However, the court can also have the policy amended if it’s deemed that the payout is excessive in regard to what is needed to support the child or at a time when the children are no longer seen as dependents. 



It’s important to note, however, that state law ultimately decides the rights of beneficiaries to an insurance policy, whether they are revocable or irrevocable beneficiaries. Policyholders should be clear with any beneficiary as to what the terms and conditions of a life insurance policy will be.




How Often Should I Review My Beneficiaries?
Some financial planners, including insurance companies themselves, recommend that you review your beneficiaries annually. That might be unnecessary, especially if you have named irrevocable beneficiaries. However, whenever a major life change occurs—marriage, divorce, the birth of a child, or death—you definitely should look over your beneficiaries.




Is an Irrevocable Beneficiary a Primary Beneficiary?
Irrevocable beneficiaries will always be primary beneficiaries. They take priority over revocable beneficiaries, forcing those others into secondary or tertiary status. It would be extremely rare for an irrevocable beneficiary to take second place.




How Can I Remove an Irrevocable Beneficiary?
You can’t without difficulty. The point of irrevocable beneficiary status is its permanency. Generally speaking, an irrevocable beneficiary can only be removed if the beneficiary agrees to be displaced, voluntarily surrendering their status.
What Is an Irrevocable Letter of Credit (ILOC)?  

An irrevocable letter of credit (ILOC) is an official correspondence from a bank that guarantees payment for goods or services being purchased by the individual or entity, referred to as the applicant, that requests the letter of credit from an issuing bank.



An irrevocable letter of credit cannot be canceled, nor in any way modified, except with the explicit agreement of all parties involved: the buyer, the seller, and the issuing bank. For example, the issuing bank does not have the authority by itself to change any of the terms of an ILOC once it is issued.





Key Takeaways

An irrevocable letter of credit (ILOC) is a guarantee for payment issued by a bank for goods and services purchased, which cannot be cancelled during some specified time period.ILOCs are most commonly used to facilitate international trade.A confirmed ILOC offers additional risk protection for the seller by providing a guarantee of payment from both the buyer's bank and the seller's bank.A buyer benefits from an ILOC as it enhances the creditworthiness of their position by leveraging the creditworthiness of the institution. An ILOC may outline very specific information ranging from insurance requirements, incoterms, government regulation, or documentation requirements.


   Understanding Irrevocable Letters of Credit  

A letter of credit is issued by a commercial bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time and for the correct amount. In the event that the buyer is unable to make a payment on the purchase, the bank will be required to cover the full or remaining amount of the purchase.



Due to the nature of international dealings, including factors such as distance, differing laws in each country, and difficulty in knowing each party personally, the use of letters of credit has become a very important aspect of international trade.



Although an ILOC is irrevocable while it is in force, generally the time period during which a proposed transaction is expected to be completed, an ILOC expires at a specified point in time, which is noted in the letter of credit.


   ILOC Specifications  

Irrevocable letters of credit are official bank correspondence transferred and authenticated through the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT) banking system. This is a global setup for facilitating financial transactions between banks or other financial institutions, and an ILOC is transmitted as MT700—message type 700.



An ILOC provides greater security of payment to the beneficiary of the letter, who is commonly the seller in a transaction. ILOCs are frequently sought for large construction projects because they are not subject to claims of preference in the event of a bankruptcy.



ILOCs are most commonly used to facilitate international trade because of the additional credit risk involved when two parties unfamiliar with each other are transacting business across national borders. An ILOC assures the seller of receiving payment because it is a guarantee by the issuing bank, the buyer's bank, that it will make payment in the event the buyer fails to do so. By providing the seller with an assurance of payment, an ILOC also assists the buyer in arranging a transaction that the seller might otherwise be reluctant to make.


   How an ILOC Works  

An ILOC is a means of facilitating a transaction between a buyer and seller with the assistance of their respective banks. The buyer requests an ILOC from his bank, which is then sent to the seller's bank. In addition to providing credit risk protection, an ILOC typically also specifies important details of the transaction, such as price, payment terms, and time and place for delivery of goods.



In the event the buyer fails to make payment as agreed, the buyer's bank makes payment to the seller's bank, which in turn renders payment to the seller, the beneficiary of the ILOC.



ILOCs can also be either confirmed or unconfirmed. A confirmed ILOC offers additional risk protection for the seller by providing a guarantee of payment from both the buyer's bank and the seller's bank. With an unconfirmed ILOC, the seller's bank has no liability for payment and essentially serves only as a go-between to transfer payment to the seller from the buyer's bank.






An ILOC can be reversible and amended, but every party involved must agree to the change.


   Contents of an ILOC  

Each irrevocable letter of credit may address a unique creditor or situation. Generally speaking, all irrevocable letters of credit will contain roughly the same information. This information includes but is not limited to:



Information on the Issuing Bank: The ILOC should clearly identify the name, address, and phone number of the financial institution that issuing bank of the letter.
Information on the Buyer or Applicant: The ILOC should include the buyer's or applicant's name, address, and contact information in order to identify them. The applicant is the party asking for the ILOC to be issued.
Information on the Beneficiary: The ILOC should identify the seller or beneficiary and include their name, address, and phone number. The beneficiary is the person or entity who will receive money after the ILOC's terms and conditions are met.
Dollar Amount: The particular dollar amount that the issuing bank is guaranteeing should be stated in the ILOC. This number is the maximum cash that the beneficiary may receive from the bank upon fulfillment of the ILOC requirements.
Expiration Date: The ILOC should provide the date by which the beneficiary must submit the necessary paperwork in order to receive payment.
Other Terms and Conditions: The ILOC will specify the requirements that the beneficiary must satisfy in order to be paid. These criteria could specify that goods be shipped, inspected, documented, and in accordance with all applicable rules and laws.
Required Documentation: The ILOC will detail the precise documentation that the beneficiary must provide to the issuing bank in order to receive payment. Commercial invoices, transportation records (including airway bills or bills of lading), origin-certification records, and inspection records are examples of common papers.
Prevailing Governing Regulations: The ILOC may specify the regulations that apply to the transaction such as the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP 600).
Shipments in Parts: The ILOC may state whether or not shipments in parts are permitted. If partial shipments are allowed, it should specify the restrictions and requirements that apply to them.
Port of Loading/Discharge: In order to ensure that items are carried as agreed, the ILOC may request the beneficiary to identify the chosen port of loading and discharge for the shipment. This may also extend to International Commercial Terms (incoterms) which control delivery and the transfer of risks between the buyer and seller.
Insurance Requirements: The ILOC could specify what kind of insurance is needed for the cargo, how much insurance is needed, and any other particular guidelines.


   How to Obtain an ILOC  

Using an ILOC as the form of payment requires both the buyer's and seller's consent. Prior to obtaining, verify that both parties are prepared to proceed with this financial instrument and that they are aware of all of the letter's terms and conditions. In many cases, legal counsel may be hired to make sure the terms are accurate and clear.



When pursing an ILOC, consider opting for a reputable bank with knowledge in ILOC transactions and global trade. Various factors that may impact your ability to receive and trust in the ILOC process include the bank's financial stability, global reach, and credit handling experience. In many ways, the ILOC is not only a reflection on the buyer or applicant but a judgement on the validity of the issuing bank. If applicable, ensure the letter is drafted in compliance with international trade laws.



Banks often have an approval process in which they intake ILOC details such the desired ILOC amount, beneficiary information, expiry date, required documents, and any specific terms and conditions. This information is evaluated, and an assessment is made not only on the transaction but on the creditworthiness of the requestor. Once approved, the letter is prepared.



Once issued, carefully check the ILOC to make sure it appropriately represents the terms and circumstances agreed upon. To prevent issues throughout the payment process, any discrepancies or errors should be brought up right away with the issuing bank. Keep an eye on the ILOC's expiration date to make sure that all required documentation is provided and payment is requested within the allotted time limit. The letter could become null and void if this is not done.






The hidden value of an ILOC is the fact that it is often issued by a Federally-insured financial institution. This level of protection is often unachievable by a seller on its own.


   Alternatives to an ILOC  

In many cases, the buyer or applicant may be able to use an alternative to an irrevocable letter of credit. Sometimes, the buyer pays the supplier in full before receiving the goods or services. As it requires a sizable upfront payment, it may be less advantageous for the buyer while providing the seller with a high level of protection when there is a cash-in-advance requirement.



When a transaction is conducted using an open account, both the buyer and the seller agree to postpone payment until the product or service has been received. This approach is excellent for established, long-term relationships because it is founded on mutual trust. Payment depends on the buyer's desire to pay, hence the risk to the seller is larger.



In a documentary collection, the buyer and seller exchange paperwork while also paying each other using a bank. In contrast to letters of credit, this form of e banks serve as mediators but do not guarantee payments. Instead, they help with the document exchange and obtain money from the buyer on the seller's behalf.



Bank guarantees are a type of assurance that a bank gives to a seller on behalf of a buyer. It guarantees the seller that the bank will compensate the seller up to a certain sum in the case of a default or non-performance by the buyer. Bank guarantees, such as payment guarantees, performance guarantees, or bid bonds, can be customized to fulfill particular needs.



Last, some entail the use of a dependable third-party agent via escrow services to hold the funds until specific requirements are completed. Once the buyer has affirmed satisfaction with the products or services they received, the money is given to the seller. Escrow services give both the buyer and the seller a measure of security, though the transaction must be completed by one party prior to the other party following suit.


   Example of an ILOC  

The General Services Administration of the United States government provides the following example of an ILOC. After specific information is provided, the following confirmation may be added and signed by the issuing bank.















ILOC Example.



Note that in many cases, this format is acceptable and can be used for a variety of types of transactions. It may be that a specific template for an ILOC can be used with specific fields input or relevant bits of data added. This ILOC example outlines the terms of expiration, prevailing rules it may be subject to, and signature blocks required by different parties.




What Is the Role of the Issuing Bank in an Irrevocable Letter of Credit?
The issuing bank is the financial institution that issues the ILOC on behalf of the buyer. It undertakes the obligation to pay the beneficiary upon presentation of compliant documents. The issuing bank's creditworthiness and reputation are crucial factors influencing the acceptability of the ILOC.




What Are the Benefits of Using an Irrevocable Letter of Credit for Buyers?
Buyers benefit from the assurance that payment will only be made upon proper documentation and compliance. An ILOC reduces the risk of non-performance by the seller and provides a level of security in international trade transactions.




What Are the Benefits of Using an Irrevocable Letter of Credit for Sellers?
Sellers benefit from the payment guarantee provided by the issuing bank. The ILOC assures them that, upon fulfilling the specified requirements, they will receive payment from the bank, mitigating the risk of non-payment or delayed payment.




Can an Irrevocable Letter of Credit Be Amended?
Yes, an ILOC can be amended if both the buyer and the beneficiary agree to the changes. Amendments can modify the ILOC's terms, extend the expiry date, or adjust other conditions. All parties involved, including the issuing bank, need to agree and endorse the amendment.


   The Bottom Line  

An irrevocable letter of credit is a financial instrument used in international trade to ensure payment security for sellers and provide assurance to buyers. It is issued by a bank on behalf of the buyer, guaranteeing that the seller will receive payment upon complying with the specified terms and conditions. The ILOC cannot be canceled or modified without the consent of all parties involved, reducing the risk of non-payment or non-performance.
What Is an Irrevocable Trust?  

The purpose of an irrevocable trust is to move the assets from the grantor's control and name to that of the beneficiary. This reduces the value of the grantor's estate in regard to estate taxes and protects the assets from creditors.



Irrevocable trusts cannot be modified, amended, or terminated without the permission of the grantor's beneficiary or by the order of a court. The exact rules can vary by state. The grantor, having effectively transferred all ownership of assets into the trust, legally removes all of their rights of ownership to the assets and the trust.



Irrevocable trusts are generally set up to minimize estate taxes, access government benefits, and protect assets. This is in contrast to a revocable trust, which allows the grantor to modify the trust, but loses certain benefits such as creditor protection.





Key Takeaways

Irrevocable trusts cannot be modified, amended, or terminated without permission from the grantor's beneficiaries or by court order. The grantor transfers all ownership of assets into the trust and legally removes all of their ownership rights to the assets and the trust. Living and testamentary trusts are two types of irrevocable trusts.These trusts offer tax-shelter benefits that revocable trusts do not.Under the SECURE Act, some beneficiaries may have to take a full distribution by the end of the tenth calendar year following the year of the grantor's death.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How an Irrevocable Trust Works  

Irrevocable trusts are primarily set up for estate and tax considerations. That's because it removes all incidents of ownership, removing the trust's assets from the grantor's taxable estate. It also relieves the grantor of the tax liability on the income generated by the assets. While the tax rules vary between jurisdictions, the grantor can't receive these benefits if they are the trustee. The assets held in the trust can include (but are not limited to) a business, investment assets, cash, and life insurance policies.



Trusts have an important place in estate and legacy planning. But there is a downside: the cost. Setting up any type of trust can be complicated enough that an attorney is necessary. And this means that people may end up spending a few thousand dollars or more in attorney fees to set them up.



Irrevocable trusts are especially useful to individuals who work in professions that may make them vulnerable to lawsuits, such as doctors or attorneys. Once an asset is transferred to such a trust, it is owned by the trust for the benefit of its beneficiaries. Therefore, it is safe from legal judgments and creditors since the trust will not be a party to any lawsuit.



Today’s irrevocable trusts come with many provisions that were not commonly found in older versions of these instruments. These additions allow for much greater flexibility in trust management and distribution of assets. Provisions such as decanting, which allows a trust to be moved into a newer trust with more modern or advantageous provisions, can ensure that the trust assets will be managed effectively. Other features that allow the trust to change its state of domicile can provide additional tax savings or other benefits.






Although they are commonly associated with the very wealthy, trusts are an important piece of estate planning for anyone—regardless of income status.


   Types of Irrevocable Trusts  

Irrevocable trusts come in two forms: living trusts and testamentary trusts.



A living trust, which is also known as an inter vivos (Latin for "between the living") trust, is originated and funded by an individual during their lifetime. Some living trust examples are:



Irrevocable life insurance trust
Grantor-retained annuity trust (GRAT), spousal lifetime access trust (SLAT), and qualified personal residence trust (QPRT) (all types of lifetime gifting trusts)
Charitable remainder trust and charitable lead trust (both forms of charitable trusts)



Testamentary trusts, on the other hand, are irrevocable by design. That's because they are created after the death of their creator and are funded from the deceased's estate according to the terms of their will. The sole way to make changes to a testamentary trust (or cancel it) is to alter the will of the trust's creator before they die.


   Irrevocable Trust Uses  

An irrevocable trust has a grantor, a trustee, and a beneficiary or beneficiaries. Once the grantor places an asset in an irrevocable trust, it is a gift to the trust and the grantor cannot revoke it. The grantor can dictate the terms, rules, and uses of the trust assets with the consent of the trustee and the beneficiary.



Irrevocable trusts can have many applications in planning for the preservation and distribution of an estate, including:



To take advantage of the estate tax exemption and remove taxable assets from the estate. Property transferred to an irrevocable living trust does not count toward the gross value of an estate. Such trusts can be especially helpful in reducing the tax liability of very large estates.
To prevent beneficiaries from misusing assets, the grantor can set conditions for distribution.
To gift assets to the estate while still retaining the income from the assets.
To remove appreciable assets from the estate while still providing beneficiaries with a step-up basis in valuing the assets for tax purposes.
To gift a principal residence to children under more favorable tax rules.
To house a life insurance policy that would effectively remove the death proceeds from the estate.
To deplete one's property to ensure eligibility for government benefits, such as Social Security income and Medicaid (for nursing home care). Such trusts can also be used to help secure benefits and care for a special needs child by preventing disqualification of eligibility.



An irrevocable trust is a more complex legal arrangement than a revocable trust. Because there could be current income tax and future estate tax implications when using an irrevocable trust, seek a tax or estate attorney's guidance.


   Irrevocable Trusts vs. Revocable Trusts  

Revocable trusts may be amended or canceled at any time as long as their creator is mentally competent. They do offer the benefit of allowing their creator to cancel them and reclaim property held by the trust at any time before death. However, such trusts do not offer the same protection against legal action or estate taxes as irrevocable trusts.



When using revocable trusts, government entities will consider that any property held in one still belongs to the trust's creator and therefore may be included in their estate for tax purposes or when qualifying for government benefits. Once a revocable trust's creator dies, the trust becomes irrevocable.


   SECURE Act Rules  

The Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act changes some of the tax-saving benefits of see-through trusts.



Previously, certain non-spousal beneficiaries of retirement accounts that had been placed in an irrevocable trust could take their distributions over their life expectancy. However, under the SECURE Act rules, some beneficiaries may find they must take a full distribution by the end of the tenth calendar year following the year of the grantor's death.



Again, because the tax implications of this can be challenging and can change with the passage of new laws, it's important to consult a tax or estate attorney's guidance when using an irrevocable trust.




How Does an Irrevocable Trust Work?
An irrevocable trust cannot be changed or modified without the beneficiary's permission. Essentially, an irrevocable trust removes certain assets from a grantor’s taxable estate, and these incidents of ownership are transferred to a trust. A grantor may choose this structure to relieve assets in the trust from tax liabilities, along with other financial benefits.




What Is the Difference Between an Irrevocable and a Revocable Trust?
First, irrevocable trusts cannot be changed or altered. Among the primary reasons they are used is for tax reasons, where the assets in the trust are not taxed on income generated in the trust, along with taxes in the event of the benefactor's death. Revocable trusts, on the other hand, can change. Beneficiaries may be removed and stipulations may be modified, along with other terms and management of the trust. However, when the owner of the trust dies, the assets held in the trust realize state and federal estate taxes.




Who Controls an Irrevocable Trust?
Under an irrevocable trust, legal ownership of the trust is held by a trustee. At the same time, the grantor gives up certain rights to the trust. Once an irrevocable trust is established, the grantor cannot control or change the assets once they have been transferred into the trust without the beneficiary's permission. These assets can include a business, property, financial assets, or a life insurance policy.
What Is Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return?  

Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for individuals who wish to extend the amount of time they have to file their tax returns.



Any extension granted by the IRS applies only to the paperwork. You must send in the amount you expect to owe by the deadline.






Filing Form 4868 does not allow late payment. All payments must be made by the tax deadline date or interest and penalties will be imposed.


   Who Can File Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return?  

A U.S. citizen or resident who wants an automatic extension to file a U.S. individual income tax return can file this form. Taxpayers in the country receive a maximum six-month extension. U.S. citizens or residents who are out of the country on the due date are allowed two extra months without Form 4868 to file their returns and pay any amount due without requesting an extension. Filing this form will grant an additional four months to the taxpayer living out of the country. The IRS qualifies those "out of the country" as:



Anyone who lives outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico and your main place of work is outside the U.S. and Puerto RicoAnyone in military or naval service on duty outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico


   How to File Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return  

This short form should be completed with the individual or married couple's names, address, Social Security numbers, an estimate of total tax liability for the year, total payments already made, the remaining amount due, and the amount being paid, if any.



The form should be filed by the tax deadline date.


   Download Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return  

Click this link to download a copy of Form 4868: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return.





Key Takeaways

Form 4868 is used by U.S. citizens and residents who wish to apply for an extension to file a tax return.Taxpayers in the country receive a maximum six-month extension, while those out of the country receive a four-month extension in addition to the two months they already receive.Filing Form 4868 does not permit late payment of taxes owed. Payments are still due on the tax deadline date and late payments will incur interest and penalties.
What Is the IRS Publication 15?  

IRS Publication 15: Employer's Tax Guide is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service detailing an employer's responsibilities for filing and reporting tax information. The document covers the withholding, depositing, reporting, paying, and correcting of taxes for employees (although not for the corporation itself). IRS Publication 15 is also referred to as Circular E.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

IRS Publication 15: Employer's Tax Guide is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service detailing an employer's responsibilities for filing and reporting tax information.The document covers the withholding, depositing, reporting, paying, and correcting of taxes for employees (although not for the corporation itself).The Tax Guide details federal income tax amounts for payroll withholdings, including Medicare and Social Security amounts.


   Understanding IRS Publication 15  

IRS Publication 15 is used to determine federal income tax, but not state or local taxes. The Tax Guide details federal income tax amounts for payroll withholdings, including Medicare and Social Security amounts.﻿﻿ Employers should refer to their state's tax rules to ensure that proper state income tax amounts are withheld from employees' paychecks. Extra tax information is also available in IRS Publication 15-A.﻿﻿



Previously, one of the most important features contained in the Employer’s Tax Guide was the Percentage Method Tables and Wage Bracket Method Tables for Income Tax Withholding.﻿﻿ However, for the 2020 Employer's Tax Guide, these withholding tables have been removed. These tables—and the employer instructions on how to figure employee withholding—are now included in Publication 15-T, Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods. The IRS also provides an assistant on their website, called the Income Tax Withholding Assistant for Employers, to help employers figure out employee withholding.﻿﻿



These wage bracket tables help an employer to know exactly which percentage of their employees’ payroll they should be withholding for taxes every pay period in order to comply with federal tax regulations. In order to determine the tax withholding amount, an employee must also file a W-4 Form, which can be updated as situations change in the employee’s life, such as a new family member.﻿﻿ In the event that an employee does not file a W-4, the Employer’s Tax Guide also details what amount to withhold instead.﻿﻿


   How to Use IRS Publication 15  

The easiest way to access IRS Publication 15 is typically online through the IRS website. The Employer’s Tax Guide contains any updates and new legislative changes pertinent to employers, along with the following sections:



Information about Employer Identification Numbers, or EINs
Legal definitions of employees
Hiring and paying family employees
Employee’s Social Security Numbers or SSNs
Wages and other compensation details
How to report and pay tips
Any supplemental wages
Payroll Periods
Withholding from employee’s wages
Required notice to employees about the earned income credit or EIC
Depositing taxes
Filing Form 941 or Form 944
Reporting Adjustments to Form 941 or Form 944
Federal Unemployment, or FUTA, Tax﻿﻿
What Is IRS Publication 463: Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses?  

IRS Publication 463: Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses explains the expenses associated with business activities that an individual taxpayer can deduct to reduce their overall taxable income.



The document primarily focuses on expenses for sole proprietors reporting business income on Schedule C. It also applies to Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing artists, fee-basis state or local government officials, and employees with disability impairment-related work expenses who file business expense deductions on Form 2106.



Publication 463 is not necessarily for partnerships, corporations, and trusts. These businesses, though, should refer to the instructions for their required tax forms, along with IRS Publication 535.



Publication 463 does provide some guidance for self-employment expense reporting on Schedule C though Publication 535 is also a central resource. In general, there is some overlap on allowable individual business expense deductions for both employees and the self-employed though they report business expense deductions on two entirely different forms, Schedule A vs. Schedule C.





Key Takeaways

IRS Publication 463 explains the expenses associated with business activities that an individual taxpayer can deduct to reduce their overall taxable income.Publication 463 primarily focuses on expenses for IRS Schedule C and Schedule A for some employees with wages reported on a W-2.The TCJA significantly reduced types of employees who can deduct unreimbursed work expenses but provided a $12,000 Schedule A standard deduction.


   Understanding IRS Publication 463: Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses  

IRS Publication 463 is published by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and updated periodically on the IRS website. It covers a vast amount of information pertaining to expense deductions.



The deductions authorized by Publication 463 are for necessary and ordinary business expenses incurred by an individual taxpayer in the course of doing business. The IRS defines these as expenses that are both common in a particular industry and helpful to the practice of that business.



These expenses do not have to be required for the conduct of that business. In general, an individual need only determines expenses that were incurred as part of business activity and not expenses associated with personal use.



IRS Publication 463 is divided into six main chapters, which include the following:



Chapter 1: TravelChapter 2: Meals and EntertainmentChapter 3: GiftsChapter 4: TransportationChapter 5: RecordkeepingChapter 6: How to Report



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) began to take force for the tax year 2018 and will run through 2025. The TCJA made substantial changes in the area of Schedule A expenses, generally eliminating most Schedule A expense deductions. However, the TCJA integrated a Schedule A standard deduction of $12,000. The $12,000 standard deduction also eliminated the need for most taxpayers to itemize Schedule A deductions of any kind, including business expense deductions at all.


   Reimbursements  

An individual incurring expenses in the course of their employment will typically obtain the greatest advantage by first seeking reimbursement from their employer. This can help to eliminate any need for expense deduction considerations.



Publication 463 addresses expenses for which an employee does not receive reimbursement from an employer. If an employee receives reimbursement for expenses, it is not generally considered taxable income.


   Travel  

In most cases, travel expenses will be reimbursed by an employer. If travel expenses are not reimbursed, a taxpayer can generally only deduct business travel expenses associated with travel away from their tax home. Some of the most basic expenses that are deductible away from home include transportation, lodging, and meals.


   Meals and Entertainment  

Meals and entertainment are defined separately. In general, any entertainment expenses paid for the purpose of entertainment, amusement, or recreation are nondeductible as a business expense. This includes any expenses for facilities, dues, and memberships.



Meals are generally deductible for up to 50% of the total cost. Meals should not be considered lavish or extravagant. Meals can be expenses at entertainment events if purchased separately.


   Gifts  

Gifts can generally be deducted as an expense for up to $25 per gift. Gifts of entertainment cannot be deducted.


   Transportation  

Taxpayers generally cannot deduct transportation expenses to a regular work location. Some deductions can apply for alternative work locations.



Expenses for a vehicle used for business will generally be calculated using either the standard mileage expensing method or actual cost expensing. The standard mileage method multiplies 58.5 cents per mile usage (for 2022). The actual cost method includes all actual costs such as gas, oil, registration, repairs, and car payments.



W-2 employees generally cannot deduct vehicle expenses on a Schedule A. Therefore, alternatively seeking employer reimbursement agreements can be advantageous. Self-employed taxpayers can deduct vehicle expenses from gross income when calculating net income on a Schedule C.


   Recordkeeping and Reporting  

The IRS suggests that taxpayers keep detailed records of expense deductions. Taxpayers with W-2 wages will report wages on line 1 of the 1040 form. If a taxpayer has multiple W-2s, the sum of W-2 wages is reported on line 1. Expense deductions associated with W-2 wages can be itemized on a Schedule A if greater than the standard deduction. If Schedule A expense deductions are not greater, the taxpayer gets the standard deduction of $13,850 for tax year 2023; for married couples filing jointly, the standard deduction is $27,700. Schedule A standard or itemized deductions are reported on line 12 of the 1040 and reduce taxable income.



If a taxpayer is self-employed with 1099 wages, all 1099 wages are reported on Schedule C. Allowable business expenses pertaining to 1099 income are deducted to arrive at the adjusted gross income which is reported on line 11 of 1040 Form. (For more on Schedule C business expenses, also see Publication 535.)



Disclaimer: Individuals should consult IRS Publication 463 or a tax professional for details pertaining to their own individual business deductions. This article provides general information that may or may not pertain to individual situations.
What Is IRS Publication 519?  

IRS Publication 519 is the U.S. Tax Guide For Aliens, a document the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) publishes that details the tax procedures for aliens, individuals that are not citizens of the United States.﻿﻿ Not all aliens are subject to U.S. taxes. Resident aliens, those who have been in the country for a defined period, are subject to taxation on their worldwide income just as citizens are. Non-resident aliens are only taxed on income they earn within the U.S., as well as on certain types of international income.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

IRS Publication 519 provides tax information and guidance for aliens in the U.S.Taxation will depend on whether a person is a resident or non-resident alien, or dual-status.Non-residents may be subject to income tax from both U.S. and foreign authorities.


   Understanding IRS Publication 519  

The most important aspect of IRS Publication 519 is its definition of a taxpayer's status as either a non-resident alien or a resident alien using the substantial presence test or the green card test as the applicable tax rules are based on that status. Taxpayers may also be considered as dual-status aliens and should also determine the tax status of any spouse.﻿﻿



The substantial presence test measures residency by physical presence in the U.S. To meet this test, an individual must reside in the U.S. on at least:



31 days during the current year, and183 days during the three-year period that includes the current year and the two years immediately before that, counting all the days you were present in the current year, one-third of the days you were present in the first year before the current year, and one-sixth of the days you were present in the second year before the current year.﻿﻿



The green card test states that an individual is a resident, for U.S. federal tax purposes, if they are a Lawful Permanent Resident of the U.S. at any time during the calendar year. A person becomes a Lawful Permanent Resident if they have been given the privilege, according to the immigration laws, of residing permanently in the U.S. as an immigrant, generally by being issued an alien registration card, also known as a "green card," by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.﻿﻿



If an individual qualifies as both resident and non-resident in the same year, they have what is referred to as dual status. A married individual may also have a choice of treating their non-resident spouse as a resident alien.﻿﻿


   Taxation of Non-Resident Income  

Individuals determined to be non-resident aliens are generally subject to two different tax rates on their U.S. income, one for effectively connected income, and one for fixed or determinable, annual, or periodic (FDAP) income. Effectively connected income is earned from running a U.S. business or performing personal services and is taxed at the same graduated rates as a U.S. citizen. FDAP is considered passive income and is taxed at a flat 30% rate.﻿﻿ Non-resident aliens must file tax returns using Form 1040NR.﻿﻿



For non-resident aliens, tax treaties with foreign countries may reduce or eliminate U.S. tax on various types of personal services and other income, such as pensions, interest, dividends, royalties, and capital gains.﻿﻿
What Is IRS Publication 525?  

Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income, is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) detailing what types of income taxpayers should consider taxable or nontaxable when filing tax returns.﻿﻿



A taxpayer's income can come from a number of sources other than regular employment.﻿﻿ Income can be in the form of money, property, and services. Unless a type of income is specifically exempted from taxation by law, it will be considered taxable income.





Key Takeaways

Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income, is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) detailing what types of income taxpayers should consider taxable or nontaxable when filing tax returns.Income can be in the form of money, property, and services.Publication 525 is updated regularly to reflect any changes in tax code or regulations. 


   Understanding IRS Publication 525  

Publication 525 outlines how employees are to treat income from retirement plans, stock options, and fringe benefits, and how to report their income from business partnerships, real estate investments, and disability pensions. It also describes how certain employee types, such as military personnel and clergy, should report their income.



Publication 525 is updated regularly to reflect any changes in tax code or regulations. Updates may include things such as disaster tax relief for residents recovering from natural disasters, such as hurricanes or wildfires.﻿﻿



Taxable income includes any salaries, wages, and tips. However, there are many other categories of taxable income.﻿﻿



Income that is available to a taxpayer, whether or not that person actually possesses it, is considered taxable. For example, a paycheck that has been handed to a taxpayer before the end of the tax year is considered taxable income, even if the person has not cashed that check by the year’s end. Likewise, income that is received by an agent of a taxpayer on their behalf is considered taxable, even if that third party has not yet handed the money over to the taxpayer.



Prepaid income is also considered taxable. For example, if a contractor is paid $10,000 to begin a construction job on a house, but fails to complete the job before the end of the tax year, that $10,000 is still taxable, since the contractor received the payment.﻿﻿



Grants are also considered taxable income, in addition to interest earned through most investment vehicles. Fringe benefits are also considered taxable income.﻿﻿



Non-taxable income includes welfare payments, healthcare benefits, inheritances, and gifts. Child support payments, cash rebates on items purchased, and money reimbursed from qualifying adoptions are also not considered taxable income by the IRS.﻿﻿



If a person receives money through a life insurance policy due to the death of the policyholder, that income is considered non-taxable. However, if that person simply cashes in that life insurance policy, income received through cashing in the policy may be taxable.﻿﻿



Some scholarships are not taxable, though what the scholarship money is used for can determine whether or not the recipient must pay taxes on it.﻿﻿
What Is IRS Publication 527?  

IRS Publication 527, Residential Rental Property, is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that provides tax information for individuals who own residential properties that are rented out for income.



Typically, all income earned from rental properties is reported to the IRS, though the type of rental activity will alter which sections of the tax form that income is reported. IRS Publication 527 outlines how to account for property depreciation, what types of deductions can be made on rental income, as well as what to do if only part of a property is rented.





Key Takeaways

IRS Publication 527 is a document used to provide details and instructions for those who rent out their residential properties for income. The IRS considers "rental income" as any of the following: normal and advance rent payments, payments for canceling a lease, and expenses paid by the tenant.IRS Publication 527 gives instructions on how to account for property depreciation, what types of deductions can be made on rental income, as well as what to do if only part of a property is rented.


   Understanding IRS Publication 527  

IRS Publication 527 is composed of five chapters of tax instructions that detail everything property owners need to know about the tax consequences of renting out their second homes, including the deductions that may be taken. Taxpayers should consult Publication 527 before renting their homes in order to learn how rental income is treated by the IRS.



The IRS considers "rental income" as any of the following: normal and advance rent payments, payments for canceling a lease, and expenses paid by the tenant.



Advance rent is any amount paid by the tenant before the period that it covers. For example, if on February 15, 2021, a property owner signs a five-year lease to rent their property, and consequently collects $4,000 for the first year's rent and $4,000 in rent for the last year of the lease, then they must report $8,000 in rental income in tax year 2021.



Furthermore, if a tenant pays to break a lease, or forfeits their security deposit, the amount received is considered rent and must be included as rental income for the year it was received.






Special rules apply if the taxpayer rents out a dwelling that’s considered a residence fewer than 15 days during the year. In this situation, the taxpayer doesn’t report the rental income and doesn’t deduct rental expenses.


   Deductions from Rental Income  

While many property owners assume that generating rental revenue will lead to a surplus of income, they should be aware of the multiple ways they're able to incur a tax loss on rental activity due to things like interest payments and depreciation.



Property owners are normally not allowed to deduct a tax loss, because renting out a second home is usually considered to be a passive activity. However, owners who assume a hands-on role in managing their rental space, by handling day-to-day tasks such as collecting rent checks, calling repairmen, and hiring exterminators may consequently deduct up to $25,000 of tax losses.



Taxpayers are allowed to deduct the following expenses from operating a rental property: home mortgage interest, mortgage insurance premiums, real estate taxes, depreciation, as well as other expenses that are normally nondeductible personal expenses, such as expenses for electricity or painting the outside of the house.
What Is IRS Publication 535?  

IRS Publication 535 refers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax document that provides guidance on what types of business expenses are deductible when filing a tax return. IRS Publication 535 covers the rules for deducting business expenses and outlines the most common items that taxpayers deduct.



In order to be deductible, a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary. Ordinary expenses are ones that are common in a particular industry. Necessary expenses are those that are helpful or essential to conducting business. Business owners deduct expenses in order to bring down their total amount of taxable income. In this way, the amount that they pay in tax reflects their net profit, rather than a gross number.


   Understanding IRS Publication 535   

IRS Publication 535 is the definitive source when it comes to what expenses are allowed and which are not. In comparison, Publication 334 is a tax guide for small businesses. Publication 463 covers travel, entertainment, gift, and car expenses. Publication 525 explains the difference between taxable and nontaxable income. Publication 529 covers miscellaneous deductions and Publication 587 explains regulations regarding using one’s home for business purposes.



Business expenses are separate and distinct from the cost of goods, personal expenses, and capital expenses. Taking any of the latter three expenses means those costs cannot also count as business expenses. 



Certain types of business expenses, such as capital expenses, are treated differently than ordinary and necessary expenses, and often require the taxpayer to use different tax forms. The accounting method employed by the taxpayer determines when and how expenses can be deducted.


   New Rules Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  

In later 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act became law, overhauling the U.S. tax code for the first time in decades. This act affected the regulation of deductible business expenses.



Some changes under the new law include the elimination of certain deductions. For example, entertainment expenses spent in the course of doing business, payment for employee parking or other commuting expenses, local lobbying costs and domestic production activities all cannot be deducted any longer. Another change involves rules allowing employees to deduct the cost of meals in company cafeterias while traveling for work.



The new tax code also includes a lower corporate tax rate, so C corporations pay a lower amount of tax overall. For smaller businesses, the new rules usher in a deduction for people who earn income from pass-through entities such as LLCs and sole proprietorships.
What Is IRS Publication 550?  

IRS Publication 550 is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that provides information on how investment income and expenses are to be treated when filing taxes. IRS Publication 550 explains what investment expenses are deductible when gains and losses from the sale of investment property are to be reported and what type of investments are considered taxable.﻿﻿


   Understanding IRS Publication 550  

Investors who purchase U.S. property from a foreign individual or firm may be required to withhold income taxes. In addition, U.S. citizens must report income earned on foreign investments, even if a Form 1099 was not issued. This is explained in more detail in IRS Publication 515.﻿﻿ Special tax rules apply to employees who exercise stock options. More information is provided in IRS Publication 525.﻿﻿


   What's In IRS Publication 550?  

This is one of the agency's most complex topics, covering information on the tax treatment of investment income and expenses. It includes information on the tax treatment of investment income and expenses for individual shareholders of mutual funds or other regulated investment companies, such as money market funds, according to the IRS.﻿﻿



It also explains what investment income is taxable and what investment expenses are deductible. It explains when and how to show these items on your tax return. There's information on how to determine and report gains and losses on the disposition of investment property. Another key section regards property trades and tax shelters.﻿﻿



The publication has a handy table that shows where to report various types of investment income on each type of return. Originally this included 1040, 1040A, and 1040EZ; however, the latter two forms are no longer available.



Interest income is covered in detail, including money market funds, certificates of deposit, penalties for early withdrawal, gifts for opening accounts, interest on insurance dividends, prepaid insurance premiums, U.S. obligations, interest on tax refunds, installment sale proceeds, interest on insurance contracts, how to treat usurious interest, interest on frozen deposits, below-market loans, foreign interest, U.S. Savings Bonds, educational savings bonds, bonds sold between interest dates, U.S. Treasury Bills and Notes, State or Local Government Obligations, mortgage revenue bonds, and Original Issue Discount (OID).﻿﻿



Treatment of dividends is covered, including ordinary dividends, the most common type of distribution from a corporation or a mutual fund. Qualified dividends are covered, which are subject to the same 0%, 15%, or 20% maximum tax rate that applies to net capital gain. Capital gain distributions, which are paid or credited to your account by mutual funds and real estate investment trusts (REITs), are covered in detail.﻿﻿
What Is IRS Publication 590: Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)?  

IRS Publication 590, entitled "Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)," refers to an IRS document that outlines rules for individual retirement accounts (IRAs). The document, published by the Internal Revenue Service, provides information on how to set up an IRA, how to contribute to it, how much may be contributed, how to treat distributions, and how to take tax deductions for contributions made to IRAs.



IRS Publication 590 also provides information on penalties that taxpayers might face if IRA regulations are not followed properly.





Key Takeaways

IRS Publication 590 explains the tax rules and guidelines for individual retirement accounts (IRAs).This IRS document also includes information on how to set up an IRA, how much you can contribute, and more.IRS Publication 590 is in two parts—Part A and Part B, which cover IRAs and distributions.


   Understanding IRS Publication 590: Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)  

While IRS Publication 590 specifies "individual retirement arrangements," that term is meant to broadly represent a wide variety of individual retirement accounts, individual retirement annuities, and other trusts or custodial accounts that act as a personal savings plan that provides tax advantages for setting aside money for retirement.



IRS Publication 590 has two parts. Part A covers contributions to individual retirement arrangements, and Part B covers distributions from individual retirement arrangements. There are significant differences between the various retirement accounts covered in IRS Publication 590, including Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs, especially when it comes to the tax treatment of contributions. The publication covers the following:



Who can open a traditional IRA or Roth IRAWhen a traditional IRA or Roth IRA may be openedThe definition of a Roth IRAHow to open a traditional or Roth IRAHow much may be contributedWhen contributions can be madeHow much may be deductedIRA inheritance rulesMoving of retirement assetsAsset withdrawal rulesActs that trigger penalties or additional taxes


   IRS Publication 590: Individual Retirement Arrangements: New Items  

IRS Publication 590 often outlines new rules or provisions, such as those that offer relief to disaster victims. For example, in the tax year 2017, it named a qualified disaster tax relief provision that covers "tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from certain retirement plans for taxpayers who suffered economic losses" as a result of Hurricane and Tropical Storm Harvey, as well as Hurricanes Irma and Maria, and the California wildfires.



Other items for 2017 included:



New information for the treatment of unrelated business income in an IRAA modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributionsA modified AGI limit for certain married individualsA modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions



In 2018, there were increases to the AGI limits across the board, as well as an extended rollover period for certain plan loan offsets and a disclosure disallowing recharacterization of conversions made in 2018 or later.



There are significant differences between the various retirement accounts covered in IRS Publication 590, including Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs, especially when it comes to the tax treatment of contributions.
What Is IRS Publication 590-B?  

IRS Publication 590-B explains the tax implications of withdrawing money from any type of individual retirement account (IRA) before or after retirement. It specifies when you can't withdraw money without paying a penalty and when you must withdraw money.





Key Takeaways:

IRS Publication 590-B calculates the taxes you'll owe when you withdraw money from any type of IRA account.If you have a traditional IRA, see Chapter 1.If you have a Roth IRA, see Chapter 2.



The publication includes three chapters, several appendices, and worksheets to assist the taxpayer. Publication 590-A covers the tax rules for contributing to retirement accounts.


   Understanding IRS Publication 590-B  

There are several types of IRAs, including the traditional IRA and the Roth IRA, the SEP, and the SIMPLE IRA. But the big distinction is between the traditional and the Roth IRA:



A traditional IRA permits a taxpayer to contribute pre-tax earnings up to a certain amount each year. The wage-earner gets an immediate tax break, and taxes on the amount paid into the account are deferred until the taxpayer withdraws money.A Roth IRA allows a taxpayer to contribute post-tax earnings up to a certain amount each year. The wage-earner pays the income taxes upfront, so withdrawals taken after retirement will not be taxed.






An IRA distribution for higher education expenses or a first-time home purchase is not subject to the 10% early withdrawal penalty.



IRS Publication 590-B is organized to explain the different tax implications of these two types of IRA accounts:



Chapters 1 and 2 of IRS Publication 590-B explain all the rules for the traditional IRA and the Roth IRA, respectively. It covers when you can withdraw money and at what age you must withdraw money. It also includes penalties for early withdrawals from traditional IRAs.
Chapter 3 covers permitted early withdrawals used to pay for damage caused by natural disasters. These exceptions in 2021 were extended only to people with losses attributed to four 2017 disasters, including Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, and the California wildfires. Also, in 2020 the IRS introduced Coronavirus-related distributions. All of these distributions require repayment of the money to avoid a penalty down the line.
An introductory section includes a table clarifying the differences between traditional and Roth IRAs, rules for required distributions, taxation of these accounts, and regulations for filing Form 8606. This is the form that must be filed to report distributions from any type of IRA.
Chapter 4 provides general information on getting help with tax-related issues.
Appendix A is a worksheet for determining your required minimum distribution, and Appendix B contains a life expectancy table needed to calculate recommended minimum distributions.


  Penalties and Exemptions  

Keep an eye on the penalties detailed in Publication 590-B, and the exceptions to those penalties. For example, most early distributions trigger a 10% penalty. The penalty goes up to 25% if money is withdrawn during the first two years of participation in a SIMPLE IRA. However, a withdrawal for qualified higher education expenses or first-time home purchase is not subject to the penalty.


  Other Publications  

The IRS has numerous publications explaining the ins and outs of qualified retirement plans.



If you run a small business or work for one, you may be interested in IRS Publication 560: Retirement Plans for Small Business.
Another IRS publication, Tax Information for Retirement Plans, has extensive information on saving for retirement and retirement plan administration.
An IRS FAQs page contains brief information about the various types of IRAs and their tax implications.
What Is IRS Publication 970: Tax Benefits for Education?  

IRS Publication 970 is a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that provides information on tax benefits available to students and families saving or paying for college. It explains the tax treatment for the most common forms of college funding, such as scholarships, fellowships and grants, and tuition reductions.



Publication 970 outlines two tax credits: the American Opportunity Tax Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit. In addition, IRS Publication 970 outlines 9 tax benefits that students and their families can claim in order to reduce the income tax they owe.



These benefits include the deductibility of interest paid on student loan debt, tax-free treatment of canceled student loan debt, the deductibility of tuition and fees, contributions to tax-advantaged Coverdell Education Savings Accounts (ESAs), and participation in a qualified tuition program. Further tax incentives to education spending outlined in IRS Publication 970 include the ability to cash in savings bonds tax-free if the proceeds are used for education, the ability to take penalty-free withdrawals from retirement savings accounts and the deductibility of education expenses from business income.





Key Takeaways

The tax credits and benefits are available to students saving for or paying education costs for themselves, sometimes, for another family member.Most of the tax credits and benefits outlined in Publication 970 apply only to higher education—colleges, universities, conservatories or post-graduate programs.Student loan interest deductions and learning credits are dependent on adjusted gross income and are phased out on incomes above a certain annually adjusted level.


   Other Relevant Forms  

Taxpayers using education credits and/or deductions will also need to have received Form 1098-T: Tuition Statement, which includes the educational institution's employer identification number (EIN). They will also have to file Form 8863 to claim the American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning Credits. Under certain conditions, a student may still claim the credit if form 1098-T has not been received.


   IRS Publication 970 and the Federal Budget  

Tax breaks given out for specific purposes are sometimes called "tax expenditures" by tax policy experts. IRS Publication 970 is a detailed overview of the tax expenditures Congress has allocated to promote the education and training of Americans.



Tax credits and deductions for post-secondary education expenses reduced 2021 federal tax revenues by an estimated $9.3 billion; however, the figure is expected to increase substantially in 2022 to $14.6 billion. Another expensive provision of the tax code related to education is the deductibility of student loan interest. This tax break reduced taxes by an estimated $2.1 billion in 2021 and is predicted to reduce 2022 revenue by $2.3 billion.


   IRS Publication 970 and Updates  

The tax liability of America's college students was widely discussed during the debate over tax reform enacted by Congress in 2017. Initial versions of the bill would have eliminated the ability of many students to receive tuition waivers tax-free. This issue is of particular importance to graduate students, many of whom can only afford to attend school thanks to tuition waivers. After students demonstrated against the proposed change, the bill was amended to keep tuition waivers tax free. The Bipartisan Budget Act, enacted Feb. 9, 2018, extended the date for many benefits in the tax law and added a few new ones.






Publication 970 is updated regularly to reflect any changes in the tax code or tax regulations.


   Download IRS Publication 970: Tax Benefits for Education  

All revisions of Publication 970 are available on the IRS website as well as recent developments.
What Was Publication 972: Child Tax Credit?  

Publication 972 was a document published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that provided guidance on determining the exact amount of the child tax credit that taxpayers can claim.



It was used for information about the child tax credit from tax years 2020 and earlier. For tax years 2021 and later, you will no longer use Publication 972 to figure your child tax credit and credit for other dependents. Instead, use Schedule 8812 in conjunction with Form 1040. 



The document included an update on any changes in the tax credit for the year, a worksheet to help taxpayers calculate their child credits in certain unusual cases, as well as instructions for determining the child tax credit to claim.





Key Takeaways

Publication 972 was used to calculate one of America's most popular tax credits, the Child Tax Credit.The form is no longer in use from tax years 2021 and onward.There are upper-income limits on eligibility for the credit.


   Understanding Publication 972: Child Tax Credit  

Most parents, foster parents, and guardians of children under age 17 can use the child tax credit to lower their taxable income for the year. This benefit can be claimed using Form 1040 or 1040NR.


  Eligibility  

IRS Publication 972 was used in tax years 2020 and prior to determine if a child was eligible. According to the document, a qualifying child or dependent must have been:



under the age of 17 by the end of the tax year;
claimed as a dependent on the taxpayer's federal tax return;
a U.S. citizen, resident alien, or national—more information on residency requirements can be found in IRS Publication 519;
lived with the taxpayer for more than half of the tax year; and
Not have provided more than half of their own financial support.


  Credit Amount  

Publication 972 also disclosed how much credit a taxpayer can receive. In the 2020 tax year, the maximum amount that could be requested for a qualifying child was $2,000. That limit has been in effect since 2018, when the IRS doubled the $1,000 credit available on 2017 tax returns.






IRS Publication 972 provided a worksheet that can be used to determine the amount of child tax credit that can be claimed.


  Refunds  

Publication 972 provided guidance on potentially getting a portion of any unused credit refunded, too. Following changes to the law in 2017, the refundable portion of the child tax credit, known as the additional child tax credit (ACTC), increased to $1,400 from $1,000. This meant low-income taxpayers whose credits exceed their tax liabilities could get refunded up to $1,400.



The IRS allows families with an annual income of more than $2,500 to request a refund using the ACTC. To make a claim for a refund, filers must complete Schedule 8812.


   Special Considerations  

The child tax credit has limits and is not available to taxpayers at certain high-income levels.



In 2020, the tax credit was phased out for this with an adjusted gross income (AGI) of $200,000, or $400,000 if married filing jointly.
What Is the IS-LM Model?  

The IS-LM model, which stands for “investment-saving” (IS) and “liquidity preference-money supply” (LM) is a Keynesian macroeconomic model that shows how the market for economic goods (IS) interacts with the loanable funds market (LM) or money market. It is represented as a graph in which the IS and LM curves intersect to show the short-run equilibrium between interest rates and output.





Key Takeaways

The IS-LM model describes how aggregate markets for real goods and financial markets interact to balance the rate of interest and total output in the macroeconomy.IS-LM stands for “investment-saving” (IS) and “liquidity preference-money supply” (LM).IS-LM can be used to describe how changes in market preferences alter the equilibrium levels of gross domestic product (GDP) and market interest rates.


   Understanding the IS-LM Model  

British economist John Hicks first introduced the IS-LM model in 1937, not long after fellow British economist John Maynard Keynes published The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money in 1936. Hicks’ model served as a formalized graphical representation of Keynes’ theories, though it is used mainly as a heuristic device today.



The three critical exogenous, i.e. external, variables in the IS-LM model are liquidity, investment, and consumption. According to the theory, liquidity is determined by the size and velocity of the money supply. The levels of investment and consumption are determined by the marginal decisions of individual actors.



The IS-LM graph examines the relationship between output, or gross domestic product (GDP), and interest rates. The entire economy is boiled down to just two markets—output and money—and their respective supply and demand characteristics push the economy toward an equilibrium point.


   Characteristics of the IS-LM Graph  

The IS-LM graph consists of two curves: IS and LM. GDP is placed on the horizontal axis, increasing to the right. The interest rate makes up the vertical axis.


  The IS Curve  

The IS curve depicts the set of all levels of interest rates and output (GDP) at which total investment (I) equals total saving (S). At lower interest rates, investment is higher, which translates into more total output (GDP), so the IS curve slopes downward and to the right.


  The LM Curve  

The LM curve depicts the set of all levels of income (GDP) and interest rates at which money supply equals money (liquidity) demand. The LM curve slopes upward because higher levels of income (GDP) induce increased demand to hold money balances for transactions, which requires a higher interest rate to keep money supply and liquidity demand in equilibrium.


  The Intersection of the IS and LM Curves  

The intersection of the IS and LM curves shows the equilibrium point of interest rates and output when money markets and the real economy are in balance. Multiple scenarios or points in time may be represented by adding additional IS and LM curves.



In some versions of the graph, curves display limited convexity or concavity. Shifts in the position and shape of the IS and LM curves, representing changing preferences for liquidity, investment, and consumption, alter the equilibrium levels of income and interest rates.


   Limitations of the IS-LM Model  

Many economists, including many Keynesians, object to the IS-LM model for its simplistic and unrealistic assumptions about the macroeconomy. It cannot account for simultaneous high unemployment and inflation in the economy. It is also undercut by the change by central banks to using an interest-rate rule rather than targeting the money supply.



Even Hicks later admitted that the model’s flaws were fatal, and it was probably best used as “a classroom gadget, to be superseded, later on, by something better.” Subsequent revisions have taken place for so-called “new” or “optimized” IS-LM frameworks.



The model is a limited policy tool, as it cannot explain how tax or spending policies should be formulated with any specificity. This significantly limits its functional appeal. It has very little to say about inflation, rational expectations, or international markets, although later models do attempt to incorporate these ideas. The model also ignores the formation of capital and labor productivity.




Is the IS-LM model actually used?
If the IS-LM model is used today, it is as a shortcut enabling quick decision making. Because it is too simplistic, it is not useful for formulating tax or spending policies. Even its creator, John Hicks, called it “a classroom gadget” and expected it to be eventually replaced by something more sophisticated.




Why does the LM curve slope upward?
The LM curve slopes upward because a higher gross domestic product (GDP) causes greater demand to hold money for transactions. This, in turn, raises interest rates, so that money supply and liquidity can stay in equilibrium.




Who developed the IS-LM model?
A British economist named John Hicks developed the IS-LM model in 1936, basing it on theories published by another British economist, John Maynard Keynes, only a few months earlier.


   The Bottom Line  

The IS-LM model is a tool for looking at how the market for economic goods intersects with the loanable funds market. It depicts the short-term equilibrium point between interest rates and output, with its three variables being liquidity, investment, and consumption.



Because it is a highly simplistic device, it is only useful when snap decisions must be made, as it lacks the sophistication necessary for setting tax and spending policies.
What Is an ISDA Master Agreement?  

An ISDA Master Agreement is the standard document regularly used to govern over-the-counter derivatives transactions. The agreement, which is published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), outlines the terms to be applied to a derivatives transaction between two parties, typically a derivatives dealer and a counterparty. The ISDA Master Agreement itself is standard, but it is accompanied by a customized schedule and sometimes a credit support annex, both of which are signed by the two parties in a given transaction.





Key Takeaways

An ISDA Master Agreement is the standard document regularly used to govern over-the-counter derivatives transactions.Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are traded between two parties, not through an exchange or intermediary.The most significant advantages of an ISDA Master Agreement are improved transparency and higher liquidity.


   How an ISDA Master Agreement Works  

Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are traded between two parties, not through an exchange or intermediary. The size of the OTC market means that risk managers must carefully oversee traders and ensure approved transactions are correctly managed. When two parties enter into a transaction, they each receive a confirmation that sets out its details and references the signed agreement. The terms of the ISDA Master Agreement then cover the transaction.



The foreign exchange and interest rate swap markets experienced impressive growth over the last several decades. Together, they now account for trillions of dollars in daily trades. The original ISDA Master Agreement was created to standardize these trades in 1985. It was subject to updates and revisions in 1992 and again in 2002, both of which are currently available for use. Banks and other corporations around the world use ISDA Master Agreements. The ISDA Master Agreement also makes transaction closeout and netting easier, as it bridges the gap between various standards used in different jurisdictions.






ISDA Master Agreements are used by firms around the world.



Most multinational banks have ISDA Master Agreements in place with each other. These agreements usually cover all branches that are active in foreign exchange, interest rate, or options trading. Banks require corporate counterparties to sign an agreement to enter into swaps. Some also demand agreements for foreign exchange transactions. While the ISDA Master Agreement is standard, some of its terms and conditions are amended and defined in the accompanying schedule. The schedule is negotiated to cover either (a) the requirements of a specific hedging transaction or (b) an ongoing trading relationship.



A Credit Support Annex (CSA) sometimes also accompanies the Master. The CSA allows the two parties involved to mitigate their credit risk by stipulating the terms and conditions under which they're required to post collateral to each other.






   Benefits of an ISDA Master Agreement  

The most significant advantages of an ISDA Master Agreement are improved transparency and higher liquidity. Since the agreement is standardized, all parties can study the ISDA Master Agreement to learn how it works. That improves transparency because it reduces the possibilities for obscure provisions and escape clauses. The standardization provided by an ISDA Master Agreement also increases liquidity since the agreement makes it easier for the parties to engage in repeated transactions. The clarification of terms offered by such an agreement saves time and legal fees for everyone involved.


   Requirements for an ISDA Master Agreement  

The master agreement and schedule set out the grounds under which one of the parties can force the closeout of covered transactions due to the occurrence of a termination event by the other party. Standard termination events include failure to pay or bankruptcy. Other termination events that can be added in the schedule include a credit downgrade below a specified level.



The ISDA Master Agreement stipulates whether the laws of the U.K. or New York state will apply. It also sets out the terms for valuing, closing out, and netting all covered transactions in case of a termination event.
What Is iShares?  

A global leader in exchange-traded funds (ETFs), iShares has over $2 trillion invested in more than 800 different product offerings across a wide range of asset classes and investment strategies. iShares is a subsidiary of BlackRock, the world's largest asset management company, and BlackRock is responsible for issuing and marketing iShares products.



Founded in the year 2000, the initial iShares listings were established on major exchanges such as the NYSE Euronext, Chicago Board Options Exchange, Nasdaq, and NYSE Arca.





Key Takeaways

iShares is one of the world's largest and well-known ETF providers, offering more than 800 products worldwide.Founded in the year 2000, iShares now manages over $2 trillion among its exchange-traded funds.iShares is a subsidiary of BlackRock.


   The Basics of iShares  

ETFs from iShares are a flexible, low-cost way for investors to gain exposure to various market segments, including fixed income, emerging markets and broad-based indexes. For example, the iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV) tracks the S&P 500 Index, whereas the iShares MSCI Emerging Market ETF (EEM) follows more than 800 large and mid-cap companies in developing countries.



By combining low fees with tax efficiency in an asset that seeks to match an index, ETFs can build greater longer term savings compared with mutual funds. Beyond savings, most ETFs aim to match the performance of a benchmark index, which means turnover is less frequent and thus fees are lower. However, this doesn't come at the expense of performance. In fact, iShares Core ETFs outperformed more than 76% of their peers on average from 2015 to 2020.   



Almost all major global marketplaces list iShares funds, including the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange, among others. At any given time, iShares and Vanguard represent more than 50% of the total ETF market.


   Examples of iShares ETFs  

For U.S. investors, iShares offers 394 ETFs focused on commodities, equities, fixed income, multi assets, and real estate. In addition, investors can choose to focus on developing, emerging or frontier markets; specific regions and individual countries; industry sectors; megatrends such as climate change, demographic change and technological breakthroughs; thematic investing such as Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria; and other selection methodologies. Below are some popular products under the iShares brand: 



iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV): This ETF tracking the S&P 500 Index held approximately $286 billion in assets as of June 2021. It has an expense ratio of 0.03% and has returned 7.27% annually since its inception in May 2000, compared with 7.33% for its benchmark.
iShares MSCI EAFE ETF (EFA): This ETF provides access to more than 900 stocks for companies in Europe, Australia Asia, and the Far East. The fund held about $56.8 billion in assets as of June 2021. It has an expense ratio of 0.32% and has returned 5.84% annually since its inception in August 2001.
iShares Core US Aggregate Bond ETF (AGG): This ETF provides broad exposure to investment-grade bonds in the U.S. The fund held approximately $88.8 billion in assets as of June 2021. It has an expense ratio of 0.04% and has returned 4.02% annually since its inception in September 2003.
What Is Islamic Banking?  

Islamic banking, also referred to as Islamic finance or Shariah-compliant finance, refers to financial activities that adhere to Shariah (Islamic law). Two fundamental principles of Islamic banking are the sharing of profit and loss and the prohibition of the collection and payment of interest by lenders and investors.





Key Takeaways

Islamic banking, also referred to as Islamic finance or Shariah-compliant finance, refers to finance or banking activities that adhere to Shariah (Islamic law).Two fundamental principles of Islamic banking are the sharing of profit and loss and the prohibition of the collection and payment of interest by lenders and investors.Islamic banks make a profit through equity participation, which requires a borrower to give the bank a share in their profits rather than paying interest.Some conventional banks have windows or sections that provide designated Islamic banking services to their customers.


   How Islamic Banking Practices Work  

There are more than 560 banks and over 1,900 mutual funds around the world that comply with Islamic principles. Between 2015 and 2021, Islamic financial assets grew to about $4 trillion from $2.17 trillion and are projected to rise to roughly $5.9 trillion by 2026, according to a 2022 report by the Islamic Corporation for the Development of Private Sector (ICD) and Refinitiv.



This growth is largely due to the rising economies of Muslim countries (especially those that have benefited from oil price increases).





Note

The global Islamic finance industry grew in 2021 and 2022 due to increased bond issuance and a continuing economic recovery in the financial markets, according to S&P Global Ratings. Islamic assets also managed to expand over 10% in 2020, despite the pandemic.



Islamic banking is grounded in the tenets of the Islamic faith as they relate to commercial transactions. The principles of Islamic banking are derived from the Quran, which is the central religious text of Islam. In Islamic banking, all transactions must comply with Shariah, the legal code of Islam (based on the teachings of the Quran). The rules that govern commercial transactions in Islamic banking are referred to as fiqh al-muamalat.



Employees of institutions that abide by Islamic banking are trusted to not deviate from the fundamental principles of the Quran while they are conducting business. When more information or guidance is necessary, Islamic bankers turn to learned scholars or use independent reasoning based on scholarship and customary practices.



One of the primary differences between conventional banking systems and Islamic banking is that Islamic banking prohibits usury and speculation. Shariah strictly prohibits any form of speculation or gambling, which is referred to as maisir.



Shariah also prohibits taking interest on loans. In addition, any investments involving items or substances that are prohibited in the Quran—including alcohol, gambling, and pork—are also prohibited. In this way, Islamic banking can be considered a culturally distinct form of ethical investing. 






An Islamic bank is entirely operated using Islamic principles, while an Islamic window refers to services that are based on Islamic principles provided by a conventional bank. Some commercial banks offer Islamic banking services through dedicated windows or sections.



To earn money without the typical practice of charging interest, Islamic banks use equity participation systems. Equity participation means if a bank lends money to a business, the business will pay back the loan without interest and instead give the bank a share in its profits.



If the business defaults or doesn't earn a profit, then the bank also doesn't benefit. In general, Islamic banking institutions tend to be more risk-averse in their investment practices. As a result, they typically avoid business that could be associated with economic bubbles.


   History of Islamic Banking  

The practices of Islamic banking are usually traced back to businesspeople in the Middle East who started engaging in financial transactions with their European counterparts during the Medieval era.



At first, they used the same financial principles as the Europeans. However, over time, as trading systems developed and European countries started establishing local branches of their banks in the Middle East, some of these banks adopted the local customs of the region where they were newly established, primarily no-interest financial systems that worked on a profit-and-loss sharing method.



By adopting these practices, these European banks could also serve the needs of local businesspeople who were Muslim.






Beginning in the 1960s, Islamic banking resurfaced in the modern world, and since 1975, many new interest-free banks have opened.



Though the majority of these Islamic banking institutions were founded in Muslim countries, Islamic banks also opened in Western Europe during the early 1980s. In addition, national interest-free banking systems have been developed by the governments of Iran, Sudan, and (to a lesser extent) Pakistan.


   Example of Islamic Banking  

The Mit-Ghamr Savings Bank, established in 1963 in Egypt, is commonly referred to as the first example of Islamic banking in the modern world. When Mit-Ghamr lent money to businesses, it did so based on a profit-sharing model.



The Mit-Ghamr project was closed in 1967 due to political factors, but during its year of operations, the bank exercised a great deal of caution, only approving about 40% of its business loan applications. However, in economically good times, the bank's default ratio was said to be zero.




What Is the Basis of Islamic Banking?
Islamic banking is grounded in the tenets of the Islamic faith as they relate to commercial transactions. The principles of Islamic banking are derived from the Quran, the central religious text of Islam. In Islamic banking, all transactions must comply with Shariah, the legal code of Islam based on the teachings of the Quran. The rules that govern commercial transactions in Islamic banking are referred to as fiqh al-muamalat.




How Are Conventional and Islamic Banking Different?
One of the primary differences between conventional banking systems and Islamic banking is that Islamic banking prohibits usury and speculation. Shariah strictly prohibits any form of speculation or gambling, which is referred to as maisir. Shariah also prohibits taking interest on loans. Also, any investments involving items or substances forbidden in the Quran—including alcohol, gambling, and pork—are prohibited.




How Do Islamic Banks Make Money?
To earn money without the typical practice of charging interest, Islamic banks use equity participation systems, which are similar to profit sharing. Equity participation means if a bank lends money to a business, the business will pay back the loan without interest and instead give the bank a share in its profits. If the business defaults or doesn't earn a profit, then the bank also doesn't get paid.


   The Bottom Line  

Islamic banking is also referred to as Islamic finance or Shariah-compliant finance. It refers to finance or banking activities that comply with Islamic law.



There are many differences between Islamic and mainstream finance, but two of the most important are the methods of sharing profit and loss, and the prohibition of the collection and payment of interest by lenders and investors. Shariah also prohibits taking interest on loans. Islamic banks make a profit through equity participation, which requires a borrower to give the bank a share in their profits, rather than paying interest.
What Is the ISM Manufacturing Index?  

The ISM manufacturing index, also known as the purchasing managers' index (PMI), is a monthly indicator of U.S. economic activity based on a survey of purchasing managers at more than 300 manufacturing firms. It is considered to be a key indicator of the state of the U.S. economy. Formally called the Manufacturing ISM Report on Business, the survey is conducted by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM).





Key Takeaways

The ISM manufacturing index or purchasing managers' index is considered a key indicator of the state of the U.S. economy.It indicates the level of demand for products by measuring the amount of ordering activity at the nation's factories.The PMI number, which is announced on the first business day of each month, can greatly influence investor and business confidence.The Manufacturing Index report outlines index movement for manufacturing, new orders, production, employment, inventory, prices, and backlogs.In December 2022, the November 2022 Manufacturing Index reported the country's first contraction in manufacturing in 29 months.


   What Does the ISM Manufacturing Index Measure?  

The ISM manufacturing index or PMI measures the change in production levels across the U.S. economy from month to month. The report is released on the first business day of each month. Thus, it is one of the earliest indicators of economic activity that investors and business people get regularly.



The ISM manufacturing index is a composite index that gives equal weighting to new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries, and inventories. Each factor is seasonally adjusted.



The ISM Report on Business contains three separate purchasing managers indexes based on surveys. In addition to the manufacturing PMI, the ISM produces a services PMI, for the non-manufacturing sector, which is released on the third business day of the month. A hospital's PMI is released on the fifth business day of the month. The Institute also releases a Semi-Annual Economic Forecast in May and December.






A PMI above 50 indicates an expansion of the manufacturing segment of the economy compared to the previous month. A reading of 50 means no change. A reading below 50 suggests a contraction.


   Uses of the ISM Manufacturing Index  

By monitoring the ISM manufacturing index, investors can better understand national economic trends and conditions. When the index is rising, investors anticipate a bullish stock market in reaction to higher corporate profits. The opposite is the case in the bond markets, which may fall as the ISM Manufacturing Index rises because of the sensitivity of bonds to inflation.



The monthly announcement of the ISM manufacturing index can greatly influence investor and business confidence. This is because the index is a survey of purchasing managers and supply management executives who are at the forefront of their companies' supply chains. Purchasing managers are in the best position to assess the ebb and flow of business conditions. The manufacturers they work for must respond quickly to changes in demand, ramping up or scaling back purchases of materials they use in anticipation of demand for their finished products.



An index of more than 50 indicates an expansion in the manufacturing segment of the economy in comparison with the previous month while a reading of 50 indicates no change and a reading below 50 suggests a contraction of the manufacturing sector.


   Index Construction  

The ISM survey is broadly diversified across industries based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), which is weighted by each industry's share of U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). Survey responses are delineated into 17 industry sectors, such as chemical products, computer, and electronic products, and transportation equipment.



Survey respondents are asked whether activities in their organizations are increasing, decreasing, or stagnant. The activities include new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries, inventories, customers' inventories, commodity prices, order backlog, new export orders, and imports.



For each of the categories, a diffusion index is calculated by adding the percentage of respondents reporting an increase to half of the percentage of respondents reporting no change. The composite manufacturing index is calculated by taking an equal 20% weighting for five categories of questions on new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries, and inventories.



The PMI has been calculated and published monthly since 1948 by the ISM, a not-for-profit professional association.


   Example of ISM Manufacturing Index  

In the beginning of December 2022, the ISM released the series index information for November 2022. The monthly report compared series data from October 2022. Index information from the report is below.














ISM Manufacturing Index, November 2022


Index
Series Index Nov
Series Index Oct
Percentage Point Change
Direction
Rate of Change
Trend (Months)




Manufacturing PMI®
49.0
50.2
-1.2
Contracting
From Growing
1


New Orders
47.2
49.2
-2.0
Contracting
Faster
3


Production
51.5
52.3
-0.8
Growing
Slower
30


Employment
48.4
50.0
-1.6
Contracting
From Unchanged
1


Supplier Deliveries
47.2
46.8
+0.4
Faster
Slower
2


Inventories
50.9
52.5
-1.6
Growing
Slower
16


Customers’ Inventories
48.7
41.6
+7.1
Too Low
Slower
74


Prices
43.0
46.6
-3.6
Decreasing
Faster
2


Backlog of Orders
40.0
45.3
-5.3
Contracting
Faster
2


New Export Orders
48.4
46.5
+1.9
Contracting
Slower
4


Imports
46.6
50.8
-4.2
Contracting
From Growing
1






The first three columns from the report indicate the most recent findings from the survey as well as the month-over-month change in each index. The report also signals the rate of change in addition to longer-term trends (how long each index has been moving in any given direction in terms of months).



The example above from December 2022 was the first time since May 2022 that the manufacturing sector had contracted. This can be noted by the '1' for the 'Manufacturing PMI' trend. This index has grown 29 consecutive months prior to this trend reversal.



Last, the ISM does provide commentary on the report. In the example above, the ISM noted that "companies continue to judiciously manage hiring" and "managing head counts and total supply chain inventories remain primary goals". In addition, the ISM includes commentary on several manufacturing industries not explicitly called out in their table of information. For example, six manufacturing industries reported growth in November, led by the apparel industry.




What Is the Current ISM Manufacturing Index?
As of November 2022, the United States ISM Manufacturing PMI is 49.00.




When Is ISM Data Released?
The ISM Manufacturing Report On Business is released the first business day of each month at 10:00am EST. The Services ISM Report on Business is released the third business day of each month at the same time.




How Do I Read PMI Data?
The ISM Manufacturing Index states figures as a number that indicates whether the manufacturing sector is growing or contracting. A PMI reading over 50 (or over 50%) means the sector is growing compared to the previous month, while a PMI reading under 50 (or under 50%) means the sector has month-over-month contracted.




Is ISM A Leading Indicator?
ISM PMI data is considered to be a leading indicator of economic trends. Not only does the ISM Manufacturing Index report information on the prior two months, it outlines long-term trends that have been building over time based on prevailing economic conditions.


   The Bottom Line  

The Institute for Supply Management's monthly Manufacturing PMI Report on Business outlines directional trends for several manufacturing indexes. This report details month-over-month changes in growth or contraction in addition to reporting how long each index has been moving in its current direction. The ISM Manufacturing Index is useful in understanding the direction of economic activity from the lens of the country's primary manufacturing companies.
What Is an ISO Currency Code?  

ISO currency codes are the three-letter alphabetic codes that represent the various currencies used throughout the world. When combined in pairs, they make up the symbols and cross rates used in currency trading.



Each of the country-specific three-letter alphabetic codes also have a corresponding three-digit numeric code. These codes are identified by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), a nongovernmental organization that provides standards for manufacturing, commerce, technology, and communication. For currencies, the governing document is called ISO 4217:2015.





Key Takeaways

ISO currency codes are the three-letter alphabetic codes that represent the various currencies used throughout the world.The ISO standard committees established standardized currency codes in 1978.ISO currency codes designate the base and quote currencies in forex price quotes.ISO has also designated lesser know numeric equivalents to the three-letter currency codes.


   Understanding ISO Currency Codes  

ISO currency codes are central to currency pairs, which are the quotation and pricing structures of the currencies traded in the forex market. The value of a currency is a rate and is determined by its comparison to another currency.



The first three-digit code used to designate a currency in a currency pair quotation is called the base currency, and the second currency is called the quote currency. The currency pair indicates how much of the quote currency is needed to purchase one unit of the base currency.



For example, EUR/USD is the quote for the euro against the U.S. dollar. EUR is the three-letter ISO currency code for the euro, and USD is the code for the U.S. dollar. A quoted price for this pair of 1.2500 means that one euro is exchanged for 1.2500 U.S. dollars because, in this case, EUR is the base currency and USD is the quote currency (or counter currency). This means that 1 euro can be exchanged for 1.25 U.S. dollars. Another way of looking at this is that it will cost you USD $125 to buy EUR 100.



ISO wasn't involved in currency transactions until 1973 when the standards-making body decided it would be useful to be involved. After five years of collaboration and deliberation, the first standardized currency codes were published in 1978, with a standard on how they should change.


   Special Considerations  

According to the ISO website, "ISO 4217:2015 specifies the structure for a three-letter alphabetic code and an equivalent three-digit numeric code for the representation of currencies. For those currencies having minor units, it also shows the decimal relationship between such units and the currency itself." For example, the three-digit numeric code for the U.S. dollar is 840, and the numeric code for the euro is 978. But you wouldn't see currencies quoted using numbers like this (978/840).



Though, as the ISO document explains, "ISO 4217:2015 is intended for use in any application of trade, commerce, and banking, where currencies and, where appropriate, funds are required to be described. It is designed to be equally suitable for manual users and for those employing automated systems." Were it useful to do so, trading or order processing algorithms could use numeric codes for more effective processing.


   Major Currency Codes  

The ISO website offers a complete list of currency codes in XML and XMS formats. All of the major currency pairs have very liquid markets that trade 24 hours a day every business day, and they have very narrow spreads.



The major currency pairs are as follows:



EUR/USD - euro / U.S. dollar
GBP/USD - Great Britain pound (sterling) / U.S. dollar
USD/JPY - U.S. dollar / Japanese yen
USD/CHF - U.S. dollar / Swiss Franc






Value traded vs. the U.S. dollar is the top criteria for classification as major currency pairs.



Other important currencies include:



AUD - Australian dollar
CAD - Canadian dollar
CNY - China yuan renminbi
NZD - New Zealand dollar
INR - Indian rupee
BZR - Brazilian real
SEK - Swedish krona
ZAR - South African rand
HKD - Hong Kong dollar
What Is an Isoquant Curve?  

An isoquant curve is a concave-shaped line on a graph, used in the study of microeconomics, that charts all the factors, or inputs, that produce a specified level of output. This graph is used as a metric for the influence that the inputs—most commonly, capital and labor—have on the obtainable level of output or production.



The isoquant curve assists companies and businesses in making adjustments to inputs to maximize production, and thus profits.





Key Takeaways

An isoquant curve is a concave line plotted on a graph, showing all of the various combinations of two inputs that result in the same amount of output.Most typically, an isoquant shows combinations of capital and labor and the technological trade-off between the two.The isoquant curve assists companies and businesses in making adjustments to their manufacturing operations, to produce the most goods at the most minimal cost.The isoquant curve demonstrates the principle of the marginal rate of technical substitution, which shows the rate at which you can substitute one input for another, without changing the level of resulting output.Isoquant curves all share seven basic properties, including the fact that they cannot be tangent or intersect one another, they tend to slope downward, and ones representing higher output are placed higher and to the right.


   Understanding an Isoquant Curve  

The term "isoquant," broken down in Latin, means “equal quantity,” with “iso” meaning equal and “quant” meaning quantity. Essentially, the curve represents a consistent amount of output. The isoquant is known, alternatively, as an equal product curve or a production indifference curve. It may also be called an iso-product curve.



Most typically, an isoquant shows combinations of capital and labor, and the technological tradeoff between the two—how much capital would be required to replace a unit of labor at a certain production point to generate the same output. Labor is often placed along the X-axis of the isoquant graph, and capital along the Y-axis.



Due to the law of diminishing returns—the economic theory that predicts that after some optimal level of production capacity is reached, adding other factors will actually result in smaller increases in output—an isoquant curve usually has a concave shape. The exact slope of the isoquant curve on the graph shows the rate at which a given input, either labor or capital, can be substituted for the other while keeping the same output level.



For example, in the graph below, Factor K represents capital, and Factor L stands for labor. The curve shows that when a firm moves down from point (a) to point (b) and it uses one additional unit of labor, the firm can give up four units of capital (K) and yet remain on the same isoquant at point (b). If the firm hires another unit of labor and moves from point (b) to (c), the firm can reduce its use of capital (K) by three units but remain on the same isoquant.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 


   Isoquant Curve vs. Indifference Curve  

The isoquant curve is in a sense the flip side of another microeconomic measure, the indifference curve. The mapping of the isoquant curve addresses cost-minimization problems for producers—the best way to manufacture goods. The indifference curve, on the other hand, measures the optimal ways consumers use goods. It attempts to analyze consumer behavior, and map out consumer demand.



When plotted on a graph, an indifference curve shows a combination of two goods (one on the Y-axis, the other on the X-axis) that give a consumer equal satisfaction and equal utility, or use. This makes the consumer "indifferent"—not in the sense of being bored by them, but in the sense of not having a preference between them.



The indifference curve attempts to identify at what point an individual stops being indifferent to the combination of goods. Let's say Mary loves both apples and oranges. An indifference curve might show that Mary sometimes buys six of each every week, sometimes five apples and seven oranges, and sometimes eight apples and four oranges—any of these combinations suits her (or, she is indifferent to them, in econo-speak). Any greater disparity between the quantities of fruit, though, and her interest and buying pattern shifts. An analyst would look at this data, and try to figure out why: Is it the relative cost of the two fruits? The fact that one spoils easier than the other?



Although isoquant and indifference curves have a similar sloping shape, the indifference curve is read as convex, bulging outward from its point of origin.






Central as it is to economic theory, the creator of the isoquant curve is unknown; it has been attributed to different economists. The term "isoquant" seems to have been coined by Ragnar Frisch, appearing in his notes for lectures on production theory at the University of Oslo in 1928-29. Whatever its origins, by the late 1930s, the isoquant graph was in widespread use by industrialists and industrial economists.


   The Properties of an Isoquant Curve  
  Property 1: An isoquant curve slopes downward, or is negatively sloped.  

This means that the same level of production only occurs when increasing units of input are offset with lesser units of another input factor. This property falls in line with the principle of the Marginal Rate of Technical Substitution (MRTS). As an example, the same level of output could be achieved by a company when capital inputs increase, but labor inputs decrease.


  Property 2: An isoquant curve, because of the MRTS effect, is convex to its origin.  

This indicates that factors of production may be substituted with one another. The increase in one factor, however, must still be used in conjunction with the decrease of another input factor.


  Property 3: Isoquant curves cannot be tangent or intersect one another.  

Curves that intersect are incorrect and produce results that are invalid, as a common factor combination on each of the curves will reveal the same level of output, which is not possible.


  Property 4: Isoquant curves in the upper portions of the chart yield higher outputs.  

This is because, at a higher curve, factors of production are more heavily employed. Either more capital or more labor input factors result in a greater level of production.


  Property 5: An isoquant curve should not touch the X or Y axis on the graph.  

If it does, the rate of technical substitution is void, as it will indicate that one factor is responsible for producing the given level of output without the involvement of any other input factors.


  Property 6: Isoquant curves do not have to be parallel to one another.  

The rate of technical substitution between factors may have variations.


  Property 7: Isoquant curves are oval-shaped.  

This allows firms to determine the most efficient factors of production.




What Is an Isoquant in Economics?
An isoquant in economics is a curve that, when plotted on a graph, shows all the combinations of two factors that produce a given output. Often used in manufacturing, with capital and labor as the two factors, isoquants can show the optimal combination of inputs that will produce the maximum output at minimum cost.




What Is an Isoquant and Its Properties?
An isoquant is a concave-shaped curve on a graph that measures output, and the trade-off between two factors needed to keep that output constant. Among the properties of isoquants:An isoquant slopes downward from left to rightThe higher and more to the right an isoquant is on a graph, the higher the level of output it representsTwo isoquants can not intersect each otherAn isoquant is convex to its origin pointAn isoquant is oval-shaped




What Is Isoquant and Isocost?
Both isocosts and isoquants are curves plotted on a graph. Used by producers and manufacturers, they display the best interplay of two factors that will result in the maximum output at minimum cost. An isoquant shows all combinations of factors that produce a certain output. An isocost show all combinations of factors that cost the same amount.


   How Do You Calculate an Isoquant?  

An isoquant is a graph showing combinations of two factors, usually capital and labor, that will yield the same output. To calculate an isoquant, you use the formula for the marginal rate of technical substitution (MRTS):



















MRTS(


L


, 


K


)



=


−




Δ


K




Δ


L




=




MP


L




MP


K


















where:
















K


=


Capital
















L


=


Labor
















MP


=


Marginal products of each input


















Δ


K




Δ


L




=


Amount of capital that can be reduced
















when labor is increased (typically by one unit)







\begin{aligned} &\text{MRTS(\textit{L}, \textit{K})} = - \frac{ \Delta K }{ \Delta L } = \frac{ \text {MP}_L }{ \text {MP}_K } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &K = \text{Capital} \\ &L = \text{Labor} \\ &\text{MP} = \text{Marginal products of each input} \\ &\frac{ \Delta K }{ \Delta L } = \text{Amount of capital that can be reduced}\\ &\text{when labor is increased (typically by one unit)} \\ \end{aligned}


​MRTS(L, K)=−ΔLΔK​=MPK​MPL​​where:K=CapitalL=LaborMP=Marginal products of each inputΔLΔK​=Amount of capital that can be reducedwhen labor is increased (typically by one unit)​



For example, in the graph of an isoquant where capital (represented with K on its Y-axis and labor (represented with L) on its X-axis, the slope of the isoquant, or the MRTS at any one point, is calculated as dL/dK.




What Is the Slope of an Isoquant?
The slope of the isoquant indicates the marginal rate of technical substitution (MRTS):  the rate at which you can substitute one input, such as labor, for another input, such as capital, without changing the resulting output level. The slope also indicates, at any point along the curve how much capital would be required to replace a unit of labor at that production point.


   The Bottom Line  

The isoquant curve is a sloping line on a graph that shows all of the various combinations of the two inputs that result in the same amount of output. It's a microeconomic metric that businesses use to adjust the relative amounts of capital and labor they need to keep production steady—thus, figuring out how to maximize profits and minimize costs.
What Is an Internet Service Provider (ISP)?  

The term “internet service provider (ISP)” refers to a company that provides access to the internet to both personal and business customers. ISPs make it possible for their customers to surf the web, shop online, conduct business, and connect with family and friends—all for a fee.



ISPs may also provide other services, including email services, domain registration, web hosting, and browser packages. An ISP may also be referred to as an information service provider, a storage service provider, an internet network service provider (INSP), or any combination of these three based on the services offered by the company.  





Key Takeaways

An internet service provider (ISP) is a company that provides web access to businesses and consumers.ISPs may also provide other services such as email services, domain registration, web hosting, and browser services.An ISP is considered to be an information service provider, storage service provider, internet network service provider (INSP), or a mix of all of them.Internet use has evolved from only those with university or government accounts having access to nearly everyone having access, whether it’s paid or free.Access has gone from dial-up connections to high-speed broadband technology.


   What Is the Purpose of Internet Service Providers (ISPs)?  

Internet service was originally limited to government agencies and specific university departments. The technology was developed to provide access to the general public through the World Wide Web in the late 1980s. Initially, consumers were able to gain limited access through a few ISPs—America Online (AOL) being one of the most recognized names at the time—that used dial-up connections using a phone line.



The number of ISPs increased to several thousand during the mid-1990s, and the boom was on. As the options for connectivity increased and speeds moved away from slower dial-up connections, the internet economy was born. Providers developed more advanced technology, allowing customers high-speed access via broadband technology through cable and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems.



Behind all of this was a multilayered web of connections. Local ISPs sold access to customers but paid larger ISPs for their own access. These larger ISPs, in turn, paid even larger ISPs for access. The trail leads to Tier 1 carriers that can reach every network access point without having to pay for access. These Tier 1 companies own the infrastructure in their region.



Internet service providers provide their customers access to the internet—plain access providers just handle the traffic between the individual and the internet as a whole. But there may also be other services bundled in depending on the customer’s location and availability. Some of these services include:



Email servicesWeb hosting servicesDomain registrationBrowser and software packages 






As of April 2021, approximately 93% of American adults use the internet and 77% of American adults have broadband internet service at home.


   What Are Tier 1 Internet Service Providers?  

Consumers and businesses are accustomed to the idea that they should be able to connect to the internet from anywhere—whether at home or while sitting in a local coffee shop. To deliver connectivity at high speed, companies have to invest in expensive infrastructure that includes fiber optic cables.



Because of the high cost of investment, Tier 1 ISPs often appear like a monopoly in their regions. A specific company may appear to have near-total or total control of the market in a particular area. In the United States, companies may appear to operate in an oligopoly rather than a monopoly, where two or more companies work together to achieve market returns. This idea is reinforced by the fact that some of the major American ISPs got there using infrastructure that they inherited from the original telecom monopoly that was Ma Bell.



Current Tier 1 ISPs continue to invest in infrastructure, and they may well be the only players in that market until new technologies that don’t depend on fiber in the ground emerge. Think the likes of Starlink, an entity inside SpaceX, founded by Elon Musk, which is developing a low-latency, broadband internet system that aims to meet the needs of consumers around the globe, enabled by a constellation of low Earth orbit satellites. The ongoing demand for faster speeds and an improved internet experience means that some of the biggest ISPs have begun investing heavily in 5G wireless technology.


  Google Fiber  

Others have tried to enter the Tier 1 ISP market and have met with mixed results. Alphabet, Google’s parent company, ran Google Fiber as part of its Access Division—an ambitious project to lay a new network of fiber across the U.S.—but this plan was scaled back in 2016.



For a while, it looked like Google Fiber would be available only in a limited number of cities. However, in July 2020, the company announced it was partnering with West Des Moines, Iowa, to provide that city’s residents and businesses with gigabit internet service. This represents Google Fiber’s first expansion in four years.



While it’s too early to tell if this represents an overall trend that will see Google Fiber in more regions across the U.S., West Des Moines joins 19 other regions where Google Fiber ISP services are available. Some of the areas include Atlanta; Austin and San Antonio, Texas; Huntsville, Ala.; Orange County, Calif.; Charlotte, N.C.; Nashville; Denver; Chicago; and Salt Lake City and Provo, Utah.


   What Is an Example of an Internet Service Provider?  

Many of the largest ISPs are also large telecommunications companies that provide a wide array of services. For example, in addition to data and broadband internet services, AT&T (T) provides local and long-distance telephone service, managed networking, telecom equipment, and feature film, television, and gaming production and distribution.



Verizon Communications (VZ) is another ISP that has a diversified range of services. The conglomerate offers local and long-distance voice, as well as broadband video, data center and cloud services, and security and managed network services.



To help low-income families and seniors handle the cost, some ISPs offer special programs. The federal government also opened an Emergency Broadband Benefit (EBB) program on May 12, 2021, to provide help to families to get these services.




Is an internet service provider (ISP) the same as a WiFi provider?
No, an internet service provider (ISP) and a WiFi provider are two different things. The main difference is that an ISP provides access to the internet often through cable, digital subscriber line (DSL), fiber, or satellite connections. ISPs, such as AT&T or Verizon, can be wired to a location such as a home or an office building directly. By contrast, WiFi providers allow you to access the internet through a wireless connection. With WiFi technology, a modem delivers internet service and a wireless router connects to the modem. The internet is converted into a wireless signal by the modem.




What are different types of ISPs?
The two main types of ISPs are cable or DSL. However, other types exist, often in more remote locations. Cable connections are used by multiple neighbors, which can affect the cable access speed. Telephone service providers offer DSL connections, which connect a DSL router to a phone jack or phone cable.Dial-up connections are most often used in rural areas, which use a phone connection that is connected to a remote server.




What are some common ISPs?
Among the largest ISPs in the United States are Comcast, Charter, AT&T, and Verizon.
What Is an Issue?  

An issue is a process of offering securities in order to raise funds from investors. Companies may issue bonds or stocks to investors as a method of financing the business.



The term "issue" also refers to a series of stocks or bonds that have been offered to the public and typically relates to the set of instruments that were released under one offering.





Key Takeaways

An issue is an offering of new securities to investors in an effort to raise capital.Issues of bonds can be made as long as there is investor appetite for the company's debt. That appetite is influenced by the company's ability to make bond payments.Additional issues of shares of stock lead to dilution, which may push down stock prices.


   Understanding Issues  

The issuance of securities can take many forms. Companies may have a new issue, in which they release a security for the first time, or a seasoned issue, in which an established firm offers additional shares. In general, an issue tends to refer to a particular offering. For example, if a company sells a group of 10-year bonds to the public, that set of bonds will be referred to as a single issue.



If a company needs capital, among its options are selling stocks or issuing bonds. In a secondary offering, the board of directors votes to issue more shares and increase the number of shares available in the market for trading. The proceeds from selling additional shares to the public go directly to the company.



Likewise, if a business wants to move existing debt and create new debt at the same time, it might decide to issue bonds. The company borrows money from investors and repays it with interest. The interest is a tax-deductible expense that reduces the corporation’s cost of borrowing.


   Factors in Issuing Stocks or Bonds  

Companies need to consider business goals when deciding whether to sell stock or to issue bonds. Issuing stocks or bonds in order to raise capital for projects can have the effect of changing the capital structure of a firm (which is comprised of a mix of debt and equity). How weighted a company's structure is in either debt or capital determines the cost of capital for the company. The cost of issuing debt is the interest rate that the issuing company has to periodically pay its investors and lenders. The cost of issuing equity is dividend payments. Finding a good balance between both types of securities can help a firm avoid paying a high cost of capital.



Money from equity investment doesn't need to be repaid, nor do dividends associated with shares need to be paid as interest does with bonds. Since each issue of stock changes an investor's ownership in the company, there is a limit to how much stock a company can issue as dilution becomes a problem.



However, corporations can issue bonds as long as investors are willing to act as lenders. Because companies can pay bondholders a lower interest rate and retain greater control over funding, issuing bonds is less expensive than borrowing from a bank. Bonds do not change the ownership or operation of a company that is owned while selling stock does. Record-keeping is simpler with bondholders, as all bonds with the same issuance earn the same interest rate and have the same maturity date. Bond offerings are also more flexible than stock issuance.


   Stock and Bond Underwriting  

Companies issuing stocks and bonds may use investment banks to facilitate the process. For example, if a company decides to sell bonds, the investment bank determines the value and riskiness of the corporation, then determines the prices, and finally underwrites and sells the bonds to the public or privately in a so-called private placement. Investment banks might also underwrite stocks or other securities for an initial public offering (IPO) or secondary public offering. Book runners may be assigned to larger accounts.



Underwriting involves conducting thorough research and assessing the degree of risk associated with a new issue. This check helps to set fair borrowing rates for loans and create a market for securities by accurately pricing investment risk. If the risk is deemed too high, an underwriter may refuse to participate or will require a higher yield. Underwriting ensures that the company's IPO will raise the amount of capital needed, and provides the underwriters with a premium or profit for their service. Investors benefit from the vetting process that underwriting provides and the ability it gives them to make an informed investment decision.



This type of underwriting can involve individual stocks as well as debt securities, including government, corporate, or municipal bonds. Underwriters or their employers purchase these securities to resell them for a profit either to investors or dealers (who sell them to other buyers). When more than one underwriter or group of underwriters is involved, this is known as an underwriter syndicate.
What Are Issued Shares?  

Issued shares are the subset of authorized shares that have been sold to and held by the shareholders of a company, regardless of whether they are insiders, institutional investors, or the general public (as shown in the company’s annual report). Issued shares include the stock a company sells publicly to generate capital and the stock given to insiders as part of their compensation packages.



Thus, authorized shares are the total amount a company can ever issue or sell, and issued shares are the portion of authorized shares that a company has sold or otherwise placed in the market, including shares they hold in their treasury.



Issued shares also differ from outstanding shares, or the number of shares that are in the market and available for purchase by investors but do not include shares the company holds in its treasury. Issued shares may be contrasted with unissued shares, which have been authorized for future offering but have not been issued yet.





Key Takeaways

Issued shares refer to a company's total stock of equity shares held by investors, insiders, and held in reserve for employee compensation.Unlike outstanding shares, issued shares factor in treasury shares—stock a company buys back from shareholders.The number of shares issued must be first authorized and approved by a company's board of directors.


   Understanding Issued Shares  

A company issues a share only once; after that, investors may sell it to another investor on the secondary market. When companies buy back their own shares, the shares remain listed as issued, even though they become classified as "treasury shares" because the company may resell them. For a small, closely-held corporation, the original owners may hold all of the issued shares.



The number of issued shares is recorded on a company’s balance sheet as capital stock, or owners' equity, while shares outstanding (issued shares minus any shares in the treasury) are listed on the company’s quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The number of outstanding shares is also found in the capital section of a company’s annual report.






The number of issued and outstanding shares, which is used to calculate market capitalization and earnings per share (EPS), are often the same.



Authorized shares are those a company’s founders or board of directors (B of D) have approved in their corporate filing paperwork. Issued shares are those that the owners have decided to sell in exchange for cash, which may be less than the number of shares actually authorized.



Shares issued generate the assets or other value given for founding a company or growing it later on. For example, a company may retain authorized shares in order to conduct a secondary offering later, sometimes called a tender offering, or hold them for employee stock options (ESO).


   Issued Shares and Ownership  

Ownership of a corporation can be measured by identifying which investors were issued shares at a company’s startup or via a secondary offering. Ownership may also be measured by counting issued and outstanding shares, along with those that may become issued if all authorized stock options are exercised, which is known as the fully diluted calculation.



In addition, ownership may be measured by using issued and authorized stock as a forecast of the position shareholders may be in at a future date. This is called the working model calculation. All board members must use the same calculation when making decisions or plans for the business.


  Example  

For example, if a startup company issues 10 million shares out of 20 million authorized shares to an owner, and the owner’s shares are the only ones issued, the owner has 100% of the corporation.



Boards typically use the fully diluted or working-model calculation for planning and projecting. For instance, if the board believes it may issue two million additional shares to an investor and offers three million shares as stock options to high-performing employees, it might offer the founders additional stock options so they do not significantly dilute their ownership percentage.
What Is an Issuer?  

An issuer is a legal entity that develops, registers and sells securities to finance its operations. Issuers may be corporations, investment trusts, or domestic or foreign governments. Issuers are legally responsible for the obligations of the issue and for reporting financial conditions, material developments and any other operational activities as required by the regulations of their jurisdictions.


   Understanding Issuers  

Issuers most frequently make available the following types of securities: common and preferred stocks, bonds, notes, debentures, bills and derivatives. Other issuers aggregate funds from a pool of investors to issue mutual fund shares or exchange traded funds (ETFs).



To illustrate the role of an issuer, imagine ABC Corporation sells common shares to the general public on the market to generate capital to finance its business operations. This means ABC Corporation is an issuer and is therefore required to file with regulators, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), disclosing relevant financial information about the company. ABC must also meet any legal obligations or regulations in the jurisdiction where it issued the security. Writers of options are occasionally referred to as issuers of options because they also sell securities on a market.



A non-issuer transaction is one that is not directly or indirectly executed for the benefit of the issuer. Non-issuer transactions refer to any disposition of a security that does not confer a benefit to the issuer (company).





Key Takeaways

An issuer is a legal entity that develops, registers and sells securities to finance its operations. Issuers may be corporations, investment trusts, or domestic or foreign governments.Issuers make available securities such as equity shares, bonds, and warrants.


   Issuers versus Investors  

While the entity that creates and sells a bond or another type of security is referred to as an issuer, the individual who buys the security is an investor. In some cases, the investor is also referred to as a lender. Essentially, the investor is lending the issuer funds, which are repayable when the bond matures or the stock is sold. As a result, the issuer is also considered to be a borrower, and the investor should carefully examine the borrower's risk of default before buying the security or lending funds to the issuer.


   Credit Ratings of Issuers  

Ratings firms such as Standard and Poor's and Moody's create credit ratings for issuers of debt securities, just as credit bureaus create credit profiles and scores for individual consumers. Rather than being expressed as a number like consumer credit scores, issuer scores are pegged to letters. For example, if an entity has a AAA rating, it has a history of repaying its debts and boasts a very low rate of default. Conversely, it an entity has a DDD rating, it is in default. Issuers with ratings of BB or below have their bonds labeled as junk, indicating that they pose a high risk of default for investors.



Countries also receive credit ratings. For example, after Greece missed billions of dollars of loan repayments, its credit rating was downgraded to CCC+. However, after the country implemented reforms, cut costs and recapitalized its banks, Standard and Poor's increased its rating to B-, indicating that the company's bonds are a bit safer.
What Is an Issuer Identification Number (IIN)?  

The issuer identification number (IIN) on a payment card indicates which bank or other financial institution issued that card and is responsible for it. These numbers are found on credit, debit, and other types of payment cards worldwide. Issuer identification numbers are sometimes referred to as bank identification numbers (BINs).





Key Takeaways

Issuer identification numbers (IIN) indicate which financial institution issued a particular credit or debit card as well as which card processing network (such as Visa or Mastercard) it is part of.The IIN appears as the first set of digits in the card number.The IIN is followed by a series of digits unique to the individual cardholder and then by a final "check digit" used to verify that the card number is authentic.IINs are usually six or eight digits long, while the entire card number may have as many as 19 digits.


   Understanding Issuer Identification Numbers  

Credit card numbers vary in length, frequently 15 or 16 digits but sometimes as many as 19. The first six or eight of those digits represent the issuer identification number.



The very first digit is known as the major industry identifier (MII) number. These numbers were established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission in a standard known as ISO/IEC 7812.



The MII indicates which industry the number is associated with. For example, numbers 3, 4, 5, and 6 apply to the banking and financial sectors, while 1 and 2 apply to the airline industry, 7 to the oil industry, and so forth. For that reason, credit and debit cards will begin with either a 3, 4, 5, or 6, depending on which card processing network (such as Visa or Mastercard) they are tied into.



Specifically, to use some well-known cards and card networks as examples, Visa cards begin with a 4, Mastercards with a 2 or a 5, Discover cards with a 6, and American Express Cards with a 3.



The remaining five or seven digits in the IIN indicate the bank or other financial institution that issued the card. (In recent years, newly issued IINs have consisted of eight digits, while earlier ones had six digits. This change was made to accommodate the rapidly growing numbers of cards and cardholders.) For example, Visa cards issued by Chase will have different IINs from Visas issued by Capitol One or Wells Fargo, although they will all begin with a 4.



Following the IIN on the card will be a series of numbers unique to that specific cardholder. The very last number, known as the "check digit" or "check sum," is used to validate the card number (and make sure you've typed it in correctly if you're buying something online) through a computation called the Luhn Algorithm.



The entire string of numbers, which identify the card network, the financial institution that issued the card, and the individual the card belongs to, is often referred to as the primary account number, or PAN.





1 Quadrillion

That's how many different number combinations a typical 15- or 16-digit credit card number allows for, according to American Express. A quadrillion is equal to 1,000 trillion, or 1,000,000,000,000,000.


   The Importance of Issuer Identification Numbers  

Issuer identification numbers, and the individual account numbers that accompany them, allow merchants and others to verify that a card is valid and that the user's account has sufficient funds available to cover the transaction—and they make it happen almost instantaneously.


   Credit Card Numbers vs. Account Numbers  

The number that's printed on your credit card and your account number with the financial institution that issued it can be two different things. As the credit bureau Experian points out, "If your card is lost or stolen, then you'll receive a replacement card with new credit card numbers, but your account number will remain the same." If you don't already know it, you should be able to find your account number by consulting your monthly credit card statement.




What Is a CVV Code?
A CVV code, or validation code, is a three- or four-digit number printed on the front or back of credit and debit cards (depending on the card issuer). It stands for card verification value and is intended to provide an additional level of security. The theory is that a thief who obtains your card number might not have the actual card and would be unable to provide the CVV code if asked for it.




Can a Store Print Your Credit Card Number on Your Receipt?
Under the federal Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act (FACTA), merchants must "truncate" your credit or debit card number on electronically printed receipts, showing no more than the last five digits (there is no such limit on handwritten or similar receipts). They are also prohibited from including your card's expiration date. These rules are meant to offer some protection against identity theft.




What Is a Virtual Credit Card Number?
A virtual credit card number is a number that's different from your regular credit card number but linked to the same account. Virtual credit cards, sometimes called single-use cards, are often used in online shopping as a way of keeping your main card number from being compromised or stolen.




Do Authorized Users on a Credit Card Get Their Own Account Number?
Authorized users on another person's credit card account can get a card with their name printed on it, but whether the number will be the same depends on the card issuer. Either way, the original account holder should bear in mind that they are responsible for any debts the authorized user racks up with the card.


   The Bottom Line  

The issuer identification number on a credit, debit, or other payment card shows which financial institution issued that card and what processing network it belongs to. The remaining digits, except for the last one, represent your personal credit card number.
What Are Itemized Deductions?  

An itemized deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from your adjusted gross income (AGI) to reduce your taxable income and lower the amount of taxes you owe. Taxpayers can itemize deductions like mortgage interest, charitable gifts, and unreimbursed medical expenses or choose to take the standard deduction, a fixed dollar amount that varies by filing status.





Key Takeaways

An itemized deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from adjusted gross income (AGI) to reduce your tax bill.Itemized deductions must be listed on Schedule A of Form 1040.Taxpayers can choose to itemize deductions or claim the standard deduction that applies to their filing status.


   Understanding Itemized Deductions  

Itemized deductions reduce your taxable income, and your savings depends on your tax bracket. An unmarried single filer with a gross income of $80,000 may claim itemized deductions totaling $15,000. Subtracting those deductions from gross income yields a taxable income of $65,000, falling within a 22% marginal tax rate bracket for 2022 and 2023.



Itemized deductions are recorded on Schedule A of Form 1040. Taxpayers must save all receipts and documentation of expenses reported in case the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requests them in an audit. Additional proof can include bank statements, insurance bills, medical bills, and tax receipts from qualified charitable organizations.






Tax deductions should not be confused with tax credits, which directly reduce your tax bill. If you calculate your taxes due as $14,000 and are eligible for a $1,000 tax credit, your bill is cut by $1,000 to $13,000.


   Itemized Deduction vs. Standard Deduction  

The majority of taxpayers have the option to itemize deductions or claim the standard deduction. Nonresident aliens must itemize, and married individuals who are filing separately must claim the same type of deduction.



The decision depends on which deduction type garners the lowest tax liability. If you file as a single taxpayer or are married and filing separately, you will fare better with the standard deduction of $12,950 for 2022 or $13,850 for 2023 if your itemized deductions total less than that amount.










Standard Deductions for 2022 and 2023


 Filing Status
2022 Standard Deduction
2023 Standard Deduction




Single
$12,950
$13,850


Married Filing Separately
$12,950
$13,850


Head of Household 
$19,400
$20,800


Married Filing Jointly 
$25,900
$27,700





   What Can I Itemize?  

The list of expenses that can be itemized is extensive, available on the IRS website, and can include some medical expenses, mortgage interest, charitable contributions, and state and local taxes. Taxpayers use Schedule A, part of IRS Form 1040, to calculate and list deductions.













Schedule A can be downloaded on the IRS website.



You can deduct mortgage interest on a loan of $750,000 or less for any home bought on or after Dec. 16, 2017, and charitable donations of up to 60% of your AGI but depends on the type of contribution and the charity.



You can also deduct qualified, unreimbursed medical and dental expenses over 7.5% of AGI; state and local income or sales taxes plus real estate and personal property taxes up to $10,000 or $5,000 if married filing separately, gambling losses, and investment interest less than investment income.


   Pros and Cons of Itemizing Deductions  



Deductions You Can Itemize

Mortgage interest on the first $750,000 of indebtedness—or $1 million, if you bought the home before Dec. 16, 2017
Charitable contributions
Medical and dental expenses over 7.5% of adjusted gross income (AGI)
State and local income, plus either personal property or sales taxes up to IRS threshold
Gambling losses
Investment interest



Deductions You Cannot Itemize

Mortgage interest on loan amounts over $750,000—unless you bought your home before Dec. 16, 2017
State and local income, sales, and personal property taxes beyond IRS threshold
Unreimbursed employee expenses
Tax preparation expenses
Natural disaster losses unless in a federally declared disaster area







What Does It Mean to Claim Itemized Deductions?
When you file your income tax return, you can take the standard deduction, a fixed dollar amount based on your filing status, or itemize your deductions. Unlike the standard deduction, the dollar amount of itemized deductions vary by the taxpayer, depending on the expenses on Schedule A of Form 1040. The amount is subtracted from the taxpayer’s taxable income.




Which Expenses Can I Itemize?
You itemize your deductions on Schedule A of Form 1040. You can generally deduct unreimbursed medical and dental expenses, long-term care premiums, home mortgage interest, charitable donations, certain taxes, casualty and theft losses, and some gambling losses.




Who Should Itemize Deductions?
You have the option to take the standard deduction or itemize your deductions. If the value of expenses you can itemize is greater than the standard deduction, then it likely makes sense to itemize.




What Are the Standard Deduction Amounts for 2022 and 2023?
For 2022, the standard deduction is $12,950 ($13,850 for 2023) for single and married, filing separately, taxpayers, $19,400 ($20,800 for 2023) for heads of households, and $25,900 ($27,700 for 2023) for married filing jointly filers and surviving spouses.


   The Bottom Line  

An itemized deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from your adjusted gross income (AGI) to reduce your tax bill. Taxpayers can itemize deductions or claim the standard deduction that applies to their filing status. Itemized deductions must be listed on Schedule A of Form 1040 and may include mortgage interest, charitable gifts, and unreimbursed medical expenses.
