What Is Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement?  

Form W-2, also known as the Wage and Tax Statement, is the document an employer is required to send to each employee and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) at the end of the year. A W-2 reports employees' annual wages and the amount of taxes withheld from their paychecks. A W-2 employee is someone whose employer deducts taxes from their paychecks and submits this information to the government.





Key Takeaways

Form W-2 reflects your income earned and taxes withheld from the prior year to be reported on your income tax returns.Employers use W-2s to report FICA taxes for employees.The IRS also uses W-2 forms to track individuals' tax obligations.


   Who Files Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement?  

An employer is legally required to send out a W-2 form to every employee to whom they paid a salary, wage, or another form of compensation. This does not include contracted or self-employed workers, who file taxes with different forms. The employer must send the employee the W-2 form on or before January 31 each year, so that the employee has ample time to file income taxes before the deadline (which is April 15 in most years).



Employers must also use W-2 forms to report Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes for their employees throughout the year. By the end of January, employers must file, for the previous year, Form W-2, along with Form W-3, for each employee with the Social Security Administration (SSA). The SSA uses the information on these forms to calculate the Social Security benefits to which each worker is entitled.



Tax documents are filed for the previous year. For example, if you receive a W-2 form in January 2023, it reflects your income earned for 2022.


   How to File Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement  

If you are an employee of a company and will receive a W-2 for your income taxes, it will be sent to you automatically each year by your employer. Your employer will also submit a copy of your W-2 to the IRS.



The information provided on Form W-4 (or sometimes Form W-9) when you are first hired provides the information your company needs to keep track of payroll, tax withholding, employer-provided benefits, and pre-tax contributions to things like a 401(k) retirement plan. The W-4 form tells the employer the amount of tax to withhold from an employee's paycheck based on the person's marital status, number of allowances and dependents, and other factors. 



When you prepare your income taxes, you will need to input the data found on your W-2 into a Form 1040 individual tax return, either by hand or electronically. Online tax preparation software now allows you to directly import the information on your W-2 from your payroll provider in many cases.


   What Information Does Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement Include?  

Every W-2 has the same fields, no matter the employer. W-2 forms are divided into state and federal sections since employees must file taxes on both levels. Some fields provide the employer's information, including the company's Employer Identification Number (EIN) (federal) and the employer's state ID number. The remaining fields are mostly details of the employee's income from the previous year.



The employee's total earnings from the employer for the year are recorded, along with the amount withheld in taxes from the employee's paychecks, separated into the withholding for federal income tax, Social Security tax, and more. If the employee also works for tips, a field shows how much money in tips the employee earned for the year.



If you work multiple jobs that provide W-2s, you need to input each separately.



When the employee files taxes, the amount of tax withheld according to the W-2 form is deducted from their gross tax obligation. If more tax was withheld than owed, a refund will be issued.



The IRS also uses Form W-2 to track an employee’s income and tax liability. If the income reported on an employee’s taxes doesn’t match the income reported on the Form W-2, the IRS may audit the taxpayer; however, taxpayers are required to report all salary, wage, and tip income even if that income is not reported on a W-2.


   How to Read Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement  

W-2 forms include both numbered and lettered boxes that an employer must fill out to reflect how much you earned and taxes withheld.












  Boxes A through F  

The lettered boxes on a W-2 include the name and address of you and your employer, your Social Security number, and your employer's EIN and state ID number.


  Boxes 1 and 2  

Box 1 shows your taxable income, including wages, salary, tips, and bonuses, while Box 2 shows how much federal income tax your employer withheld from your pay.


  Boxes 3 and 4  

Box 3 details how much of your earnings were subject to Social Security tax and Box 4 the amount of Social Security tax that was withheld.


  Boxes 5 and 6  

Box 5 spells out how much of your pay is subject to Medicare tax and Box 6 how much was withheld. The employee portion of the Medicare tax is 1.45%.


  Boxes 7 and 8  

If part of your pay is in the form of tips, these boxes show how much you reported in tips (Box 7) and how much your employer reported in tips it paid to you (Box 8).


  Box 9  

This box was used to reflect a now-defunct tax perk, so it is left empty.


  Box 10  

Box 10 reports how much you received from your employer in dependent care benefits (if applicable).


  Box 11  

This box details how much deferred compensation you received from the employer in a non-qualified plan.


  Box 12  

Box 12 details other types of compensation or reductions from your taxable income and a single or double letter code that corresponds to each. It might include, for example, contributions to a 401(k) plan. Codes are detailed in the IRS' W-2 instructions.


  Box 13  

This box has three sub boxes designed to report pay that is not subject to federal income tax withholding, if you participated in an employer-sponsored retirement plan, or if you received sick pay via a third-party, such as an insurance policy.


  Box 14  

Box 14 allows an employer to report any other additional tax information that may not fit into the other sections of a W-2 form. A few examples are state disability insurance taxes withheld and union dues.


  Boxes 15-20  

The last six boxes on a W-2 all relate to state and local taxes, including how much of your pay is subject to these taxes and how much was withheld.


   Related Tax Documents  

Form W-4 is completed by every employee for withholding purposes. The employer uses the information to determine how much tax to withhold from the employee's paychecks. Most employees must fill out this form when they start working for a company.



If the employee is paid $600 or more for the company during the year, the company issues a 1099 form showing the earnings and deductions made. This usually arrives by the end of January of the following year.



Form W-2G is a tax form that a gaming facility such as a casino may send you if you received winnings from gambling in the prior year.



Students receive a 1098-E statement for any year in which they paid interest on a federal student loan. Students also receive a 1098-T statement reporting college tuition expenses that might entitle students to tax deductions or credits.




How Can I Get My W-2?
Your employer is required to provide you with copies of your W-2 each year if you are eligible to receive one. The deadline for companies to provide this form is typically by the end of January or early February following the tax year that just ended. W-2s may be sent by mail as a hard copy or made available online in electronic form, either through the employer directly or via their payroll provider.




How Much Money Do You Need to Make to Get a W-2?
In general, you will receive a W-2 from an employer if you earned at least $600 in a given year. You will also receive a W-2 if you had taxes withheld earning any amount from your employer. Note that if you were a contracted individual and not an employee, you will likely receive a 1099 instead of a W-2.




What Do I Do If I Lost My W-2?
If your W-2 is available online, you may access it as many times as you need. If you lose your password or credentials for accessing the online site, you can often request automated password recovery. If you still need help accessing your information online, or if you need to request a new paper copy, you should contact your payroll or HR supervisor.




What Is the Difference Between a W-2 and a W-4?
A W-4 is filled out by employees to provide their employer with their tax ID number (usually SSN), marital status, number of allowances and dependents, and how much tax to withhold with each paycheck. The W-4 is filled out when an employee is first hired or if any changes must be made to filing status or withholding. The W-2 is filled out by employers at the end of the tax year and sent to employees to input on their tax returns.


   The Bottom Line  

Form W-2 is an IRS form that employers must send to an employee and the IRS every year. The form reports an employee's annual wages and the taxes withheld. Employees also use the form to file their taxes every year.
What Is a W-4 Form?  

Form W-4 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form that is filled out by employees to indicate their tax situation to their employer. The W-4 form tells the employer the amount of tax to withhold from an employee's paycheck based on their marital status, number of allowances and dependents, and other factors. The W-4 is also called an Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Employees fill out a W-4 form to let employers know how much tax to withhold from their paycheck based on the employee's marital status, number of exemptions and dependents, etc.Increasing the number of allowances on the form decreases the amount of money withheld from the paycheck.Taxpayers can file a new W-4 any time their situation changes, such as when they marry, divorce, or have a child. A change in status can result in more or less tax being withheld.


   Understanding the W-4 Form  

The employee fills out seven lines on the W-4 form. The first few lines include the taxpayer's name, address, and Social Security number. A worksheet included with the form lets taxpayers estimate the number of allowances on their tax withholding. Increasing the number of allowances reduces the amount of money withheld from the paycheck. A person can claim an exemption from withholding any money if they did not have a liability during the previous year and expect to have zero tax liability in the next year.﻿﻿



The accompanying worksheet to the W-4 form starts by letting taxpayers add one allowance if they cannot be claimed as a dependent on someone else's income tax return. Employees can take another allowance if they are single and have just one job, are married with one job and the spouse doesn't work or have wages from a second job within the family totaling less than $1,500.






On Jan. 1, 2018, the personal exemption federal tax break was suspended until Jan. 1, 2026, in the wake of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.



On the next line of the worksheet—line E for the child tax credit—employees can claim allowances for each of their eligible children, depending on income earned and how many children they have.



The following line—line F for credit for other dependents—asks employees to enter allowances for other dependents that will be claimed on their tax return. IRS Publication 501 spells out who qualifies as a dependent. There are income limitations for credit in this section.



Those looking to apply other credits, such as the earned income credit (EITC), will fill out line G. To see if you may be entitled to additional allowances see Worksheets 1-6 in IRS Publication 505. On the final line, line H, add up all the numbers from the previous lines and enter the total.



The worksheet also has additional pages for more complex tax situations, such as itemizing deductions on your tax return instead of taking the standard deduction.



The employer then calculates how much to withhold from a paycheck based on the allowances calculated on the W-4 form. The money withheld goes to the IRS after each paycheck.


   Special Considerations for the W-4 Form  

Taxpayers can file a new W-4 at any time—and should do so whenever their situation changes, such as when they marry, divorce, have a child, or when a dependent dies. A change in status can result in the employer withholding more or less tax. As well, the elimination of the personal exemption for tax years 2018 through 2025 could change the number of allowances that should be taken.
What Are W-8 Forms?  

W-8 forms are Internal Revenue Service (IRS) forms that foreign individuals and businesses must file to verify their country of residence for tax purposes, certifying that they qualify for a lower rate of tax withholding.



Although the W-8 forms are issued by the IRS, they are submitted only to payers or withholding agents, not to the IRS. Failure to submit the form may result in a withholding at the full 30% rate that applies to foreign entities.





Key Takeaways

W-8 forms are used by foreign persons or business entities to claim exempt status from certain withholdings.There are five W-8 forms: W-8BEN, W-8BEN-E, W-8ECI, W-8EXP, and W-8IMY.Form W-8IMY is used by intermediaries that receive withholding payments on behalf of a foreigner or as a flow-through entity.Determining which one to use comes down to whether you’re an individual or an entity, the type of income you receive, and whether you’re an organization that qualifies for special tax treatment.All W-8 forms are valid for the year in which they are signed and for three full calendar years after that.


   Who Can File W-8 Forms?  

W-8 forms are filled out by foreign individuals or entities that lack U.S. citizenship or residency, but have worked in the U.S. or earned income in the U.S. This usually applies to foreign-domiciled businesses and non-resident aliens.



For example, a nonresident foreigner who earns interest or dividends from U.S.-issued securities would likely file a W-8BEN, while a foreign nonprofit with operations in the U.S. might need to file form W-8ECI. Former U.S. residents who earn retirement income, or who occasionally perform freelance work for U.S. clients, might also have to submit the form to reduce their tax withholdings. A U.S. citizen or resident alien will never have to complete a W-8 form.



Foreign individuals or businesses that earn income in the U.S. must pay a 30% tax on certain income types. The W-8 form will collect information on who the individual or business is, where they're from, and the types of income earned.


   How to File W-8 Forms  

There are five W-8 forms. These forms are requested by the payers or withholding agents and kept on file with them—not filed with the IRS.



The version of the form used is determined by both whether or not the filer is an individual or a business and the nature of the income the filer received. The forms are effective for the year in which they are signed and three calendar years afterward. Therefore, a W-8BEN signed on Jan. 25, 2022, would be valid through Dec. 31, 2025.



The W-8 series of forms are fairly complex. Though they require basic information such as name, country of origin, and taxpayer identification number (TIN), they also ask for the contacts from which the filer is receiving the reported income. A professional is often consulted to assist in completing them.






W-9 forms are also IRS forms used to provide or confirm a person's name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN). The W-9 forms are only required for U.S. citizens or resident aliens, or U.S. entities.


   Types of W-8 Forms  

The following are the five types of W-8 forms and the circumstances where they should be used.


  Form W-8BEN  

Form W-8BEN ("Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding and Reporting") must be submitted by foreign persons who receive certain types of income in the United States. The form, sometimes referred to as a "certificate of foreign status," establishes that the individual is both a foreign person and the owner of the business in question.













Foreign individuals are ordinarily subject to a tax rate of 30% on specific types of income and capital gains they receive from U.S. payers, including:



InterestDividendsRentsRoyaltiesPremiumsAnnuitiesCompensation for services rendered



The form also helps you claim a reduction or an exemption from the U.S. tax withholding if you reside in a country with which the United States has an income tax treaty and the income you received is subject to that treaty.



Foreign persons must provide Form W-8BEN to the withholding agent or payer if they are the beneficial owner of the income subject to the tax withholding. You must submit the form regardless of whether you are claiming a reduced withholding.



Individuals must submit the form to the payer or withholding agent prior to receiving income or credits from them. Failure to submit a Form W-8BEN could result in paying either the full 30% rate or the backup withholding rate under section 3406.






Form W-8BEN is used by foreign individuals who receive nonbusiness income in the U.S., whereas W-8BEN-E is used by foreign entities who receive this type of income.


  Form W-8BEN-E  

Form W-8BEN-E is also titled "Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding and Reporting," but it is filed by foreign entities, not individuals.













As with foreign persons who receive certain types of income, the money generated by foreign businesses is typically withheld at a 30% rate by the payer or withholding agent in the United States. However, the form allows the foreign business to claim a reduction in taxes if its country of residence has a tax treaty with the United States.



Non-U.S. businesses must provide the Form W-8BEN-E for the same sources of income that would require an individual to file a Form W-8BEN. Foreign entities that do not provide an accurate W-8BEN-E when required to do so will typically have to pay the full 30% tax rate.


  Form W-8ECI  

Form W-8ECI is the "Certificate of Foreign Person's Claim for Exemption From Withholding on Income Effectively Connected With the Conduct of a Trade or Business in the United States." It is filed by foreign individuals who engage in a trade or business in the United States and receive income from U.S. sources. These proceeds are generally considered "effectively connected income" (ECI) whether or not there is a connection between the income and the trade or business being conducted in the United States in a particular year.













Crucially, ECI is not subject to the same 30% withholding that applies to interest, rents, and other nonbusiness income. Instead, after subtracting applicable deductions, it is taxed at the graduated rate that U.S. citizens and resident aliens pay. If your work is covered by a U.S. treaty, it would be taxed at the lowest rate under that treaty.



In most cases, you must have engaged in trade or business activities in the United States sometime during the tax year to be able to categorize income as ECI. That would be the case if, for example, a foreign individual performed personal services in the United States during the year. In addition, money made by a foreigner through investments in a partnership that conducts trade or business in the U.S. would also be treated as ECI.



However, foreigners whose sole U.S. income is based on the trading of securities or commodities through a U.S.-based broker are not considered to be engaged in a trade or business with the United States. Therefore, they would not be subject to ECI tax treatment.


  Form W-8EXP  

Form W-8EXP is the "Certificate of Foreign Government or Other Foreign Organization for United States Tax Withholding and Reporting" and is used by certain payees in order to claim a reduction of—or exclusion from—tax withholding. These include foreign governments, foundations, and tax-exempt organizations, as well as governments of a U.S. possession or foreign central banks of issue.













In order to receive a reduction or an exemption from tax withholding, the entity must be eligible under IRS code 115(2), 501(c), 892, 895, or 1443(b). Should none of those exemptions apply, the entity must file a W-8BEN or W-8ECI (if it received "effectively connected income").



As with other W-8 forms, Form W-8EXP must be sent to the payer or withholding agent before income is paid to you. Not doing so could lead to a tax withholding at the 30% rate, a backup withholding rate, or the ECI tax rate.


  Form W-8IMY  

Form W-8IMY is the "Certificate of Foreign Intermediary, Foreign Flow-Through Entity, or Certain U.S. Branches for United States Tax Withholding and Reporting." The purpose of the form is to certify that a person or business received withholdable payments on behalf of a foreigner or as a flow-through entity. The form is intended for intermediaries and should not be used by beneficial owners in a business.













Examples of entities who must file a W-8IMY include:



Foreign persons, or a foreign branch of a U.S. person, who are certifying that they are a qualified intermediary (QI) that is not acting for its own account and will provide a withholding statement required under chapters three and four of the IRS CodeU.S. branches that are serving in the role of an intermediary and wish either to certify their treatment as a U.S. person under tax law or document the receipt of payments for which they will furnish a withholding statementFlow-through entities who wish to claim tax benefits under a treaty or certify that they will provide a withholding statement, as required



A complete list of persons or entities required to file the form is in the IRS Instructions for Form W-8IMY. Copies of withholding statements and other documentary evidence should be included with the form when it’s submitted.




What Is a W-8BEN?
Form W-8BEN is submitted by foreign individuals that receive income in the U.S. The form establishes that the person is a foreign individual and owner of said business. The W-8BEN is called the certificate of foreign status.




Who Needs to Fill Out Form W-8BEN?
Form W-8BEN is used by foreign individuals that receive income from sources in the U.S. Only non-U.S. persons file form W-8BEN, not U.S. persons. As well, the form is only for individuals, entities fill out W-8BEN-E.




How Do I Get My W-8BEN?
Form W-8BEN is sent by the company making payments to the individual. The form should be returned to the company or entity that sent the form W-8BEN, not the IRS. It's also not meant to be filed with a tax return. Typically, the form should be submitted before the first payment is made.




Why Is a W-8BEN-E Required?
The W-8BEN-E is used for businesses, unlike the W-8BEN, which is only for individuals. The W-8BEN-E is required, as foreign businesses are subject to the same withholding tax rate as individuals—30%. However, businesses, like individuals, may also qualify for a reduced tax rate. The W-8BEN-E helps established eligibility for reduced rates.


   The Bottom Line  

There are five types of IRS W-8 forms. These forms are used by foreign individuals or entities. The forms are submitted to the payer or withholding agent, and not the IRS. The forms vary, but the key information requested includes the name of the individual or business, address, and TINs.
What Is Form W-9?  

A W-9 form is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form that is used to confirm a person's name, address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) for employment or other income-generating purposes. The confirmation can be requested for either an individual defined as a U.S. citizen or a person defined as a resident alien.



A W-9 form is also known as a Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification form.





Key Takeaways

The W-9 is an official form furnished by the IRS for employers or other entities to verify the name, address, and tax identification number of an individual receiving income.The information taken from a W-9 form is often used to generate a 1099 tax form, which is required for income tax filing purposes.The information collected by an entity on a W-9 form cannot be disclosed for any other purpose, under strict privacy regulations.Independent contractors who work with companies they are not employed with must often provide that company a W-9.If you do not furnish a W-9 as requested, your client must withhold taxes from your earnings at a tax rate of 24%.


   Understanding Form W-9  

A W-9 form is a formal written request for information only and is used solely for the purpose of confirming a person’s taxpayer identification number (TIN). An employer or other entity that is required to file an informational document with the IRS, such as Form 1099, must obtain your correct TIN to report any earnings or losses that may affect your federal tax return or your taxable income. For most individuals, the TIN will be their Social Security Number (SSN).



The W-9 differs from a W-4 Form—which is more commonly supplied by employees to direct employers—in that the W-9 does not inherently arrange for the withholding of any taxes due.



Any required taxes based on gains related to the provided W-9 are the responsibility of the TIN holder listed on the document unless the taxpayer is subject to backup withholding. If backup withholding is required, this will need to be noted on the W-9, to properly inform the entity receiving the information of the need to withhold accordingly.


   Uses of Form W-9  

The information obtained on a W-9 form is most often used to create a version of Form 1099. A 1099 form contains information about any income that may have been received by the TIN holder that would not normally be listed on a W-2.



However, a W-2 is only issued to employees of a company, not independent contractors or unrelated vendors. This includes but is not limited to income paid to a person as part of a contract, certain real estate transactions, dividends paid against an investment, and various other financial transactions.






The IRS requires those who are not defined as U.S. citizens or resident aliens to use the appropriate W-8 Form in place of a W-9 form.



Form 1099 is only required to be issued once the minimum income threshold is reached, which for most miscellaneous income is set at $600. Amounts under this threshold must be reported as income by the TIN holder but do not require a 1099 form.



Even though employees are legally required to supply certain personal information to their employers, an employee's privacy is protected by law. An employer who discloses an employee's personal information in any unauthorized way may be subjected to civil and criminal prosecution.


   How to Fill Out Form W-9  

Form W-9 is one of the most straightforward IRS forms to complete, but if tax forms make you nervous, don’t worry. We’ll walk you through the proper way to complete it.















W-9 Form.



All pages of Form W-9 are available on the IRS website. In addition, the form may include a specific set of instructions provided by the IRS.


  Step 1: W-9, Line 1  

Enter your name as shown on your tax return.


  Step 2: W-9, Line 2  

Enter your business name or "disregarded entity" name, if different from the name you entered for step 1. For example, you might be a sole proprietor, but for marketing purposes, you don’t use your personal name as your business name; instead, you are "doing business as" some other name. You would enter that name here.



A commonly disregarded entity type is a single-member limited liability company. Sole proprietorships and S corporations are never classified as disregarded entities.


  Step 3: W-9, Line 3  

Select which type of business entity you are for federal tax classification: sole proprietorship, partnership, C corporation, S corporation, trust/estate, limited liability company, or "other". Check the appropriate box, and only one classification should be selected.






If you're not sure what type of business entity you should select, the IRS has provided a summary table for guidance as part of the Form W-9's instructions.


  Step 4: W-9, Line 4  

Exemptions. Chances are you’re going to leave these boxes blank. Here are a couple of exceptions: 



Payees that are exempt from backup withholding, such as corporations (in most cases), might need to enter a code in the "Exempt payee code" box. The Form W-9 instructions list the exempt payees and their codes and the types of payments for which these codes should be used. Corporations filling out a W-9 for receipt of interest or dividend payments, for example, would enter code "5." 
Payees that are exempt from reporting under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) might need to enter a code in the "Exemption from FATCA reporting code" box. Neither of these boxes will apply to the typical independent contractor or freelancer. 


  Step 5: W-9, Lines 5-6  

Provide your street address, city, state, and zip code. Use the address that you will use on your tax return. For example, if you're a sole proprietor who rents office space, but you file your tax return using your home address, enter your home address on form W-9 so the IRS won’t have trouble matching your 1099s with your Form 1040.



In addition, the W-9 may be a company's primary means of obtaining your personal information. As this information may get logged into their accounting system when you get set up as a supplier in their records, this address may be used to furnish your 1099 or mail you other important tax documents.


  Step 6: W-9, Line 7  

In this optional step, you can provide the requester's name and address. You might want to fill out this box to keep a record of to whom you provided your tax identification number.



In addition, you have the option to list relevant account numbers at the end of this top section of the Form W-9. This account number section may be used to uniquely identify someone based on a number within the client's system. For example, someone may request you to fill out a Form W-9. As you happen to be supplier #45 in their records, they may ask you to make note of your supplier number on this line.


  Step 7: W-9, Part I  

The IRS calls the next section Part I. Here, you must provide your business's tax identification number, which will either be your individual Social Security Number if you’re a sole proprietor, or your employer identification number (EIN) if you're another type of business.



Now, some sole proprietorships also have EINs, but the IRS prefers that sole proprietors use their SSNs on Form W-9. Again, doing so will make it easier to match any 1099s you receive with your tax return, which you will file under your SSN.



What if your business is new and doesn't have an EIN? You can still fill out a W-9 form. The IRS says you should apply for your number and write "applied for" in the space for the TIN. You’ll want to get this number as quickly as possible because, until you do, you’ll be subject to backup withholding. You can apply for an EIN at the IRS website. See the instructions below for Step 8, Part II, for more on backup withholding.


  Step 8: W-9, Part II  

In Part II, you must attest to the truthfulness of all of your information before you can sign Form W-9. Intentionally lying on a tax form could mean you’ll have to pay a fine or go to jail; the IRS doesn't mess around. Before signing form W-9, here are the statements you must certify are true, under penalty of perjury:



1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or I am waiting for a number to be issued to me).



Taxpayers must use legit tax ID numbers. Using a "borrowed," stolen, or made-up tax ID number would equate to lying under oath, and involve serious consequences.



2. I am not subject to backup withholding because: (a) I am exempt from backup withholding, or (b) I have not been notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that I am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends, or (c) the IRS has notified me that I am no longer subject to backup withholding.



Most taxpayers are exempt from backup withholding. If you have no idea what the IRS is talking about here, you’re probably exempt. If you aren’t exempt, the IRS will have notified you, and the company paying you needs to know because it is required to withhold income tax from your pay at a flat rate of 24% (as of 2020) and send it to the IRS. Incidentally, now you know another good reason not to cheat on your tax return: You might have to tell a future client about it, and that might make the company think twice about you. Item (c) basically says that if you were once subject to backup withholding but aren’t anymore, no one needs to know. 



3. I am a U.S. citizen or other U.S. person.



If you're a resident alien, you're in the clear. The IRS also considers the following to be a "U.S. person": a partnership, corporation, company, or association created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States; a domestic estate; and a domestic trust. If your business is a partnership that has a foreign partner, special rules apply; read about them in the instructions to Form W-9. If you aren't a U.S. citizen, you may need to fill out Form W-8 or Form 8233 instead.



4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that I am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.



You probably won't need to worry about this one, which has to do with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.


   Who Must Complete a W-9 Form?  

A Form W-9 must be completed by one party and furnished to a second party if the second party is going to furnish specific types of payments in the future. Most broadly, Form W-9 must be filled out by independent contractors that perform work for another party with which they are not employed. This includes freelance workers or gig employees under non-employment structures.



A W-9 is also required from people in specific circumstances. A bank or lending institution may ask for a W-9 as part of the process of setting up a new account, as interest and dividend payments are furnished through Form 1099-INT. Participants in a contest that may win prizes may also be required to fill out a W-9, as the prize value may be taxable income and require IRS reporting.



Form 1099 is also used to furnish mortgage interest payments, student loan payments, real estate transaction proceeds, and discharge of certain types of debt. For these forms, the opposing party may request Form W-9 to ensure they have appropriate information on file.






Completing a Form W-9 is required whether you are subject to withholding or not. If you are exempt, this form is your means of communicating that exception to the paying party.


   Special Considerations When Filing Form W-9  
  Signing Form W-9  

Form W-9 tells you to cross out item 2 above if you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup withholding because you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return.



You may cross out item 2 if you're filling out Form W-9 in connection with a real estate transaction. Item 2 doesn’t apply in this case, so it doesn’t matter if you’re subject to backup withholding.



Now, if you read the fine print in the W-9 instructions carefully, it seems to indicate that most people aren’t required to sign this form at all. You're generally only required to sign it if the IRS has notified you that you previously provided an incorrect TIN. Technicalities aside, however, the person who asked you to fill out Form W-9 will probably consider it incomplete or invalid if you haven’t signed it.


  Returning Form W-9  

Return your completed Form W-9 to the business that asked you to fill it out. Ideally, you'll deliver it in person to limit your exposure to identity theft, but this method often isn't practical. Mail is considered relatively secure.



If you must email the form, you should encrypt both the document and your email message and triple-check that you have the recipient’s correct email address before sending your message. Free services are available online to help you do this, but check their reputations before trusting your documents to them. Typically the business that needs to submit a W-9 to the IRS will give you one to fill out.


  Failure to Remit Form W-9  

If someone asks for a completed Form W-9, it's usually for a good cause. Be skeptical of requests where you're not sure why your information is needed or who is making the request. It is expected that requests as part of normal business operating activities will be fulfilled.



There are some repercussions if you do not remit Form W-9. First, the payor is required to begin withholding taxes from future payments. As of 2022, the current withholding rate is 24%.



In addition, there are the following penalties for non-compliance:



$50 penalty for every failure to furnish a correct TIN to a requestor unless you are able to provide errors that were not willful neglect.$500 penalty if you make a false statement with no reasonable basis that results in no backup withholding.Other fines and/or imprisonment for willfully falsifying certifications or affirmations.Civil and/or criminal penalties for disclosing or misusing another party's W-9 information in violation of Federal law.


   Form W-9 vs. Form W-4  

Two commonly used forms for tax purposes are Form W-9 and Form W-4. Though similar sounding, they have very different purposes, recipients, and uses.



Form W-9 serves the aim of requesting information from a taxpayer (usually an independent contractor or freelancer) in order to file taxes. Meanwhile, employees utilize the W-4 form to supply information to their employers for the purpose of income tax withholding.



The entity paying the taxpayer (the person or business rendering the services) receives the W-9 form from the taxpayer. When reporting the payments made to the taxpayer at the end of the year, the organization uses the data on the W-9 form to create and issue Form 1099-MISC or other applicable tax forms.



This is quite different than Form W-4. The employee gives their employer the W-4. The W-4 is used by the employer to determine how much federal income tax should be withheld from the employee's paycheck and reported to the IRS. As opposed to needing this from an external party, a company seeks out a W-4 from its own internal team.



Last, many of the same items are collected across both forms. Each call for a TIN, name, and related tax information. However, the nature of the recipient are very different. A W-4 will request information such as the taxpayer filing status (i.e. is the taxpayer married?). Alternatively, a W-9 asks for legal company information.




What Is Form W-9 Used for?
Form W-9 is used to furnish tax information from one party to another. It's a way of formally gathering personal information, having a standard method of transmitting information, and requiring the furnisher to certify that the information they are providing is correct. Form W-9 is then used to issue specific tax statements to non-employees that earned certain types of payment throughout the year.




Who Needs to Fill Out a W-9?
Broadly speaking, anyone who will receive compensation as a non-employee is required to fill out a W-9. There are many situations that may arise when Form W-9 is required. For example, a taxpayer who is set to collect interest, receive proceeds from a real estate transaction, pay home mortgage interest, pay student loan interest, or have debt canceled is also required to receive specific types of Form 1099. In order to accurately furnish the tax form, an opposing party may request your tax information via Form W-9.




Is a W-9 Used for Self-Employed Individuals?
Yes, a W-9 is most often used for individuals who are self-employed. If a worker is an independent contractor, freelancer, or self-employed, Form W-9 must be provided to those whom you have earned over $600 from without having been hired as an official employee.




What Happens If I Do Not Provide a Form W-9?
Should you choose not to furnish a Form W-9 or if the information provided is incorrect, a 24% withholding tax will be taken from future payments you receive from your client. In addition, there are penalties and fees for intentionally failing to furnish correct information or misuse of TINs.


   The Bottom Line  

Form W-9 is an IRS tax form that requests information for an individual defined as a U.S. citizen or a person defined as a resident alien. The information is used to fill out Form 1099 and is used for independent contractors, freelancers, or unrelated vendors; not employees. Failing to fill out the form can result in penalties.
What Is a W-Shaped Recovery?  

A W-shaped recovery refers to an economic cycle of recession and recovery that resembles the letter "W" in charting. A W-shaped recovery represents the shape of the chart of certain economic measures such as employment, gross domestic product (GDP), industrial output, and others.



A W-shaped recovery involves a sharp decline in these metrics followed by a sharp rise back upward, followed again by a sharp decline and ending with another sharp rise. The middle section of the W can represent a significant bear-market rally or a recovery that was stifled by an additional economic crisis. A W-shaped recovery is also known as a double-dip recession.





Key Takeaways

A W-shaped recovery is when an economy passes through a recession into recovery and then immediately turns down into another recession. When charted, major economic performance indicators form the shape of a letter "W" during this type of recession.A W-shaped recovery is also known as a double-dip recession.W-shaped recessions can be particularly painful because the brief recovery that occurs can fool investors into getting back in too early.


   Understanding a W-Shaped Recovery  

A W-shaped recovery generally is characterized by a period of extreme volatility in comparison with other types of recoveries. There are countless other shapes a recession and recovery chart could take. Common examples include patterns in the shapes of the letters "V," "W," "U," and "L." Each letter represents the general shape of the recovery's chart of economic metrics that gauge economic health.



A W-shaped recession begins like a V-shaped recession, but then turns back down again after showing false signs of recovery. W-shaped recessions are also called "double-dip recessions" because the economy drops twice before the full recovery is achieved.



A W-shaped recession is painful because many investors who jump back into the markets after they believe the economy has found a bottom end up getting burned twice—once on the way down and then once again after the false recovery.



The U.S. experienced a W-shaped recovery in the early 1980s. From January to July 1980 the country's economy experienced the initial recession, then entered recovery for almost a full year before dropping into a second recession in 1981 to 1982.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022



Drastic shifts in market sentiment are par for the course during economic phases such as recession or recovery. This is a natural part of the economic cycle and is expected based on the release of new information. Broadly speaking, concerns of the day lead to sudden shifts in consumer or corporate behavior, which in turn have a great impact on the direction of the markets and state of the economy.



One day it might look like the market or economy is on the road to a quick recovery, but then the underlying situation changes and that market or economy dips lower again. Relapses in economic, corporate, or consumer-level trends are not uncommon; this is the very nature of the W-shaped recovery.



Looking at the COVID-19 pandemic, global economies were hit hard during the first wave, and then recovered at different rates as news of a vaccine was announced, then administration of it was planned and accomplished. Subsequent waves hit economies and markets in different ways, but for many, a move lower was the norm as government restrictions were altered, businesses closed their doors, and individuals' finances were affected.






In many ways, the COVID-19 situation created a case study on the negative effects of a W-shaped recovery, and it continues to impact investors, individuals, and governments around the world.



Looking a bit further back in history, a strong example of a W-shaped recession was the European debt crisis that occurred approximately between 2010 and 2014. The crisis spilled out of the Great Recession near the end of 2009 and was marked by high levels of government debt.



As the pressure of bank bailouts increased, investor confidence decreased, which sparked the start of an economic decline. Once immediate concerns over certain governments' solvency levels started to wane, broader economic conditions started to improve.



However, this improvement would turn out to be short-lived as further rounds of bailouts and shifts in spending would be required, which in turn affected the trajectory of recovery and resulted in a double-dip recession. Countries that were hardest hit by the double-dip recession were Portugal, Spain, Germany, Ireland, and Cyprus.




What Is a Double-Dip Recession?
A double-dip recession is a term used to refer to a recession that is followed by a short-lived recovery, and then is followed by yet another recession. Such a relapse into recession after already being in a recession isn't uncommon as investors start to question the conviction of a recovery based on new or changing information.




What Is a Double Bottom Pattern?
A double bottom pattern is a chart pattern used by followers of technical analysis to mark the reversal in a primary trend. While the W-shape recovery is often looked to by traders on charts of equities, it is also used to monitor major indexes and when trying to spot shifts in economic cycles.




What Are the Most Common Reversal Patterns?
Some of the most common chart patterns that technical traders use to mark major shifts in underlying trends are: double bottom, double top, triple bottom, triple top, head-and-shoulders, cup-and-handle. Reversal patterns typically have a V, W, or U shape.


   The Bottom Line  

A W-shaped recovery is an economic cycle of recession and recovery that looks like the letter "W" in investment or economic charts of certain economic measures such as employment, gross domestic product (GDP), and industrial output. People also refer to a W-shaped recovery as a double-dip recession.



This kind of recovery involves a sharp decline in these measurements followed by a sharp rise upward, then another sharp decline and finally a further sharp rise. The middle section of the W can turn out to be a major bear-market rally or a recovery stifled by an additional economic crisis. Such relapses in economic, corporate, or consumer-level trends are fairly common.
What Is a Wage Assignment?  

Wage assignment is the act of taking money directly from an employee's paycheck in order to pay back a debt obligation. Wage assignments may be either voluntary or involuntary, depending on the situation.



Such an automatic withholding plan may be used to pay back a variety of debt obligations, including back taxes, defaulted student loan debt, and both child and spousal support payments.



A wage assignment is typically a last resort of a lender to receive repayment from a borrower who has previously failed to pay a debt obligation. A wage assignment, when involuntary, may also be referred to as wage garnishment and requires a court order.


   How Wage Assignment Works  

Wage assignments are typically incurred for debts that have gone unpaid for a prolonged period of time. Wage assignments can be divided into two categories: voluntary and involuntary. Employees may sometimes opt for a voluntarily wage assignment to pay for things like union dues or to contribute to a retirement fund.





Key Takeaways

A wage assignment take funds directly from an employee's paycheck to pay back a debt. Wage assignments may be either voluntary or involuntary.A wage assignment, when involuntary, may also be referred to as wage garnishment and requires a court order.﻿﻿



Employees may even voluntarily opt into a wage assignment plan as a part of a payday loan repayment promise.



When a wage assignment is either undertaken voluntarily or mandated by a court and served to an employer, it is processed as part of an employer's payroll procedure. The employee has to do nothing, as their paycheck is decreased by the amount of the assignment, and noted on their pay stub.






Wage assignments are a valuable tool for collecting unpaid debts, but unfortunately, they may be associated with abusive lending practices.  


   Wage Assignment: Voluntary  

In a voluntary wage assignment, a worker asks their employer to withhold a portion of their paycheck and send it to a creditor to pay off a debt. Loan agreements may sometimes include in their terms a voluntary wage assignment clause should the borrower default on their loan.



Payday lenders often include voluntary wage assignments into their loan agreements to better their chances of being repaid. Such a lender may begin a wage assignment without a court order. Laws regarding wage assignments vary by state.



For example, in West Virginia, wage assignments are capped at 25% of a worker's take-home earnings, the employee's signature must be notarized, and agreements must be renewed annually. Under Illinois law, a lender cannot resort to wage assignment until a debt is 40 days in default. The wage assignment cannot continue for more than three years, and the worker can stop the wage assignment at any time.


   Wage Assignment: Involuntary  

Involuntary wage assignments require a court order and are most likely to be employed to collect spousal and child support payments that have been ordered by a court. Involuntary wage assignments may also be used to collect unpaid court fines or student loans that have been defaulted on.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Several states allow individuals to sign up for voluntary child support agreements. In such a case, both parents must agree to a plan. Once that happens, a voluntary wage assignment may begin. If a child support or welfare agency is involved, they would have to approve any plan.
What Is a Wage Earner's Plan?  

A wage earner's plan, known more formally as Chapter 13 bankruptcy, enables individuals with a regular income to restructure their obligations to repay their debt over time.﻿﻿



In a wage earner's plan, the debtor does not seek to earn general forgiveness of their outstanding debts. Rather, the debtor offers up a repayment plan that utilizes fixed installment payments, effectively consolidating debts into one monthly amount. The debtor makes payments to an appointed impartial trustee who then forwards them to the creditor for a specified period, usually three to five years.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A wage earner's plan, also called Chapter 13 bankruptcy, lets individuals with steady employment income to repay debts and obligations associated with a personal bankruptcy.﻿﻿While Chapter 7 bankruptcy is the most common form of bankruptcy, one of the biggest advantages of a Chapter 13 bankruptcy versus Chapter 7 is that it offers individuals an opportunity to save their homes from foreclosure.﻿﻿By filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, individuals can halt any foreclosure proceedings and submit a plan to pay off any delinquent debts—including mortgage payments—over a period of three to five years, effectively consolidating all of their debts into one monthly amount.﻿﻿


   Understanding Wage Earner's Plans  

Chapter 13 bankruptcy was formerly called a wage earner's plan because relief under it was only available to individuals who earned a regular wage. Subsequent statute changes expanded it to include any individual, including the self-employed and those operating an unincorporated business.﻿﻿



Any individual is eligible for Chapter 13 bankruptcy as long as their unsecured debts are less than $394,725, and secured debts are less than $1,184,200, and they have received credit counseling from an approved credit counseling agency either in an individual or group briefing within 180 days of filing. A corporation or partnership is not eligible for Chapter 13 bankruptcy.﻿﻿


   Chapter 13 Bankruptcy vs. Chapter 7 Bankruptcy  

person who is seriously in debt may file for either Chapter 13 bankruptcy or Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Chapter 13 bankruptcy allows for the reorganization of debt, while Chapter 7 bankruptcy involves outright liquidation. With a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, debtors are allowed to keep their property. When a debtor files for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, they may be able to keep home equity or a car, but equity shares, second homes, and/or vacation properties will be forfeit to pay back creditors.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



One of the biggest advantages of Chapter 13 is that it offers individuals an opportunity to save their homes from foreclosure. By filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, individuals can halt any foreclosure proceedings and submit a plan to pay off any delinquent mortgage payments over a period of three to five years. Chapter 7 is the most common form of bankruptcy because it allows individuals to erase their existing debt and start over. However, oftentimes with a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the individual filing surrenders their home in the process.﻿﻿﻿ 



A Chapter 13 bankruptcy also allows individuals to reschedule secured debts—excluding a mortgage on their primary residence—and extend them over the life of the plan, which may lower their payments. In addition, a Chapter 13 bankruptcy has a special provision that may protect co-signers. Under this provision, plan payments are made to an appointed impartial trustee who distributes them to creditors, so the debtor has no direct contact with creditors.﻿﻿﻿


   How to File for a Wage Earner's Plan  

In order to file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, the debtor must first make a list of each creditor they owe money to, along with the amount of money owed. They must also compile a list of any property owned. Those filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy must also submit information about their income—how much they make and where their income comes from—in addition to detailed information about their monthly expenses. Debtors must also have completed credit counseling before becoming eligible.﻿﻿


   Example of a Wage Earner's Plan  

Eric and Sam are a married couple. Eric lost his job in a round of layoffs and his husband Sam was injured at his job, leaving him unable to work in the same year. They fell behind on their mortgage payments and eventually ended up owing $75,000 to their bank. Soon after the bank initiated foreclosure proceedings, Eric received a job offer and Sam launched a small business from their home. By filing for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, they were able to stop the foreclosure proceedings and keep their home.



As a result of their now-steady income stream, Eric and Sam can pay their mortgage each month going forward. The back payments they owe on their mortgage are due over a five-year period, with manageable payments spread out over that time.
What Is a Wage Expense?  

A wage expense is the cost incurred by companies to pay hourly employees. This line item may also include payroll taxes and benefits paid to employees. A wage expense may be recorded as a line item in the expense portion of the income statement. This is a type of variable cost.





Key Takeaways

A wage expense is the cost incurred by companies to pay hourly employees.The wage expense line item may also include payroll taxes and benefits paid to the employee.Wage expenses are variable costs and are recorded on the income statement.Under the accrual method of accounting, wage expenses are recorded when the work was performed as opposed to when the worker is paid. Under cash accounting, wage expenses are reported only when the worker is paid.Wage expenses that are not yet paid are recorded as wages payable on the balance sheet, which is a liability account.Salary expenses differ from wage expenses as they are not hourly but rather quoted annually. Wage expenses can incur overtime whereas salaried jobs do not include overtime pay.


   Understanding Wage Expenses  

Wage expenses are sometimes reported by department and they are most likely to be reported separately for the production department. This department is often the one with the most hourly employees. On the other hand, wage expenses for production workers may be incorporated into the cost of goods sold (COGS) item on the income statement. 



Wage expenses vary from one period to the next, depending on the number of business days in the period and the amount of overtime to be paid. Business days vary from month to month and may be affected by the number of holidays during the period.  



Also, wage expenses during the Christmas/holiday season may be higher as companies hire more workers to meet the increased demand for shopping. After the holiday season, companies then may cut back on the number of workers when business is not as busy and the need for additional workers has gone.


   Accounting for Wage Expenses  

Under the accrual method of accounting, wage expenses are recorded based on when the work was performed. In contrast, under the cash method of accounting, wage expenses are recorded at the time the payments are made.



Wages payable is the line item that identifies how much in wages are owed to workers but have not yet been paid. It is a liability account. When a wage expense is recorded it is a debit to the wage expenses account, which requires a credit to the wages payable account for the same amount until the wage is paid to the worker.



Wages are typically paid to a worker in the pay period following the period in which the work was performed, so there is always a delay, which is reflected in the wages payable account. A wage expense is an expense account that appears on the income statement while the wages payable account is a liability account that appears on the balance sheet.


   Minimum Wage  

A wage expense has to at least be equal to the minimum wage dictated by the federal government or the state government. The current minimum wage in the U.S. is $7.25 an hour and has not been raised since 2009. Many states have implemented minimum wages that are higher than the federal wage and employers in those states have to pay the higher state minimum wage.



Many companies pay a higher minimum wage than the federal or state minimum wage. Examples include Walmart, Kroger, Target, Costco, and Amazon.


   Wage Expense vs. Salary Expense  

Wage and salary are often used interchangeably but they refer to different types of payments for employment. Wages most often refer to hourly pay. The worker is paid per hour for a set amount of hours per week. If they go over the set amount of hours, then they are usually paid overtime. Overtime pay can sometimes be higher than the regular hourly pay; sometimes 1.5x the hourly pay.



Salary refers to a set amount of payment that does not change throughout the year and is usually quoted as an annual sum rather than hourly. With salaried jobs, there is no set amount of hours an individual works, so if the person works 40 hours a week or 60 hours a week, there is no difference in pay.



Salaried jobs usually also come with better benefits, such as 401(k) plans, better health insurance, life insurance, and flexible spending accounts (FSA).
What Is the Wage-Price Spiral?  

The wage-price spiral is a macroeconomic theory used to explain the cause-and-effect relationship between rising wages and rising prices, or inflation. The wage-price spiral suggests that rising wages increase disposable income raising the demand for goods and causing prices to rise. Rising prices increase demand for higher wages, which leads to higher production costs and further upward pressure on prices creating a conceptual spiral.


   The Wage-Price Spiral and Inflation  

The wage-price spiral is an economic term that describes the phenomenon of price increases as a result of higher wages. When workers receive a wage hike, they demand more goods and services and this, in turn, causes prices to rise. The wage increase effectively increases general business expenses that are passed on to the consumer as higher prices. It is essentially a perpetual loop or cycle of consistent price increases. The wage-price spiral reflects the causes and consequences of inflation, and it is, therefore, characteristic of Keynesian economic theory. It is also known as the cost-push origin of inflation. Another cause of inflation is known as demand-pull inflation, which monetary theorists believe originates with the money supply.





Key Takeaways

The wage-price spiral describes a perpetual cycle whereby rising wages create rising prices and vice versa.Central banks use monetary policy, the interest rate, reserve requirements, and open market operations to curb the wage-price spiral.Inflation targeting is a type of monetary policy that aims to achieve and sustain a set interest rate over a period.


   How a Wage-Price Spiral Begins  

A wage-price spiral is caused by the effect of supply and demand on aggregate prices. People who earn more than the cost of living select an allocation mix between savings and consumer spending. As wages increase, so does a consumer's propensity to both save and consume.



If the minimum wage of an economy increased, for example, it would cause consumers within the economy to purchase more product, which would increase demand. The rise in aggregate demand and the increased wage burden cause businesses to increase the prices of products and services. Although wages are higher, the increase in prices causes workers to demand even higher salaries. If higher wages are granted, a spiral where prices subsequently increase may occur repeating the cycle until wage levels can no longer be supported.


   Stopping a Wage-Price Spiral  

Governments and economies favor stable inflation—or price increases. A wage-price spiral often makes inflation higher than is ideal. Governments have the option of stopping this inflationary environment through the actions of the Federal Reserve or a central bank. A country's central bank can use monetary policy, the interest rate, reserve requirements, or open-market operations to curb the wage-price spiral.


   Real World Example  

The United States has used monetary policy in the past to curb inflation, but the result was a recession. The 1970s were a time of oil price increases by OPEC that resulted in increased domestic inflation. The Federal Reserve responded by raising interest rates to control inflation, stopping the spiral in the short term, but acting as the catalyst for a recession in the early 1980s.



Many countries use inflation targeting as a way to control inflation. Inflation targeting is a strategy for a monetary policy whereby the central bank sets a target inflation rate over a period and makes adjustments to achieve and maintain that rate. However, the book published in 2018 by Ben S. Bernanke, Thomas Laubach, Frederic S. Mishkin, and Adam S. Posen, Inflation Targeting: Lessons from the International Experience, delved into the past advantages and disadvantages of inflation targeting to discern whether there is a net positive in its use as a monetary policy rule. The authors conclude that there is no absolute rule for monetary policy and that governments should use their discretion based on the circumstances when deciding to use inflation targeting as a tool to control the economy.




What Is Monetary Policy?
Monetary policy is a set of tools that a nation's central bank has available to promote sustainable economic growth by controlling the overall supply of money that is available to the nation's banks, its consumers, and its businesses. The U.S. Treasury Department has the ability to create money, but the Federal Reserve, also called the Fed, influences the supply of money in the economy, largely through open market operations (OMO). Essentially, this means buying financial securities when easing monetary policy and selling financial securities when tightening monetary policy. The Fed's preferred securities for OMO are U.S. Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities. The goal is to keep the economy humming along at a rate that is neither too hot nor too cold. The central bank may force up interest rates on borrowing to discourage spending or force down interest rates to inspire more borrowing and spending. The main weapon at its disposal is the nation's money. The central bank sets the rates it charges to loan money to the nation's banks. When it raises or lowers its rates, all financial institutions tweak the rates they charge all of their customers, from big businesses borrowing for major projects to home buyers applying for mortgages.




U.S. Treasury vs. Federal Reserve: What's the Difference?
The U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve are separate entities. The Treasury manages all of the money coming into the government and paid out by it. The Federal Reserve's primary responsibility is to keep the economy stable by managing the supply of money in circulation. The Department of the Treasury manages federal spending. It collects the government's tax revenues, distributes its budget, issues its bonds, bills, and notes, and literally prints the money. The Treasury Department is headed by a cabinet-level appointee who advises the president on monetary and economic policy. The Federal Reserve is the central banking system of the United States and is run by a board of governors that oversees 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. Its primary goals are to regulate the nation's private banks and manage the overall money supply in order to keep the inflation rate and the employment rate stable. The Federal Reserve Board is accountable to the U.S. Congress, not the president.




What Is Inflation Targeting?
Inflation targeting is a central banking policy that revolves around adjusting monetary policy to achieve a specified annual rate of inflation. The principle of inflation targeting is based on the belief that long-term economic growth is best achieved by maintaining price stability and price stability is achieved by controlling inflation.
What Is Wage Push Inflation?  

Wage push inflation is an overall rise in the cost of goods and services that results from a rise in wages. To maintain corporate profits after an increase in wages, employers must increase the prices they charge for the goods and services they provide. The overall increased cost of goods and services has a circular effect on the wage increase; eventually, as goods and services in the market overall increase, higher wages will be needed to compensate for the increased prices of consumer goods.





Key Takeaways

Wage push inflation is an overall rise in the cost of goods that results from a rise in wages.Employers must increase the prices they charge for the goods and services they provide after an increase in wages in order to maintain profits.The increase in wages and the resulting increase in prices create a circular effect on wages as higher wages will be needed to compensate for the increased prices of goods and services.


   Understanding Wage Push Inflation  

Companies can increase wages for a number of reasons. The most common reason for raising wages is an increase in the minimum wage. The federal and state governments have the power to increase the minimum wage.



Consumer goods companies are also known for making incremental wage increases for their workers. These minimum wage increases are a leading factor for wage push inflation. In consumer goods companies especially, wage push inflation is highly prevalent, and its effect is a function of the percentage increase in wages.


   Industry Factors  

Industry factors also play a part in driving wage increases. If a specific industry is growing rapidly, companies might raise wages to attract talent or provide higher compensation for their workers as an incentive to help business growth. All such factors have a wage push inflation effect on the goods and services the company provides.



Economists track wages closely because of their wage push inflation effects. Wage push inflation has an inflationary spiral effect that occurs when wages are increased and businesses must—to pay the higher wages—charge more for their products and/or services. Additionally, any wage increase that occurs will increase the money supply of consumers.



With a higher money supply, consumers have more spending power, so the demand for goods increases. An increase in demand for goods then increases the price of goods in the broader market. Companies charge more for their goods to pay higher wages, and the higher wages also increase the price of goods in the broader market.



As the cost of goods and services rises at the companies paying higher wages and in the broader market overall, the wage increase is not as helpful to employees, since the cost of goods in the market has also risen. If prices remain increased, workers eventually require another wage increase to compensate for the cost of living increase. The percentage increase of the wages and prices and their overall effect on the market are key factors driving inflation in the economy.


   Example of Wage Push Inflation  

If a state raises the minimum wage from $5 to $20, then a company must pay its employees $20; however, now its cost of producing its goods and services has gone up because its cost of labor is now more expensive. To compensate for the increase in costs, the company must increase the prices of its products on the market. But because the goods and services become more expensive, the initial $15 raise in wages isn't enough to propel a consumer's purchasing power, and the wage must be raised again, therefore causing an inflationary spiral. 




Why Do Wage Increases Cause Inflation?
Wage increases cause inflation because the cost of producing goods and services goes up as companies pay their employees more. To make up for the increase in cost, companies must charge more for their goods and services to maintain the same level of profitability. The increase in the prices of goods and services is in inflation.




What Is an Inflation Target?
Governments typically set an inflation target, which in the U.S. is approximately 2% a year. An inflation target allows businesses and individuals to budget for the future. It provides an indicator for companies on how much to pay their employees and how much to charge for their goods and services. It indicates to individuals how much they can expect in wages as well as how much goods and services will cost.




How Does Inflation Impact the Value of Money?
Inflation reduces the value of current money in the future. Because prices go up, the value of a dollar today is worth less than it is in the future. The same dollar today will be able to buy fewer goods and services in the future. Money is always worth more now than it is in the future, particularly due to the investment capability of money.
What Is a Waiting Period?  

A waiting period is the amount of time an insured must wait before some or all of their coverage comes into effect. The insured may not receive benefits for claims filed during the waiting period. Waiting periods may also be known as elimination periods and qualifying periods. 





Key Takeaways

A waiting period, also known as a qualifying period, is the time before insurance coverage kicks in.Various insurance policies can have waiting periods, including homeowners insurance, auto insurance, and short-term disability.Waiting periods are often used by companies that experience high turnover rates.Some private health insurance plans have longer wait periods, such as for cancer or maternity care.


   How a Waiting Period Works  

​​​​​​​The waiting period or elimination period before the insured may make claims varies by insurer, policy, and type of insurance. For more extended waiting periods before coverage is active, the cost of a premium may reduce slightly. In health insurance, there are several types of waiting periods. 



An employer waiting period requires an employee to wait a specified period, such as three months, before they may receive company-subsidized health services. Often a provision like this will be in place for a company that expects a high turnover rate in employees. Once an employee enrolls, they may have an additional waiting period before they may claim on the coverage.



Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO) have affiliation waiting periods. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) regulates affiliation wait periods and does not allow them to exceed two months (three months for late enrollees).



A pre-existing condition exclusion period varies from one to 18 months. These wait times refer to specific health conditions an individual may have in the six months before enrolling in a health insurance plan. Coverage may be limited or excluded for the pre-existing condition. However, if the insured can prove uninterrupted insurance previous to changing policies, that coverage can count towards the pre-existing condition exclusion. Exemptions allow those who have at least one year of group health coverage at one job and a span of no more than 63 days to avoid this provision.



Some private health insurance plans come with long mandatory waiting periods for certain types of coverage:



Cancer and cardiovascular care may have wait periods of up to two years. Maternity care waits may be as long as 10 to 12 months but commonly are 30 to 90 days.  The dental care waiting period is typically 6 to 12 months. Some insurance companies also impose restrictions, or additional waiting periods, that control how often the insured may receive specific dental treatments. For example, denture replacement may be restricted to once every five years.



Policyholders need to consider their ability to pay for expenses when choosing the length of the waiting period for a policy.


   Types of Waiting Periods  

Homeowner insurance wait periods will usually span 30 to 90 days before coverage is in effect. After the waiting period expires, policyholders may file claims against the policy. Wait periods will vary by the insurance provider. Also, in some regions, such as coastal zones, when a named storm is in the area, new policies will not go into effect until after the storm passes. 



Some states may impose wait periods on other insurance products. As an example, Texas will place a 60-day wait on new auto insurance policies. This period gives the provider a chance to decide if the driver fits within their risk profiles. During the 60-day period, the company may cancel the auto policy if they have concerns about the risk profile or undisclosed issues. 



Short-term disability coverage can have wait periods as short as a few weeks, but these policies will have higher premiums. Most short-term policies wait 30 to 90 days for coverage. Long-term disability wait periods can be between 90-days and a full year. As with other insurance products, during the probationary period, no benefits are payable. For Social Security, disability payments will also have a waiting period of five months.
What Is a Waiver?  

A waiver is a legally binding provision where either party in a contract agrees to voluntarily forfeit a claim without the other party being liable. Waivers are commonly seen during settlement talks, when one party may be willing to pay out a slightly higher award, as long as the other person, often a claimant, agrees to sign a waiver relinquishing their right to further legal action.





Key Takeaways

A waiver is a legally binding provision where either party in a contract agrees to voluntarily forfeit a claim without the other party being liable.Waivers can either be in written form or some form of action.Examples of waivers include the waiving of parental rights, waiving liability, tangible goods waivers, and waivers for grounds of inadmissibility.Waivers are common when finalizing lawsuits, as one party does not want the other pursuing them after a settlement is transferred.Waivers are signed in order to mitigate exposure to risk. 


   Understanding Waivers  

A waiver is a demonstration, usually in written form, of a party’s intent to relinquish a legal right or claim. The key point to note is that the relinquishment is voluntary, and can apply to a variety of legal situations.



Essentially, a waiver removes a real or potential liability for the other party in the agreement. For example, in a settlement between two parties, one party might, by means of a waiver, relinquish its right to pursue any further legal action once the settlement is finalized.






Since the party signing the waiver is surrendering a claim that they are entitled to, it stands to reason that they will, usually, only do so if they are receiving some added benefit.



Waivers can either be in written form or some form of action. A waiver carried out by an action might be based on whether a party in an agreement acts on a right, such as the right to terminate the deal in the first year of the contract. If it does not terminate the deal, which would be the act of "absence of action," before the first year, that party waives its right to do so in the future.


   Examples of Waivers  

Waiving of Parental Rights: In cases involving the custody of a child, a biological parent may choose to waive their legal rights as a parent, making that person ineligible to make determinations regarding the child's upbringing. This also allows a guardian who is not a biological parent to attempt to assert their right over a child through actions such as adoption.
Waivers of Liability: Before participating in an activity that could lead to injury or death, a person may be required to sign a waiver as a form of expressed consent to the risks that exist, due to the inherent nature of the activity. This waiver would release the company facilitating the activity from liability should the participant be injured or killed during their participation. Such waivers may be used prior to participating in extreme sports, such as BMX racing, or other activities, such as skydiving.
Waivers and Tangible Goods: In the case of most tangible goods or personal property, a person may waive the right to continue to make a claim on the item. This can apply to goods that are sold to a new buyer or donated to a particular entity. A transfer of vehicle ownership functions as a waiver of any claim to the item by the seller, and it gives the right to the buyer as the new owner.
Waiver for Grounds of Inadmissibility: If a person who is not a citizen of the United States wishes to gain entry, they may be required to complete Form I-601, "Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility." This waiver seeks to change the status of the person seeking entry, allowing them the ability to enter the United States legally.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Waivers  

Depending on which side of the waiver you are on, the advantages and disadvantages are usually quite clear. If someone is the claimant in, say, a car accident, an insurance company would have the claimant sign a waiver as part of their settlement offer. This means that although the insurance company is paying a settlement to the claimant, the claimant can no longer pursue legal action against the insurance company.



The advantage for the claimant in this example would be that they are given a settlement package. The advantage to the insurance company is that once the claimant signs the waiver, their responsibility to the claimant, as well as the exposure to a future lawsuit, is waived.



The disadvantages in this example for the claimant are the same as the advantages for the insurance company. They would be unable to pursue a future claim. The insurance company will usually pay an inflated settlement offer, especially if they feel the claimant may have a legitimate claim in the future, and the company is attempting to mitigate that risk before it materializes. Due to the nature of waivers, they can be either advantageous or disadvantageous, depending on which side you are on and the circumstances surrounding the event.





Pros

Finalizes the arrangement
Can lower insurance requirements for certain businesses that require waivers



Cons

Removes possibility of future legal action
Sometimes things require additional attention, but a waiver forbids necessary action







What is a Waiver of Subrogation?
A waiver of subrogation is a waiver that prevents either a person or company from pursuing damage collection from a third party. Waivers of subrogation are commonly seen in construction contracts, leases, and property insurance contracts. Insurance companies will commonly add causes that prevent a party from being awarded an insurance claim settlement if they waived subrogation.




What Is a Lien Waiver?
A lien waiver is a waiver that forfeits a counterparty's right to place a lien on a payer's property or goods. These are common in the construction business during various stages of construction. A lien waiver is similar to a receipt and can prevent a mechanics' lien from being filed.




What Is a Medicaid Waiver?
A medicaid waiver is a waiver that is signed by the state that can waive certain Medicaid eligibility requirements. This would result in care being offered to people who may not have otherwise been eligible for Medicaid. The waivers can be limited in certain ways and could be limited to certain medical diagnoses, or enact geographic limitations.




What Is a Fee Waiver?
A fee waiver is a waiver that is signed in order to reduce the fee amount, either partially or fully, of someone who is typically enduring a period of financial hardship. They can also be used to entice a buyer or servicer, when the fee might be a deterrent and mean the difference between closing the sale or losing it.




What is a GAP Waiver?
A GAP waiver, which stands for Guaranteed Asset Protection waiver, is a waiver that absolves a person of the remaining payments on an asset that has been destroyed, typically a car. This means that if someone owed money on a car, and the car was damaged beyond salvaging, they are not responsible for the remaining payments. A GAP waiver could also be considered a cancellation of debt.


   The Bottom Line  

A waiver can be a great way to finalize an agreement between two parties, ending their relationship and mitigating future risk. However, there are significant drawbacks to waivers, especially if there are legitimate legal claims that may arise in the future. Waivers can be commonplace, such as when negotiating construction contracts, and usually exist for the protection of each individual party. Whether a waiver is advantageous or even necessary depends on the unique circumstances of each event.
What Is a Waiver of Demand?  

A waiver of demand is a legal agreement given by a party who has endorsed a check or a bank draft. It states that, should the original issuer of the check or draft default, the endorser will take responsibility for honoring that check or draft on the issuer’s behalf.



Waivers of demand can either be expressed or implied, and can come in both written and verbal forms. In the event of default, the affected bank reserves the right to charge any applicable penalties or fees to the endorser.





Key Takeaways

A waiver of demand is a legal agreement causing the endorser of a check or draft to become responsible in the event of its default.The party endorsing the check can also be responsible for fines and penalties incurred.Waivers of demand can be issued explicitly or implicitly, and can be conveyed verbally in some jurisdictions.


   How Waivers of Demand Work  

Typically, there are three parties involved when a check or bank draft is written: the drawer, the payee, and the drawee. The drawer is the original writer of the check or daft, the payee is the party to whom the check or draft is written, and the drawee is the party from whose account the funds will be withdrawn.



If a particular check or draft carries a waiver of demand, then this means that the endorser has accepted legal responsibility for its fulfillment. Should the drawer of the check or draft default, then the endorser will take responsibility for honoring the check and paying any fees or penalties that may have been incurred.



In the context of banking, the term waiver of demand can also refer to a bank’s waiver of its right to formal notification when it presents short-term negotiable debt instruments such as drafts or banker's acceptances to a Federal Reserve Bank for rediscounting. In such instances, the Federal Reserve considers the bank's endorsement as a "waiver of demand, notice and protest" if the original issuer defaults on its debt obligation.


   Real World Example of a Waiver of Demand  

To illustrate, suppose John writes a check to pay for goods purchased from Kevin. In this situation, John is the drawer, Kevin is the payee, and John’s bank is the drawee.



If another party provides an endorsement to John by signing the back of his check, then that party is executing a waiver of demand. Accordingly, the endorser would be responsible for honoring John’s check if it bounces due to insufficient funds or any other reason.



Similarly, the waiver of demand would cause the endorser to become responsible for any fees or penalties triggered by the bounced check. In that scenario, the bank would send John a “bad check notice” indicating that the check bounced and informing him of any applicable penalties.
What Is a Waiver of Coinsurance Clause?  

A waiver of coinsurance clause is a provision in an insurance contract stating that the insurer will not require the policyholder to pay coinsurance, or a percentage of the total claim, under certain conditions.



These clauses are most commonly found in property insurance but can also apply to health insurance and, in fairly rare cases, other types of insurance.





Key Takeaways

A waiver of coinsurance clause refers to language in an insurance policy that spells out conditions under which policyholders do not have to pay a portion of a claim.These clauses may apply to property insurance, health insurance, or other types of insurance.Policies with waiver of coinsurance clauses tend to have higher insurance premiums.


   How a Waiver of Coinsurance Clause Works  

An individual or business with property insurance may receive only 80% coverage, meaning they are required to pay the remaining 20% in coinsurance should something happen to their property and they qualify to make a valid claim for compensation. A waiver of coinsurance clause relinquishes this requirement for the policyholder to share the burden and pay some of the expenses incurred out of their own pocket.



Generally, insurance companies tend to waive coinsurance only for fairly small claims. That said, in some cases, policies may also include a waiver of coinsurance in the event of a total loss.



The specific language insurance companies use in writing waiver of coinsurance clauses can vary, although they all are similar in theory. Typically, consumers can expect to pay higher insurance premiums for policies with a waiver of coinsurance clause, as it puts greater liability on the insurance company.





Important

Insurance companies generally only waive coinsurance in the event of fairly small claims.


   Example of a Waiver of Coinsurance Clause  

A waiver of coinsurance clause is particularly valuable to a policyholder in the event of a total loss. Say a coinsurance clause requires a policyholder to insure a minimum of 80% of the property's actual value. Thus, if a building is worth $200,000, the property owner should purchase at least $160,000 worth of insurance.



In the event of a total loss, the policy would pay out the $160,000 and the building owner would be responsible for the remaining $40,000. That would, of course, change if the policy included a waiver of coinsurance clause, in which case the insurance company would pick up the bill for the entire $200,000.


   Special Considerations  

As previously mentioned, a waiver of coinsurance clause can sometimes be applied to health insurance, as well as, on the odd occasion, to other types of insurance products.



Some health insurance policies are 80/20 plans, meaning that the insured is responsible for 20% of medical costs, while the insurance company coughs up the remaining 80%—provided the client paid the deductible.



In the rare scenario that a waiver of coinsurance clause is applied, it would eliminate the required 20% payment by the insured in specific situations. In other words, should a patient require an $80,000 surgery, a waiver of coinsurance covering that procedure would save the patient from shelling out $16,000 on coinsurance.



As is the case with property insurance, however, a waiver of coinsurance in healthcare often covers far smaller amounts. They typically come into play when patients pay in advance for specific, relatively inexpensive services at the time of their delivery.
What is a Waiver Of Exemption  

A waiver of exemption was a provision in a consumer credit contract or loan agreement which allowed creditors to seize, or threaten the seizure, of specific personal possessions or property. The property attached by the loan could include a borrower's primary place of residence. Lenders could enact this clause, even if state law held the property exempt from seizure.



The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) banned these practices under the Credit Practices Rule of 1985.﻿﻿


   Breaking Down Waiver Of Exemption  

Before 1985, waivers of exemption were common in credit contracts. Their use was a way for creditors to secure a loan which may not have been available without the waiver clause. In case of a default, the provision provided the lender an avenue to recoup expenses through the selling of the property listed as securing the loan. 



Every U.S. state exempts some personal property from seizure in a civil judgment. Generally, property considered necessities of life—such as an individual's primary home, car, and necessary household goods like a refrigerator or clothing—are exempt from seizure. One exemption to the ban on property seizure is a home mortgage. State personal property laws do not apply to mortgage loans where a creditor always retains the right to foreclose on the property in the event of a default.﻿﻿ 



Instead, the laws are meant to prohibit smaller lenders such as those in the furniture, appliance, auto dealership, or department store business from attaching a lien against the debtor's home. Any borrower who signed a waiver of exemption made such exempt property available to a creditor who obtained a judgment to satisfy a debt.


   FTC Regulates Wavier of Exemption Practices  

The FTC offers the following example of a typical waiver clause:



“Each of us hereby both individually and severally waives any or all benefit or relief from the homestead exemption and all other exemptions or moratoriums to which the signers or any of them may be entitled under laws of this or any other State, now in force or hereafter to be passed, as against this debt or any renewal thereof.”﻿﻿



The FTC deemed such waivers of exemption unfair to consumers, as well as poorly understood. The 1985 prohibition did not specifically ban any forms of collateral but only mandated that creditors may not contravene, or go against the order of state law which governs property exemptions.﻿﻿



Further, the Credit Practices Rule of 1985 separately prohibited creditors from attaching liens to household goods considered necessary, including appliances, clothing and linens, and items deemed of more personal than a monetary value such as family photos and wedding rings. The rule does not include household goods purchased explicitly with a loan, in which case the creditor who made the loan has the right to repossess after a default.﻿﻿



As an example, imagine you bought a new bedroom suite of furniture from a local furniture store using the store financing option. The store may repossess the furniture purchased with the loan. However, the store may not come after your car or clothing if you should stop paying the loan.
What is a Waiver Of Notice  

A waiver of notice is a document individuals sign which legally waives their rights to receive formal notices regarding certain probate issues. For example, let's assume a family patriarch named Charley passes away, and that his estate is meant to be distributed among his three children: Michael, Sally, and Melissa, who are his sole heirs. Under normal circumstances, the probate court must issue a public notice regarding proceedings pertaining to the probate of Charley's will. However, if Michael, Sally, and Melissa--all of whom have deeply vested interests in Charley's assets, consent to waivers of notice, an appointed administrator or executor may attend in their places. By sending such representatives in their stead, courts can accelerate the the probate process, thus benefitting Charley's heirs by ultimately allowing them to receive their inheritances faster, as a result.





Key Takeways

A waiver of notice is a document an individual signs that allows probate courts to proceed with will hearings in their absence.Waiver of notice are helpful in expediting the process, while cutting down on the often costly administrative court fees.These legal documents are often used in corporate settings, by letting boards of directors congress, without all members present.



Simply put: a waiver of notice can be a massive timesaver for all relevant interested parties. But it should be made clear that a wavier of notice does not affect an individual's right to information. Rather, it simply means they may be excluded from prior notices, about certain iterative steps in the probate process.


   Breaking Down Waiver Of Notice  

Probate courts mainly deal with vital and sensitive issues such as wills, estates and trusts. For this reason, generally speaking, interested parties are entitled to receive adequate notice about any probate hearings. But waivers of notice allow a representative to attend, which can save both time and money in proceedings that would normally subject heirs to lengthy waits and high legal fees.



There are potential downsides to waivers of notice. Namely, by signing one, it will be difficult for an heir to later contest the estate by challenging the validity of a will or choice of executor. In the probate process, a hearing is required to make these challenges.


   Waiver of Notice for Corporate Purposes  

Waivers of notice don't solely apply to the process of probating a will. These legal documents can also be useful when a corporate board of directors or similar governing group needs to hold an emergency meeting. The notice allows them to do so, even if every board member isn't available to attend at a moment's notice. But more importantly, a notice provides an assurance that the proceedings of a meeting where notice is waived will be considered legal and valid if it is later challenged. In these cases, corporate attorneys recommend all directors sign a waiver of notice ahead of the meeting or a waiver of notice for future meetings. Copies of the signed waivers should be attached as evidence to the minutes of the meeting in question.



Important: For heirs who naturally wish to keep a close watch on probate cases, a waiver of notice may work against them, and they should opt against signing one.]
What Is a Waiver of Premium Disability?  

Waiver of premium for disability is a provision in an insurance policy that states the insurance company will not require the insured to pay the premium if they are seriously injured. Insurance companies can vary in their definition of a disability, and policies can vary on when and for how long they will waive a premium in the event of a disability.



It is important to note that insurance companies may charge a higher premium to include this waiver in the policy.





Key Takeaways

Waiver of premium for disability is a provision in an insurance policy that comes into play if the insurer becomes unexpectedly disabled and cannot pay their policy's premium.Insurance companies may charge more for a policy with a waiver of premium for disability attached to it.The definition of "totally disabled" is not uniform and may vary depending on the insurance company and policy.However, illness or injury must occur and cause the disability, and typically the insured is considered to be "totally disabled" if they can't do their job.


   How a Waiver of Premium for Disability Works  

Two types of insurance policies that commonly include a waiver of premium for disability are life insurance and disability insurance. The waiver can mean the difference between the insured being able to keep the policy or having to give it up if they become disabled, is unable to work, and no longer has an income.



This waiver is particularly important for disability insurance because if the insured had to pay premiums after becoming disabled, they would not be protected against the peril they were trying to insure against.



Usually, this waiver applies retroactively to the beginning of the disability. If the insured made premium payments while the waiver was in effect, those premiums are usually refunded to the insured in full. Many insureds choose to have this rider attached to their policy because, in the event of a disability, it allows the policy to continue functioning normally on all fronts, including the death benefit, dividends, and cash values. When the disability ends, the policy owner starts making premium payments again.



Issues can arise if an insurance company denies a life or disability insurance claim based on non-payment of premiums because the insured thought that the waiver of premiums was in effect. How the provision functions vary by contract, and every insurance policy defines "totally disabled" differently.






Experts advise that an insured person contact an attorney, if a claim is denied based on non-payment of premiums or the insurance company, declared the decedent not disabled as defined in the policy.


   Example of a Waiver of Premium Disability  

Usually, a person is considered totally disabled if they can't perform the duties of an occupation for which they are qualified by education, training, or experience. An injury or sickness must cause the disability in question. 



For example, if Alex sells cars, their duties include speaking with customers about buying cars. If an injury or illness prevents them from being able to handle this and other related duties, they will usually be considered disabled. If Alex has a waiver of premium disability and the insurance company defines them as "totally disabled," they will be able to utilize the waiver.
What Is a Waiver of Premium for Payer Benefit?  

A waiver of premium for payer benefit rider in an insurance policy states the insurance company will not require the payor to pay premiums to maintain the plan under certain conditions. The life insurance company operates as a payor when there is an event that qualifies under the waiver of premium for payer benefit.



It's important to note the different parties associated with an insurance policy; the applicant; insured; owner; and payor. The key is that the insured is not always the payor, where the payor is the party designated by the policy owner to make premium payments on the insurance policy.



Most commonly, waiver of premium occurs at the point of a disability, but not the death of the payor. If there is a designated co-payor, that individual can continue to pay the premiums or if the owner was not also the payor, they can then designate a new payor or begin paying the premiums themselves. The insurance company may charge a higher premium to include this waiver in the policy to compensate for the additional risks presented with a waiver of premium for payor benefit.





Key Takeaways

The cost for a basic waiver of premium for payer rider is meager, and most policyholders should seriously consider including it in their coverage if not included in their policy.To qualify for a waiver of premium for payer benefit, some companies may mandate the policyholder to meet specific requirements, such as being healthy or being below a certain age.Like all riders that may provide some benefit, a waiver of premium rider will cost an additional premium on the policy, but the cost is often relatively small since risky payors may be denied the rider's coverage during the underwriting process.


   How Waiver of Premium for Payer Benefit Works  

As an example of a waiver of premium for payer benefit, consider if a parent or grandparent purchased a life insurance policy for their child or grandchild. The waiver of premium rider is not activated due to death. An insurance company may offer a paid-up policy or extended term policy depending on the type of policy and cash value. Alternatively, if the policy owner is different from the payor (parent or grandparent), then the policy owner could designate another payor or begin premium payments themselves.



The waiver might only apply until the child reached an age where they could be expected to pay the premiums alone, such as age 21. The benefit will also protect the insured’s beneficiaries, who may need the financial benefits from the policy to pay for housing, college, or other living expenses when the insured is gone.



Keep in mind that the waiver of premium for payor benefit will expire, often at age 60 or 65. To understand this and other limitations of this rider, it's essential to read the fine print of a policy. Some waivers may exclude the payment of benefits for death by a specified cause, such as especially hazardous occupations or hobbies.






A waiver of premium for payer benefit prevents a permanent insurance policy from lapsing if the payor becomes disabled. There may also be a waiver of premium rider which would apply specifically to the insured, which is different from the waiver of premium for payor benefit.


   Special Considerations  

The waiver of premium for payer benefit may come as a clause included in a life insurance policy, or it may need to be added as a rider. The time to figure out if this policy benefit will need to be added as a rider is when a potential policyholder is discussing coverages with their insurance agent and completing the application.



Waiver of premium riders are underwritten similar to disability policies. In some cases, someone may be approved for a life insurance policy but be denied the waiver of premium benefit. In the case of a payor being different from the insured, both parties would need to submit health information for the underwriting department to determine if they are insurable.



An insurance company may offer an enhanced waiver of premium for payer rider options. For example, a company might provide a potential policyholder an opportunity to expand the waiver to cover unemployment or possibly skip payments in the event a policyholder is laid off and out of work.
What Is a Waiver of Premium Rider?  

A waiver of premium rider is an insurance policy clause that waives premium payments if the policyholder becomes critically ill, seriously injured, or physically impaired. Other stipulations may apply, such as meeting specific health and age requirements. 



Policyholders may want to purchase a waiver for their life insurance premium if they are concerned about staying in financial health if they are injured on the job, for example.





Key Takeaways

A waiver of premium rider is an optional insurance policy clause that waives insurance premium payments if the policyholder becomes critically ill or physically impaired.To buy a waiver of premium rider, you may need to meet certain age and health requirements.The rider is added to an insurance policy for an additional fee.You can't get a waiver of premium rider if you're physically impaired or have a pre-existing condition.


   How a Waiver of Premium Rider Works  

Policyholders often add the rider as an optional or supplemental benefit to a life insurance policy. It's available only when a policy is issued, and costs vary per insurer and applicant. Insurance companies typically add the rider fee to the premium or charge an upfront fee. This fee raises the cost of a life insurance policy.



Most waiver of premium riders contain a waiting period during which you cannot claim of benefits. If you are physically impaired or hurt during the waiting period, you may receive a full refund of paid premiums. Without a waiting period, the insurer company assumes much more risk losses.



Applicants with pre-existing disabilities can't qualify for benefits from a waiver of premium rider. Placing a pre-existing limitation avoids the possibility of writing a policy that would not yield premium payments from the high-risk applicants.






Waivers can be added (if available) to term, whole, and universal life insurance policies.


   Waiver of Premium Rider Benefits   

Physical impairment, critical illness, and severe injury are the most common qualifying conditions under the waiver of premium rider. Terms, conditions, and benefits vary by insurance product and issuing company. A policyholder must be disabled for a specific period (e.g., six consecutive months) before the premiums waiver goes into effect.



The waiver is also useful if an injury or illness prevents the policyholder from working in a traditional capacity. The most commonly considered diseases are those that require significant hospital stays resulting in the policyholder being unable to work. Some riders stipulate that the condition need only adversely affect the policyholder's occupation.






Waiver of premium riders may not be available in all states.


   Waiver of Premium Claim Requirements  

Requirements for filing a claim vary, but they typically include a physician's statement and notice from the Social Security Administration (SSA) confirming the physical impairment or disability. The applicant could then submit a completed claim form. 



The waiver of premiums allows the redirection of limited personal funds to palliative care, personal finances, and living expenses. However, the most signficant benefit is the continued protection of the insurance policy.




How much does a waiver of premium rider cost?
A waiver of premium rider's cost will depend on several factors, including your age, health and amount of coverage. For example, you might pay about $3 a month if you're a 35-year-old man with a 20-year, $500,000 term life insurance policy for $21.05 a month.




What are some restrictions?
Waiver of premium riders may contain several restrictions such as you may not have any pre-existing conditions or physical impairments. You may also face health and age restrictions. Finally, a waiver of premium rider may not be available in your state.




What are the claim requirements?
Typically to file a claim a holder must submit a physician's statement and notice from the Social Security Administration (SSA) confirming the disability. The waiver of premiums allows the redirection of limited personal funds to palliative care, personal finances, and living expenses. 


   The Bottom Line  

A waiver of premium policy maintains your life insurance policy if you become unable to work, so that you can use your cash flow for critical needs. With whole life insurance policies, it will allow you cash component to continue to grow. In these ways, waiver of premium riders can provide an important financial asset for many people. Consider consulting with a financial advisor to determine whether a waiver of premium policy is right for your situation.
What Is a Waiver of Restoration Premium?  

In the insurance industry, a waiver of restoration premium is a legal clause stating that the policyholder will not be charged an additional fee, or “restoration premium,” if their coverage continues after paying out a claim.



Waivers of this kind are generally found in liability policies, such as automotive or health insurance policies.





Key Takeaways

A waiver of restoration premium is a contractual clause included in some insurance policies.It protects the policyholder from having their insurance premiums raised following any claims against their policy.Because this waiver benefits the policyholder at the expense of the insurance company, including it will generally require higher initial insurance premiums.


   How Waivers of Restoration Premium Work  

Under a standard insurance policy, the policyholder will pay a series of insurance premiums, usually once per month, in order to receive coverage from a set of specific risks. If any of these risks materialize, the policyholder can file a claim with their insurance company and receive compensation for the damages they sustained.



From the insurance company’s perspective, these types of policies are profitable if claims are relatively rare, and if the insurance company can earn an adequate return from investing the premiums that they receive from their customers.



Of course, once a policyholder has filed a claim against their policy, that insurance contract is likely to be much less profitable for the insurer. To mitigate this risk, insurance companies often increase the monthly premiums charged to the policyholder once that policyholder has filed one or more claims. These additional fees, or “restoration premiums,” help restore the previous level of profitability of the insurance contract, when seen from the perspective of the insurer. The policyholder then has the choice of whether to continue with their current insurance provider or else seek coverage from a competitor willing to accept lower premiums.



If a policyholder has negotiated an insurance contract that contains a waiver of restoration premium clause, then that policyholder would not be required to pay higher premiums after filing one or more claims. Instead, coverage would continue to be provided at the same rate as before the claim was filed.



Although this waiver is to the benefit of the policyholder, it may ironically require the base insurance premiums of the contract to be higher than they otherwise would be if the waiver of restoration premium was not included. Therefore, depending on the circumstances, including a waiver of restoration premium clause may or may not be the best option financially.






In order to avoid paying restoration premiums, some policyholders choose to pay for their expenses out-of-pocket rather than filing an insurance claim, particularly if the expense in question is relatively small.


   Real-World Example of a Waiver of Restoration Premium  

Wendy recently purchased automobile insurance and was charged an insurance premium of $120 per month. Shortly after purchasing the insurance, however, her car was damaged in an accident, prompting her to file a costly insurance claim. Although her insurance was able to cover the damages, her insurer notified her that she would be required to pay a restoration premium bringing her new monthly premium to $200.



Surprised by this increase, Wendy decided to shop for alternative car insurance providers. After explaining her situation to one of her insurance company’s competitors, she is told that she could purchase an automobile insurance contract with a waiver of restoration premium, meaning that she would not be required to pay any restoration premiums in the future if she files any additional claims.



However, Wendy was also told that because this waiver benefits her and is a cost to the insurance company, including it would increase her starting insurance premium to over $200 per month. Therefore, she decided to stay with her existing insurance policy.
What Is a Waiver of Subrogation?  

A waiver of subrogation is a contractual provision whereby an insured waives the right of their insurance carrier to seek redress or seek compensation for losses from a negligent third party. Typically, insurers charge an additional fee for a waiver of subrogation endorsement. Many construction contracts and leases include a waiver of subrogation clause.



Such provisions prevent one party’s insurance carrier from pursuing a claim against the other contractual party in an attempt to recover money paid by the insurance company to the insured or to a third party to resolve a covered claim.





Key Takeaways

A waiver of subrogation prevents an insurer from seeking recovery from a third party for damages paid.A waiver of subrogation clause provides additional protection for clients in most industries.Waivers of subrogation clauses minimize the potential for lawsuits arising from the loss that may occur during a construction project or other contractual agreement. Insurance companies receive all of the funds that result from a subrogation process.Waivers of subrogation can prevent lengthy litigation and ruined business relationships.


   Understanding a Waiver of Subrogation  

A right of subrogation allows an insurer to stand in proxy for its insured after satisfying a claim paid to the insured per the company’s duties under the insurance policy. The insurance company may pursue a claim against other parties to cover its costs for that same loss, even when the loss involves a resolution of claims brought against the insured.



In other words, if subrogation is waived, the insurance company cannot "step into the client's shoes" once a claim has been settled and sue the other party to recoup their losses. Thus, if subrogation is waived, the insurer is exposed to greater risk.






Insurance companies frequently charge an additional fee on top of the premium to include a waiver of subrogation clause. Parties to the contract avoid litigation, and the insurance company bears the loss.


   Types of Waiver of Subrogation  

A waiver of subrogation is a provision that prohibits an insurer from pursuing a third party to recover damages for covered losses. Waivers of subrogation are found in various contracts, including construction contracts, leases, auto insurance policies, and more.


  Construction Contracts  

Sometimes, construction contracts contain a waiver of subrogation clause. In these clauses, the owner waives all rights to sue third parties, such as contractors and subcontractors, for damages caused by perils covered in the owner's insurance policy. Under this provision, the owner's insurer also agrees that they will pay covered losses and will not seek to recoup these losses from the negligent party.



The waiver of subrogation clauses has exceptions. If the owner's property insurance does not insure against a specific risk, the owner may seek recovery from the responsible party. Also, if the loss exceeds the insurance policy's limit, the owner may pursue the responsible party.


  Landlord and Tenant Lease Agreements  

Waiver of subrogation clauses in lease contracts function similarly. The insurer cannot stand in proxy for the owner to recover damages. If the injured party's insurance covers the claim, it must be paid, and no further action against the third party may occur.



These clauses protect the landlord and tenant from expensive litigation costs and interruptions to the terms of the contract. Subrogation of waiver clauses can also help preserve amicable relationships between landlords and tenants.



When a landlord includes a waiver of subrogation clause in a lease, the company issuing the tenant’s renter’s insurance policy usually requires an additional premium for coverage of losses paid by the insurer as a result of acts or omissions by the landlord.



This extra cost is applied because the waiver of subrogation clause prevents the insurer from asserting a claim against the landlord for the amount paid to the insured, or on behalf of the insured, in resolution of a covered claim.



For example, if the tenant’s guest sustains injuries incurred when a lighting fixture unexpectedly falls from the ceiling of the leased premises, the tenant’s insurance carrier is unable to assert a claim against the landlord for the amount paid in resolution of a claim by the guest against the tenant. Similarly, if the lighting fixture fell on the tenant’s expensive, antique table, the waiver of subrogation prevents the tenant’s insurance company from asserting a claim against the landlord for the amount paid to the insured for the damage to the table.



Some leases contain mutual waivers of subrogation, where both the landlord and the tenant waive recovery rights against each other for any claimed loss covered by insurance. In some states, existing statutory law may override a waiver of subrogation and permit claims to be brought; however, in most states, limitations of liability may absolve negligent defendants of responsibility.


  Automobile Insurance Policies  

When auto accidents arise, most injured parties go through the at-fault party's insurer to seek payment for losses. Sometimes, the at-fault party seeks to settle such claims without involving insurers. One of the most common ways to do this is to present a waiver of subrogation to the injured party.



If accepted and signed, the injured party and their insurer have no rights to pursue the at-fault for damages beyond the settlement agreement. Future claims are forfeited, preventing recovery from the at-fault party or their insurer. Agreeing to this provision should be done with careful consideration, often after discussing the details with the insurer or an attorney.


   Reasons for a Waiver of Subrogation  

Parties may want to include a waiver of subrogation in order to cut down on the possibility of drawn-out and costly legal disputes that can arise from contractual obligations. Clients may want this provision to avoid being sued for or held responsible for a loss and to speed up the claims process in the event of such a loss.



For some, settling is quicker than claim processing. Accidents can adversely affect premiums or terminate coverage for at-fault parties; therefore, settling could prevent negative activity from being recorded on their insurance profile.



Waiver of subrogation clauses in construction contracts also prevent delays in construction caused by disputes and litigation resulting from losses. When these provisions are absent, investigations ensue to determine fault. As with many cases, this process can take time—more time than what the owner has allowed to complete construction. As a result, costs surmount, compromising the integrity of the project.






Some insurance companies do not allow their insureds to participate in waiver of subrogation agreements as it compromises what they can recover.




What Are the Benefits of a Waiver of Subrogation?
One of the most common benefits of a waiver of subrogation is the avoidance of lengthy litigation and negotiation, as well as the costs to pursue them. These provisions can also prevent conflict between parties to a contract, such as between a landlord and tenant. They also prevent certain parties from being held responsible for losses for which they did not cause.




Should I Agree to a Waiver of Subrogation?
Waivers of subrogation vary per contract or agreement, as well as their benefits and risks. Therefore, it is best to consult the advice of an attorney or your insurer regarding a waiver of subrogation. Some insurers prohibit their insureds from signing waivers of subrogation as they put them more at risk. Understanding the associated risks will help you make an informed decision.




How Does the Waiver of Subrogation Process Work?
Upon a loss, an insurer pays a claim to the insured for covered losses. If the loss was caused by a third party, the insurer may subrogate the claim, or recover damages from the party that caused the loss. With a waiver of subrogation, the insurer cannot pursue or sue the responsible third party for recovery. These provisions can be found in contracts or included as addendums to existing contracts. As with any contract, there must be an agreement by the parties to the contract to be valid.


   The Bottom Line  

A waiver of subrogation is a legal endorsement that prevents an insurer from recovering the money they've paid out on a claim from a negligent third party. This avoids lengthy and costly legal disputes that could arise in the course of contracted activities like letting a property or subcontracting construction work.
What is a Walk-Away Lease?  

A walk-away lease is an auto lease that allows the lessee to return the car at the end of the lease period without any financial obligations based on the car’s residual value.


   Understanding Walk-Away Lease  

A walk-away lease is a common type of car lease which releases the lessee from any financial obligations at the end of the lease, assuming they have satisfied the maintenance and mileage requirements of the lease agreement. The lessee makes an initial down payment plus monthly lease payments over the life of the agreement. They must have the car serviced regularly and are subject to penalties if they exceed an agreed-upon monthly mileage cap. At the end of the lease, the car is returned to the lessor who will then sell the car in an attempt to recover its residual value. The lessee can then enter into a new lease on a second car, often receiving a favorable deal if they remain with the same leasing company.


   Pros and Cons of the Walk-Away Lease  

The advantages of a walk-away lease, when compared to the purchase of a new car via a loan, lie in the convenience and short-term cost savings of a lease. The lessee will never have to sell the car and is therefore not as concerned about maintenance and resale value. Basic maintenance is required, but the lender typically provides a service plan. Since the lender remains the owner of the car and will recover residual value at the lease’s end, the monthly lease payments tend to be lower than loan payments on a comparable vehicle. For some drivers, the appeal of leasing a new car for a few years, then walking away and replacing it with another leased new car, trumps other concerns about a lease.



From a purely financial point of view, though, most experts agree that a walk-away lease is generally a poor choice. At the lease’s end, the driver has no equity in the car. The initial down payment and monthly payments cannot be recovered unless the lessee agrees to purchase the car at its residual value, then sell it. Hidden or unexpected costs can arise. First, the driver will generally be held responsible for maintenance above and beyond normal wear and tear on the vehicle. Second, a driver who exceeds the monthly mileage cap will be subject to a penalty on a per-mile basis.



Other types of leases may make more sense for some drivers. An open-ended lease generally involves few restrictions on driving but involves some added risk relating to the unknown residual value when the lessee decides to terminate the agreement. A single-payment lease requires one up-front payment and generally results in a better interest rate.
What Is a Walk-Through Test?  

A walk-through test is a procedure used during an audit of an entity's accounting system to gauge its reliability. A walk-through test traces a transaction step-by-step through the accounting system from its inception to the final disposition. However, walk-throughs aren’t required for accountants but can be instrumental in addressing weaknesses and problems. 





Key Takeaways

Walk-through tests are audits of accounting systems that gauge reliability. These tests look to reveal deficiencies and material weaknesses in a company’s accounting systems. Auditors doing the walk-through will watch the company's staff and analyzed documents created during the process to identify weak points. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) recommends walk-through tests on an annual basis.


   Understanding Walk-Through Tests  

A walk-through test is only one of many tests performed by auditors during their evaluation of an organization's accounting controls and risk management measures. The test can reveal system deficiencies and material weaknesses that would need to be rectified by the organization as soon as possible.



In conducting a walk-through test, an auditor will study how a transaction is initiated and moves through a company or organization's accounting system to completion. This involves identifying how a transaction is authorized, recorded—manually, by automated means, or both—and then reported in the general ledger of the books. The auditor will want to know how controls for accuracy are applied at each step in the process and how follow-up steps are taken to improve controls. 



A good walk-through test will also document the personnel involved in transaction entries in the accounting system. Checklists and flowcharts are helpful in conducting thorough walk-through tests. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) recommends walk-through tests on an annual basis.



Walk-through tests don’t have to be a formal process, as many small businesses will perform a walk-through test without keeping detailed records or assessing a company’s accounting records. That is, the auditor will observe and make inquiries without requesting detailed documentation or reviewing the paperwork or paper trail of the transaction. 


   Special Considerations   

A walk-through test can be done by simply asking employee questions, although this isn’t recommended. This is because an employee’s description isn’t always what happens in practice. The better method of a walk-through is actually observing employees—how they process transactions, etc. As well, actually analyzing paperwork and documents is a step further in analyzing the company’s accounting process. 


   Example of a Walk-Through Test   

A walk-through will look differently depending on the company and auditor, but broadly, the process should include a visual assessment of how the staff operates when recording a transaction. Next, the auditor will talk with anyone who handles the transaction and then review the documents related to the transaction. An auditor may also test the accounting controls if any are in place. 



At the end of the walk-through, the auditor will outline the weaknesses in how the transaction was handled. The idea is that these weak points can then be corrected to improve a company’s accounting system.
What Is the Wall of Worry?  

Wall of worry is the financial markets' periodic tendency to surmount a host of negative factors and keep ascending. Wall of worry is generally used in connection with the stock markets, referring to their resilience when running into a temporary stumbling block, rather than a permanent impediment to a market advance.





Key Takeaways

Climbing the wall of worry is a reference to investor behavior during bull markets, at the end of major bear periods, or general periods of market gains.The phrase refers to the market's ability to show resilience in the face of economic or corporate news that might otherwise spark a selloff, and instead keep pushing securities higher.The wall of worry is sometimes one event the market must keep climbing in spite of but is more often a confluence of events the market must look beyond.


   Understanding the Wall of Worry  

While a "wall of worry" may sometimes consist of a single economic, political or geopolitical issue significant enough to affect consumer and investor sentiment, it more commonly comprises concerns on numerous fronts. The markets' ability to climb a wall of worry reflects investor confidence that these issues will be resolved at some point. However, market direction once the wall of worry has been surmounted is impossible to ascertain and depends on the stage of the economic cycle at which it occurs.



For example, the markets' ability to climb the wall of worry is most clearly discernible at the end of major bear trends, which means that the markets may continue to advance once the wall has been surmounted. However, a continued advance is much less certain if the wall of worry forms near a major market peak, in which case a subsequent decline is more likely.


   Climb the Wall of Worry or Take Profits?  

Even when the financial markets are growing at a healthy rate, under financially sound circumstances, investors always find reasons to worry. Those reasons may be legitimate or not, depending on an individual's perception of the market and what their investment goals happen to be.



However, when you get down to the root of the concept of a wall of worry, what it ultimately means is that a bull market isn’t a peaceful place. When times are good, investors are constantly tense, wondering how long they will keep rolling, fretting about when a seemingly inevitable correction will finally put a stop to the market elation. As a market continues ascending, the decision can become increasingly agonizing whether to take profits in a position or let it ride.



Market pundits do their part by issuing warnings about everything that could possibly go wrong with the economy, the markets, and most leading stocks. And, as always, economists can be counted on to give conflicting predictions that arrive at diametrically opposite conclusions from exactly the same data. However, just like anyone else, these supposedly "expert" assessments rely on an individual perspective and point-of-view, which can be skewed and look quite different to two people. How an investor chooses to regard the "wall of worry" often directly correlates to their risk tolerance.
What Is Wall Street?  

Wall Street is literally a street located in New York City at the southern end of Manhattan. Figuratively, Wall Street is much more. It's synonymous with the financial industry and the firms within it. This connotation has its roots in the fact that so many brokerages and investment banks historically have established their headquarters in and around the street. All the better to be close to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



Being on or near Wall Street is no longer considered essential for financial institutions. In fact, these days they are located all around the country. However, the term "Wall Street" still means business—the investment business—and the interests, motivations, and attitudes of its players.





Key Takeaways

Wall Street is a street located in the lower Manhattan section of New York City.Wall Street is used as an umbrella term to describe the financial markets and the companies that trade publicly on exchanges throughout the U.S.Historically, Wall Street has been the location of some of the largest U.S. brokerages and investment banking firms, and is also the home of the NYSE.Wall Street is often contrasted with Main Street, the latter of which is a metaphor for small businesses and individual investors.Events that happened on or around Wall Street often have impacted not just the investment industry, but the U.S. (and even the global) economy.


   Understanding Wall Street  

Wall Street and its surrounding southern Manhattan neighborhood—known to locals as the Financial District—remain an important location where a number of financial institutions are based. However, the globalization and digitization of finance and investing have led to the rise of many U.S. broker-dealers, registered investment advisors, and investment companies located elsewhere.



Still, Wall Street remains a collective name for the financial markets, the companies that trade publicly, and the investment community itself. Stock exchanges, investment banking firms, commercial banks, brokerages and broker-dealers, financial services, and underwriting firms all symbolize Wall Street.



It's a globally recognized expression that, to some extent, ever refers to the U.S. financial system. Both the NYSE (the largest equities-based exchange in the world) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York—arguably the most important regional bank of the Federal Reserve System—are based in the Wall Street area.



Wall Street is often shortened to "the Street," which is how the term is frequently used by those in financial circles and the media. For example, when reporting a company's earnings, an analyst might compare a company's revenues to what the Street was expecting. In this case, the analyst is comparing the company's earnings to what financial analysts and investment firms were expecting for that period.


   The Importance of Wall Street  

Wall Street has had an important impact both economically and culturally.


  Economic Importance  

The U.S. is the largest economy in the world and New York City is its financial center. As such, Wall Street's global importance is unparalleled.



Wall Street consists of some of the largest financial institutions in the world and employs hundreds of thousands of people. It's home to the NYSE and Nasdaq stock exchanges, two of the largest stock exchanges in the world. On these exchanges are listed some of the biggest companies, including Amazon, Google, Apple, and Exxon.



The economic importance of Wall Street extends throughout the American and international economies, as many financial firms do business worldwide, extend loans to a variety of businesses and individuals, and finance large-scale, global projects.


  Cultural Importance  

Wall Street's cultural influence extends to movies, TV shows, books, and more. Films such as Wall Street, Margin Call, Boiler Room, Barbarians at the Gate, and more from previous decades, highlight what the fast-paced life is like on Wall Street. They display an exciting, wealthy, and interesting lifestyle.



Large players on Wall Street have become celebrity icons. Warren Buffett, Jamie Dimon, Carl Icahn, Bernie Madoff, George Soros, and Larry Fink are names familiar to many. In the imaginations of some in contemporary society, the term Wall Street may evoke a sense of power, the elite, and often, unscrupulous behavior.



During times of economic trouble, such as the financial crisis of 2008, Wall Street sometimes becomes a scapegoat and the ills of the economy are blamed on the assumed greed associated with it. No other financial term has become so woven into the global culture.


   History of Wall Street  

Wall Street got its name from the wooden wall Dutch colonists built in lower Manhattan in 1653 to defend themselves from the British and Native Americans. The wall was taken down in 1699, but the name stuck.



Given its proximity to New York's ports, the Wall Street area became a bustling center of trade in the 1700s. Its origins as a financial center began in 1792, when 24 of the most prominent brokers and merchants in the U.S. signed the Buttonwood Agreement. They reportedly gathered on Wall Street, under a buttonwood tree, to do business.



The agreement outlined the common commission-based form of trading securities. In effect, it was an effort to establish a members-only stock exchange. Some of the first securities traded were war bonds and the stocks of such institutions as the Bank of New York.



Out of this acorn of an agreement, the oak that became the NYSE grew. In 1817, the Buttonwood brokers renamed themselves The New York Stock and Exchange Board. The organization rented out spaces for trading in several locations until 1865, when it settled on a location of its own, at the corner of Wall and Broad Streets.





18 Broad Street

The location of the beating heart of Wall Street, the NYSE, is a 1903 Neo-Classical structure of white marble. An adjacent annex, constructed in 1922, is located at 11 Wall Street, and another subsidiary building is at 20 Broad Street. These three buildings fill the block bounded by Wall Street on the north, Broad Street on the East, Exchange Place on the south, and New Street on the west.



As the U.S. grew, several other major exchanges established headquarters in the Wall Street area. These included the New York Mercantile Exchange, the New York Board of Trade, the New York Futures Exchange (NYFE), and the American Stock Exchange, now known as the NYSE American Options.



To support the exchanges and to be where the action was, banks, brokerage firms, and financiers clustered offices around Wall Street. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the House of Morgan, officially J.P. Morgan & Co.—the forerunner to JP Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley—was directly opposite the NYSE, at 23 Wall Street.



After World War I, New York City surpassed London to become the world's largest and most significant financial center.


   Wall Street vs. Main Street  

Wall Street is often compared and contrasted to Main Street. The term "Main Street" is used as a metaphor for individual investors, small businesses, employees, and the overall economy. It's derived from the common name for the principal street of a town where most of the local businesses are located.



There is often a perceived conflict between the goals, desires, and motivations of Main Street and Wall Street. Wall Street tends to represent big businesses and financial institutions, while Main Street represents mom-and-pop shops, small companies, and individuals.


   Key Events on Wall Street  

Events that happened on or around Wall Street often have impacted not just the investment industry, but the global economy and society. Here are some significant moments in Wall Street history.


  1889: The Wall Street Journal  

On July 8, 1889, Charles Dow, Edward Jones, and Charles Bergstresser launched The Wall Street Journal, a four-page afternoon newspaper devoted to objective financial and business news. The three men were reporters, but Dow was also a numbers-cruncher who came up with the idea of creating a benchmark list of companies and their stock prices to represent the entire stock market.



Soon, the Journal was publishing the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) index along with hundreds of prices of company stocks, bonds, and futures, and the average prime rate for bank loans. For nearly a century, before the advent of real-time internet listings, the Journal was the paper of record for the financial markets.



It evolved into a six-day-a-week periodical (that's been online since 1996). The Journal is a leading and well-respected source of financial and business journalism.



The three founders operated out of offices in lower Manhattan. The fact that they chose to name their new publication The Wall Street Journal indicates that Wall Street already was something of an umbrella term for the world of finance and its denizens. Over the years, the paper helped fix this meaning in the public's mind.


  1920: The Wall Street Bombing  

It was around noon on Sept. 16, 1920. A horse-drawn cart pulled up at 23 Wall Street right in front of the headquarters of J.P. Morgan & Co. A bustling corner of the neighborhood, it was especially crowded with those headed out for lunch. The cart suddenly exploded. It had been packed with dynamite and filled with sash weights that sailed through the air.



At that time, it was the worst domestic bombing in U.S. history. Ultimately, 40 people were killed or died from their injuries, and another 300 were injured. The J.P. Morgan building's interior was gutted. Marks from the shrapnel still are visible on the exterior.



No one claimed credit and the case was never solved. But because the explosion occurred in front of the Morgan building, known as a symbol of American capitalism, the bombing was ultimately decided to have been an act of terrorism performed by “Reds”—anarchists and communist sympathizers. A stack of anarchist flyers found in a mailbox a block away from Wall Street supported this theory.



As a result, the authorities arrested hundreds of suspected Reds and deported those of foreign nationality. The bombing also encouraged the nativist sentiments that developed in the U.S. during the 1920s, which led to tighter restrictions on immigration.


  1929: The Stock Market Crash  

The stock market crash of 1929 remains the worst financial crisis in U.S. history. In a pre-digital trading era, its epicenter was the NYSE.



The crash began on October 24 when, after nearly a decade of unparalleled, uninterrupted growth, the stock market opened lower than the previous session. Equities' prices continued to drop throughout the day and, as the news spread, crowds began to gather outside the Exchange.



They groaned as the market closed down again that day, cheered brokers during the next two days when the market seemed to rally, and then panicked on October 28 and October 29, when the declines resumed. Inside the stock exchange, the scene was sheer pandemonium as prices fell too fast for ticker tapes and blackboards to record them.



Ultimately, the DJIA was to fall 89% from its September 1929 peak, wiping out both corporate and individual wealth.



The crash ushered in the Great Depression. A quarter of America’s working population lost their jobs as the U.S. economy went into a tailspin. Economies throughout Europe followed suit. In the end, the stock market crash and the ensuing decade-long depression directly impacted nearly every segment of society and altered an entire generation's perspective of, and relationship to, the financial markets.


  1987: The Black Monday Crash  

On what is known as Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987, the S&P 500 Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 25% in value, leading exchanges around the world to drop in a similar frenzy. The week prior, indices had fallen an approximate 10%, priming the pump for the ensuing panic. Up until that time, a bull market had been in control since 1982.



Thanks to the actions of chairman Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve, a seeming disaster on a global scale was averted. But the crash brought to light the potential for disruption that the then-new technique of computer programs instigating large-scale amounts of trading might cause (even though enormous amounts of trading were handled by humans that day, as well).



The exact cause of this short-term crash has never been pinpointed. However, afterwards, exchanges implemented circuit breaker rules to prevent program trading from spurring runaway selling. It was hoped that this and other trading curbs would allow the markets time to stabilize and give regulators (and investors) the chance to take appropriate steps.


  2007-2008: The Global Financial Crisis  

The global financial crisis of 2007-2008 resulted from years of deregulation, easy credit, predatory mortgage lending, the collapse of the subprime mortgage market, and the unregulated use of derivatives. It led to the Great Recession. The root cause of the crisis was unethical and exploitative behavior by banks, investment banks, and insurance firms.



Borrowers with unsatisfactory credit were given mortgage loans without concern for their ability to pay them off and without their comprehension of the risks involved with the loans. As rates rose, those borrowers' mortgage rates reset higher and they couldn't afford to make monthly payments. What's more, as home prices fell dramatically, homeowners couldn't sell their houses for enough to cover their loans. This caused massive numbers of defaults.



Risky derivative securities had been created with the subprime mortgage loans sold by banks. In addition, banks and other large investors used customer deposits to invest in these derivatives. With the defaults on home loans, the derivatives plunged in value.



Many financial institutions had ties to the loans, derivatives, and credit default swaps, an insurance product that investors in the derivatives bought to protect against the risk of default. Thus, they found themselves in severe trouble after the housing market bubble burst.



From housing industry crash to a U.S. financial industry on the brink of collapse to the near ruin of other financial systems across the globe. It was the worst financial crisis since the stock market crash of 1929.



The U.S. government had no choice but to bail out financial institutions that had always been considered “too big to fail.”


  2011: Occupy Wall Street  

Occupy Wall Street was a 2011 protest movement against social and economic inequality that was centered in Zuccotti Park, located in Manhattan's Financial District. It began on September 17, as hundreds of protesters camped out in the park. The police forcibly removed and arrested them two months later, on November 15. During the intervening period, there were marches and speeches, calling for more balanced income distribution, better-paying jobs, bank reform, and less corporate influence in politics. "We are the 99%," was the Occupy protestors' slogan.


   The Regulation of Wall Street  
  After the 1929 Crash  

Regulatory measures were put into place to address the lack of government oversight that was considered to have led to the crisis that began in 1929. Among other things, the Securities Act of 1933 required financial institutions to provide investors with all significant information about securities being offered for sale. It also prohibited fraud in securities sales. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 established the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and gave it significant power over the securities industry. This included the authority to regulate brokerage firms and to require financial reporting by publicly traded companies.


  After the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis  

In 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank). It created new government agencies with financial system oversight. The idea behind the act was to address the risky behaviors of financial institutions and the dearth of regulatory oversight that led to the crisis. One area of grave concern was the predatory mortgage lending that had occurred. Another focus was the stability of financial institutions. The act made it possible to liquidate or restructure firms, if necessary, to prevent the use of taxpayer funds to keep them afloat.



The act's Volker Rule restricted the investing practices of banks and regulated derivative securities. It also set up the SEC Office of Credit Ratings to ensure that credit agencies henceforth issued appropriate ratings for institutions, rather than the fabricated favorable ratings that were part of the lead-up to the crisis.


  During the Trump Administration  

The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act signed in 2018 by President Trump addressed criticisms of Dodd-Frank and rolled back some of its provisions. Among other things, it exempted banks with assets of less than $10 billion from the Volker Rule requirements, gave consumers the ability to freeze their credit files at no cost, and eased capital requirements for banks that didn't offer lending or traditional banking services.




What Does Wall Street Speculation Mean?
Speculation refers to the act of investing in securities that have a high risk-reward profile with the goal of obtaining substantial gains, despite the risk of substantial losses. An investor who speculates is likely focused on price fluctuations. They may believe that the market has inaccurately priced a security and they're trying to capitalize on that disparity. Wall Street speculators tend to be professional traders as opposed to retail investors who buy and hold stocks or other assets for the long term.




What Time Does Wall Street Open and Close?
The major U.S. stock markets, including the NYSE and the Nasdaq, are normally open 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday. However, there are also extended-hour sessions earlier and later.Pre-market trading typically occurs between 8:00 a.m. and 9:30 a.m., though it can begin as early as 4 a.m. EST.After-hours trading starts at 4 p.m. and can run as late as 8 p.m. EST.




What Is Black Wall Street?
Black Wall Street was a nickname given to the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, one of the largest and most prosperous African-American business communities in the U.S. in the early 20th century. From May to June, 1921, its 35 blocks were destroyed during the Tulsa Race Riot. It was quickly rebuilt, with over 80 businesses reopening by 1922. More generally, Black Wall Street can also refer to any area of African-American high economic or financial activity.




How Do You Get a Job on Wall Street?
Getting a job on Wall Street often starts in college. Majors like finance, business administration and management, economics, accounting, and mathematics are natural fits for the investment industry. Firms will consider degrees in other areas too, like marketing or engineering. Try to get an internship at a Wall Street firm or similar institution for at least one summer. A Master of Business Administration (MBA) can also be attractive to financial institutions, as can tech industry experience. It's also important to target what type of Wall Street job you'd be best suited for. They break down into three main areas:Investment Team: research analysts, portfolio managers, and tradersOperations: client relationship, marketing, risk assessment, legal, back-office functionsSales: those involved in the creation, promotion, and sale of stocks, bonds, IPOs, foreign exchange, and other financial instruments


   The Bottom Line  

Wall Street is both an actual street and a symbol. It's home to a variety of financial and investment firms, along with institutions like the NYSE and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Globally, it's come to connote the U.S. financial and investment communities and industries, plus its interests, attitudes, and behavior.
What Is The Wall Street Journal Prime Rate?  

The Wall Street Journal Prime Rate is an aggregate average of the various prime rates that 10 of the largest banks in the United States charge to their highest credit quality customers for loans with relatively short-term maturities. This combined rate is obtained by way of a market survey and published regularly by The Wall Street Journal (WSJ).





Key Takeaways

The Wall Street Journal Prime Rate is an average of 10 large American banks' prime rates, which is published in WSJ on a regular basis.The prime rate is the best interest rate charged to a bank's most financially sound customers.The WSJ aggregate prime rate gives a better sense of what this best borrowing rate is across America.


   Understanding the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate  

The prime rate is the interest rate that commercial banks charge to their most creditworthy customers. The federal funds overnight rate serves as the basis for the prime rate, and prime serves as the starting point for most other interest rates. The WSJ prime rate is one of the market’s leading sources for comprehensive average prime rate reporting. The WSJ prime rate gets its name from The Wall Street Journal’s practice of polling the 10 largest U.S. banks to see what their prime lending rate is. When seven or more of the 10 banks polled change their prime rate, The Wall Street Journal publishes a new prime rate. The current rate can be found on the WSJ's Market Page.



The WSJ prime rate has historically fluctuated substantially over time. In Dec. 2008, it reached a then low of 3.25% after being reported at 9.5% in the early 2000s. In Dec. 1980, it reached a record high of 21.50%. As of Aug. 2021, it is once again down to 3.25%. Generally, the rate is dictated by changes from the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee, which meets every six weeks and reports on the level of the federal funds rate. The WSJ prime rate provides a gauge for the prime rate at banks across the industry. The WSJ prime rate has historically been approximately 3% higher than the federal funds rate. Thus, the rate is heavily influenced by the Federal Reserve’s monetary policies.


   Lending Products That Utilize the Prime Rate  

Generally, a bank’s prime rate is the lowest rate it charges on lending to its highest credit quality customers (and also to other banks). Banks can lend all types of products to borrowers at their prime rate. They also use the prime rate as an indexed rate for variable credit products. Products utilizing a prime rate can include mortgages, home equity lines of credit and loans, and car loans. Typically a prime rate is most broadly used in variable credit products with the prime rate serving as the indexed rate.



Indexed rate products often use the prime rate as the base rate of interest with a margin or spread determined by the borrower’s credit profile. The prime rate is commonly utilized in variable rate products as an indexed rate, since it is widely recognized and followed across the industry. Other comparable indexed rates can include LIBOR and U.S. Treasury.



If a borrower has a variable rate loan or credit card, the terms of the variable rate changes will be disclosed in their credit agreement. Lenders typically base their rate spreads for variable rate products on a borrower’s credit profile. Therefore borrowers with a higher credit score can receive a lower margin while borrowers with a lower credit score will receive a higher margin. In a variable rate credit product, the margin remains the same over the life of the loan; however, the variable rate is adjusted when there is a change in the underlying indexed rate.



Borrowers with variable rate products will typically want to follow the prime rate, and specifically the WSJ prime rate, since it is published publicly. When a majority of the banks surveyed by WSJ increase their prime rate, then it is a good indication that variable rates are rising.



For one example of a prime rate’s influence, consider a Bank of America credit card borrower with a credit card balance that is subject to a variable annual percentage rate. The borrower’s margin is 15.99% plus the indexed rate, which is based on the bank’s prime rate. For the borrower, this means that if the prime rate is 3.25%, their interest rate will be 19.24%. If the bank’s prime rate increases to 4.25%, their interest rate would increase to 20.24%.
What Is a Wallflower?  

In finance, a wallflower describes a stock in which the investment community has lost interest, resulting in low trading volumes.





Key Takeaways

A "wallflower" in the stock market refers to an unpopular or neglected stock. A wallflower stock is usually in an unpopular industry sector and has a low trading volume.Unpopular market segments may make fertile ground for wallflowers,A trendy or hot issue may burn out, becoming a future wallflower. Wallflower stocks bear relatively higher risk than growth stocks. 


   Understanding a Wallflower  

A wallflower stock typically sits in an unpopular industry sector. Due to the general neglect shown to such stocks by traders, they may trade at a low price to earnings (P/E) or price to book (P/B) ratios, creating potential value should attention shift toward them again at a later date.



In the trading markets, wallflower stocks likewise sit all dressed up with no place to go, waiting for attention from investors but typically without doing much of anything to generate real interest. That lack of interest can cause a snowball effect as analysts ignore the stock, and low trading volumes lead to uncertain pricing and wide bid-ask spreads.



Scant information to recommend the stock from the analyst community and uncertainty on pricing and value act as a deterrent for retail investors, creating the potential for such stocks to languish further.


   Wallflowers and Economic Bubbles  

While unpopular market segments generate fertile ground for wallflowers, economic bubbles in hot market segments can provide a warning sign that today’s hot issue could be tomorrow’s wallflower. Consider the dotcom bubble, during which investors threw money at Internet startups almost indiscriminately. The amount of money available for any company related to the internet led to massive initial public offerings for companies that, in some cases, boasted questionable fundamentals at best.



A sell-off among major players in the technology sector sparked by Cisco and Dell, among others, resulted in a brutal bear market for Internet stocks. It took the NASDAQ 15 years to recover to the peak it hit in March 2000, and many of the freshly minted dotcom companies faded rapidly into wallflower status as investor funding dried up.



Various media outlets began to refer to the crop of failing companies as “dot bombs,” the majority of which had blown up by the end of 2001, taking trillions of dollars of investment capital with them.






The term wallflower derives from slang for individuals who remain outside of the general buzz and conversation at a social function, hugging the walls rather than interacting.


   Special Considerations  

Some wallflowers with decent fundamentals retain enough potential to interest investors since the low P/E or P/B ratios associated with these companies make them reasonable candidates for value stocks. These stocks bear relatively higher risk than growth stocks because a failure to attract future attention could result in them languishing further.



However, the upside to investing in a value stock can be considerable if and when the investing community recognizes its potential and prices move to match the fundamental strength of the company more closely.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Wallpaper?  

Wallpaper is the name given to stocks, bonds, and other securities that have become worthless. This colloquialism saw its beginnings when stocks and bonds existed as printed, physical certificates rather than digital identifying information stored on a brokerage's server.



The name stuck, however, and denotes when a stock or bond certificate (or another exercisable right to securities such as stock options) no longer has value due to a variety of reasons, most commonly, bankruptcy.





Key Takeaways

The colloquialism, wallpaper, refers to stocks, bonds, and other securities that have lost all market value. The term wallpaper was in vogue when stocks and bonds existed as printed, physical certificates. During times of economic downturn, like the Great Depression, useless stock certificates were used as insulation or as actual wallpaper. 


   Understanding Wallpaper  

The term "wallpaper" implies that because the certificates are worthless, they may as well wallpaper your house with them. This was an actual practice during the Great Depression that followed the Stock Market Crash of 1929. In that era, physical paper certificates represented actual ownership of shares of a company.



When the stock market crashed on Black Thursday (Oct. 25, 1929), $30 billion was quickly lost. That amount was twice the U.S. national debt at the time. Some 20,000 companies went bankrupt, which left many investors with a lot of worthless paper.



Those lucky enough to avoid homelessness used the now-worthless stock certificates to paper their walls, an old technique used to plug drafts before insulation was widely available or used. Others may have sardonically pasted the worthless certificates to their walls as decoration.



Now, wallpaper is used to describe any security that has lost all value, even if there is no longer a practical use for it.






Don't throw out your old stock certificates because they may end up being valuable.


   Modern-Day Examples of Wallpaper  

Some modern-day examples of wallpaper include a variety of companies that went bust during the dotcom bubble burst of March 2000 to October 2002, and the Great Recession of the late 2000s and early 2010s.



Some examples include online retailers Pets.com and Webvan when the dotcom bubble burst and Lehman Brothers during the Great Recession.


   Collectible Wallpaper  

Old securities certificates have found a new life: as a collectible. Collectors have been known to pay thousands of dollars for certificates that are considered quality artwork, popular images, have the signatures or images of famous individuals, or were issued by popular or notable corporations or governments.



Some popular examples are exceedingly rare, such as a Confederate States of America $1,000 bond and an 1887 stock certificate from Chadborn & Coldwell Manufacturing Co. (later Toro Co.) featuring a vignette of a boy mowing a lawn. Each is valued at about $2,500.






The practice of collecting out-of-date or worthless "wallpaper" stock and bond certificates is called scripophily.


   Special Considerations  

Individuals who hold old stock certificates bearing the names of long-gone companies should not assume they are worthless, however.



Decades of mergers, acquisitions, name changes, and stock splits do not mean a stock is worthless. It could mean that a stock is worth far more than one expects depending on the situation. If it isn't worth cash as an actual stock, you may find a collector who will pay good money for it. As the old adage goes: "One person's junk may be another person's treasure."





Notes

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Walmart Effect?  

The Walmart Effect is a term used to refer to the economic impact felt by local businesses when a large company like Walmart (WMT) opens a location in the area. The Walmart Effect usually manifests itself by forcing smaller retail firms out of business and reducing wages for competitors' employees. Many local businesses oppose the introduction of Walmart stores into their territories for these reasons.





Key Takeaways

The Walmart Effect is the effect that Walmart has been known to have on the communities in which it builds locations. The presence of a Walmart store can hurt the business of smaller companies and lower wages for local workers.Much of the Walmart Effect can be attributed to Walmart’s immense buying power. The Walmart Effect can also affect suppliers, who must drive their production costs down in order to afford to sell to Walmart. Although the term was used in the 90s, “Walmart Effect” became ubiquitous with the release of a Charles Fishman book by the same name.


   How the Walmart Effect Works   

The Walmart Effect also has its positive benefits; it can curb inflation and help to keep employee productivity at an optimum level. The chain of stores can also save consumers billions of dollars but may also reduce wages and competition in an area.






The Walmart Effect has been shown to not only affect competing companies and suppliers but consumers as well.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Walmart Effect  

Walmart's insistence on procuring products at lower prices from suppliers means that suppliers must find ways to make their products for less money, or else they could be forced to take losses if they choose to sell through Walmart. 



The exposure of selling merchandise through Walmart may increase consumers’ awareness of a product; however, the cost of delivering that product to market may be pushed back upon the supplier. This can compel them to seek out lower-cost alternatives to manufacture their product, which could lead to the use of overseas operations or less expensive materials in the production of their goods.


   Requirements for the Walmart  

The Walmart Effect is driven by the scale and scope of Walmart’s buying power. The company has over 4,700 stores in the U.S., including almost 600 Sam’s Club stores. It’s the largest employer in the U.S. As a retailer of this size, it can dictate the price it pays to wholesalers at a magnitude many other companies cannot. 



As a result, Walmart has the capacity to sell its merchandise at lower prices, compared with other businesses in the markets in which it operates. This can have an effect that goes beyond the retail market and into manufacturing and production. In addition to its buying power, Walmart has historically controlled its compensation to employees in such a way that rival companies might feel pressured to reduce salaries or cut benefits to their workers in response.



Once a Walmart location opens, the lower prices, concentration, and selection of merchandise in its stores tend to draw consumers away from local retailers. With less foot traffic and declining sales, local retailers see their profits fall, forcing them to make cost-cutting decisions. Such strategies, however, may not be enough to keep such businesses open as Walmart continues to operate profitably while local retailers' losses mount. In time, Walmart might choose to relocate its store to another location, but the impact of its initial arrival may continue to last well afterward.



The term Walmart Effect was first used in the 1990s, but Charles Fishman wrote a book entitled “The Wal-Mart Effect” in 2006 which details how economies are affected by Walmart. Fishman goes beyond the advantages and disadvantages for local businesses but also includes how Walmart can positively and negatively impact consumers.
What Is Walras's Law?  

Walras's law is an economic theory, which states that the existence of excess supply in one market must be matched by excess demand in another market so that both factors are balanced out. Walras's law asserts that an examined market must be in equilibrium if all other markets are in equilibrium. Keynesian economics, by contrast, assumes that one market can be out of balance without a "matching" imbalance elsewhere.





Key Takeaways

Walras's law implies that, for any excess demand oversupply for a single good, a corresponding excess supply over demand exists for at least one other good, which is the state of market equilibrium.Walras's law is based on equilibrium theory, which states that all markets must be "cleared" of any excess supply and demand to be in equilibrium.Keynesian economic theory stands in contrast to Walras's law, by stating one market can be in imbalance without another market being out of balance.Walras's law works on the principle of the invisible hand; where there is excess demand, the invisible hand will raise prices, and where there is excess supply, the invisible hand will decrease prices, until equilibrium is reached.Critics claim that it is difficult to quantify utility, which influences demand, making Walras's law difficult to formulate as a mathematical equation.


   Understanding Walras's Law  

Walras's law is named after French economist Léon Walras (1834 - 1910), who created general equilibrium theory and founded the Lausanne School of economics. Walras's famous insights can be found in the book Elements of Pure Economics, published in 1874. Walras, along with William Jevons and Carl Menger, were considered founding fathers of neoclassical economics.



Walras's law assumes that the invisible hand is at work to settle markets into equilibrium. Where there is excess demand, the invisible hand will raise prices; where there is excess supply, the hand will lower prices for consumers to drive markets into a state of balance.



Producers, for their part, will respond rationally to changes in interest rates. If rates rise they will reduce production and if they fall they will invest more in manufacturing facilities. Walras predicated all of these theoretical dynamics upon the assumptions that consumers pursue self-interests and that firms try to maximize profits.


   Limitations of Walras's Law  

In practice, observations have not matched Walras's theory in many cases. Even if "all other markets" were in equilibrium, an excess of supply or demand in an observed market meant that it was not in equilibrium. Walras's law looks at markets as a whole rather than individually.



Economists who studied and built on Walras's law hypothesized that the challenge of quantifying units of so-called "utility," a subjective concept, made it difficult to formulate the law in mathematical equations, which Walras sought to do. Measuring utility for each individual, not to mention aggregating across a population to form a utility function, was not a practical exercise, critics of Walras's law argued. According to them, if this could not be done, the law would not hold, because utility influences demand.
What Is Walrasian Market?  

A Walrasian market is an economic model of a market process in which orders are collected into batches of buys and sells and then analyzed to determine a clearing price that will decide the market price. This is also referred to as a call market.





Key Takeaways

A Walrasian market is one in which orders are batched and analyzed to determine a clearing price that will determine the market price.The Walrasian market was developed by Leon Walras to demonstrate that a state of general equilibrium in which there is equal supply and demand at the same time in all markets can exist.Buyers and sellers do not have much say on the final prices of their trades in a Walrasian market, unlike auction markets, where market forces are at work.Within a Walrasian market, buy and sell orders are grouped together and then carried out at specific times instead of executed one by one continuously.NYSE uses a similar process to a Walrasian market before the opening bell to determine opening prices.


   Understanding a Walrasian Market  

The Walrasian market was developed by Leon Walras. He developed the concept in response to a problem by French philosopher and mathematician Antoine Cournot. Cournot posited that it was not possible to demonstrate a state of general equilibrium in which there was equal supply and demand at the same time in all markets.



The Walrasian market model is used regularly in the financial markets. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) uses a similar process before the opening bell to determine opening prices. A specialist looks at all the collected orders for a particular security and selects the price that will clear the greatest number of trades. In fact, up until 1871, all trading on the New York Stock Exchange was executed in this fashion.



Within a Walrasian market, buy and sell orders are grouped together and then carried out at specific times instead of executed one by one continuously. A Walrasian auctioneer gathers prices about orders and determines the final price. The auctioneer is expected to function in a market with complete and perfect information about orders.


   Walrasian Market vs. Auction Market  

A Walrasian market differs from an auction market, in which buyers and sellers trade continuously. In auction markets, market forces determine the final price more directly, whereas the buyers and sellers in a Walrasian market do not have the last say on what the final price is in their trades.






The U.S. Treasury holds auctions for Treasury securities in order to finance government budget requirements.



In an auction market, buyers enter competitive bids and sellers enter competitive offers simultaneously. The price at which a stock is traded is a representation of the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept. Matching bids and offers are then paired together and the orders are completed. Walrasian markets can be more helpful in markets where there are few buyers, sellers, and shares to trade.


   Example of a Walrasian Market  

For example, say these are the buy orders for Company A’s stock:



Buy 1,000 shares at $5.25Buy 500 shares at $5.00Buy 700 shares at $5.50Buy 500 shares at $5.25Sell 1,000 shares at $5.25Sell 500 shares at $5.00Sell 700 shares at $5.50Sell 500 shares at $5.25



In a Walrasian market, the buy orders are grouped together and executed at a price and time that will clear most of those orders. In this case, that price might be $5.25. Even though some of the parties are willing to buy or sell for $5.00, the price that clears most of the transactions is $5.25, and in a Walrasian market, that is the price at which the exchange's market analyst executes these trades.




What Is Walras’s Law?
An economic theory, Walras's Law states that excess supply in one market must be matched with excess demand in another market so that both factors negate one another. The law states that a specific market must be in equilibrium if all markets are in equilibrium.




What Is Walras’s General Equilibrium Theory?
Walras's General Equilibrium theory seeks to show that all markets tend towards equilibrium in the long run as opposed to partial equilibrium, where only some markets in an economy reach equilibrium. The key aspect of the theory is not that all markets reach equilibrium but that they tend towards equilibrium.




What Is the Classical Theory of Money?
The classical theory of money states that the amount of money that a household requires at a given point in time is proportional to the dollar value of its demand for commodities. Purchasing a higher value of goods will require a household to keep more cash on hand. This is known as the propensity to hold money.




How Do You Solve for Walrasian Equilibrium?
To solve for the Walrasian Equilibrium there are four steps involved. Step 1 is calculating feasible outcomes, step 2 is solving for the optimum, step 3 is solving for the prices that support the optimal production plan, and step 4 is explaining why consumer demand is equal to supply at these prices.
What Is Wanton Disregard?  

Wanton disregard is a legal term that denotes an individual's extreme lack of care for the well-being or rights of another individual. Wanton disregard is a serious accusation that indicates that a person behaved extremely recklessly and is most commonly used in an insurance context, where it refers to negligence to describe reckless behavior that has led to damages or injury. 



Wanton disregard may also be referred to as wanton conduct and may more formally be expressed as willful and wanton disregard.





Key Takeaways

Wanton disregard is legal terminology referring to extreme negligence.Wanton disregard is a very serious accusation that indicates that a person behaved recklessly.When applied to finance, financial advisors or employees of financial firms who show willful disdain for either regulations or their clients' best interests may be accused of wanton disregard.


   Understanding Wanton Disregard  

When an individual fails to employ reasonable duty of care in their actions, it constitutes negligence. Yet not all negligence is the same. There are degrees of negligence. 



Wanton disregard in the legal sense is not always deliberately malicious, though it is more serious than mere carelessness. In a lawsuit, wanton disregard might result in punitive damages, depending on the severity of the situation and state laws.


  Ordinary Negligence  

Ordinary negligence requires that an individual behave in a way that is contrary to how a reasonable person would act under the same or similar circumstances. It may also entail an individual failing to do something that a reasonable person would be expected to do. Negligence laws require that individuals undertake reasonable actions to protect themselves or others from harm—a standard of care. When such a duty is not met, payment for damages may be recovered.


  Gross Negligence  

In general, gross negligence denotes indifference on the part of an individual or entity. It is a significantly greater lack of care or diligence than ordinary negligence. Courts define gross negligence as a violation of the legal duty to the rights of other individuals. In wrongful death cases, a court must find evidence of gross negligence to award punitive damages.﻿﻿ 


  Willful, Wanton or Reckless Behavior  

Such behavior comes very close to actual intent to cause harm or damages without actually crossing over into malicious behavior. For example, the phrase "willful and wanton disregard" suggests that the danger of an action is understood by an individual. They know it is likely to cause a substantial harm, yet they do it anyway.


   Examples of Wanton Disregard  

A financial advisor at a large firm uses the company's online database to store sensitive information about their clients. The database is hacked and a client's identity is stolen. The client tells their financial advisor they think their identity has been stolen through the financial advisor's firm. The financial advisor notifies the appropriate people within the company, but they do not correct the problem.



This would be considered wanton disregard because while the company is not intentionally or maliciously exposing its clients' sensitive financial data, it is recklessly ignoring a problem that it has been made aware of.



Another example of wanton disregard would be a supervisor instructing a subordinate to service a piece of machinery while it was still running. A reasonable person would know that this is unreasonably dangerous behavior. Any injury that resulted from such an action would be evidence of wanton disregard.
What Is a War Bond?  

A war bond is a debt security issued by a government to finance military operations during times of war or conflict. Because war bonds offered a rate of return below the market rate, investment was achieved by making emotional appeals to patriotic citizens to lend the government money.





Key Takeaways

A war bond is an initiative by a government to fund military operations and spending by issuing debt for the public to purchase.The public may buy these bonds out of a feeling of patriotic duty, or other emotional appeals.Although war bonds do not typically pay interest, they are sold at a discount and mature to face value, typically after a period of 10 to 30 years.


   Understanding War Bonds  

A war bond is a debt instrument issued by a government as a means of borrowing money to finance its defense initiatives and military efforts during times of war. A war bond is essentially a loan to a government.



The bonds were sold below their face value—investors paid less than the face value initially and were paid the face value amount at maturity. In other words, war bonds were considered zero-coupon bonds because they didn't pay interest payments throughout the year or coupon payments. Instead, investors earned the difference between the purchase price and the face value of the bond at maturity.



War bonds were baby bonds, which meant they had a smaller par value, or face value, than standard bonds. This made them more affordable for retail investors. Another feature of the bonds was that they were nontransferable—only the bond purchaser could redeem the bonds in the future. War bonds originally had a 10-year maturity, which resulted in a 2.9% return.



Congress extended the interest that could be earned so that bonds sold from 1941 to 1965 accrued interest for 40 years. Bonds issued after 1965 accrued interest for 20 years. After the end of World War II, War Bonds became known as Series E bonds. The U.S. government continued issuing Series E bonds until 1980 when Series EE bonds replaced them.


   Characteristics of War Bonds  

War bonds issued by the United States were a little different from other Treasury securities.



War bonds (or Liberty bonds, depending on the year) were zero-coupon securities, meaning that they did not pay any interest over the lifetime of the bond. Moreover, the face value was different from the actual price of the bond: You would buy the bond at a discount (typically between 50%-75% of the bond's face value) and receive the full face value when the bond matured.



The exact maturity date would depend on the year a war bond was issued. A bond issued at the beginning of World War II could only be cashed out ten years later. Congress later amended the law so that war bonds could continue to accumulate interest over 40 years.


   The History of War Bonds  

Besides the United States government, other countries also issued war bonds, including Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Austria-Hungary.



In the U.S., the War Advertising Council promoted voluntary compliance with bond buying. Motives to purchase war bonds were embedded in patriotism and conscience, given that these bonds offered a rate of return that was below the prevailing interest rates in the market.



Advertisements for the bonds were carried out through multiple media such as radio stations, newspapers, magazines, and newsreels in theaters to reach the American people. Hollywood stars like Bette Davis and Rita Hayworth helped promote war bonds by touring the country. People could save up for War Bonds by contributing 25 cents each time. The Girl Scouts also sold stamps valued at 10 cents each. Norman Rockwell created several paintings as part of the advertising effort for War Bonds.



After the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the Ukrainian government announced an issue of war bonds to pay fighters and other military expenses. On March 1, just after the invasion began, the Ukrainian government announced that it had raised $270 million from a one-year bond with a yield of 11%. The country issued several successive bond issues, raising a total of nearly $1 billion.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of War Bonds  

War bonds allow the issuing government to quickly raise money to fund military campaigns. Governments that issue war bonds may appeal to patriotic feelings to sell the war bonds, allowing them to offer a yield that is lower than current market rates. They can also be used to reduce inflation by removing extra money from the economy.



For investors, war bonds can also be a way to profit by speculating on the outcome of a war. If one side suffers from a temporary military defeat, investors can buy that country's war bonds if they expect a quick reversal. However, they also take the risk of losing their investment if the war is lost.



However, they were not always an ideal vehicle for investments. United States war bonds did not pay interest over the life of the bond, and they offered lower profits than competing bonds. Moreover, if a country borrows heavily to finance its war efforts, it will have to repay all of those bills upon the conclusion of the war.





Pros

War Bonds could be purchased for a price that was below their face value.
War Bonds were guaranteed by the U.S. government.
Investors experienced a sense of pride and patriotism by helping the nation in times of war.



Cons

Paid a lower interest rate than other securities in the market.
War Bonds did not pay interest payments throughout the life of the bonds.
As with any security, War Bonds carried the risk of a loss if sold before maturity for a lower price than the purchase price.





   Example of War Bonds  

In the U.S., the sale of war bonds was overseen by the War Finance Committee. War bonds were initially known as Defense Bonds and were first issued as Liberty Bonds in 1917 to finance the United States government's participation in World War I. Through the sale of these bonds, the government raised $21.5 billion dollars for its war efforts.



After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, on Dec. 7, 1941, the U.S. entered the Second World War, and Defense Bonds were renamed War Bonds. More than 80 million Americans purchased war bonds and brought in over $180 billion in revenue. The bonds sold for 50% to 75% of their face value and had denominations ranging from $10 to $1,000, depending on the year they were issued.




How Do You Buy Ukrainian War Bonds?
Ukrainian citizens and residents can buy war bonds through a Ukraine-licensed broker or bank. Although overseas institutional investors can also buy war bonds, it is not clear if they will be available to foreign retail investors.




What Is the Purpose of War Bonds?
War bonds allow a country to raise money for its military expenditures, without having to resort to heavy taxation or inflationary monetary policy. However, governments must be cautious of the risk that they will assume more debt than they can repay.




How Much Are War Bonds Worth Today?
The U.S. government has an online tool to calculate the current value of war bonds. For a Series E bond issued in 1942 with a face value of $100, the current value as of September 2022 would be $377.40.


   The Bottom Line  

War bonds allow a country to raise emergency funds to support military expenditures, at a lower cost than a typical sovereign bond issue. However, there is risk involved. War bonds tend to offer a lower yield, and investors assume the risk that they may lose the investment if the country defaults.
What Is a War Chest?  

"War Chest" is a colloquial term for the reserves of cash set aside or built up by a company to take advantage of an unexpected opportunity. While a war chest is typically used for acquisitions of other companies or businesses, it can also be used as a buffer against adverse events during uncertain times. A war chest is often invested in short-term investments, such as treasury bills and bank deposits, which can be accessed on-demand.





Key Takeaways

A war chest is a cash hoard that a company has, with plans to use it for uncertain times or acquisitions. War chest money is typically invested in short-term investments that can be accessed on-demand. However, a war chest that has swelled up too much can sometimes be viewed as an inefficient way of deploying capital.Apple is one such example where analysts and investors have claimed the company’s large war chest is a poor use of capital. 


   Understanding War Chests  

A war chest that has swelled up too much can sometimes be viewed as an inefficient way of deploying capital. While investors may be willing to give a company with a huge cash hoard the benefit of the doubt for some time, if the cash balance continues to grow well beyond the company's normal operating requirements, its investors may clamor for a share of it.



If the company is unable to deploy its war chest efficiently, it may consider distributing part of its cash holdings to its shareholders. Such return of capital to shareholders is usually achieved either through a special dividend distribution, an increase in the regular dividend, a share buyback, or a combination of these measures.


   Special Considerations  

Companies may rely on debt instead of cash, however, to fund acquisitions or pay unexpected expenses. This allows companies to carry less cash, especially if they have credit available. On the flip side, companies often choose to redistribute their war chest to shareholders via special dividends or buybacks.  


   Types of War Chest  

Cash and liquid cash equivalents are a key part of a war chest. More recently, companies have started to include more intangible assets as part of a bigger war chest. These intangibles may include social capital, political capital, and human capital—all can prove effective when launching a corporate raid, or defending against one.



The war chest of corporate entities will look different for various countries, industries, and business models. In a sense, no two are alike.






The "war room" is another business term. Businesses often assemble or refer to a war room, which is where core executives gather to plot and development high-stakes strategies. Modern war rooms will include the latest in audio, video, and communications technologies.


   Examples of War Chests  

War chests of cash are used to fund purchases and investments. Looking at how these change over time can give a picture of a company's near-term prospects.



Analysts and the media like to focus on the war chest of Apple (AAPL), which has historically had a large cash hoard. Apple had $27.5 billion in cash on hand as of June 30, 2022, down from $35 billion a year earlier. The company, after getting pushback from shareholders, had started buying back shares and paying a dividend to put some of its cash to use. 



Another example of a closely watched war chest is Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-B). The company had $26.5 billion in cash as of June 30, 2022, down from more than $85 billion at the end of 2021. Analysts watch Buffett’s cash position and speculate on companies that it might purchase, and the significant dip in these six months reflects Berkshire's buying spree in stocks as markets dipped, including a large stake in Occidental Petroleum (OXY).




Why Do Companies Accumulate War Chests?
War chests are sizable funds set aside by a company. These are useful for making large investments or purchases when opportunities arise or can serve as a buffer against economic downturns. By having a war chest, a company can wait until the time is right and jump on such opportunities. Having a large war chest can also be used as a defense against a hostile takeover.




What Is a Company's War Chest Made Up Of?
A war chest holds liquid assets that can be accessed quickly, such as cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits, and Treasury bills.




Where Does the Term War Chest Come From?
The etymology of the term "war chest" comes from Mediaeval military terminology, where it referred to one's personal cache of weapons and armor kept in the home (in a chest), ready for use if conflict were to break out.
What Was the War Damage Corporation?  

The War Damage Corporation was an initiative launched by the United States government during World War II. First established in 1941, the purpose of the program was to provide American citizens with insurance against the risk of property damage due to war. 



Congress found it necessary to offer this program because most private insurers felt that the potential cost of such insurance would be unsustainably high. Following the end of World War II, the War Damage Corporation was discontinued by the Act of Congress in 1947.





Key Takeaways

The War Damage Corporation was a government program launched during World War II to help insure against losses resulting from war efforts.Its purpose in particular was to provide Americans with subsidized insurance against war-related property damage.Although the program was terminated following the end of the war, its influence continues to be felt in modern insurance markets.


   Mission of the War Damage Corporation  

Officially, created through the War Damage Insurance Act of 1941, it was first known as the War Insurance Corporation then was renamed the War Damage Corporation in 1942. Understandably, many Americans of that time were concerned that the ongoing war could potentially lead to significant physical damage in the United States. In order to protect their personal possessions, citizens sought to insure against this risk by buying insurance from private providers.



However, from the perspective of private insurers at this time, the potential scale of the damage from war could be so vast that they could not offer these sorts of contracts in a profitable manner. In order to make those policies profitable, the premiums they would need to charge would be so high as to be unaffordable to most customers. As a solution to this impasse, the government stepped in to provide this type of insurance to the public at a subsidized rate.


   History of the War Damage Corporation  

The creation of the War Damage Corporation in 1941 marked a significant change in legal thinking among American lawmakers. Prior to World War II, the U.S. government did not consider individuals automatically entitled to compensation for war-related damage to their private property. However, governments in the United States and Europe increasingly adopted the view that individuals should be compensated for private property damage caused by war, given that these acts of war are beyond the control of those parties. Programs similar to the War Damage Corporation were also pursued in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, and some similar programs continue to exist today.



President Ulysses S. Grant was firmly against the idea of compensating property owners in southern states whose property had been damaged or destroyed during the American Civil War. In his own words, Grant described damages to private property due to war as a “matter of bounty rather than of strict legal right.”


   Legacy of the War Damage Corporation  

Although the War Damage Corporation no longer exists, it has nevertheless had a lasting impact on the American insurance industry. For example, some private insurance companies now provide policies specific to war-related damage. These include damages related to weapons of mass destruction, acts of civil unrest, or terrorist attacks such as hijackings.



A more common example can be found in travel insurance policies, which sometimes offer compensation for flights or hotel bookings canceled due to acts of terrorism or war. Nevertheless, it remains true that most insurance policies include war exclusion clauses that explicitly exempt the insurer from having to cover damages caused by war. The organization was abolished in 1947, following WWII, and several of its functions were assumed by Reconstruction Finance Corporation.﻿﻿
What Is a War Economy?  

War economy is the organization of a country's production capacity and distribution during a time of conflict. A war economy must make substantial adjustments to its consumer production to accommodate defense production needs. In a war economy, governments must choose how to allocate their country’s resources very carefully in order to achieve military victory while also meeting vital domestic consumer demands.





Key Takeaways

War economy refers to an economy of a country at war. Governments in a war economy must decide how to allocate resources to account for their defense needs.War economies generally use tax dollars for defense spending.War economies often are responsible for industrial, technological, and medical advancements due to the pressure to create better products at a cheaper cost.


   Understanding War Economy  

War economy refers to an economy of a country at war. A war economy prioritizes the production of goods and services that support war efforts, while also seeking to strengthen the economy as a whole.



During times of conflict, governments may take measures to prioritize defense and national security expenditures, including rationing, in which the government controls the distribution of goods and services, as well as resource allocation. In times of war, each country approaches the reconfiguration of its economy in a different way and some governments may prioritize particular forms of spending over others.



For a country with a war economy, tax dollars are primarily used on defense. Likewise, if the country is borrowing large amounts of money, those funds may go mostly toward maintaining the military and meeting national security needs. Conversely, in countries without such conflict, tax revenue and borrowed money may be used to improve infrastructure and domestic programs, such as education.



War economies often exist out of necessity when a country feels it needs to make national defense a priority. War economies often demonstrate more industrial, technological, and medical advancements because they are in competition and therefore under pressure to create better defense products at a cheaper cost. However, because of that focus, countries with war economies may also experience a decline in domestic development and production.


   War Economy Example  

All of the major members of both the Axis and Allied powers had war economies during World War II. These included countries such as the United States, Japan, and Germany. America's economic strength was a vital pillar that allowed the Allies to receive the money and equipment needed to defeat the Axis powers.



The U.S. government transitioned to a war economy after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, raising taxes and issuing war bonds to help fund the war effort. The War Production Board (WPB) was formed to allocate resources to the war effort, including copper, rubber, and oil, award defense contracts to civilian corporate interests, and incentivize military production among civilian business owners. Famously, women around the United States participated in the war economy by taking military production jobs and other positions previously filled by men, many of whom had joined the military.


   Special Considerations  

Because wars can sometimes have the effect of accelerating technological and medical progress, a country’s economy can be greatly strengthened after the war, as was the case with the U.S. after both World War I and World War II. Some economists argue, however, that the wasteful nature of military spending ultimately hinders technological and economic advancement.
What Is a War Exclusion Clause?  

A war exclusion clause in an insurance policy specifically excludes coverage for acts of war, such as invasions, insurrections, revolutions, military coups, and terrorism. A war exclusion clause in an insurance contract refers to the protection of an insurer who will not be obligated to pay for losses caused by war-related events. Insurance companies commonly exclude coverage perils on which they cannot afford to pay claims.





Key Takeaways

A war exclusion clause in an insurance policy excludes insurance coverage for damages related to war or similar activities.An insurance company is protected from having to pay out claims on automobiles, homes, and the like, if the damage was caused by war.The reason insurance policies have war clauses is that insurance companies cannot accurately compute the premiums to charge for damages sustained by war.Insurance companies also do not cover war damages because the cost of the claims could potentially be astronomical, driving the company into bankruptcy.War exclusion clauses were expanded and became standard after the September 11 terrorist attacks.


   Understanding a War Exclusion Clause  

Because most insurance companies would be unable to remain solvent, let alone profitable, if an act of war suddenly presented them with thousands or millions of expensive claims, auto, homeowners, renters, commercial property, and life insurance policies often have war exclusion clauses. However, entities that are faced with a significant risk of war, such as companies located in politically unstable countries, may be able to purchase a separate war risk insurance policy.



Insurance companies typically won't cover damages caused by war for clear reasons. If war breaks out in a country, it could cause a catastrophic amount of damage that would likely bankrupt the insurance company if it were on the hook to cover such damages. Moreover, if an insured individual decides to join the military and go to war, they are voluntarily putting themselves at a much higher risk of getting disabled or killed. As a result, many life and disability policies do not cover losses from war.



Two primary factors require the modern version of the war exclusion clause: the inability of insurance companies to gauge premiums to cover the risk of war and the need for insurance companies to protect themselves against a catastrophic financial disaster that could result from war-level destruction. If private insurers were to assume the normal risk incidents to military service in time of war under ordinary premium rates, they would likely go out of business.


   Standardization of War Exclusion Clauses  

The war exclusion clause became an important issue in the insurance industry following the Sept 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington D.C. Before the attacks, most war exclusion clauses applied only with respect to contractually assumed liability on the theory that private persons and organizations cannot otherwise incur liability in connection with war.



However, after September 11, "war and terrorism" exclusions that broadened the war portion of the exclusion beyond contractually assumed liability were quickly added to liability policies. This development widened the scope of the war exclusion clause, which is now considered standard, regardless of whether terrorism is insured or excluded in the policy.
What Is War Risk Insurance?  

War risk insurance is an insurance policy that provides financial protection to the policyholder against losses from events such as invasions, insurrections, riots, strikes, revolutions, military coups, and terrorism.



Auto, homeowners, renters, commercial property, fire, and life insurance policies often have war exclusions. With these exclusions, the policy will not pay for losses from war-related events. Because a standard insurance policy may specifically exclude war risk, it is sometimes possible to purchase a separate war risk insurance rider.





Key Takeaways

War risk insurance is coverage provided on losses resulting from events such as war, invasions, insurrections, riots, strikes, and terrorism.War risk insurance is offered as a separate policy as it is excluded from standard insurance policies due to the high risks involved.Businesses and individuals that operate in high-risk countries are good candidates for war risk insurance.War risk insurance is often excluded from standard policies because of the inability of insurance companies to accurately predict damages and therefore charge appropriate premiums.


   Understanding War Risk Insurance  

Those entities which have risk exposure to the possibility of sudden and violent political upheavals are good customers for war risk insurance. For example, companies operating in politically unstable parts of the world have exposure to an elevated risk of loss from acts of war. War risk insurance may cover perils such as kidnappings and ransom, sabotage, emergency evacuation, worker injury, long-term disability, and loss or damage of property and cargo. 



Also, some policies may cover event cancellations due to war. There are war risk insurance policies that include acts of terrorism, but others consider terrorism and war to be two separate categories of peril. Some countries may require airlines to have war risk insurance before they can operate in their airspace or use their airports.



Industries in the aviation and maritime spheres may have more specific war insurance options tailored to meet their particular needs. For example, war risk insurance may compensate a ship’s owner for the full cost of a vessel in cases where a government seizes the ship. If war activities force a ship into temporary detention, war risk insurance may cover that loss of time. 



The Bumbershoot policy is a specialized form of excess liability insurance targeted to the maritime industry.


   Concerns With War Risk Insurance  

The war exclusion clause became a hot issue in the insurance industry following the Sept 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington D.C. The attacks caused an estimated $40 billion in insurance losses. The threat of further terrorist attacks or hijackings made the insurance industry leery of issuing war risk policies.



Insurers canceled issuing many third-party policies and coverage. In response, Congress voted to amend and expand the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Aviation War Risk Insurance Program. The law required the FAA to offer war risk insurance to U.S.-based airlines. It also ordered the premiums for this coverage to be based on the pre-9/11 cost of coverage. The program was in place until 2014, at which point the private industry had increased capacity and lowered prices for war risk insurance.



The difficulty with war risk insurance is the inability of an insurance company to accurately assess the possible outcome of damages and therefore calculate appropriate premiums to charge. Furthermore, the damage from war or related activities can be so vast and unpredictable that even high premiums might not be enough to cover the damage that insurance companies are liable for. This makes war insurance an unknown quantity for insurance companies with a high risk that a war insurance policy could send them into insolvency.
What Is a Warehouse Bond?  

A warehouse bond provides financial protection for individuals or businesses storing goods in a storage facility. The bond gives protection for any losses if the event the storage facility fails to live up to the contract terms. If the operator of the warehouse fails to meet its contractual obligations, a third-party surety company, acting as an intermediary, will compensate the client for loss.





Key Takeaways:

A warehouse bond provides financial protection for individuals or businesses that store goods in a storage facility.If the warehouse owner fails to live up to the contract terms, a third-party surety company will compensate the client for loss. A warehouse bond claim may arise from fire, theft, water damage, roof collapse, insufficient facility maintenance, damage during handling, or climate control failure.


   Understanding Warehouse Bonds  

The warehouse bond is a contract between three entities: the warehouse operator is the principal that needs to get bonded, the state authority that provides the licensing is the obligee. Finally, the surety is the bond underwriter. Warehouse bond claims may arise from fire, theft, water damage, roof collapse, insufficient facility maintenance, damage during handling, climate control failure, lost inventory, and other causes. Warehouse bonds typically remain in effect for one-year periods and must be renewed annually.



Warehouse bonds are required for warehouse owners in many states. They guarantee compliance with state laws and regulations for the storage and handling of goods. Every state sets its bond amount requirements. Items reviewed when setting the bond amount include the number of warehouses operated and the value of the goods stored in the warehouses. Bond requirements may also be on a case-by-case basis. In some states, the bond cost also depends on the warehouse owner's credit score and business financials.



Each state will stipulate requirements for storage facilities independently. For example, Massachusetts requires all public warehouse owners to be licensed and bonded with a $10,000 surety bond for every warehouse.﻿﻿ The state of New York requires a $5,000 bond amount, while New York City requires $10,000.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ Bond requirements may also vary depending on the type of warehouses, such as grain, eviction, or public warehouses.


   Special Considerations and Acts of God  

There are many limitations on recovery associated with warehouse bond agreements. For example, Acts of God are often listed as an absolute exclusion in agreements. Although a warehouse owner cannot reasonably be expected to control forces of nature such as hurricanes and earthquakes, there are certain circumstances where liability is a consideration. 



For example, a warehouse operator may be liable for damages if there is a warning of an impending loss that they should have taken steps to avoid. Suppose a warehouse location is along a river prone to flooding, and the facility previously sustained damage to cargo stored on the ground floor. In such a scenario, if a warehouse owner knew of an approaching flood warning and took no action, they could be found negligent for failing to move the cargo to a higher floor or alternate location.
What Is Warehouse Financing?  

Warehouse financing is a form of inventory financing that involves a loan made by a financial institution to a company, manufacturer, or processor. Existing inventory, goods, or commodities are transferred to a warehouse and used as collateral for the loan. Warehouse financing is most often used by smaller privately-owned firms, particularly those in commodities-related businesses, that do not have access to other options.



Note that warehouse financing is different from warehouse lending, which is a way for a bank to provide loans without using its own capital.





Key Takeaways

Warehouse financing is a way for businesses to borrow money secured by their inventories.Inventories used as collateral will be moved and stored at a designated facility.The warehoused goods are inspected and certified by a collateral manager to ensure the borrower owns the inventory used to back the loan.


   Understanding Warehouse Financing  

Warehouse financing is an option for small- to medium-sized retailers and wholesalers.



The collateral (goods, inventory, or commodities) for a warehouse finance loan may be held in public warehouses approved by the lender or in field warehouses located in the borrower's facilities but controlled by an independent third party.



Take the example of a manufacturer of electric car batteries that has used up its entire line of credit and needs another $5 million to expand operations. It asks around and finds a bank willing to offer a loan through warehouse financing. The bank accepts the company's large inventory of unsold car batteries as collateral, and those batteries are transferred to a warehouse controlled by a third party. If the company fails to pay the loan, the bank can begin selling the batteries to cover the loan. Alternatively, the company can repay the loan and begin taking possession of its batteries again.



A financial institution engaged in warehouse financing will usually designate a collateral manager who issues a warehouse receipt to the borrower that certifies the quantity and quality of the goods. It leverages the use of raw material as the primary collateral, while additional financing can be synchronized with the build-up of stock or inventory.






Inventory of any kind tends to depreciate in value over time. Warehouse financing, therefore, may not be able to offer the full upfront cost of the inventory.


   The Benefits of Warehouse Financing  

Warehouse financing often enables borrowers to obtain financing on more favorable terms than short-term working capital (NWC) or unsecured loans, while the repayment schedule can be coordinated with the actual usage of inventories or materials.



​Since it is secure lending, warehouse financing is often less expensive than other types of borrowing. The commodity inventory in the warehouse is contractually pledged to the lender so that if the borrower fails to pay, the lender can take the inventory and sell it on the market to recover the loan. This form of lending is often less expensive because the lender would not be involved in lengthy legal battles to recover the loan as they would if the loan were unsecured.



A commodity company can also improve its credit rating, lower its borrowing costs, and potentially secure a larger loan when utilizing warehouse financing. This offers a business advantage to a similar-sized company without such resources.
What Is Warehouse Lending?  

Warehouse lending is a line of credit given to a loan originator. The funds are used to pay for a mortgage that a borrower uses to purchase property. The life of the loan generally extends from its origination to the time it is sold on the secondary market either directly or through securitization.



The repayment of warehouse lines of credit is ensured by lenders through charges on each transaction, in addition to charges when loan originators post collateral.





Key Takeaways

Warehouse lending is a way for a bank to provide loans without using its own capital.Financial institutions provide warehouse lines of credit to mortgage lenders; the lenders must repay the financial institution.A bank handles the application and approval of a loan and passes the funds from the warehouse lender to a creditor in the secondary market. The bank receives funds from the creditor to pay back the warehouse lender and profits by earning points and original fees.


   Warehouse Lending Explained  

A warehouse line of credit is provided to mortgage lenders by financial institutions. The lenders are dependent on the eventual sale of mortgage loans to repay the financial institution and to make a profit. For this reason, the financial institution that provides the warehouse line of credit carefully monitors how each loan is progressing with the mortgage lender until it is sold.






Warehouse lending is not mortgage lending. A warehouse line of credit allows a bank to finance a loan without using its own capital.


   How Warehouse Lending Works  

Warehouse lending can most simply be understood as a means for a bank or similar institution to provide funds to a borrower without using its capital. A small or medium-sized bank might prefer to use warehouse lending and to make money from origination fees and the sale of the loan rather than earn interest and fees on a 30-year mortgage loan.



In warehouse lending, a bank handles the application and approval of a loan but obtains the funds for the loan from a warehouse lender. When the bank then sells the mortgage to another creditor in the secondary market, it receives the funds that it then uses to pay back the warehouse lender. The bank profits through this process by earning points and origination fees.



Warehouse lending is commercial asset-based lending. According to Barry Epstein, a mortgage lending consultant, bank regulators typically treat warehouse loans as lines of credit giving them a 100% risk-weighted classification. Epstein suggests that warehouse lines of credit are classified in this way partly because the time/risk exposure is days while the time/risk exposure for mortgage notes in years.


   Fundamentals  

Warehouse lending is similar to accounts receivable financing for industry sectors, though the collateral is typically much more significant in the case of warehouse lending. The similarity lies in the short-term nature of the loan. Mortgage lenders are granted a short-term, revolving credit line to close mortgage loans that are then sold to the secondary mortgage market.






The housing market crash from 2007 to 2008 drastically affected warehouse lending. The mortgage market dried up as people could no longer afford to own a home. As the economy has recovered, the acquisition of mortgage loans has increased as has warehouse lending.
What Is a Warehouse Receipt?  

A warehouse receipt is a type of documentation used in the futures markets to guarantee the quantity and quality of a particular commodity being stored within an approved facility. Warehouse receipts are important because they serve as proof that the commodity is in the warehouse and that the proper documentation has been verified. Warehouse receipts are also used during the warehouse financing process to verify the quality of pledged/collateralized inventory.



Commodities need to meet specific quality standards in order to be traded as a futures contract, and the warehouse receipts play a role in verifying that the necessary requirements have been met.





Key Takeaways

A warehouse receipt is used in the futures markets to guarantee the quantity and quality of a commodity being stored in a facility.Exchange-approved warehouses are used to provide a secure location to store the physical commodity as well as provide inventory management.The warehouse receipt provides the exchange with documentation that the goods authorized for sale are available for transfer to a buyer.


   Understanding a Warehouse Receipt  

Warehouse receipts are a part of the operational business processing involved with futures contracts for physical delivery. A futures contract is an obligation to buy or sell a commodity or security at a predetermined price at a date in the future. Futures are derivatives because they derive their value from the price of the underlying security or commodity. There are many types of commodity futures, including corn, wheat, oil, gold, and silver. Futures contracts are standardized, meaning they have a set quantity and are deliverable by certain dates throughout the year.



However, futures also have quality standards that must be met and warehouse receipts play a role in the inventory and delivery process of the underlying commodity for the contract. For a commodity to be delivered, to satisfy a futures contract, there must be a warehouse receipt for the goods. Sometimes, instead of the physical delivery of the actual commodities backing a contract, warehouse receipts can be used to settle futures contracts. For precious metals, warehouse receipts may also be referred to as vault receipts.


   Commodities for Physical Delivery  

Futures contracts are broadly used by all types of companies manufacturing and transporting various types of goods. Some of the most popular futures exchanges include the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), and the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT). Futures exchanges are used by buyers and sellers to hedge–or protect themselves from–the price volatility of all types of commodities. In some cases, traders may use the futures market to speculate and profit from arbitrage opportunities.



However, the majority of trades made on futures exchanges are done by commercial traders who seek to either sell or buy commodities for physical delivery. Commodities for physical delivery are used to produce and manufacture a wide range of goods that comprise a large portion of the U.S economy’s gross domestic product (GDP). GDP is a measurement of economic growth in an economy.



Futures contracts on commodities differ from plain vanilla options on stocks. Options contracts give the holder the right to buy or sell the underlying stock at a preset price or strike price. While stocks and other underlying exchange-traded securities for options can be easily bought and sold electronically with electronic settlement, futures contracts require the tracking of physical inventory. Also, specific quality standards must be met for a commodity to be physically delivered as a result of a futures contract.


   Certificated Stock  

The tracking of physical inventory provides for some important procedures that must be followed by commodity producers. In order for commodity producers to write contracts on their commodity inventory, they must be licensed and registered with the appropriate authorities. Commodity producers must also certificate their physical inventory through a certification process that involves inspection and authentication resulting in a certificated stock approval. Certificated stock can then be used to write contracts on inventory in the futures market.


   Warehouse Receipts  

Each futures exchange has specific delivery and storage requirements that must be met. For example, at the CME, exchange-approved warehouses are the only entities and locations that can deliver against a futures contract.



Exchange-approved warehouses are used to provide a secure location to store the physical commodity. The warehouse also provides the inventory management services for the futures exchange and ensures that any commodities delivered to the warehouse meet the strict specifications, including having the proper certifications. For example, copper and gold would each have their own specific weight and quality requirements that would need to be met before the warehouse could accept a shipment from a refiner or producer.



Warehouse receipts are another operational step taken when a physical commodity is used as backing for a futures contract. A warehouse receipt provides the exchange with documentation that the goods authorized for sale are available and ready for transfer to a buyer. The entity selling their inventory will write a futures contract to sell at a specified price.



Warehouse receipts are required with the writing of a short (or sale) commodity futures contract. The entity that takes the long (or buy) position is assured by the warehouse receipt. The entity with the long position contract at expiration will receive the commodity inventory at the specified price.



If the buyer didn't want to take delivery of all of the commodity, for example, they could ship a partial order to where they need it (such as their store to sell it) and hold the remaining portion in the warehouse. The warehouse receipt would act as ownership for the commodity in storage at the exchange-approved warehouse.
What Is a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause?  

A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is a provision in an insurance policy that provides for coverage of cargo in transit from one warehouse to another. A warehouse-to-warehouse clause usually covers cargo from the moment it leaves the origin warehouse until the moment it arrives at the destination warehouse. Separate coverage is necessary to insure goods before and after the transit process.





Key Takeaways

A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is a provision found in an insurance policy, usually associated with commercial insurance.Warehouse-to-warehouse clauses protect from the risk of loss that may be incurred from theft or damage to goods while shipped from one warehouse to another.Large manufacturers will typically pay for the commercial insurance coverage that includes warehouse-to-warehouse clauses.


   Understanding a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause  

A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is a provision most commonly found in commercial insurance policies that seeks to cover the risks of shipping. There can be several types of insurance policies available for shipping all kinds of goods from one destination to another. In some cases, automatic insurance may be included or offered for an additional cost. This is common with retail shipping. For commercial shipping, automatic insurance may or may not be included and, if it is included, may not necessarily be sufficient.



Commercial businesses may pay for one-time coverage or have an open policy that covers all shipments over a specified period of time. When shipping is involved, commercial business partners will typically have standards for insurance coverage ownership. In some cases, sellers may take responsibility for insurance coverage. In other scenarios, the buyer may be responsible for any damages.



Moreover, insurance coverages are usually segmented by location, such as warehouse, warehouse-to-warehouse, and destination. The warehouse-to-warehouse clause in an insurance coverage policy generally provides for coverage if damages occur in transit from a storage warehouse to a destination warehouse but not necessarily for storage or destination warehouses, which may need to be covered under different clauses or protection plans.



In a commercial shipping insurance policy, the insured pays a premium for the security of repayment coverage for any damages incurred. The warehouse-to-warehouse clause assures a policyholder against any risks of loss for damaged goods that may be incurred through transit processing. Goods will either arrive safely or be paid for if lost or damaged in transit. The insured pays a small premium for the policy in comparison to the actual costs of goods shipped.


   Example of a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause  

Commercial insurance for the transportation of goods can be an important component of any supply chain department managing the distribution of their own manufactured goods. In large business distribution, sellers will often take the responsibility for shipping costs and insurance. This is where warehouse-to-warehouse clauses may be important, since the seller may only be providing insurance coverage for this transit period.



Consider the case of a tire manufacturing company. The company manufactures and produces tires in China that are distributed to businesses all over the world. The tire company would likely partner with an insurer to provide commercial insurance coverage for the tires while they are in transit to the company’s many different buyers.



With an insurance policy that includes a warehouse-to-warehouse clause, the tire company would pay a premium to insure the cost of any loss or damage that occurs from the time a tire leaves the manufacturer’s warehouse until the time it arrives at the buyer’s warehouse. This may include being transported on a truck from the manufacturer to a port, then by boat from a port to another port, and finally transportation via train to a buyer’s warehouse.


   History of Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clauses  

The warehouse-to-warehouse clause was introduced in the late 19th century to cover land transport. At the time, there was no time limit on sea passage, nor on the journey to the loading port. In order to encourage the cargo owner to take delivery of the goods quickly, a time limit was imposed after discharge. During the Second World War, initial time limits were found to be impractical and later extended to 60 days. These initial policies and procedures associated with early supply chain management were then further developed and more heavily integrated by insurance companies in broader offerings for commercial cargo insurance.



In the commercial insurance industry, a standardized set of terms has been developed to help provide the framework for commercial insurance policies involving the insurance of goods through land and water transportation. One grouping of standardized terms can be known as Institute Cargo Clauses. Institute Cargo Clauses are typically segmented by classes of A, B, or C. In general, standardized terms and Institute Cargo Clauses help to provide uniformity for details applicable to insurance policies.



Typically, details associated with any warehouse-to-warehouse clauses will include requirements tied to insurance attached from the time goods leave a specified warehouse until a specified termination such as:



Delivery to client, final warehouse, or place of storage at a specified destinationDelivery to an alternative or secondary warehouse or place of storage as designated or specified60 days after completion of shipment which can cover the holding of goods deemed undeliverable at a specified location or locations




What Is the Purpose of a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause?
A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is a provision in a commercial insurance policy intended to provide protection in the case of losses incurred while goods are being shipped from one warehouse to another. The purpose of the clause is to protect the policyholder from the risks of loss for damaged goods that may occur through transit processing. 




Does a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause Cover Goods Before and After Arrival?
A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is meant to protect in the case of losses that are incurred while goods are being shipped from one warehouse to another. However, this kind of clause does not typically provide protection in the case of losses incurred while goods are at a storage warehouse or a destination warehouse, with a separate protection plan needed for such risks.




What Guarantee Does a Policyholder Have With a Warehouse-to-Warehouse Clause?
A policyholder of a warehouse-to-warehouse clause has a guarantee that the goods will arrive and arrive undamaged at the intended destination, or the cost of the lost or damaged goods will be covered.


   The Bottom Line  

A warehouse-to-warehouse clause is typically used in commercial shipping so as to protect the policyholder from losses incurred while the product is being transferred from one warehouse to another, such as a storage facility to another destination. The clause does not address the risk of loss before or after the product is shipped, only the risk of loss while it is in transit.
What Is a Warehouser's Liability Form?  

A warehouser’s liability form is a document that describes the obligations of a storage facility toward its customers. Warehouse owners and operators can be held liable if the goods being stored in their warehouse are destroyed, damaged, or stolen. Thus, the warehouser's liability insurance exists to protect owners and operators against the costs of legal defense, damage awards, and other expenses related to a damage claim. 





Key Takeaways

A warehouser’s liability form is a document that describes the obligations of a storage facility toward its customers.Warehouse owners and operators can be held liable if the goods being stored in their warehouse are destroyed, damaged, or stolen.Warehouser's liability insurance exists to protect owners and operators against the costs of legal defense, damage awards, and other expenses related to a damage claim. Because warehousers are held responsible for goods in their possession, it’s in the warehouser’s interest to clearly establish with a customer its rights and obligations before taking possession of a piece of property.


   Understanding a Warehouser's Liability Form  

Warehouser’s liability forms vary between different storage facilities. Also, certain types of property are commonly not covered by a standard form, including money precious metals, and stones. Once the owner removes their goods from the warehouse and signs a warehouse storage receipt and release of liability, the warehouse owner or operator is no longer responsible for the goods.


  Warehouser’s Liability Insurance   

Under the United States Uniform Commercial Code, storage facility operators assume liability for the goods that they warehouse in exchange for a fee. These warehousers must follow a legal standard known as reasonable care, and if a warehouser doesn’t take reasonable care to protect a stored good, the company is liable for damages. Therefore, warehouse companies must buy additional insurance to protect themselves against the chance they need to compensate customers for damaged goods. In cases when property is damaged as a result of of an insured warehouser’s negligence, the insurance company will often pay the property owner directly.


  Understanding Bailment Laws  

The relationship between a warehouser and the owner of the goods being warehoused is known as a bailment: the term comes from the Latin word bajulare, which means to bear a burden. In the United States, bailment laws regulate the relationship between the owner of a piece of property and another party that is put temporarily in charge of that property.



A bailment is any situation in which property is rightfully controlled by a party that is not the owner.A bailment does not have to be established by a contract to be recognized by courts in the United States, and a property owner wishing to claim damages must establish that a bailee had both the possession of a physical good and the intent to exert control. As bailees, warehousers have a responsibility to protect the property in its control up to a certain point, though they are not held liable for damage to property that results from an Act of God, like an earthquake.



Because warehousers are held responsible for goods in their possession, it’s in the warehouser’s interest to clearly establish with a customer its rights and obligations before taking possession of a piece of property, with the help of documents like a warehouser’s liability form.
What Is Warehousing?  

Warehousing is an intermediate step in a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) transaction that involves purchasing loans or bonds that will serve as collateral in a contemplated CDO transaction. The warehousing period typically lasts three months, and it comes to an end upon closing of the transaction when they are ultimately securitized and sold as part of the CDO.





Key Takeaways

Warehousing is the accumulation and custodianship of bonds or loans that will become securitized through a CDO transaction.A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a complex structured-finance product that is backed by a pool of loans and other interest-bearing assets.This intermediate step before the transaction is finalized typically lasts three months, during which time the underwriting bank is subject to the risks involved in holding those assets.


   Understanding Warehousing  

A CDO is a structured financial product that pools together cash flow-generating assets and repackages this asset pool into discrete tranches that can be sold to investors. The pooled assets, comprising mortgages, bond, and loans, are debt obligations that serve as collateral — hence the name collateralized debt obligation. The tranches of a CDO vary substantially with their risk profile. Senior tranches are relatively safer because they have priority on the collateral in the event of a default. The senior tranches are rated higher by credit rating agencies but yield less, while the junior tranches receive lower credit ratings and offer higher yields.



An investment bank carries out the warehousing of the assets in preparation of launching a CDO into the market. The assets are stored in a warehouse account until the target amount is reached, at which point the assets are transferred to the corporation or trust established for the CDO. The process of warehousing exposes the bank to capital risk because the assets sit on its books. The bank may or may not hedge this risk.


   CDOs Gone Wild!  

In 2006 and 2007 Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, UBS and others were actively warehousing subprime loans for CDO deals that the market seemed to have an insatiable appetite for — until it didn't. When cracks in the dam started appearing, demand for CDOs slowed, and when the dam burst, holders of CDOs collectively lost hundreds of billions of dollars.



In a detailed chronicle of events laid out in a subcommittee report of the U.S. Senate, "Wall Street and the Financial Crisis: Anatomy of a Financial Collapse," it was reported that Goldman "was acquiring assets for several CDOs at once, [and] the CDO Desk generally had a substantial net long position in subprime assets in its CDO warehouse accounts." In early 2007, the report continues, "Goldman executives began to express concern about the risks posed by subprime mortgage-related assets in the CDO warehouse accounts."



How Goldman subsequently handled these assets on its books and other dealings in CDOs is a topic for another discussion, but suffice to say the bank ended up being charged with fraud and forced to pay record fines. It happily took a taxpayer bailout and paid millions in bonuses to employees.
What Is Warm Calling?  

Warm calling is the solicitation of a potential customer with whom a sales representative or their firm has had some prior contact. It refers to a sales call, a visit or an email that's preceded by some sort of contact with the prospect, such as a direct mail campaign, an introduction at a business event, or a referral.



Warm calling is the opposite of cold calling, the solicitation of prospects who weren't anticipating such interaction and with whom the sales representative or business has not had prior contact.





Key Takeaways

Warm calling is getting in touch with a prospect with whom you or your company has had some prior contact.Warm calling is the opposite of cold calling and it's generally more efficient and effective.Warm calls can be somewhat informal and personable, acknowledging the connection between you and the prospect. 


   How Warm Calling Works  

Warm calling tends to have a personalized element because the prior contact can be referenced or mentioned, such as "Hi, Mrs. Jones, I saw you followed our company on X (formerly Twitter)" or "Hi, Mr. Jones, we met last week at the ABC Conference".



The previous contact acts as an icebreaker for the follow-up warm call. Warm calling works best on prospects that check all the customer suitability boxes even though they haven't yet expressed any interest in a product or service.






You don't have to sell to the prospect during a warm call. In fact, it may be better to use the call to set up an appointment or a virtual meeting instead.



Warm calling also describes a classroom participation technique that lets students know in advance that they're going to be tagged to contribute a demonstration or a response. The premise is that cold calling on students can produce anxiety and that this can thwart learning.


   Warm Calling Tips  

An easy introduction breaks the ice with the prospect, but successful warm calling still takes a significant amount of effort. Here are a few tips.


  Target Your Prospects  

Target prospects who are similar to your company's most common customers. Working from a familiar profile will give you a better idea of what these prospects are looking for and how to appeal to them. Resist the temptation to go after only bigger prospects. They're fewer and farther between.


  Do Your Research  

Prepare by researching your target company and its decision makers. Knowing their needs and values will help you tailor your pitch and better serve them.


  Get Your Target's Attention  

You must get the target's attention and do it quickly. Be sure to tweak your pitch to ensure that it's brief and gets to the point fast, while demonstrating your value proposition. Try to hit all your key points in a minimum of time and words. Be sure to respect their time.


  Humor Is Okay  

Don't be afraid to employ humor or attempt to be informal and personable when you're making the call. The product may be good enough to sell itself but you'll never get to that point if you lose the target's attention or miss the opportunity to connect.


  Use Various Methods  

Be sure to use various methods to ensure several points of contact, such as voicemails that include an offer to provide more information and emails that offer tips and assistance via video.




How Successful Is Warm Calling?
LinkedIn has indicated that warm calling can be 2% to 30% more effective than cold calling, but your own success rate will depend on your technique and your preparation for establishing leads.




What Is the Drawback of Warm Calling?
Warm calling requires that you have warm leads: prospects with whom you've had some prior contact. Establishing them may take some time and require preliminary efforts, such as an email or direct mail campaign or attending certain events where you're likely to make contact with the type of consumer you seek. These efforts can cost money so warm calling can be more expensive than cold calling.




What's the Difference Between Warm Calling and Hot Calling?
Warm calling and hot calling are basically the same concept and the terms are often used interchangeably. But hot calling typically involves reaching out to and engaging with a prospect who has already actively expressed interest in your product or service. They may have called you and left a message, requesting to talk.


   The Bottom Line  

Warm calling and the use of effective sales channels such as email, text message marketing, and social media portals are all considered to be more efficient and effective in generating new leads than cold calling. Modern social media platforms such as LinkedIn, X, and Facebook also allow opportunities for potential clients to reach out indirectly or directly to businesses by posting comments on a blog, sharing an article with a peer, or tweeting something that's of interest.
What Is a Warm Card?  

A warm card is a type of bank card that provides restricted access to a business account. It is given to an employee who needs to have limited access to a company's financial accounts. Typically, these cards allow deposits but not withdrawals. This allows the employees to make transactions while reducing the risk of theft.





Key Takeaways

A warm, or "deposit-only," card is a bank card that is used by businesses to allow their employees to make deposits in their financial accounts.As opposed to debit cards, warm cards typically only allow the employee to make deposits, while prohibiting them from making withdrawals.Warm cards are used by corporations to enable their employees to make necessary transactions, but to reduce or eliminate the risk of theft or fraud.


   Understanding Warm Cards  

Warm cards are used by businesses that want to minimize their risk of fraud or theft. Employees whose job descriptions require them to make bank deposits can be given warm cards that allow them only the access needed to complete their duties. By blocking withdrawals, warm cards eliminate the risk of theft by employees.



Businesses also have access to other security measures, such as the use of multi-factor authentication or complex passwords. As the scale of online fraud continues to grow, businesses are increasingly turning to a mixed approach in which they combine these online methods with physical measures such as the use of warm cards.



Warm cards are distinct from debit cards in that the latter generally allow for both deposits and withdrawals. Another difference between them is that debit cards are used by both business and individual bank customers, whereas warm cards are specific to business customers. Debit cards also permit transfers between accounts, but warm cards are limited to specified accounts.






As online fraud has increased, businesses have had to combine physical measures such as using warm cards, with other security measures like multi-factor authentication or complicated passwords.


   Example of a Warm Card  

To illustrate how warm cards work, say you are the owner of a chain of coffee shops. Altogether, your company has five locations and 15 employees. Each location has a store manager whose responsibilities include depositing the cash received from customers at the end of each week.



As part of your internal controls, you issue warm cards to each of five store managers. Each of these cards is connected to a company bank account set up to hold the cash from customers. When the store managers present their cards, the bank tellers know that they are authorized to deposit cash into the company account. At the same time, the warm cards don't permit withdrawals or transfers to be made, so they effectively insure against the risk of fraud or theft.



Unlike credit cards, the warm cards don't impart any borrowing capacity to the user. Therefore, you don't need to record any liability associated with these cards, and you doesn't need to be concerned with the creditworthiness of the employees using them. Similarly, the employees know that using warm cards won't affect their personal credit scores.




What's Another Name for a Warm Card?
Warm cards are also sometimes called "deposit-only" cards by banks and the business customers who use them.




What Are the Main Benefits of a Warm Card?
Warm cards come with two key benefits: fraud protection and convenience. Because warm cards let employees to make deposits into business accounts but restrict access to the ability to spend with them, the employees won’t be able to commit fraud by withdrawing money they shouldn’t or using a business card to make personal purchases. In terms of convenience, with warm cards, a variety of employees can handle deposits and relieve the owner of that task.




How Can You Get a Warm Card?
Warm cards are relatively easy to obtain from financial institutions that provide them. Usually, you have three options for requesting a warm card: 1) Go to the bank branch and ask for one. It typically takes a few business days for the card to be shipped to you. 2) You also can call your bank to request a warm card. 3) Or most financial institutions offer mobile banking apps. Those offering warm cards should make it easy to access these restricted cards through their app.


   The Bottom Line  

A warm, or deposit-only, card is a bank card used by businesses to let employees to make deposits in the business's financial accounts. Unlike debit cards, warm cards typically only allow the employee to make deposits, while prohibiting them from making withdrawals. Warm cards are used by companies to enable their employees to make necessary transactions, while reducing or eliminating the risk of theft or fraud. They also can increase convenience for owners by allowing them to delegate cash deposits to employees without concern about fraud or theft.
What Is the Warning Bulletin?  

The warning bulletin is a list of canceled, past due, or stolen credit cards. Created by the two biggest credit card vendors, MasterCard and Visa, and issued weekly in paper format, the list is now online and updated in real time. The vendors instruct merchants to obtain authorization before accepting the cards listed and engage certain protocols when collecting cards that have been flagged for improper use.


   Understanding the Warning Bulletin  

The warning bulletin is also known as the cancellation bulletin, the hot card list, or the restricted card list. It is meant to deter credit fraud, which costs businesses and individuals billions of dollars per year. The sheer number of credit cards in the market and the massive number of transactions that occur every day means credit card processors need a way to communicate lists of lost, stolen, or compromised card numbers quickly and efficiently. The warning bulletin is one such method.



Visa and MasterCard require merchants and member banks to follow specific procedures and protocols when recovering and returning counterfeit cards, or cards that are not used by the authorized cardholder. Typically, the processor must follow several steps when returning a recovered card to the issuer. If the merchant has not already done so, the processor cuts the card in half through the magnetic stripe. After receiving the card along with any required documentation, the processor then forwards the recovered card to the issuer. Cards should be recovered, provided that can occur through safe and reasonable means.


   Preventing Credit Card Fraud  

As warning bulletins have evolved over time, moving from a paper list to an online database capable of immediate updates, so have credit cards. In particular, embedded computer chips, known as EMVs, are replacing the once ubiquitous magnetic stripes. The EMV format has become the global standard for card use at both ATMs and for point-of-sale purchases.



The main purpose of chip cards is to reduce credit card fraud and make sure data breaches do not occur. One of its major advantages is that it cannot be easily copied. Cards with magnetic stripes can be duplicated through a simple swipe of the card because the information contained on the strip is permanent, making it easier to copy and reuse. Conversely, chip cards create one-time codes unique to the specific transaction. All details of that transaction are stored in the one-time code. Thus, the information gathered would not be usable for subsequent purchases.
What Is a Warrant?  

Warrants are a derivative that give the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a security—most commonly an equity—at a certain price before expiration. The price at which the underlying security can be bought or sold is referred to as the exercise price or strike price. An American warrant can be exercised at any time on or before the expiration date, while European warrants can only be exercised on the expiration date. Warrants that give the right to buy a security are known as call warrants; those that give the right to sell a security are known as put warrants. 





Key Takeaways


Naked warrants are issued on their own, without accompanying bonds or preferred stock.
There are a variety of warrants such as traditional, naked, wedded, and covered.
Investors may find trading warrants to be a complex endeavor. 



   How a Warrant Works  

Warrants are in many ways similar to options, but a few key differences distinguish them. Warrants are generally issued by the company itself, not a third party, and they are traded over-the-counter more often than on an exchange. Investors cannot write warrants like they can options.



Unlike options, warrants are dilutive. When an investor exercises their warrant, they receive newly issued stock, rather than already-outstanding stock. Warrants tend to have much longer periods between issue and expiration than options, of years rather than months.



Warrants do not pay dividends or come with voting rights. Investors are attracted to warrants as a means of leveraging their positions in a security, hedging against downside risk (for example, by combining a put warrant with a long position in the underlying stock), or exploiting arbitrage opportunities. 






Warrants are no longer common in the United States but are heavily traded in Hong Kong, Germany, and other countries. 






   Types Of Warrants  

Traditional warrants are issued in conjunction with bonds, which in turn are called warrant-linked bonds, as a sweetener that allows the issuer to offer a lower coupon rate. These warrants are often detachable, meaning that they can be separated from the bond and sold on the secondary markets before expiration. A detachable warrant can also be issued in conjunction with preferred stock.



Wedded or wedding warrants are not detachable, and the investor must surrender the bond or preferred stock the warrant is "wedded" to in order to exercise it. 



Covered warrants are issued by financial institutions rather than companies, so no new stock is issued when covered warrants are exercised. Rather, the warrants are "covered" in that the issuing institution already owns the underlying shares or can somehow acquire them. The underlying securities are not limited to equity, as with other types of warrants, but may be currencies, commodities, or any number of other financial instruments. 


   How to Find Derivative Warrants  

Trading and finding information on warrants can be difficult and time-consuming as most warrants are not listed on major exchanges, and data on warrant issues is not readily available for free.



When a warrant is listed on an exchange, its ticker symbol will often be the symbol of the company's common stock with a W added to the end. For example, Abeona Therapeutics Inc's (ABEO) warrants were listed on Nasdaq under the symbol ABEOW. In other cases, a Z will be added, or a letter denoting the specific issue (A, B, C…).



Warrants generally trade at a premium, which is subject to time decay as the expiration date nears. As with options, warrants can be priced using the Black Scholes model. 




How do derivative warrants differ from options?
Both derivative warrants and options give the holder the right to buy or sell shares at a set price before a specified date. However, options are listed on an exchange and traded from investor to investor while derivative warrants are issued by the company itself.




What does it mean for a derivative warrant to be dilutive?
A derivative warrant is dilutive because it dilutes or reduces each other shareholder's ownership in the issuing company. If you hold a warrant allowing you to buy 1 share in a company that currently has 10 shares outstanding and you exercise it, the number of shares outstanding will increase to 11. You'll gain ownership while each other shareholder will lose a percentage of their stake in the company.




What happens if a derivative warrant expires?
If a warrant expires without being exercised, it becomes worthless. The holder of that warrant can no longer use it to buy shares in the issuing company.




Why buy derivative warrants over options?
Derivative warrants have some advantages over options. For example, they have much longer expiration timelines and are often attached to otherwise already valuable securities, such as bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

Derivative warrants are a complex type of security that isn't widely traded. They give investors the opportunity to buy shares in a company, but can be difficult to research and costs for trading can be high.
What Is Warrant Coverage?  

Warrant coverage is an agreement between a company and one or more shareholders where the company issues a warrant equal to some percentage of the dollar amount of an investment. Warrants, similar to options, allow investors to acquire shares at a designated price.



Warrant coverage agreements are designed to sweeten the deal for an investor because the agreement leverages their investment and increases their return if the value of the company increases as hoped.





Key Takeaways

Warrant coverage gives one or more shareholders the opportunity to gain additional shares as a benefit of buying ownership of the company.It comes in the form of an agreement that the investor will be issued warrants.Warrants function much like options, except that they are issued by the company and dilute overall equity ownership.


   Understanding Warrant Coverage  

Warrant coverage assures investors that they can increase their share of ownership in the company should circumstances rapidly improve. This is done by means of issuing warrants as a condition of the investors' participation.



A warrant is a type of derivative that gives the holder the right to buy the underlying stock at a specified price before or at maturity. The warrant does not obligate the holder to purchase the underlying stock. A warrant coverage is simply the agreement to issue stocks to cover the possible future execution of the warrant instrument.



Warrants are similar to an option but have three main exceptions. First, they originate from a company, not from traders. Second, warrants are dilutive to the underlying stock. When the holder exercises a warrant, the company issues new stock, rather than delivering existing stock. Finally, they can be attached to other securities, most notably bonds, giving the holder the right to purchase shares of stock, as well.


   Reasons for Warrant Coverage  

Warrant coverage allows and possibly encourages the holder to participate in the success of the company, manifested in the appreciation of the price of the underlying stock.



It also gives the holder protection against the dilutive effects of any future new share offerings. This future protection is ironic because the exercise of the warrant is dilutive itself to the existing shares.






While warrants technically can come in both put and call varieties, for use in warrant coverage they almost always are calls.



One reason a company might issue warrants is to attract more capital. For example, if it cannot issue bonds at a satisfactory rate or amount, warrants attached to a bond can make them more attractive to investors. Often warrants are seen as speculative.



One of the best examples of warrant coverage took place during the financial crisis of 2008. Wall Street giant, Goldman Sachs, needed to increase capital and raise the perception of its financial health.



Goldman sold $5 billion of preferred stock to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. The warrants to purchase $5 billion of common stock with a strike price of $115 per share had a five-year maturity. Goldman's shares were trading near $129 at that time, giving Berkshire an instant, although not guaranteed, profit.


   Example of Warrant Coverage  

For example, an investor purchases 1,000,000 shares of stock at a price of $5 per share, totaling a $5,000,000 investment. The company grants a 20% warrant coverage, and issues to the investor $1,000,000 in warrants. In technical terms, the company guarantees 200,000 additional shares at an exercise price of $5 per share.



Issuing warrants does not give the investor any additional downside protection, as the underlying shares would be issued at the same price they paid for the stock; however, the warrant coverage would give the investor additional upside, if the company goes public or is sold at a price above $5 per share.




What Is a Warrant Coverage on a Convertible Note?
On a convertible note, a warrant coverage allows the holder to purchase additional shares of a company. The amount that is allowed to be purchased is a percentage based on the loan principal.




What Is a 10% Warrant?
Warrant coverage is a percentage based on the principal amount of the loan as opposed to the value of the company. For example, a 10% warrant coverage on a $1,000,000 loan equals $100,000 in warrants.




Why Do Companies Issue Warrants?
Companies issue warrants in order to raise capital. When a company sells a warrant it receives payment. If stocks are purchased using the warrant at a later date then the company also receives money.
What Is a Warrant Premium?  

A warrant premium is the difference between the current traded price of a warrant and its minimum value. A warrant's minimum value is the difference between its exercise price and the current traded price of its underlying stock.



Alternatively, a warrant premium is the percentage difference between the cost of purchasing shares by exercising a warrant and buying them in the open market at the current price.





Key Takeaways

A warrant premium represents the additional value of a warrant above its stated minimum, which can be estimated as the difference between its strike price and the market price of the underlying.It can also refer to the premium given to exercising a warrant over buying shares in the open market.A warrant is a type of call option granted by companies that gives employees or managers the right to purchase company shares in the future at favorable terms.


   Understanding a Warrant Premium  

Warrants have both a price and a premium. Typically, the premium will decrease as the price of the warrant rises coupled with the decrease in the time to expiration. A warrant is in-the-money (ITM) when the exercise price is less than the current share price. The more in-the-money the warrant is, the lower the warrant premium. High volatility may also cause the warrant premium to be higher.



As with call options, the premium can increase or decrease depending on supply and demand factors.


   Calculating the Warrant Premium  

For the simple definition, the premium is the amount above the intrinsic, or minimum value.



Premium = current price of the warrant - minimum valueMinimum value = exercise price - current price of the underlying stock


   Example of Warrant Premium  

In this example, if the warrant price is $10, the exercise price is $25, and the current share price is $30, then the warrant premium would be $10-( $30-$25) = $5.



For the second calculation, the premium, expressed as a percentage, is the difference between buying warrant shares vs. buying shares through the open market.



Premium = [(Warrant Price+Exercise Price-Current Share Price) / Current Share Price] * 100



For example, an investor holds a warrant with a price of $10 and an exercise price of $25. The current share price is $30. The warrant premium would be [( $10+$25-$30) / $30] * 100 = 16.7%.



Warrants tend to trade at premiums because traders believe that the underlying stock can increase in price. Therefore, the longer the time until expiration, the longer the stock has to rise. However, as with options, as expiration approaches, the premium shrinks.


   Difference Between Options and Warrants  

A warrant is similar to a call option. It gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy an underlying security at a specific price, quantity, and at a future time. Warrants are unlike an option in that it is issued by a company, whereas an option is an instrument of the stock exchange. The security represented in a warrant, usually share equity, is delivered by the issuing company instead of by an investor holding the shares. Traders cannot write warrants.



Companies will often include warrants as part of a new-issue offering to entice investors into buying the new security.






While most listed options have a maximum expiration term of one to three years, warrants may have expiries of up to 15 years or more.




How Do Warrants Differ From Company Stock?
Warrants are sometimes given by companies to their employees as a form of equity compensation known as employee stock options (ESO). Because they are options contracts, they do not pay dividends nor have any voting rights. The warrants, however, may be exercised and converted into shares.




What Is a Warrant Sweetener?
Sometimes a company will attach warrants to other securities that it issues in order to raise capital, making the issue more attractive to investors. For example, a warrant may be attached ("wedded") to corporate bonds or preferred shares. This is known as a "sweetener."




How Can Warrants Dilute Earnings Per Share (EPS)?
Earnings per share (EPS) is a key metric followed by investors and analysts. It is computed as a company's net income for a certain period divided by the number of shares outstanding. Warrants, however, can have a dilutive effect in that these contracts represent potential new shares that are not yet available. Therefore, fully-diluted EPS is often preferred, which takes into account all potential new shares that could be brought about through warrants, other employee stock compensation, and convertible securities.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Warranty?  

A warranty is a type of guarantee that a manufacturer or similar party makes regarding the condition of its product. It also refers to the terms and situations in which repairs or exchanges will be made if the product does not function as originally described or intended.





Key Takeaways

Warranties often have limiting conditions.The buyer must fulfill specific duties for the warranty to be honored by the manufacturer.The two general types of warranties are expressed and implied.The Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act was created to protect consumers from fraud and misrepresentations.A guarantee is a promise from a seller that their product will meet certain quality and performance standards.


   How a Warranty Works  

Warranties usually have exceptions that limit the conditions in which a manufacturer is obligated to rectify a problem. For example, many warranties for common household items only cover the product for up to one year from the date of purchase. Generally, they are covered only if the product has problems due to defective parts or workmanship.



As a result of these limited manufacturer warranties, many vendors offer extended warranties. Extended warranties are essentially insurance policies for products that consumers pay for upfront. Coverage will usually last for several years above and beyond the manufacturer's warranty and is often more lenient in terms of limited terms and conditions.



Home warranties can provide discounted repair and replacement services for household appliances and systems, and the best home warranties offer a range of plans depending on the coverage you want.


   Types of Warranties  

There are two general types of warranties, expressed and implied. Each category has different sub-types of warranties, with terms, conditions, and guarantees.






Warranty terms can vary from free repairs on the defective product to complete replacement. The owner may be instructed to bring the product to the nearest authorized repairman, the seller, or ship it to the manufacturer.


  Express Warranty  

As its name suggests, an express warranty is an expressed guarantee from a seller or manufacturer to a buyer that the purchased product performs according to certain specifications. If defects are present, the seller agrees to repair or replace the defective product. The warranty can be expressed in writing or verbally in advertising, on the product, or through other means.



All expressed guarantees are not warranties. For example, if a retailer claims that its mattresses will give you the "best night's sleep ever," they are not issuing a guarantee that it will deliver upon that statement. It is puffery—exaggerated language used to advertise a product and attract customers. It can be reasonably assumed that this claim is based only on the opinion of the person making the statement in an attempt to promote the product.


  Implied Warranty  

An implied warranty, or implied warranty of merchantability, is a guarantee that the purchased product functions in the manner designed. It need not be expressed to be valid. This guarantee is implied unless it is explicitly excluded—typical of "as is" sales.



Implied warranties also apply when sellers present and sell a product fit to fulfill a specific purpose. The buyer relies on the seller's expertise to purchase the product. Any statements made by the seller regarding the product can be considered assurances.


  Warranty Sub-types  

There are many different warranty subtypes, but the most common are extended warranties and special warranty deeds.



Extended warranties are available on products of substantial value, such as cars, electronics, and appliances. Although sold by the retailer, the manufacturer is responsible for executing the extended warranty on behalf of the customer.
Special warranty deeds transfer property ownership from one person to another and assure the buyer that the title at the time of sale is free of encumbrances, liens, or claims. This deed transfers ownership to the grantee with an expressed warranty about the title.


   Reasons Why a Warranty Claim Could Be Denied  
  Altered Products  

Warranties typically only apply to products that have not been altered or modified after they were purchased. For example, car enthusiasts enjoy changing engines or making other enhancements to a vehicle's drivetrain to coax a particular type of performance. Many modifications can nullify the vehicle's warranty coverage of the modified and affected components because they can affect the vehicle's reliability in ways that the dealer and manufacturer are not responsible for.


  Owner Actions  

Each company has a unique process for addressing warranties. Even if a product is within the timeframe designated by a warranty, the company may require multiple proof points to show that the product failed in normal use. If the product failed because of the owner's actions rather than a fault in the design or manufacturing, the warranty is not likely to be honored. For instance, the owner might have placed the product in an extreme environment that was too hot or too cold for its reasonable use.






Warranties are generally only good for a specified period. If that period ends, the entity that issued the warranty is no longer obligated to repair or replace a product previously covered.


   Warranty vs. Guarantee  

The terms warranty and guarantee are often used interchangeably, but they have subtle differences. Both require sellers to act on certain promises. However, the difference lies with the level of confidence the manufacturer expresses regarding the product's quality and functionality.



A warranty is a guarantee from a seller that if their product fails to meet certain specifications, a remedy is available. A warranty describes the conditions in which the seller is liable and what conditions are excluded. Although the buyer does not pay a separate cost for the warranty, the warranty price is included in the product's price.



A guarantee is a promise or assurance from the manufacturer or seller that the product will work as described or meet specific quality standards. If it doesn't, the manufacturer will fix or replace it. Guarantees are of no cost to the buyer and can be offered for both products and services.


   How to Resolve Warranty Disputes  

Understandably, it is easy to become confused with the coverage a warranty provides because of the language used in them. However, if you believe a warranty covers an issue, here are some steps you can take:



Ensure you read the warranty and instructions: If you've damaged an item using it for something it wasn't designed for, most warranties won't cover the damages or issues. Additionally, some warranties may not cover certain issues.Contact the seller, then the manufacturer: Sometimes, a seller will provide an additional warranty. You can contact the retailer to see if it covers your issue. If it doesn't, contact the manufacturer.Report the manufacturer to the Federal Trade Commission: If you believe the warranty covers your issue and you're not getting help, you can file a report with the Federal Trade Commission, which will forward it to law enforcement for investigation.File a lawsuit: You can always file a lawsuit against the manufacturer, seeking reimbursement for damages. Depending on the item, this option often costs more than replacing the article, and there is no guarantee that you'll win the lawsuit. If you believe this is your only option, contact an attorney and discuss the matter.






Before a sale, sellers must provide written warranties to consumers for products that cost more than $15.


  Tips Regarding Warranties  

There are some things you can do to minimize warranty issues:



Read the warranty before you buy, and purchase additional coverage from the seller if it is offered. Additionally, you'll need the receipt when dealing with a warranty issue, so it helps to keep it with the warranty.Keep a copy of the warranty to refer back to if an issue arises.Only purchase from companies known for adhering to their warranties and their customer service.Use items for intended purposes in accordance with the instructions. Also, if there is a maintenance schedule, ensure you conduct and document any periodic maintenance.


   Special Considerations  

The U.S. Congress passed the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act of 1975 to set standards and rules for consumer product warranties to protect consumers from fraud and misrepresentations.



The act stipulates that, when warranties are given, their terms and conditions must be fully and clearly disclosed to the buyer before purchase, including whether it is a full or limited warranty. It also prohibits deceptive practices, such as the inclusion of misleading or false terms or requiring the buyer to purchase another product to validate the warranty.






Foreign companies are subject to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act if their deceptive practices are likely to cause injury within the United States.



In addition to what the manufacturer guarantees in an express warranty, the Uniform Commercial Code provides additional consumer protection by providing the implied warranty of merchantability. This warranty guarantees remedy if the product fails to perform as designed.




How Does a Warranty Work?
A warranty is a guarantee issued by a seller to a buyer that a product will meet certain specifications. If the product does not meet those specifications, the buyer can ask the manufacturer or seller to correct the problem. Certain exceptions apply, and not every defect is covered. The terms and conditions of the warranty depend on the type of warranty covering the product.




What Does Having a Warranty Mean?
A warranty means that a manufacturer or seller will replace or repair an item under specific conditions and circumstances. Generally, the conditions and covered issues are outlined in the warranty document.




What Are the 3 Types of Warranties?
There are two types of warranties—express and implied. Each has sub-types intended for different circumstances and products.




What Is a Warranty Example?
Imagine you purchase a new television. In the box with the instructions, you find a document that explains what the manufacturer will do if you experience specific issues within a certain time frame.


   The Bottom Line  

A warranty is a guarantee from a manufacturer or seller that defective products will be repaired or replaced. The warranty sets forth the terms and conditions to which the warranty applies, as well as exclusions. There are two types—express and implied, with many sub-types in each category designed for specific products and services.



In the U.S., the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act and the Federal Trade Commission's Uniform Commercial Code—created to protect consumers from unscrupulous sellers—provide rules on consumer product warranties.



If you experience a problem covered by a warranty, contacting the seller or manufacturer is the first step to resolving the issue. You can contact the Federal Trade Commission or file a lawsuit if they can't or won't fix a matter covered by the warranty.
What Is a Warranty Deed?  

A warranty deed is a legal real estate document that protects the buyer and ensures that the seller holds a clear title to the property, has no outstanding liens or mortgages, and there will be no future claim to the title of the property.



The two parties involved in a warranty deed are the seller, known as the grantor, and the buyer, or the grantee, and either party can be an individual or a business.



Most lenders require a warranty deed for properties they finance.





Key Takeaways

A warranty deed protects the buyer and ensures that the seller holds a free and clear title to a property without any outstanding liens or mortgages.A warranty deed is a legal real estate document and protects the buyer against future claims to the title of the property.Most lenders require a warranty deed for properties they finance.The seller of a property is known as the grantor and the buyer is referred to as the grantee.


   How Warranty Deeds Work  

A deed is a legal document that transfers real estate property from one entity to another as a seller to a buyer. During a real estate transaction, a title company provides a full title search of current and past ownership of the property to see if there are any defects or issues affecting the title during past ownership of the property.



A warranty deed holds the seller, or grantor, responsible for any breach after the title search, even if the breach occurred without their knowledge or during a period before the grantor owned the property. It ensures that the buyer will not be responsible for any past title defects or encumbrances.



The warranty deed is delivered to the grantee during the closing of the sale. It contains an accurate legal description of the property being conveyed, is signed and witnessed following the state law where the property is located, contains legal words of conveyance that the seller is granting the property to the buyer, and shows proof of the amount of money or consideration paid for the property.


   Types of Warranty Deeds  
  General Warranty Deed  

• The grantor warrants that they are the rightful owner of the property and have the legal right to transfer the title of the property in a sale.



• The grantor warrants that the property is free and clear of all liens and that there are no outstanding claims on the property from a creditor who may claim it as collateral.



• A guarantee that the title can withstand any third-party claims to ownership of the property.


  Special Warranty Deed  

• Conveys that the grantor holds the title and there has been no encumbrance of the property during the grantor’s ownership period of the property.



• The grantor does not guarantee against any defects in clear title that existed before they took possession of the property.


   How to Get a Warranty Deed  

A real estate agent or real estate lawyer can help both buyers and sellers obtain a warranty deed. Whether buying or selling a property, a warranty deed can guarantee against problems with the title.



As a seller or grantor, having a warranty deed in place will give potential buyers some assurance concerning the property. A buyer will likely look for the highest level of protection and peace of mind when investing in real estate. If there are no outstanding liens or claims on the title of the property, a warranty deed can lead to a mutually successful transaction.


   Other Types of Deeds  

The quitclaim deed transfers property from one individual to another without a sale, usually between family members or during divorce proceedings. Once the deed is signed, any claim to the property is relinquished and a quitclaim deed prevents the owner from any future interests in the property.
A deed in lieu transfers the property to the lender through a deed in lieu of foreclosure when a borrower defaults on their mortgage and avoids registering a foreclosure on the borrower's credit history. 
A special purpose deed is used during court proceedings and allows those acting on behalf of the property to make property transfers without incurring personal liability.




What Is the Difference Between Title Insurance and a Warranty Deed?
A title company completes a title search and examines public records for any issues or errors. The guarantees and disclosures in a general warranty deed allow the new owner to hold the former owner responsible if there is a title defect or if a claim is made against the title. Title insurance covers a wider range of potential claims than the general warranty deed does, including conflicting estate wills or tax liens.




What Are Examples of Claims That Are Protected by Warranty Deeds?
A buyer, or new owner, will be protected from previous owner's fines issued because of code violations, or if a previous owner failed to pay HOA fees.




What Are the Risks of a Special Warranty Deed?
Unlike a general warranty deed, the seller is not liable for any title issues that could have occurred before they took ownership. This creates a risk for a buyer because they will have no legal protection for any potential title issues that could arise after the real estate transaction is complete.


   The Bottom Line  

A warranty deed is a real estate document that ensures that the property has a clear title and the seller has no outstanding liens or mortgages. A combination of a warranty deed, a title search, and title insurance provides the highest protection to a buyer of real estate and ensures that defects in the title do not exist and that there will be no future claims to the property title.
What Is Warranty of Title?  

A warranty of title is a guarantee by a seller to a buyer that the seller has the right to transfer ownership and no one else has rights to the property. In addition, a warranty of title may be used to guarantee that no other party has copyright, patent or trademark rights in the property being transferred.


   Understanding Warranty of Title  

A formal warranty of title is included in a warranty deed, which is used to transfer property in a sale legally. This document guarantees that the seller has the legal right to transfer the property and that no other entity, such as the Internal Revenue Service or an ex-spouse, has a lien against or claim to the property. A warranty deed's warranty of title protects the buyer's interests and gives the buyer legal recourse if any entity later tries to make a claim to the property.



Other types of deeds such as a quitclaim deed do not provide a warranty of title. There is no guarantee of a clear title, but the grantor effectively signs away their interest in the property. If a question of ownership arises later, the buyer would not have the protections that a warranty of title would grant.


   How a Warranty of Title Is Used to Confirm a Transaction  

A warranty of title is automatic in most sales, but if the seller is acting as a representative, no warranty of title may exist. This situation might arise in an auction, a sheriff's sale, or an estate sale. In these cases, the person selling the property is not its owner and therefore may not be aware of any other entity's rights in that property.



Warranty of title can give the buyer of a property legal recourse to sue the seller if there is a claim or issue attached to the property. For example, an heir of a prior owner may have an unresolved claim to the property that was not made known by the seller. The buyer could pursue litigation to recoup the money they put toward the purchase along with damages.



Other risks to completing a transaction can include ongoing disputes about the boundaries that define the property. The owners of the adjacent real estate might claim the property lines are different from what the seller presented to the buyer. Liens for unpaid bills and taxes could exist, further complicating the transaction.



If the property is completely free of impairments and ownership is properly established, then the property a clear title and the seller can offer a warranty of title without any encumbrances.
What Is the Warsaw Stock Exchange?  

The Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) is the largest stock exchange in Central and Eastern Europe and one of the most recognized financial institutions in Poland. It runs financial and commodities markets to trade instruments such as company shares, bonds, derivatives, and spot and forward contracts for electricity and natural gas.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) was founded in 1991 following the overthrow of Poland's communist regime three years earlier.﻿﻿The WSE is the biggest exchange in Central and Eastern Europe. It operates a financial market and a commodities market.﻿﻿As of April 2021, there were 432 companies listed on the exchange's main and parallel markets.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE)  

Capital markets in Poland date to 1817, when the Warsaw Mercantile Exchange was founded. In 1991, the state treasury created the Warsaw Stock Exchange as a joint-stock company following the overthrow of Poland's communist regime in 1989. The WSE was established as a modern stock exchange with electronic trading and dematerialized registration of securities.﻿﻿



Trading began on April 16, 1991. Five formerly state-owned enterprises were listed: Tonsil, Próchnik, Krosno, Kable, and Exbud.﻿﻿ As of April 2021, the WSE listed 432 companies on its main and parallel markets, representing roughly 1.1 trillion PLN in market capitalization.﻿﻿



The WSE is the biggest exchange in Central and Eastern Europe. It operates two main businesses: a financial market and a commodities market. The financial market trades in equities, derivatives, and bonds. The commodity market trades in spot and forward contracts for electricity and natural gas, in addition to carbon emission allowances. Commodities trading contributes about 40% of group revenue.﻿﻿



Many economists expect that Eastern Europe will continue to be an area of rapid growth and the WSE will benefit from the increased investment. The WSE's stated mission is to provide a competitive exchange and clearing services, support economic growth, and ensure high standards and safety of trading practices.﻿﻿



The exchange operates Monday through Friday, with most equities sessions starting at 9 a.m. and concluding at 4:50 p.m. Derivatives products start trading at 8:45 a.m., while other investment products start at 9:05 a.m.﻿﻿


   Corporate Social Responsibility   

Initiated by the WSE in 2009, the RESPECT Index is Central and Eastern Europe's first index of socially responsible businesses. It covers companies from Poland and around the world that are listed on the WSE Main Market which follow the highest standards in corporate governance and disclosure while also taking into account environmental and social principles.﻿﻿



Companies in the index are screened by the WSE and the Association of Listed Companies (SEG) in a three-step review of these factors and are audited by the project partner.﻿﻿
What Is a Wash?  

A wash is a series of transactions that result in a net sum gain of zero. An investor, for example, can lose $100 on one investment and gain $100 in another investment. That's a wash. But the tax implications can be complicated for the investor.



A wash is also referred to as a break-even proposition.





Key Takeaways

In investing, a wash is a loss that is canceled out by an equal gain.For tax purposes, a wash is an investment loss that can be used as a deduction.There are time restraints on an investor's ability to deduct the loss if the same stock is purchased again.


   Understanding a Wash  

When it's a wash, two transactions cancel each other out, effectively creating a break-even position.



If a company spends $25,000 to produce merchandise and sells it for $25,000, the result is a wash. If an investor loses $5,000 on the sale of an investment and gains $5,000 from the sale of another the transaction has been washed.



That's simple enough but the IRS has complicated tax rules regarding wash sales by investors, and they are related to the claiming of losses on investments. Specifically, the rules prevent an investor from claiming a loss if they sell a security at a loss and then repurchase the same security or one that is substantially identical within 30 days.



For example, say an investor buys 100 shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) stock for $10,000. Just six weeks later, the value of the 100 shares declines to $7,000. The investor sells all 100 shares hoping to deduct the capital loss of $3,000 at tax time but then, a week later, decides BUD is a real bargain and buys 100 shares again.



The initial loss cannot be claimed for tax purposes since the same security was repurchased within the limited time interval.






An investor can't sell a stock at a loss, buy the same stock again within 30 days, and still claim the loss as a deduction.



However, the loss realized from a wash is not completely wasted. The loss can be applied to the cost basis of the second purchase of BUD. That increases the cost basis of the purchased securities and therefore will reduce the size of any future taxable gains when the stock is sold. The benefit of the wash has been delayed but it hasn't disappeared.



In addition, the holding period of the wash securities is added to the holding period of the replacement securities. In this example, the investor has added six weeks to the holding period of that stock, making it that much easier to qualify for the most favorable tax rate on long-term capital gains. (Stock must be held for one year to qualify for that lower tax rate.)


   When a Wash Is Illegal  

Some wash sales are illegal because they resemble a pump and dump scheme.



For example, an investor cannot buy a stock using one brokerage firm and then sell it through another brokerage firm for the purpose of stimulating investor interest.
What Is a Wash-Out Round?  

A wash-out round (also known as "burn-out round" or "cram-down deal") is when a round of new financing usurps control of previous equity holders. When such financing is done, the new issuance drastically dilutes the ownership stake of previous investors and owners. New investors are thus able to take control of the company because the previous owners are in desperate need of more financing to avoid bankruptcy. Wash-out rounds are most often associated with smaller companies or with startup ventures that lack financial stability or a strong management team.





Key Takeaways

A wash-out round is a round of financing whereby new investors effectively take control of the company from existing equity holders.Wash-outs are most often associated with emergency funding rounds for smaller or new ventures and are a last resort for staving off bankruptcy or shutting down operations.Depending on how the deal is structured, existing management may be retained but are likely to be replaced (i.e. washed out).


   Understanding Wash-Out Rounds  

In many cases, a wash-out round of financing is offered with the intent of seizing control of a company, perhaps to gain access to assets new investors and management believe they can leverage. The round usually prices shares at such a diminished value and for such an overwhelming interest in the company that the stake held by prior investors and owners may be deemed to be near worthless. The ratio of returns may vary, but typically, the financing is priced in such a way to force prior owners to submit to the decisions of the new backers.



For struggling ventures, the wash-out round is often the final financing opportunity available to entrepreneurs before a company is forced into bankruptcy. Wash-out rounds often occur when companies are unable to achieve performance levels that have been set in order to receive additional financing from investors. Numerous wash-outs, for example, occurred during the dotcom craze of the late 1990s when many companies were significantly overvalued.


   The Effect of a Wash-Out Round  

It is possible that some of the company’s previous management might remain with the company; however, there is a high propensity for the leadership to be removed in a wash-out round. With consideration to the overall performance of the business, the leadership decisions that led to the need for a wash-out round make it unlikely that new owners would desire to maintain the status quo. For sake of brand recognition, it is plausible that some elements of the prior management and operations could be retained. However, the new owners might find that the best return on investment for a wash-out round is to find buyers for assets of the company, such as intellectual property, product lines, or customer databases.



Wash-out rounds can occur with companies that built up their valuation, but suffered either a sudden or gradual turn of events that nullified the prospects to grow under its current operations and management. For instance, if the core product of a company that develops a medical device or novel biomedicine is rejected by regulators, the company might not have another substantial product prepared to take its place. Likewise, if a service provided fails to reach the market penetration level it needs to generate profits, it might not achieve its revenue growth goals. These circumstances can leave the companies looking for wash-out round financing that, as a last resort, could salvage the brand.
What Is a Wash Sale?  

A wash sale is a transaction in which an investor sells or trades a security at a loss and purchases "a substantially similar one" 30 days before or 30 days after the sale. This is a rule enacted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to prevent investors from using capital losses to their advantage at tax time.



The rule applies to stocks, contracts, options, and all other types of securities and trading.





Key Takeaways

A wash sale occurs when an investor purchases a security 30 days before or 30 days after selling an identical or similar security.The IRS instituted the wash sale rule to prevent taxpayers from using the practice to reduce their tax liability.Investors who sell a security at a loss cannot claim it if they have purchased the same or a similar security within 30 days (before or after) the sale.


   Understanding a Wash Sale  

Many countries' tax laws allow investors to claim a specific amount of capital losses on their taxes as an income reduction. In the U.S., you can claim up to $3,000 or your total net loss, whichever is less. If you have more than $3,000 in capital losses, you can carry the additional loss forward into the following years.



The ability to carryover losses led to investors inventing a loophole where they would plan to sell a losing security and buy it again within a short period. This allowed them to claim a capital loss and use that loss to mitigate tax liabilities.



To prevent the abuse of this incentive, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) instituted the Wash Sale Rule in the U.S. (In the U.K., the practice is known as bed-and-breakfasting and the tax rules in the U.K. have an implementation similar to the Wash Sale Rule). The law states that if an investor buys a security within 30 days before or after selling it, any losses made from that sale cannot be counted against reported income. This effectively removes the incentive to do a short-term wash sale.


  How It Works  

Generally, a wash sale has three parts.



An investor notices they are in a losing position, so they close it by selling the stock or exiting a trading position.
The sale allows them to take a loss that they can legally claim on their tax returns as a reduction of their earnings for that year, which reduces their total tax liability.
The investor will look to purchase the security at or below the price at which they sold it—if the purchase occurred 30 days before or after the sale, it is considered a wash sale, and the loss cannot be claimed.






Day traders, especially pattern day traders—those that execute more than four day trades over a five-day period in a margin account—may encounter wash sales regularly. The wash sale rule still applies to these traders. The tax implications for day traders are complex, so it's best to consult a tax professional if you're day trading.


   Wash Sale Example  

Assume an investor has a $15,000 capital gain from the sale of ABC stock. They fall in the highest tax bracket and must pay a 20% capital gains tax of $3,000. But let’s say they sold XYZ security for a loss of $7,000. The net capital gain for tax purposes would be $15,000 - $7,000 = $8,000, which means they’ll have to pay only $1,600 in capital gains tax. Notice how the realized loss on XYZ reduces the gain on ABC, reducing the investor’s tax bill.



However, if the investor repurchases XYZ stock—or a stock substantially identical to XYZ—within 30 days of the sale, the above transaction is counted as a wash sale, and the loss is not allowed to offset any gains.


  Special Considerations  

The IRS does not ordinarily consider bonds and preferred stock of an issuing company to be substantially identical to the company’s common stock. However, there may be circumstances where preferred stock, for example, may be considered substantially identical to the common stock.



This would be the case if the preferred stock is convertible into common stock without any restriction, has the same voting rights as the common stock, and trades at a price close to the conversion ratio.






Per Revenue Ruling 2008-5, IRA transactions can also trigger the wash-sale rule. If shares are sold in a non-retirement account, and substantially identical shares are purchased in an IRA within 30 days, the investor cannot claim tax losses for the sale, nor is the basis in the individual's IRA increased.


   Reporting a Wash Sale Loss  

The good news is that any loss realized on a wash sale is not entirely lost. Instead, the loss can be applied to the cost basis of the most recently purchased substantially identical security. Not only does this addition increase the cost basis of the purchased securities, but it also reduces the size of any future taxable gains as a result.



Thus, the investor still receives credit for those losses, but at a later time. Also, the holding period of the wash sale securities is added to the holding period of the repurchased securities, which increases an investor’s odds of qualifying for the 15% favorable tax rate on long-term capital gains.




Are Wash Sales Illegal?
A wash sale is not illegal—there is no wording that states you cannot sell a security and purchase a substantially similar one 30 days before or after the sale. The rule only makes it so you can't claim a loss on the sale in that year's tax filing.




Is a Wash Sale 30 or 60 Days?
A wash sale is a 60-day window—from 30 days before the sale to 30 days after the sale.




How Do I Avoid a Wash Sale?
If you have sold or intend to sell a security at a loss, you can avoid triggering the wash sale rule by purchasing a similar instrument 31 days or more before or after the sale.



Correction—Oct. 14, 2022: A previous version of this article misleadingly stated that a wash sale occurred when selling a security at a loss for a tax benefit. It also incorrectly stated that an investor could not purchase the same or similar security within the 60-day window of 30 days before or 30 days after selling it.
What Is the Wash-Sale Rule?  

The wash-sale rule is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulation that prevents a taxpayer from taking a tax deduction for a loss on a security sold in a wash sale.



The rule defines a wash sale as one that occurs when an individual sells or trades a security at a loss and, within 30 days before or after this sale, buys the same or a substantially identical stock or security, or acquires a contract or option to do so.



A wash sale also results if an individual sells a security, and the individual's spouse or a company controlled by the individual buys a substantially equivalent security during the 61-day wait period.



The point of the rule is to prevent investors from creating an investment loss for the benefit of a tax deduction while essentially maintaining their position in the security.





Key Takeaways

A wash sale occurs when an investor closes out a position at a loss and buys the same security (or a substantially similar one) within the 61-day wash sale period.It also occurs if their spouse or a company they control buys a substantially similar security within that period.The IRS views this activity as creating artificial losses for tax breaks.The wash-sale rule prevents taxpayers from deducting an inappropriate capital loss from taxable gains.Investors should understand the wash-sale rule so that they can take steps to avoid it.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How the Wash-Sale Rule Works  

The intent of the wash-sale rule is to prevent taxpayers from claiming artificial losses from the sale of securities while essentially maintaining their position in the securities.



The timeframe for the wash-sale rule is 61 days. That is, 30 days prior to the day a transaction takes place and 30 days after. Once that period ends, the wash-sale rule won't apply to transactions involving the same or similar security.



Though a loss may be disallowed due to the wash-sale rule, the amount of that loss will be added to the cost of the purchase that triggered the rule. Then, when that position is later sold, any loss that occurs can be taken as a tax deduction. Therefore, the original loss can be said to be deferred.



The sale of options (which are quantified in the same ways as stocks) at a loss and reacquisition of identical options in the 30-day timeframe would also fall under the terms of the wash-sale rule.



According to Revenue Ruling 2008-5, IRA transactions can also trigger the wash-sale rule. When shares are sold in a non-retirement account and substantially identical shares are purchased in an IRA within 30 days, the investor cannot claim tax losses for the sale. Plus, the loss cannot be deferred in the way described above (by increasing the cost basis of the purchase). It's as if it never occurred.






If you're unaware of wash sales, the wash-sale rule, and its 61-day wait period, you could stymie your legitimate efforts to reduce your taxes. For instance, investors often use tax-loss harvesting to cut their taxable income. This simply involves selling securities at a loss to offset gains elsewhere. If you're unaware of the wash-sale rule and inadvertently re-establish a position in the same or similar securities within the rule's wait period, your tax deduction will be disallowed.






   Wash-Sale Rule Example  

Say you buy 100 shares of XYZ tech stock on November 1 for $10,000. On December 15, the value of the 100 shares has declined to $7,000, so you sell the entire position to realize a capital loss of $3,000 for tax deduction purposes.



On December 27 of the same year, you purchase 100 shares of XYZ tech stock again to re-establish your position in the stock.



The initial loss will be not be allowed as a tax loss since the security was repurchased within the wash-sale rule timeframe. Instead, it will be added to the cost of the recent purchase. Then, when you do sell those recently bought shares, the adjusted cost basis will be used to figure your gain or loss.






By wash, the IRS means that the transactions at issue cancel each other out. So, there's no real sale, an investor has effectively kept their position in the market, and thus, the loss and tax-deduction are artificial.


   Other Considerations  
  Substantially Identical Securities  

Stocks or securities of one company are generally not considered substantially identical by the IRS to those of another company. Generally, the bonds and preferred stock of a company are not considered substantially identical to the company’s common stock. However, there are cases in which they could be.



For instance, this would be the case if the bonds or preferred stock are convertible into common stock that has no restriction, has the same voting rights as the common stock, and trades at a price close to the conversion ratio.


  Cost Basis Change  

If the loss is disallowed by the IRS because of the wash-sale rule, the taxpayer has to add the loss to the cost of the new stock, which becomes the cost basis for the new stock.



For example, consider the case of an investor who purchased 100 shares of Microsoft for $33, sold the shares at $30, and within 30 days bought 100 shares at $32. In this case, while the loss of $300 would be disallowed by the IRS because of the wash-sale rule, it can be added to the $3,200 cost of the new purchase. The new cost basis, therefore, becomes $3,500 for the 100 shares that were purchased the second time, or $35 per share.


  Cryptocurrency Losses  

Cryptocurrency transactions are not subject to the wash-sale rule. That's because cryptocurrencies are considered property at this time by the IRS. They haven't been designated as securities.



Therefore, losses you may incur in a cryptocurrency transaction may offset, for example, gains from stock transactions and reduce your taxable income. Bear in mind that stocks of companies that are involved in cryptocurrencies are covered by the wash-sale rule. Since the classification of cryptocurrency is in flux, be sure to check with an appropriate financial, accounting and/or tax advisor for updates and before engaging in transactions for tax harvesting purposes.


  Ways to Avoid the Wash-Sale Rule  

There are some simple techniques that you can use to take losses and yet maintain a position in the market until the wash-sale period has expired.



Using the example above, if you sold your 100 shares of XYZ tech stock on December 15, you could purchase a tech exchange-traded fund (ETF) or tech mutual fund to retain a similar position in the technology sector, although this strategy does not entirely replicate the initial position. When the 30-day period has passed, sell the fund or ETF and then repurchase your XYZ stock if you so desire.
If you plan to sell an entire position at a loss in order to offset gains, but still want to own the stock, buy additional shares and just wait out the rule period of 30 days. Then sell your position (perhaps at even a greater loss).
Buy a call option on the stock you own but wish to sell. Once the wash-sale rule wait period ends, sell your shares and collect your loss. The call option has kept you in the market.
Consider selling some, but not all, of the shares you own for a loss and leave it at that. You won't have bought any new shares within the rule's window. You'll have a tax-deductible loss and still maintain a position in a stock you believe may appreciate in value. For instance, if you bought 200 shares initially, sell only 100. As soon as the 30 days is up, buy 100 more shares to replenish your position.




How Do I Benefit by Understanding Wash Sales?
If you understand the ins and outs of wash sales as well as the wash-sale rule, you'll be able to make the most of legitimate tax breaks without running afoul of the IRS. By informing yourself on the topic, you can ensure that you:Receive tax deductions that you've planned for instead of having them disallowedCan work with the rule's waiting period and important end-of-year tax datesBuy appropriate, related securities (after selling your original position) to still get the appreciation you're expectingAvoid repercussions of breaking the rule while staying in the marketCan know when the rule has no impact on your transactions




What's the Penalty for Violating the Wash-Sale Rule?
There's no real penalty. If your transaction violates the wash-sale rule, the loss you try to take as a tax-deduction will be disallowed. The amount of the loss must be added to the purchase price of the security you bought that breached the wash-sale rule. According to the IRS, this postpones the loss deduction until the security is sold.




What Is the Purpose of the Wash-Sale Rule?
From the perspective of the IRS, wash sales are attempts to circumvent or manipulate the tax laws. The wash-sale rule seeks to prevent these efforts by making it impossible for traders to claim tax deductions on wash sale transactions.




How Can I Avoid Violating the Wash-Sale Rule?
The wash-sale rule states that, if an investment is sold at a loss and then repurchased within 30 days, the initial loss cannot be claimed for tax purposes. So, just wait for 30 days after the sale date before repurchasing the same or similar investment. When in doubt, investors wishing to comply with the wash-sale rule should consult with an appropriate tax advisor or other qualified professional.




How Do I Know If a Security Is Substantially Identical?
Unfortunately, the IRS does not specifically define what the term substantially identical means. It does provide guidance in Publication 550, however. For example, a company involved in a reorganization will likely be considered to have substantially identical securities to those of the new company. The IRS states that investors must rely on their own judgment and the advice of professionals to determine substantially identical securities.


   The Bottom Line  

A wash sale is an IRS rule that prevents a loss being taken on the sale of a security if that same security or a substantially identical one is then bought within the same 30 day period.
What Is Wash Trading?  

Wash trading is a process whereby a trader buys and sells a security for the express purpose of feeding misleading information to the market. In some situations, wash trades are executed by a trader and a broker who are colluding with each other, and other times wash trades are executed by investors acting as both the buyer and the seller of the security.



Wash trading misleads investors into believing that trading volumes for a security are higher than they actually are, potentially increasing legitimate trading activity on the security in the process. Wash trading is illegal under U.S. law, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) bars taxpayers from deducting losses that result from wash trades from their taxable income.





Key Takeaways

Wash trading is an illegal type of trading in which a broker and trader collude to make profits by feeding misleading information to the market.High-frequency trading firms and cryptocurrency exchanges may use wash trading to manipulate prices.The IRS bars taxpayers from deducting losses that result from wash trades from their taxable income.


   Understanding Wash Trading  

Wash trading was first barred by the federal government after passage of the Commodity Exchange Act in 1936, a law that amended the Grain Futures Act and also required all commodity trading to occur on regulated exchanges. Prior to its proscription in the 1930s, wash trading was a popular way for stock manipulators to falsely signal interest in a stock in an attempt to pump up the value, so that these manipulators could make money shorting the stock.



Commodity Futures Trade Commission (CFTC) regulations also prohibit brokers from profiting from wash trades, even if they claim they weren't aware of the trader's intentions. Brokers therefore must perform due diligence on their customers to make sure that they are buying shares in a company for the purpose of common beneficial ownership.



The IRS also has strict regulations against wash trading and requires that taxpayers refrain from deducting losses that result from wash sales. The IRS defines a wash sale as one that occurs within 30 days of the buying of the security and results in a loss.


   Wash Trading and High-Frequency Trading  

Wash trading returned to the headlines in 2013, right as the phenomenon of high-frequency trading was becoming widespread. High-frequency trading is the practice of using super fast computers and high-speed internet connections to perform upwards of tens of thousands of trades per second.



Starting in 2012, then-Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Bart Chilton announced his intention to investigate the high-frequency trading industry for violations of wash trading laws, given how easy it would be for firms with this technology to enact wash trading under the radar.



In 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) charged Wedbush Securities for failing "to maintain direct and exclusive control over settings in trading platforms used by its customers," a failure that enabled some of its high-frequency traders to engage in wash trades and other prohibited and manipulative behavior.


   Wash Trading and Cryptocurrencies  

In recent years, wash trading has infiltrated the cryptocurrency space as well. The desire to give the impression of popularity and high trading volumes is clear: there are thousands of cryptocurrency tokens available throughout the world, and most have a difficult time distinguishing themselves. But even the most popular cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, experience wash trading.



A 2022 study of 157 cryptocurrency exchanges by Forbes found that over half of all reported Bitcoin trading volume is either fake or non-economic wash trading. Cryptocurrencies are particularly vulnerable to pump-and-dump schemes, in which a combination of inflated trading volumes and strong publicity or recommendations from insiders artificially boosts a token's value, allowing certain holders to sell at a massive profit while interest is high.



There are multiple potential reasons for the prevalence of wash trading in the crypto space. Even major digital currencies like Bitcoin often lack universally accepted methods of calculating daily trading volume. This leads to cryptocurrency firms producing oftentimes wildly divergent figures for historical trading volumes. Cryptocurrency exchanges themselves often lack legitimacy, and there have been many high-profile public collapses of token exchanges in recent years. Extreme volatility in the cryptocurrency space may incentivize rapid buys and sells. Finally, crypto's murky status with U.S. and other government regulators creates a further opportunity for misleading trade activity.


   Examples of Wash Trading  

Wash trades are essentially trades that cancel each other out and have no commercial value, as such. But they are used in a variety of trading situations.



For example, wash trades were used in the LIBOR scandal to pay off brokers who manipulated the LIBOR submission panels for the Japanese yen. According to charges filed by the U.K. financial authorities, UBS traders conducted nine wash trades with a brokerage firm to generate 170,000 pounds in fees as a reward to the firm for its role in manipulating LIBOR rates.



Wash trades can also be used to generate fake volumes for a stock and pump up its price. Suppose a trader XYZ and brokerage firm collude to buy and sell stock ABC rapidly. Noticing activity on the stock, other traders may put money into ABC to profit from its price movements. XYZ then shorts the stock, thereby profiting from its downward price movement.




What Is Wash Trading?
Wash trading refers to an illegal activity in which a single trader buys and sells the same security in order to generate misleading market information. Wash trading is often performed to artificially inflate the trading volume of a security.




What Is an Example of Wash Trading?
The IRS defines a wash sale as one that happens within 30 days of the purchase of the same security and generates a loss.




Why Would Someone Do Wash Trading?
In some cases, wash trading bolsters the trading volume of a security, potentially inspiring more legitimate trade activity. Wash trading can also be used to help artificially boost the price of the security as part of a pump-and-dump scheme.


   The Bottom Line  

Wash trading is an illegal activity in which a trader buys and sells the same security, either within a short period of time or on separate exchanges, in order to inflate the trading volume or the price of that security. Wash trading can occur across a variety of industries and assets, but it has recently become a major consideration for the cryptocurrency and high-frequency trading spaces.
Who Was Wassily Leontief?  

Wassily Leontief was a Nobel Prize-winning Russian-American economist and professor who contributed several insightful theories to economics. Leontief’s Nobel Prize research focused on input-output analysis, which breaks down the sectors of the economy and discusses how changes in one sector can affect other sectors. 





Key Takeaways

Wassily Leontief was a Russian-American economist who made several contributions to the world of economics.Leontief won the Nobel Prize in 1973 for his research on input-output analysis.Leontief was also credited with the Leontief Paradox and the Composite Commodity Theorem.


   Understanding Wassily Leontief  

Wassily Leontief was born in Germany in 1906 and died in New York City in 1999 at the age of 93. As an economist, he made several contributions to the science of economics. Leontief’s research into sectors led to his development of input-output analysis, which won him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 1973. Leontief is also credited with his discovery of the Leontief Paradox and the Composite Commodity Theorem.



Throughout his professional life, Leontief promoted the use of quantitative data in economics. Leontief campaigned for broader and deeper developments in the area of quantitative data analysis throughout his career. He was also one of the first economists to use a computer for quantitative research.



Leontief taught at Harvard University for 44 years and subsequently at New York University. He served as president of the American Economic Association in 1970. Four of Leontief’s doctoral students were also awarded the Nobel Prize, including Paul Samuelson (1970), Robert Solow (1987), Vernon L. Smith (2002), and Thomas Schelling (2005).


   Leontiff's Research  
  Input-Output Analysis  

One area in which Leontief pursued his goal of making economic analysis more quantitative was in developing an empirical implementation of general equilibrium theory. To do this, Leontief broke down the U.S. economy into 500 sectors, establishing one of the first economic sector classification systems. He developed input-output tables for sector analysis that estimated the impact a change in production of a good has on other industries and their inputs—establishing the interdependent relationships of economic sectors.



Analysts can use input-output analysis to estimate the impacts of positive and negative economic shocks by showing the changing demand for inputs when the production of outputs changes. This helps to analyze ripple effects throughout an economy as changes in demand for final goods work their way up the supply chain. Input-output tables can produce very rough estimates for small or moderate changes in outputs, but because they assume fixed production technology they cannot accurately account for the dynamics of a real economy. Leontief’s input-output analysis has been used by the World Bank, the United Nations, and the U.S. Department of Commerce.


  The Leontief Paradox  

Leontief also studied trade flows in the 1950s. Based on input-output analysis of international trade he discovered that the U.S., a country with a great deal of capital, was importing capital-intensive commodities and exporting labor-intensive commodities. This is in contrast to prior theories of international trade, which predict that countries will specialize in and export goods that they have a comparative advantage in producing. This means that a capital rich country, such as the U.S., would be expected to export capital-intensive goods and import labor-intensive goods from countries where labor is comparatively cheaper.  



The Leontief Paradox, as it came to be known, led many economists to question the Heckscher-Ohlin Theorem, which states that countries produce and export what they can create most efficiently, depending on their factors of production. Moreover, they import goods that they cannot produce as efficiently. Several later economists proposed solutions to this apparent paradox, including the Linder Hypothesis and the Home Market Effect.



Notably, Leontief's Paradox does not account for human capital and the resulting difference between skilled and unskilled labor. Later researchers showed that U.S. exports were skilled-labor-intensive—or, in other words, human capital intensive relative to imports—resolving the Leontief Paradox in favor of the comparative advantage view.


  Composite Commodity Theorem  

The Composite Commodity Theorem was a third major development credited to Leontief, who fathered the concept with John Hicks. This states that if the relative prices of a basket of goods are assumed to be fixed, then they can be treated as a single composite good for the purpose of mathematical modeling. This simplified the equations needed to model price theory.
What Is a Wasting Asset?  

A wasting asset is an item that has a limited life span and irreversibly declines in value over time. Examples include depreciating fixed assets such as vehicles and machinery and securities with time decay such as options, which continually lose time value after purchase.





Key Takeaways

A wasting asset is one that declines in value over time.Vehicles and machines are examples of fixed assets that are wasting assets.Other examples of wasting assets include exhaustible resources such as an oil well or a coal mine.In the financial markets, options are a wasting asset because their time value continually diminishes until reaching zero at expiration.


   Understanding a Wasting Asset  

Any asset that decreases in value over time is a wasting asset. For example, a truck used for business purposes will decrease in value over time. Accountants attempt to quantify the decrease by assigning a depreciation schedule to recognize the falling value each year.



While most vehicles and machines are wasting assets, there are a few exceptions. A rare car, for instance, may actually become more valuable over time. The value often declines initially, yet over a long period of time the car becomes more valuable again if it is well maintained. Generally, though, vehicles are wasting assets with their value gradually declining until they are only worth scrap metal or parts.



A term life insurance policy has a time of expiration and therefore will expire worthless. So does a service contract for repairs or other maintenance services because the holder pays upfront and the contract is only valid for a certain period of time. Once the contract ends, the value of the contract has been used up and is gone.



A natural resource supply, such as a coal mine or oil well, has a limited lifespan, too, and will decrease in value as the resource is extracted and the remaining supply depleted. The owner calculates the depletion rate to arrive at an expected life span.


   Wasting Assets in Financial Markets  

In the financial markets, options are the most common type of wasting asset. An option's value has two components: time value and intrinsic value. As the option's expiration date nears, the time value gradually declines toward zero due to time decay. At expiration, an option is worth only its intrinsic value. If it is in the money (ITM), its value is the difference between the strike price and the underlying asset's price. If it is out of the money (OTM), it expires worthless.



In a similar manner, other derivative contracts, such as futures, have a wasting component. As a futures contract nears expiration, the premium or discount it has to the spot market decreases. However, the value of the futures contract merely approaches the spot value, so, in a strict sense, it is not a wasting asset. Only the premium or discount wastes away as the futures contract is still worth something at expiration, unlike an OTM option at expiration.



Investors should be aware of the time left to expiration for any derivative, especially when it comes to options. Options strategies tend to be shorter-term in nature with most expiring within one year. There are, however, longer-term options called long-term equity anticipation securities (LEAPS), which expire in one year or longer.



Options traders can also write options to take advantage of time value decay. Writers, or sellers, of options collect money when they write the contract and they get to keep the entire amount, called the premium, if the option expires worthless. In contrast, the buyer of the options loses the premium if the option expires worthless.



Any trader making a directional bet on the underlying asset by buying options can still lose money if the underlying does not move in the desired direction quickly. For example, a bullish trader buys a call option with a strike price of $55 when the current price of the underlying stock is $50. The trader will make money if the stock moves above $55 minus the premium paid, but it must do so before the option expires.



If the stock moves up to $54, the trader called the direction of the move correctly but still lost money. If the option costs $2, the trader loses money even if the stock price rises above the strike ($55) to $56. They paid $2 for the option, so the stock needs to rise above $57 ($55 + $2) to make a profit.


   Example of an Option as a Wasting Asset  

Assume a trader buys an option contract on the SPDR Gold Shares (GLD). The trust trades at $127, so they buy an at the money (ATM) call option with a strike of $127.



This option has no intrinsic value since it is ATM and not ITM. Therefore, the premium reflects the time value of the option. The option, which expires in two months, has a premium of $2.55. The option costs $255 since an option contract is for 100 shares ($2.55 x 100 shares).



For the call buyer to make money, the price of GLD will need to rise above $129.55 ($127 + $2.55). This is the breakeven point. If the price of GLD is below $127 at expiry, the option will expire worthless and the trader loses $255. The writer has captured the time value or wasting asset portion of the option, while the buyer has lost it.



If GLD is trading above the strike price at $128 at the option's expiry, the buyer will still lose money. They are fetching $1, but the option costs $2.55, so they are still down $1.55 or $155, which is the option writer's profit.



If the price of GLD is above $129.55 at expiry, say $132, then the buyer will be making enough on the option to cover the cost of the time value. The buyer's profit is $2.45 ($132 - $129.55), or $245 for the contract. The writer is losing $245 if they wrote a naked call option, or has an opportunity cost of $245 if they wrote a covered call.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Wasting Trust?  

A wasting trust is a fund whose assets have been depleted over time as plan participants receive their required payouts and no new money is paid in. The term may also be applied to income trusts which hold depleting assets, such as oil and gas.



In either case, the principle held in the trust is declining in value. The trust will continue to pay out until its assets are exhausted.





Key Takeaways

A wasting trust is a fund with declining assets.With new contributions to the trust frozen, the trustee of a wasting fund may be forced to dip into the principle held in trust in order to meet regular payments due to plan participants. The wasting trust may be a private inheritance, a pension fund, or a closed-end fund.


   Understanding a Wasting Trust  

A wasting trust holds assets after a qualified plan is frozen. That is, once the plan has stopped accepting new contributions, a wasting fund holds the remaining assets.



Companies that offer pension plans use a wasting trust to phase out a traditional pension plan when they switch to a 401(k) or another type of company-sponsored retirement plan. The trust stays in existence long enough to pay out the remaining assets, while current employees contribute to the new plan.



Wasting trusts are also common in estate planning. A will may set aside a sum of money to be used by one or more beneficiaries until the money is exhausted.



The trustee may use part of the principal held in trust to maintain the payments to beneficiaries that are required under the plan.


   Example of a Wasting Trust  

If a company switches its employee retirement benefit from a pension fund to a 401(k) plan, it will create a wasting trust to hold the assets in its pension fund.



The pension fund is frozen. New employee contributions are going into the 401(k) fund, not the pension plan.



The company will continue to pay its obligations to its retired employees until the funds in the plan are exhausted.
What Is a Watchlist?  

A watchlist is a set of securities that an investor monitors for potential trading or investing opportunities.



Many brokerage and financial platforms allow for easy construction and viewing of watchlists. A well-organized watchlist can help identify trading opportunities, track portfolio performance, or monitor hot or popular stocks.





Key Takeaways

A watchlist is an inventory of ticker symbols that are monitored for potential opportunities or to track their performance.Most online brokerages and financial portals allow for easy watchlist construction.Some trading platforms may offer curated watchlists, according to criteria that experts believe may be important to the platform's users.Using a stock screener, it is possible to create an automated watchlist focused on a specific metric, such as earnings or long-term performance.Watchlists can be proactively managed and monitored, or passively viewed over time.


   Understanding Watchlists  

A watchlist is basically what it sounds like—a list of stocks that an investor watches with an eye toward taking advantage of prices if they fall enough to create an interesting undervalued situation. This takes the "closely followed" list a step further. These are names that an investor would be prepared to buy and own at the right price or with the right catalyst (a sign that growth has reignited, for instance).



An investor or trader may create a watchlist of several, dozens, or even hundreds of trading instruments to make more informed investment decisions. A watchlist can help an investor track companies and stay abreast of financial or other news that could impact these instruments.



Typically, the investor monitors the list, waiting for certain criteria to be met, such as trading, over a certain volume, breaking out of a 52-week range, or moving above its 200-day moving average, before placing trade orders.


   Types of Watchlists  

Most trading platforms allow users to create their own watchlists for the securities that they are interested in.



Fidelity, one of the leading online trading platforms, allows users to create up to fifteen different watchlists, with 50 symbols each. Users can also configure their lists to alert them of any new trading signals, such as sudden price changes. A well-organized investor could use this functionality to create separate watchlists for stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or any other tradable assets.



Watchlists are also used in cryptocurrency trading, where sharp price swings can sometimes offer brief opportunities for high profits. In addition to trading metrics, a watchlist for cryptocurrencies might track tokens with an upcoming fork or mainnet launch.


   When to Use a Watchlist  

An investor, for example, may be interested in purchasing stocks in a particular sector. But if that sector is generally overvalued, it may offer few stocks that are attractively priced.



An investor could create a list of all the stocks in that sector that would track various valuation measures, including ratios like trailing price-to-earnings, price-to-sales, and price-to-book, among others. When a company on the list met a specified valuation criterion, such as a PE ratio less than 15, it would then be known that this stock was a possible candidate for investment. Many investment-oriented websites and brokerage platforms allow visitors or customers to create watchlists online, often for free.



If you're interested in keeping track of any securities, you can build your own watchlist on most brokerage platforms.






Many novice investors are tempted to track as many stocks as possible, but a watchlist with hundreds of entries is too broad for any one investor. Don't try to track everything at once.


   Special Considerations  

As a general rule, the watchlists provided by brokerage platforms can accommodate around 25 to 75 names depending on space taken up by charts, scanners, news tickers, and market depth windows. A longer watchlist of, say, 200 stocks is likely to be too broad for almost any investor to monitor or maintain. Investors should refresh this list at least a couple of times per month. After all, this is generally supposed to be a list of names that an investor is simply waiting to get cheap enough to buy.



It’s a good idea to devote at least one screen entirely to watchlist tickers, with each entry displaying just two or three fields, including last price, net change, and percentage change. Some traders add a single chart to this linking the tickers to allow a quick review of price patterns during the trading day.


   Example of a Watchlist  

For examples of stock watchlists, Yahoo! Finance offers several curated watchlists with preset criteria like "Most Active Penny Stocks" and "Most Shorted Stocks." These lists have the added advantage of automatic updates so that users do not need to manually add or remove stocks that no longer fit the list criteria.


   The Bottom Line  

Watchlists are an easy way for investors to track the market for trading signals and opportunities. There are now many tools for investors to create their own watchlists, or follow curated watchlists by other parties. By narrowing the market down to a list of key securities, traders can focus their attention to closely watch the securities that they are interested in.




How Do You Create a Stock Watchlist?
Most online trading platforms offer functionality for users to create their own watchlists, allowing them to easily track any security that catches their interest. To create a watchlist, you should first identify your key investment criteria and decide what kinds of investments you are looking for. Then, using a stock screener or similar tool, search for stocks that fit those criteria and add them to your watchlist.




What Is a Good Stock Watchlist Tool?
In terms of functionality, the most versatile watchlist tools come as part of a paid investment product. Worden’s TC2000, Wealth Lab, and Trade Ideas each offer large databases for paying customers. Free trading platforms, such as Fidelity or Robinhood, also come with the ability to create watchlists and follow stocks, although they may track fewer metrics than paid versions. Many online finance sites, such as Marketwatch and TradingView also offer free watchlists and stock screeners.




What Is a Curated Stock Watchlist?
A curated stock watchlist is a watchlist that has been created by a broker or trading platform for the benefit of its clients. These watchlists have the added convenience of automatic maintenance, so the end-user does not need to add or remove stocks that no longer fit the list criteria.















Watchlist.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Water Damage Insurance?  

Water damage insurance is a type of protection provided in most homeowners insurance policies against sudden and accidental water damage. Water damage insurance does not cover damage resulting from the homeowners' negligence or failure to maintain the home in good repair. Moreover, flooding usually requires a separate policy if available.





Key Takeaways

Water damage insurance provides coverage to homeowners against certain forms of water damage.Most policies will not cover water damage that occurs due to negligence, nor from floodwaters.Burst pipes, plumbing failures, and toilet problems are the leading eligible water damage hazards.


   Understanding Water Damage Insurance  

As water damage insurance does not cover negligence, many types of water damage to real property can and should be avoided through proper maintenance. This can be anything like watching out for drippage from the ceiling during a rainstorm or fixing a leaky pipe under the kitchen sink before mold becomes prevalent.



Water damage is a major factor in homeowners insurance claims. According to the Insurance Information Institute, water was the third-leading cause of claims from 2014-2018 with an average of $10,949 per claim. Water damage and freezing was the second most-frequent claim after wind and hail damage. About one in 50 insured homes has a property damage claim caused by water damage or freezing each year. It's five times more likely your home will be damaged by water than you'll have a claim for theft, and water damage is seven times more prevalent than fire.


   Types of Water Damage Claims  

There are two common types of plumbing supply system failures: frozen pipes, which can burst due to a buildup in water pressure caused by freezing water in an adjacent section of the pipe, and when the supply system material fails and results in a leaking or bursting pipe.



Plumbing supply system failures are the top reason for water damage claims, with 48% greater losses in dollar terms, averaging $5,092 per incident after the deductible. Of these, 65% were caused by a failure of the plumbing supply system material, while 18% were caused by frozen pipes. Drain system failures are another top source of claims with $4,400 per incident paid in claims. Sewer backups in finished basements were a top source of claims as well.



Toilet failures were the second-leading cause of water damage, either from the water supply line or from the toilet backing up into the house, followed by water heaters failing and causing water to enter the home. Washing machine supply lines were another top cause of damage.


   Special Considerations  

To mitigate water damage, have older homes inspected by a licensed plumber every five years, replace older water heaters, use steel-braided supply lines on washing machines, and turn off the supply lines when the machine is not in use. Don't run the dishwasher or washing machine when someone's not at home.
What Is Water Damage Legal Liability Insurance?  

Water damage legal liability insurance refers to a type of policy that provides financial protection to a person or business that unintentionally causes water damage to the property of another.



For individuals, water damage legal liability insurance and the cost for it is typically included in renter, homeowners, and condo insurance policies.





key takeaways

Water damage legal liability insurance is a type of policy for individuals or businesses that protects them, if they cause unintentional water damage to someone else's property or possessions. This type of insurance is generally part of a homeowners or renter's insurance policy.To be covered, the water damage usually has to be caused by a sudden event or accident.


   How Water Damage Legal Liability Insurance Works  

Water damage legal liability insurance is a kind of liability insurance. Liability insurance is itself a type of coverage that protects an individual or business from the risk of being sued or being held legally responsible—that is, liable—for something. Liability insurance policies can cover both legal costs and any legal payouts for destruction, damage, or injury, however inadvertent, which the insured is deemed responsible for.



There are various situations when water damage legal liability insurance could help protect an individual from enormous costs. If the owners of a second-floor condo unit experienced a water heater explosion, for example, and the water leaked into any units on the first floor, water damage legal liability insurance would protect the owners of the second-floor condo by providing the money to repair the damage to the first-floor units. If the owners of the second-floor condo did not have water damage legal liability insurance, they could be held responsible for the repair costs.


   Homeowners Policies and Water Damage Legal Liability Insurance  

Homeowners insurance policies generally include water damage legal liability, either as part of the personal liability coverage or in a separate rider. Generally, the water damage has to be the result of a sudden event or accident—something unforeseen and inadvertent, like a leaking air conditioner, burst pipe, malfunctioning washing machine, or the aforementioned water heater rupture. The liability extends to damage, destruction, or injury to others' structures, belongings, or even persons.



However, if the triggering event and ensuing water damage are caused by poor maintenance, malfeasance, or deliberate carelessness, the liability coverage might not apply or your insurance company might reject the claim.


   How to increase or improve your coverage  

Not all policies include water damage legal liability insurance, so it is important to read the insurance contract carefully. A more common issue, however, is not the existence of the coverage but the extent of it. Most standard homeowners policies provide a basic limit of liability of $300,000 for property damages or injuries; this amount can be increased (for an additional premium, of course), but often only to a specified limit.



If you want broader liability coverage than that provided by your homeowners insurance, you could purchase what is commonly called an umbrella insurance policy. Personal liability insurance makes payments on the policyholder's behalf in cases of at-home and auto accidents, as well as situations that involve libel, slander, vandalism, or invasion of privacy. The policy also covers injuries that occur at secondary residences or seasonal homes, within recreational vehicles, on the premises of rental properties, or on a boat or watercraft owned by the policyholder.
We know water is the source of life. But it can also be a source for portfolio diversification. Like gold and oil, water is a commodity—and it happens to be rather scarce nowadays. So, as with any other scarcity, the water shortage creates investment opportunities.





Key Takeaways

Water is arguably the most important resource on planet earth.Shortages of water can lead to social, political, and economic disruption.Water is increasingly scarce, due to climate change, pollution, and increasing demand.Because of its importance, investors can diversify their portfolios by acquiring water-related assets and investments.There are multiple indexes, mutual funds, and ETFs that allow retail investors to gain exposure to water-related securities.


   Understanding Water Investments  

The investment case for water is simple: water is one of the most important resources, and it is likely to become a lot scarcer. About 70% of the earth's surface is covered in water, but over 97% is saltwater. Saltwater cannot be used for drinking, crop irrigation, or most industrial uses. Of the remaining 3% of the world's water resources, only about 1% is readily available for human consumption.







Rapid industrialization and increasing agricultural use have contributed to worldwide water shortages. Areas that have experienced a lack of H2O include China, Egypt, India, Israel, Pakistan, Mexico, most of Africa, and the United States (Arizona, New Mexico, California, and West Texas), to name but a few.



Pollution also highlights the need for clean water. The dead zone off the Gulf Coast highlights the impact of fertilizer runoff, and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), an additive in unleaded gasoline, can be found in well water from California to Maryland.



Overseas, highly publicized incidents in Russia, China, and elsewhere demonstrate that pollution isn't limited to the West. Of course, fouled water supplies further restrict the amount of fresh water available for human use.





$55 Billion Investment in Clean Water

On November 15, 2021, President Biden signed into law the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. The bipartisan infrastructure bill authorizes $1.2 trillion in spending, which includes $55 billion allocated to create clean drinking water, $65 billion in clean energy, and $21 billion to clean up hazardous, polluted sites.The legislation is good news to clean water advocates since it will expand access to clean drinking water for households, businesses, schools, and child care centers in cities and rural areas. The legislation will also invest in water infrastructure to eliminate lead service pipes.


   Water Investment Indexes  

Here are some of the more popular indexes designed to track various water-related investment opportunities:



The Dow Jones U.S. Water Index is composed of approximately 29 stocks; it is a barometer consisting of many international and domestic companies that are affiliated with the water business and have a minimum market capitalization of $150 million.
The ISE Clean Edge Water Index was launched in December 2000, and this index represents water distribution, water filtration, flow technology, and other companies specializing in water-related solutions. It contains 35 stocks.
The S&P 1500 Water Utilities Index is a sub-sector of the Standard & Poor's 1500 Utilities Index; this index comprises just two companies, American States Water (NYSE: AWR) and Aqua America (NYSE: WTR).
The S&P Global Water Index is an index that began in 2001 that contains 50 companies worldwide; their water-related businesses fall into two areas: water utilities and infrastructure and water equipment and materials.



The MSCI Global Sustainable Water Index provides another look at the water industry from an international perspective. The index focuses on developed and emerging companies that earn at least 50% of their revenue from sustainable water products and services. There are also a variety of utility indexes that include some water stocks.





2.3 billion

2.3 billion people live in "water-stressed" countries, according to the United Nations, meaning that they use up more than 25% of their fresh water resources every year. 700 million people could be displaced due to water scarcity by 2030.


   How to Invest in Water Securities  

Firms seeking to profit from water-related businesses include beverage providers, utilities, water treatment/purification firms, and equipment makers, such as those that provide pumps, valves, and desalination units.



A look at the holdings of any of these water indexes provides an easy way to start looking for suitable investment opportunities. Companies from blue-chip stalwart General Electric to small-cap Layne Christensen are all seeking a piece of the water market. In addition to direct stock purchases, some of the larger firms offer dividend reinvestment plans.



When it comes to bottled water, the market is growing internationally. Demand is rising from China to Mexico, following the spike in U.S. consumer demand. Estimates suggest that from 2010 to 2020, American per-capita consumption of bottled water increased 61%–in fact, the average American drinks approximately 45 gallons of bottled water a year. According to a 2018 UN study, 177 countries rely on desalination for at least part of their freshwater consumption needs.



If stock picking doesn't interest you, ETFs, mutual funds, and unit investment trusts (UITs) also provide plenty of opportunities to invest in water. The Invesco Water Resource Portfolio ETF (PHO) is the largest, with a U.S.-centric basket of 38 holdings (as of Feb. 2022) that tilts toward mid- and smaller-cap companies.



The iShares U.S. Utilities ETF (IDU) provides some exposure to water-related stocks. Other alternatives include the Invesco Global Water Portfolio ETF (PIO), which tracks the Nasdaq OMX Global Water Index, and the First Trust ISE Water Index Fund (FIW). Based on popularity, new alternatives are slowly emerging.




How Do You Invest in Water as a Commodity?
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange has tradeable water futures that are tied to water prices in California. These futures contracts allow investors to bet on the future value of the Nasdaq Veles California Water Index, effectively betting on the future price of water.




How Is Michael Burry Investing in Water?
At the conclusion of The Big Short, it is revealed that Scion Capital founder Michael Burry followed up his successful short trade with investments in water. In later interviews, Burry explained that "food is the way to invest in water. That is, grow food in water-rich areas and transport it for sale in water-poor areas." Farmland in high-precipitation areas is effectively a bet on water's future value. However, for retail investors, it may be easier to focus on water stocks.




How Do You Invest in Water Stocks?
Water stocks are stocks of companies whose business is closely tied to irrigation, utilities, water treatment, or other water-related industries. One can invest in these by buying the stocks of individual companies, or by investing in a mutual fund or ETF with high exposure to water stocks.


   The Bottom Line  

Recent years have seen an upswing in demand for investments that profit from the need for fresh, clean water. If the trend continues, investors can expect to see a host of new investments that provide exposure to this precious commodity and to the firms that deliver it to the marketplace.



There are currently numerous ways to add water exposure to your portfolio; most simply require a bit of research. Opportunities to invest in this scarce resource are flowing freely.
What Is a Water Exclusion Clause?  

A water exclusion clause is a restriction in homeowners and renter's insurance policies that denies coverage for some water-related claims. Events that are likely to fall under a water exclusion clause include damage caused by flood, tsunamis, standing water, groundwater, and drain or sewage backups.



Homeowners and renters may be able to add some types of water damage coverage excluded in the standard policy by purchasing a rider or separate, specialized insurance.





Key takeaways

A water exclusion clause is a standard feature of property insurance contracts, denying coverage of various categories of loss associated with aquatic events.Typically, water exclusion clauses include floods due to external causes; sewage or water main failure/backups; tsunamis; standing or groundwater.Homeowners policies typically do protect against water damage from a sudden mishap inside the home, like a burst pipe or overflowing toilet.Separate flood insurance furnishes coverage against flooding.


   Understanding a Water Exclusion Clause  

A water exclusion clause is common in most property insurance policies. The reasoning is that only specific areas are prone to water-related natural disaster events, such as floods, tidal waves, or tsunamis. Water exclusion is one of several types of exclusion clauses found in homeowners and renter insurance contracts. Other standard exclusions include movements of the earth (quakes, landslides), wars and certain other government actions, and nuclear hazards and events.



However, water-related perils aren't totally excluded by homeowners insurance. Most policies routinely do cover water damage that occurs for specific reasons—usually a sudden or accidental event that occurs within the structure, such as a burst pipe or malfunctioning dishwasher or other plumbing/water supply-related problems. Gradual damage or wear and tear that happens over time generally isn't covered, though.



Destruction arising out of certain weather events—such as thunderstorms that send a tree crashing through a wall, or snow that collapses a roof, allowing water to pour in—generally are covered (at least, the water damage they cause is; ironically, the cost of repairing the wall or roof may not be). Some types of hurricane-related damage may also be covered, though in 19 states and the District of Columbia policyholders must pay an additional hurricane deductible before coverage kicks in.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations: Floods and Water Exclusion Clauses  

Unless it's due to an internal cause, like a gushing washer/dryer or an overflowing toilet, flooding is a typical part of a water exclusion clause. These clauses generally define a flood as rising or surface waters that come from the outside in, though even this is often subject to controversy—and litigation:﻿ Should the clause apply if the flood ensues from man-made forces (a burst dam, a collapsed levee) rather than natural forces (e.g., continuous rain that makes a river overflow its banks)? Does surface water come solely from rain or melting snow, or does it count if it's been sitting on a man-made surface such as pavement, a balcony, or a roof?



Despite the legal debate, the bottom line is that a flood from an external source that seeps into a home probably won't be covered by the hazard insurance component of a standard homeowners policy. The expensive nature of water damage, and the prevalence of it—in 2018, water damage and freezing represented 23.8% of all insurance losses﻿﻿﻿—gives homeowners and renters reasons to find alternative coverage options.





$10,849

Average losses to homeowners due to water damage and freezing in 2018, according to the Insurance Information Institute.﻿﻿



Usually, that means purchasing a separate policy for protection against flood damage, known as flood insurance. In fact, for properties in high-risk areas, lenders sometimes require mortgaged homeowners to carry flood insurance—at least to protect the structure of the dwelling. (Unlike a standard homeowners policy, flood insurance requires that a policyholder buy separate policies to cover the property and the property's contents.) Homes financed by a federally backed lender, for example, require flood insurance if they are located in a government-designated flood hazard zone.



Flood insurance policies are available for both residential and commercial properties. Renters can also purchase flood insurance policies that cover their personal property in a single-family home, apartment, condominium, or business property.



While flood insurance can be purchased through many different insurance companies, the rates are regulated by the federal National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). So the same policy costs the same amount, no matter which company it is purchased through.
What Is the Water Quality Improvement Act of 1970?  

The Water Quality Improvement Act of 1970 was a piece of U.S. legislation that expanded the federal government's authority over water quality standards and water polluters.



The act grew out of the 1948 Federal Water Pollution Control Act and placed additional limits on the discharge of oil into bodies of water where it could damage human health, marine life, wildlife, or property. It also included other provisions intended to reduce water pollution.





Key Takeaways

The Water Quality Improvement Act of 1970 expanded federal oversight pertaining to water quality standards and the litigation of water polluters.The act grew out of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1948.Federal authority was expanded under the act and established a state certification procedure to prevent degradation of water below applicable standards.


   Understanding the Water Quality Improvement Act of 1970  

Federal regulation of water pollution dates back to 1886, when the River and Harbor Act was signed into law. One of the first and most important laws that addressed water quality and pollution in the United States was the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1948, which was established by Congress to enhance water quality and to create a national policy to control and prevent water pollution.﻿﻿



The act was later amended to expand the standards associated with water quality and pollution. This expansion also paved the way for the Water Quality Improvement Act of 1970.



The new act expanded federal authority and established a state certification procedure to prevent the degradation of water below applicable standards. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), improvements to the 1948 act resulted in "sporadic legislation," which was largely due to changes in the responsibilities of federal agencies that made it difficult to enforce the law.﻿﻿



Amendments were introduced in 1972 to help alleviate these problems by restructuring water pollution control authorities and amalgamating them. New standards were put into place, regulations were increased to prevent oil from entering navigable waters, and guidelines were installed for discharge limitations for things like sanitary waste, drilling fluids, and produced water. After these changes were initiated in 1972, the law became known as the Clean Water Act.






The act's very first goal was to stop all pollutants from entering any of the navigable waters in the country by 1985. This was followed by an interim water level quality that would protect marine wildlife such as fish and shellfish by July 1983.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Although water pollution has been reduced substantially since the 1970s, there is still much that needs to be done. Nitrogen and phosphorous are commonly found in water and provide marine wildlife with much-needed nutrition. But when waterways are found with excessive levels of these elements, it can become dangerous.



A major cause of pollution is now pesticides, whereas in the early 1970s it was the direct dumping of chemicals and other pollutants into the water by industries. According to the EPA, nitrogen "pollution has impacted many streams, rivers, lakes, bays, and coastal waters for the past several decades, resulting in serious environmental and human health issues, and impacting the economy."﻿﻿






Potential polluters can purchase marine pollution insurance to protect themselves from liabilities they may face under federal water regulations.



Potential accidental water polluters can protect themselves from the liabilities they face under federal water regulations by purchasing marine pollution insurance. This insurance covers losses such as cleanup, damage to natural resources, legal defense, and civil penalties. Mobile drilling units, cargo owners and operators, shipyards, and marina owners and operators are examples of businesses that can benefit from having this type of insurance coverage.
What Are Water Rights?  

Water rights pertain to the legal rights of property owners to access and use bodies of water adjacent to lands they hold. Different types of water rights exist based on various forms of water that border or exist on a property.



In the United States, water rights can vary in the eastern and western parts of the country. In general, the western states have historically followed the prior appropriation doctrine, which grants the right to divert water to the first person who started using the water. Most eastern states follow what is known as the riparian doctrine, which limits water use to the owner of the land adjacent to the water.





Key Takeaways

Water rights give landowners access to bodies of water adjacent to one's property.Riparian rights are a type of water rights that give landowners access and usage of flowing bodies of waters like rivers and streams.Littoral rights are a type of water rights that guarantee access to lakes, seas, and oceans.Water rights are regulated state by state and each municipality can enforce stricter provisions on water access and usage.Western U.S. states have historically followed the prior appropriation doctrine, which grants the right to divert water to the first person who started using the water.


   How Water Rights Work  

Riparian rights are a type of water rights awarded to landowners whose property is located along flowing bodies of water, such as rivers or streams. Landowners typically have the right to use the water as long as such use does not harm upstream or downstream neighbors. In the event the water is a non-navigable waterway, the landowner generally owns the land beneath the water to the exact center of the waterway.



Littoral rights are a type of water rights that pertain to landowners whose land borders large, navigable lakes and oceans. There are tides and currents that affect these bodies of water, but they do not flow by the land in the manner of streams and rivers. Landowners with littoral rights have unrestricted access to the waters but own the land only to the median high-water mark.



Water rights are appurtenant, meaning they run with the land and not to the owner. If an oceanfront property is sold, the new owner gains the littoral rights and the seller relinquishes their rights.


   Special Considerations  

An owner who holds land that includes a riverbank bordering on a flowing river can make use of the water for their needs, such as drinking, providing water for animals, bathing, or watering gardens. These are all considered domestic uses and are permitted. However, riparian rights might not allow the water to be pumped or otherwise removed from the flowing river or stream.



Each state and municipality will have regulations and limits on the extent of water diversion that may be permitted. Depending on local laws, the water might not be permitted for land irrigation or for commercial needs.



Some localities may allow for certain irrigation uses of the water. It may be possible to apply for water diversion rights that would allow for the transport of water away from its source. This would permit usage of the water for commercial purposes such as for mining operations or the irrigation of lands for agricultural operations. These limits are intended to reduce the impact that water removal could have on the surrounding environment.






Water diversion rights may include stipulations that the use of the water must be consistently maintained, or the rights will expire after a defined period of time.


   Eastern vs. Western U.S. Water Rights  

States in the eastern part of the United States follow the riparian doctrine of water rights, which allows landowners to make reasonable use of the watercourse—such as a stream, lake, pond, or river—adjacent to their land. Reasonable use entitles the landowner to use the water as long as it does not interfere with the reasonable use of another landowner downstream. For example, a reasonable use might include using the water for irrigation, watering livestock, or drinking.



Most eastern states have implemented a government-regulated riparian system. Individuals or companies must apply for a permit from a state agency and provide details about the projected use of the water. Before granting the permit, the state will determine if the projected water use is reasonable.



In contrast, almost every state west of the 100th meridian uses the prior appropriation water rights doctrine. Prior appropriation began in the 19th century as settlers moved to the western territories. Settlers acquired water rights through a system that was called "first in time, first in right." Any individual who first appropriates a water source and puts it to beneficial use then has the vested right to continue to use and divert the water.



By the 20th century, the federal government began enacting legislation that restricted and limited certain water rights acquired through prior appropriation. Some legislation focused on water and land rehabilitation. This legislation includes the Clean Water Act, National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act. According to the Department of Interior, these restrictions have caused considerable conflict between the federal government and the western states.
What Is Watercraft Insurance?  

Watercraft insurance is an umbrella term for three types of insurance: boat insurance, yacht insurance, and personal watercraft insurance. It protects against damages to vessels powered by a motor that has a horsepower of at least 25 miles per hour (mph). Examples of the types of costs covered by watercraft insurance policies include physical loss or damage to the boat, theft of the boat, and towing.





Key Takeaways

Watercraft insurance is an umbrella term for three types of insurance: boat insurance, yacht insurance, and personal watercraft insurance.The type of coverage you buy is dictated by the size of your vessel.Although watercraft insurance is not required in many states, many boat owners choose to purchase it anyway.Boat-loan providers and marinas often require boat owners to have watercraft insurance.


   How Watercraft Insurance Works  

Depending on the policy, there may also be watercraft liability coverage for bodily injury to people other than the boat’s owner and family, guest passengers using the boat by themselves, and medical payments for injury to the owner and their family. Some policies, however, require the purchase of additional liability coverage as an add-on. The specific type of insurance you buy is dictated by the size of your vessel.



Watercraft insurance is similar to other types of insurance products. In exchange for paying a series of insurance premiums, the policyholder receives protection from certain rare but potentially costly risks. Depending on factors such as the size of the craft, its age, and its intended uses, the premium costs may range from relatively inexpensive to pricey. When underwriting a policy, an insurance company will also consider the policyholder’s track record of previous claims.


  Boat Insurance  

Any vessel under 197 feet long is considered a boat, while ships are 197 feet or longer. The dividing line between boat and yacht is less settled. Some sources define a yacht as at least 30 feet long. Anything shorter is a pleasure boat. For insurance purposes, the National Boat Owners Association marks the dividing line at 27 feet.



Small craft, such as canoes, rowboats, small sailboats, and powerboats with less than 25 miles-per-hour horsepower may be covered under a standard homeowners or renter’s insurance policy. However, such coverage is unlikely to include liability insurance. Typical boat insurance covers theft; physical damage to the boat itself due to a collision or striking a submerged object; property damage to the boat caused by vandalism, a windstorm, or lightning; and medical payments for injured passengers and the owner and their family. For each coverage, there will be different deductibles, which is how much you must pay out of pocket before your insurance kicks in. Boat insurance will often provide better liability insurance than a homeowners policy, but it is often wise to purchase additional liability coverage as an add-on.



In the event of a total loss, it is important to know whether your policy pays actual cash value (ACV) or agreed value (AV). ACV is cheaper because it only pays for what the boat was worth at the time of the loss, factoring in depreciation and wear and tear on the vessel. AV pays a price that you and your insurer agree upon in advance, an amount that is likely to be closer to the amount you paid for the boat when new.



Other considerations for boat insurance can include:



Lay-up period—This covers your boat for property damage during the off-season, when it isn’t in the water.Navigational territory—Your insurance will generally specify where you can go in your boat and still be covered.Property damage—This is for damage your boat inflicts on someone else’s property.Hurricane haul-out provisions—This covers your costs of getting the boat out of harm’s way before a windstorm. On-water towing and assistance—This is for unexpected breakdowns or running aground.Fuel spill liability protection—Should there be an accidental discharge of fuel from your boat, this will cover the costs of a clean-up.Personal effects coverage—This will protect any expensive equipment you have on your boat, such as fishing gearIce and freeze coverage—Should cold weather damage your boat’s engine and water systems, this will pay the bill.


  Yacht Insurance  

Most yacht coverage is broader and more specialized than pleasure boat coverage because larger vessels travel farther and are exposed to greater risks. It also generally costs more, in part because yachts cost more. In terms of a deductible, it is usually determined as a percentage of the insured value. With a 1% deductible, a boat insured for $175,000 would have a $1,750 deductible. Most lenders allow a maximum deductible of 2% of the insured value.



Generally, yacht insurance coverage does not include wear and tear, gradual deterioration, marine life, marring, denting, scratching, animal damage, osmosis, blistering, electrolysis, manufacturer’s defects, defects in design, and ice and freezing.



There are two main parts of a yacht insurance policy: hull insurance and protection and indemnity (P&I). The first is an all-risk, direct damage coverage that includes an AV for hull coverage, and in the case of a total loss, it will be paid out in full. Replacement cost coverage on partial losses is also available. However, sails, canvas, batteries, outboards, and sometimes outdrives are usually subject to depreciation instead.



P&I insurance is the broadest of all liability coverages, and because maritime law is particular, you will need coverages that are designed for those exposures. Longshore and harbor workers’ coverage and Jones Act coverage (for the yacht’s crew) are included and are important because your losses in these areas could run into six figures. P&I will cover any judgments against you and also pay for your defense in admiralty courts.


  Personal Watercraft Insurance  

Personal watercraft insurance is for recreational vehicles such as Jet Skis, Sea-Doos, and Yamaha Wave Runners. These surface-skimming craft can have engines with horsepower anywhere from 60 mph to 310 mph. They usually are not covered by homeowners insurance, and even when they are, the coverage limits are low.



Personal watercraft insurance covers the owner and anyone they allow to use the craft for risks such as:﻿



Bodily injury to another personBodily injury to you that is caused by an uninsured watercraft operatorLiability in the form of legal costs if you’re sued due to an accident (which can include water sports liability for things such as waterskiing risks)Property damage to another watercraft, a boat, or a dockTheftTowing after an accident



Deductibles and liability limits will vary depending upon the policy and the company offering it. You can buy additional coverage for trailers and accessories and, if you own more than one craft, you may be able to bundle your insurance policies for a discount. These pleasure vehicles are easy to use but can also be dangerous, causing thousands of injuries every year, which makes personal watercraft insurance a wise investment.﻿






Watercraft insurance policies may limit the geographic areas in which the boat or watercraft can be operated while maintaining coverage. These often include inland waterways, rivers, and lakes, as well as ocean waters within a certain number of miles from shore.﻿﻿


   Do I Need Watercraft Insurance?  

Only a few states make it mandatory for boat owners to obtain watercraft insurance. However, many owners will opt to purchase it regardless, partly because doing so is required in order to obtain a boat loan. Marinas may also require owners to have watercraft insurance as a condition within their rental agreements.



Even if your craft isn’t worth much money, obtaining watercraft insurance is a good idea because of the risk of injury on the water, especially from a collision. Even if you aren’t at fault, you could spend a lot of money in legal fees defending yourself—much more than your insurance premiums. If you do decide to purchase this insurance, make a point of comparing policies from multiple companies before deciding on which is best for you. As with all insurance, the question is what price you put on having peace of mind.
What Is Watered Stock?  

Watered stock referred to shares of a company that were issued at a much greater value than the value implied by a company's underlying assets, usually as part of a scheme to defraud investors. The last known case of watered stock issuance occurred decades ago, as stock issuance structure and regulations have evolved to put a stop to the practice.



This term is believed to have originated from ranchers who would make their cattle drink large amounts of water before taking them to market. The weight of the consumed water would make the cattle deceptively heavier, enabling the ranchers to fetch higher prices for them.





Key Takeaways

Watered stock is an illegal scheme to defraud investors by offering shares at deceptively high prices.Watered stock is issued at a higher value than it is actually worth; it is accomplished by overstating the firm's book value.Watered stock, once revealed for what it is, becomes difficult to sell, and if sold, is typically done so at a much lower price than originally obtained.


   Understanding Watered Stock  

The book value of assets can be overvalued for several reasons, including inflated accounting values—like a one-time artificial increase in inventory or property value—or excessive issuance of stock through a stock dividend or employee stock-option program. Perhaps not in every single case, but often in the late 19th century, owners of a corporation would make exaggerated claims about a company’s profitability or assets, and knowingly sell shares in their companies at a par value that far exceeded the book value of the underlying assets, leaving investors with a loss and the fraudulent owners with a gain.



They would do this by contributing property to the company, in return for the stock of inflated par value. This would cause the value of the company to increase on the balance sheet, even though, in reality, the company would hold far fewer assets than those reported. It would not be until much later that investors learned that they were deceived.



Those holding watered stock found it difficult to sell their shares, and if they could find buyers, the shares were sold at much lower prices than the original price. If creditors foreclosed on the company’s assets, the holders of watered stock could be held liable for the difference between the company’s value on the books and its value in terms of real property and assets. For example, if an investor paid $5,000 for stock that was only worth $2,000, he could find himself on the hook for the $3,000 difference if the creditors foreclosed on corporate assets.






Daniel Drew, cattle driver and financier, is credited with introducing the term watered stock to the finance world.


   The End of Watered Stock  

This practice essentially came to an end when companies were compelled to issue shares at low or no par value, usually under the advice of attorneys who were mindful of the potential for watered stock to create liability for investors. Investors became wary of the promise that par value of a stock represented the actual value of the stock. Accounting guidelines developed so that the difference between the value of assets and low or no par value would be accounted for as capital surplus or additional paid-in capital.



In 1912, New York allowed corporations to legally issue no-par-value stock and split the incoming capital between capital surplus and stated capital on accounting ledgers, with other states following suit shortly thereafter.
What Is a Waterfall Concept?  

The term “waterfall concept” refers to a popular estate planning strategy in which a whole-life insurance policy is transfered一or “rolled over”一from the policyholder to their child or grandchild.





Key Takeaways

The waterfall concept is an estate planning strategy that uses whole-life insurance contracts to efficiently transfer wealth between generations.It can only be used to transfer wealth from an older generation to a younger one, such as in the case of a grandparent giving to their child or grandchild.In addition to their tax benefits, waterfall concepts can also help reduce probate issues and legal costs.


   How Waterfall Concepts Work  

The purpose of the waterfall concept is to ensure that wealth is passed on from one generation to another in as tax-efficient a manner as possible. It does so by structuring a tax-exempt whole-life insurance policy in a manner that permits its tax-deferred cash value to be withdrawn by the child or grandchild at a future date, after the original policyholder has died.



Whole-life policies have two components. In addition to the death benefit that pays out when the insured passes away, whole-life life insurance policies also accumulate a tax-deferred cash value as the insured pays premiums. Eventually, the insured individual transfers the life insurance policy to a descendant, at which point the funds become taxable on withdrawal.



In addition to its tax advantages, the waterfall concept can help avoid some of the pitfalls that can apply to gifts and other large-scale transfers of wealth. For example, waterfall concepts can be carried out using only the terms and conditions of the original insurance contract, without requiring the involvement of potential costly lawyers and intermediaries. Similarly, transferring wealth through a waterfall concept can help prevent those assets from being allocated to other parties as part of the probate process.


   Real World Example of a Waterfall Concept  

A typical example of the waterfall concept would be one in which the policy is transferred from a grandparent to a grandchild. The grandchild would then pay taxes only when withdrawing funds from the policy. To the extent that the grandchild’s tax rate is lower than that of their grandparent, this would result in tax savings overall.



When using the waterfall concept, it is important to structure the policy in a manner that protects against the risk that the original policyholder might die before the policy is transferred. One method to do so is by designating a third party, such as the child’s parent, as a contingent or irrevocable beneficiary, with the intention that the parent would then transfer the policy to the grandchild once he or she comes of age. This process could be entirely stipulated using the terms of the life insurance contract itself, without requiring the use of a trust or other such legal entity.
What Is a Waterfall Payment?  

Waterfall payment structures require that higher-tiered creditors receive interest and principal payments, while the lower-tiered creditors receive principal payments after the higher-tiered creditors are paid back in full. Debtors typically structure these schemes into such tranches to prioritize the highest-principal loans first because they are also likely the most expensive.





Key Takeaways

Waterfall payment structures allow higher-tiered creditors to be paid principal and interest ahead of lower-tiered creditors.Lower-tiered creditors are paid interest-only payments until the higher-tiered creditors are paid in full.   Waterfall payments can be structured to pay off one loan at a time or pay all loans in a systematic fashion.


   How a Waterfall Payment Works  

Imagine a waterfall cascading down into vertically aligned buckets. The water represents money, and the buckets represent creditors. The water fills the first bucket first. The second bucket will fill only after the first is full. As water flows, more buckets are filled in the order in which they appear.



Typically, bucket sizes (size of debt) decrease as the water descends. This is likely because paying off large debts reduces the risk of insolvency and frees up cash for operations, capital expenditures, and investments.



For example, this type of plan works best for a company repaying more than one loan. Assume this company has three operating loans, each with different interest rates. The company makes principal and interest payments on the costliest loan and makes only interest payments on the remaining two. Once the most expensive loan is paid off, the company can make all interest and principal payments on the next, more expensive loan. The process continues until all loans are repaid.


   Example of Waterfall Payments  

To demonstrate how a waterfall payment scheme works, assume a company has taken loans from three creditors, Creditor A, Creditor B, and Creditor C. The scheme is structured so that Creditor A is the highest-tiered creditor while Creditor C is the lowest-tiered creditor. The arrangement for what the company owes each of the creditors is as follows:



Creditor A is owed a total of $5 million in interest and $10 million in principal.Creditor B is owed a total of $3 million in interest and $8 million in principal.Creditor C is owed a total of $1 million in interest and $5 million in principal.



Assume in year one the company earns $17 million. It then pays off the entire $15 million owed to Creditor A, leaving it with $2 million to pay off further debts. Since the priority structure is still in place, this $2 million must be applied to Creditor B. Assume the company pays $1 million to Creditor B for interest and $1 million to Creditor B for the principal. The result after year one is as follows:



Creditor A is fully paid.Creditor B is owed a total of $2 million in interest and $7 million in principal.Creditor C is owed a total of $1 million in interest and $5 million in principal.



If in year two, the company earns $13 million, it could then pay off the remaining obligation to Creditor B and begin paying off Creditor C. The result after year two is as follows:



Creditor A is fully paid.Creditor B is fully paid.Creditor C is owed $2 million in principal.



This example was simplified to show the mechanics of a waterfall payment scheme. In reality, some waterfall schemes are structured so minimum interest payments are made to all tiers during each payment cycle.
What Is the Elliott Wave Theory?  

The Elliott Wave Theory in technical analysis describes price movements in the financial market. Developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott, it observes recurring fractal wave patterns identified in stock price movements and consumer behavior. Investors who profit from a market trend are described as riding a wave.





Key Takeaways

The Elliott Wave theory is a technical analysis of price patterns related to changes in investor sentiment and psychology.The theory identifies impulse waves that establish a pattern and corrective waves that oppose the larger trend.Each set of waves is within another set of waves that adhere to the same impulse or corrective pattern, described as a fractal approach to investing.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding the Elliott Wave Theory  

The Elliott Wave theory was developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. He studied 75 years' worth of yearly, monthly, weekly, daily, and self-made hourly and 30-minute charts across various indexes. His theory gained notoriety in 1935 when Elliott made an uncanny prediction of a stock market bottom and has become a staple for thousands of portfolio managers, traders, and private investors.



Elliott defined rules to identify, predict, and capitalize on wave patterns in books, articles, and letters summarized in R.N. Elliott's Masterworks, published in 1994. Elliott Wave International is the largest independent financial analysis and market forecasting firm whose market analysis and forecasting are based on Elliott’s model.



His patterns do not provide any certainty about future price movement but help to order the probabilities for future market action. They can be used with other forms of technical analysis, including technical indicators.






   How Elliott Waves Work  

Some technical analysts profit from wave patterns in the stock market using the Elliott Wave Theory. The theory assumes that stock price movements can be predicted because they move in repeating up-and-down patterns called waves created by investor psychology or sentiment.



The theory is subjective and identifies two different types of waves: motive or impulse waves, and corrective waves. Wave analysis does not equate to a template to follow instructions. Wave analysis offers insights into trend dynamics and helps investors understand price movements.



Impulse and corrective waves are nested in a self-similar fractal to create larger patterns. For example, a one-year chart may be in the midst of a corrective wave, but a 30-day chart may show a developing impulse wave. A trader with this Elliott wave interpretation may have a long-term bearish outlook with a short-term bullish outlook.


   Impulse Waves  

Impulse waves consist of five sub-waves that make net movement in the same direction as the trend of the next-largest degree. This pattern is the most common motive wave and the easiest to spot in a market. It consists of five sub-waves, three of which are motive waves. Two are corrective waves.












Image by Julie Bang Â© Investopedia 2020



Wave 2 can’t retrace more than the beginning of Wave 1Wave 3 can not be the shortest wave of the three impulse waves, 1, 3, and 5Wave 4 does not overlap with the price territory of Wave 1Wave 5 needs to end with momentum divergence



If one rule is violated, the structure is not an impulse wave. The trader would need to re-label the suspected impulse wave.


   Corrective Waves  

Corrective waves, called diagonal waves, consist of three, or a combination of three sub-waves that make net movement in the direction opposite to the trend of the next-largest degree. Its goal is to move the market in the direction of the trend.



The corrective wave consists of 5 sub-waves. The diagonal looks like either an expanding or contracting wedge. The sub-waves of the diagonal may not have a count of five, depending on what type of diagonal is being observed. Each sub-wave of the diagonal never fully retraces the previous sub-wave, and sub-wave 3 of the diagonal may not be the shortest wave.


   Elliot Wave Theory vs. Other Indicators  

Elliott recognized that the Fibonacci sequence denotes the number of waves in impulses and corrections. Wave relationships in price and time also commonly exhibit Fibonacci ratios, such as 38% and 62%. For example, a corrective wave may have a retrace of 38% of the preceding impulse.















Elliott Wave Oscillator Chart.



Other analysts have developed indicators inspired by the Elliott Wave principle, including the Elliott Wave Oscillator Chart. The oscillator provides a computerized method of predicting future price direction based on the difference between a five-period and a 34-period moving average. Elliott Wave International’s artificial intelligence system, EWAVES, applies all Elliott wave rules and guidelines to data to generate automated Elliott wave analysis.




What Is the Elliott Wave Theory?
In technical analysis, the Elliott Wave theory looks at long-term trends in price patterns and how they correspond with investor psychology. These price patterns or ‘waves’ depend on rules developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. They identify and predict wave patterns within stock markets and help predict future movement. 




How Do Elliott Waves Work?
Based on Elliott's Wave Theory, market prices will alternate between an impulsive phase and a corrective phase. Impulses are always subdivided into a set of 5 lower-degree waves, alternating again between motive and corrective character, so that waves 1, 3, and 5 are impulses, and waves 2 and 4 are smaller retraces of waves 1 and 3.




How Do You Trade Using Elliott Wave Theory?
If a trader sees a stock moving upward on an impulse wave, they may go long until it completes its fifth wave. Anticipating a reversal, the trader may then go short on the stock. Underlying this trading theory is the idea that fractal patterns recur in financial markets. In mathematics, fractal patterns repeat themselves on an infinite scale. 


   The Bottom Line  

The Elliott Wave Theory was developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott. It provides a technical analysis of price patterns related to investor sentiment and psychology. The theory identifies impulse waves that establish a pattern and corrective waves that oppose the larger trend. It assumes that stock price movements can be predicted because they move in repeating up-and-down patterns.



Correction—July 27, 2023: This article has been amended to state that the third impulse wave can never be the shortest of Waves 1, 3, and 5. This article also previously misstated that Wave 4 cannot go beyond the third wave at any time. The content has been revised to state that Wave 4 does not overlap with the price territory of Wave 1 per Elliott Wave Theory.
What Is Weak AI?  

Weak artificial intelligence (AI)—also called narrow AI—is a type of artificial intelligence that is limited to a specific or narrow area. Weak AI simulates human cognition. It has the potential to benefit society by automating time-consuming tasks and by analyzing data in ways that humans sometimes can’t. Weak AI can be contrasted to strong AI, a theoretical form of machine intelligence that is equal to human intelligence.





Key Takeaways

Weak artificial intelligence (AI)—also called narrow AI—is a type of artificial intelligence that is limited to a specific or narrow area.Weak AI can be contrasted to strong AI, a theoretical form of machine intelligence that is equal to human intelligence.Weak AI lacks human consciousness, although it may be able to simulate it at times.


   Understanding Weak AI  

Weak AI lacks human consciousness, although it may be able to simulate it at times. The classic illustration of weak AI is John Searle's Chinese room thought experiment. This experiment says that a person outside a room may be able to have what appears to be a conversation in Chinese with a person inside a room who is being given instructions on how to respond to conversations in Chinese.



In this experiment, the person inside the room would appear to speak Chinese. In reality, they couldn't actually speak or understand a word of Chinese absent the instructions being fed. That's because the person is good at following instructions, not speaking Chinese. They might appear to have strong AI—machine intelligence equivalent to human intelligence—but they really only have weak AI.



Narrow or weak AI systems do not have general intelligence; they have specific intelligence. An AI that is an expert at telling you how to drive from point A to point B is usually incapable of challenging you to a game of chess. In the same way, a form of AI that can pretend to speak Chinese with you probably cannot sweep your floors.


   Applications for Weak AI  

Weak AI helps turn big data into usable information by detecting patterns and making predictions. Examples of weak AI include Meta's (formerly Facebook) newsfeed, Amazon's suggested purchases, and Apple's Siri, the iPhone technology that answers users' spoken questions.



Email spam filters are another example of weak AI; a computer uses an algorithm to learn which messages are likely to be spam, then redirects them from the inbox to the spam folder.


   Limitations of Weak AI  

Besides its limited capabilities, some of the problems with weak AI include the possibility to cause harm if a system fails­. For example, consider a driverless car that miscalculates the location of an oncoming vehicle and causes a deadly collision. The system also can cause harm if the system is used by someone who wishes to cause harm; consider a terrorist who uses a self-driving car to deploy explosives in a crowded area.



A further concern related to weak AI is the loss of jobs caused by the automation of an increasing number of tasks. Will unemployment skyrocket, or will society develop new ways for humans to be economically productive? Although the prospect of a large percentage of workers losing their jobs may be terrifying, advocates of AI claim that it is also reasonable to expect that should this happen; new jobs will emerge that we can’t yet predict as the use of AI becomes increasingly widespread.
What is a Weak Dollar?  

A weak dollar refers to a downward price trend in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies. The most commonly compared currency is the Euro, so if the Euro is rising in price compared to the dollar, the dollar is said to be weakening at that time. Essentially, a weak dollar means that a U.S. dollar can be exchanged for smaller amounts of foreign currency. The effect of this is that goods priced in U.S. dollars, as well as goods produced in non-US countries, become more expensive to U.S. consumers.





Key Takeaways

A weak dollar means that the U.S. dollar's value is declining compared to other currencies, most notably the euro.A weak currency creates both positive and negative consequences.The Fed usually employs a monetary policy to weaken the dollar when the economy struggles.Policy makers and business leaders have no consensus on whether a stronger or weaker currency is better for the U.S.


   Understanding What a Weak Dollar Means  

A weakening dollar implies several consequences, but not all of them are negative. A weakening dollar means that imports become more expensive, but it also means that exports are more attractive to consumers in other countries outside the U.S. Conversely a strengthening dollar is bad for exports, but good for imports. For many years the U.S. has run a trade deficit with other nations--meaning they are a net importer.



A nation which imports more than it exports would usually favor a strong currency. However in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, most of the developed nations have pursued policies that favor weaker currencies. A weaker dollar, for example, could allow U.S. factories to remain competitive in ways that may employ many workers and thereby stimulate the U.S. economy. However there are many of factors, not just economic fundamentals such as GDP or trade deficits, that can lead to a period of U.S. dollar weakness.



The term weak dollar is used to describe a sustained period of time, as opposed to two or three days of price fluctuation. Much like the economy, the strength of a country's currency is cyclical, so extended periods of strength and weakness are inevitable. Such periods may occur for reasons unrelated to domestic affairs. Geopolitical events, weather-related crises, financial strain from overbuilding or even under-population trends can cause pressure on a country's currency in ways that create relative strength or weakness over a period of years or decades.



The Federal Reserve works to equalize such influences as much as it determines to be prudent. The Fed responds with tight or easing monetary policy. During a period of tight monetary policy, when the Federal Reserve is raising interest rates, the U.S. dollar is likely to strengthen. When investors earn more money from better yields (higher interest payments on the currency), it will attract investment from global sources, which may push the U.S. dollar higher for a while. Conversely, a weak dollar occurs during a time when the Fed is lowering interest rates as part of an easing monetary policy. 


   Quantitative Easing  

In response to the Great Recession, the Fed employed several quantitative easing programs where it purchased large sums of Treasuries and mortgage-backed-securities. In turn, the bond market rallied, which pushed interest rates in the U.S. to record lows. As interest rates fell, the U.S. dollar weakened substantially. Over a period of two years (mid-2009 to mid-2011) the U.S. dollar index (USDX) fell 17 percent. 



However, four years later as the Fed embarked on lifting interest for the first time in eight years, the plight of the dollar turned and it strengthened to make a decade-long high. In December 2016, when the Fed shifted interest rates to 0.25 percent, the USDX traded at 100 for the first time since 2003. 


   Tourism and Trade  

Depending on the type of transaction that a party is participating in, possessing a weak dollar is not necessarily a bad situation. For example, a weak dollar may be bad news for U.S. citizens wishing to vacation in foreign countries, but it could be good news for U.S. tourist attractions, as it also means that the U.S. would be more inviting as a destination for international travelers. 



More significantly, a weak U.S. dollar can effectively reduce the country's trade deficit. When U.S. exports become more competitive on the foreign market, then U.S. producers divert more resources to producing those things foreign buyers want from the U.S. But policy makers and business leaders have no consensus on what direction, a weaker or stronger currency, is best to pursue. The weak-dollar debate has become a political constant in the 21st century.
What Is Weak Form Efficiency?  

Weak form efficiency claims that past price movements, volume, and earnings data do not affect a stock’s price and can’t be used to predict its future direction.



Weak form efficiency is one of the three different degrees of efficient market hypothesis (EMH).





Key Takeaways

Weak form efficiency states that past prices, historical values, and trends can’t predict future prices.Weak form efficiency is an element of efficient market hypothesis.Weak form efficiency states that stock prices reflect all current information.Advocates of weak form efficiency see limited benefit in using technical analysis or financial advisors.


   The Basics of Weak Form Efficiency  

Weak form efficiency, also known as the random walk theory, states that future securities' prices are random and not influenced by past events. Advocates of weak form efficiency believe all current information is reflected in stock prices and past information has no relationship with current market prices.



The concept of weak form efficiency was pioneered by Princeton University economics professor Burton G. Malkiel in his 1973 book, "A Random Walk Down Wall Street." The book, in addition to touching on random walk theory, describes the efficient market hypothesis and the other two degrees of efficient market hypothesis: semi-strong form efficiency and strong form efficiency. Unlike weak form efficiency, the other forms believe that past, present, and future information affects stock price movements to varying degrees.


   Uses for Weak Form Efficiency  

The key principle of weak form efficiency is that the randomness of stock prices make it impossible to find price patterns and take advantage of price movements. Specifically, daily stock price fluctuations are entirely independent of each other; it assumes that price momentum does not exist. Additionally, past earnings growth does not predict current or future earnings growth.



Weak form efficiency doesn’t consider technical analysis to be accurate and asserts that even fundamental analysis, at times, can be flawed. It’s therefore extremely difficult, according to weak form efficiency, to outperform the market, especially in the short term. For example, if a person agrees with this type of efficiency, they believe that there’s no point in having a financial advisor or active portfolio manager. Instead, investors who advocate weak form efficiency assume they can randomly pick an investment or a portfolio that will provide similar returns.


   Real-World Example of Weak Form Efficiency  

Suppose David, a swing trader, sees Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) continuously decline on Mondays and increase in value on Fridays. He may assume he can profit if he buys the stock at the beginning of the week and sells at the end of the week. If, however, Alphabet’s price declines on Monday but does not increase on Friday, the market is considered weak form efficient.



Similarly, let’s assume Apple Inc. (APPL) has beaten analysts’ earnings expectation in the third quarter consecutively for the last five years. Jenny, a buy-and-hold investor, notices this pattern and purchases the stock a week before it reports this year’s third quarter earnings in anticipation of Apple’s share price rising after the release. Unfortunately for Jenny, the company’s earnings fall short of analysts’ expectations. The theory states that the market is weakly efficient because it doesn’t allow Jenny to earn an excess return by selecting the stock based on historical earnings data.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Weak Hands?  

"Weak hands" is a term often used to describe traders and investors who lack conviction in their strategies or lack the resources to carry them out. It also refers to a futures trader who never intends to take or provide delivery of the underlying commodity or index.



Weak hands can be contrasted with strong hands, or "diamond hands."





Key Takeaways

Weak hands is the term often used to describe traders and investors who lack conviction in their strategies or lack the resources to carry them out.A less-known definition is that of a futures trader who does not intend to take, or provide, delivery of the underlying asset.Weak hands end up buying at the highs and selling at the lows, a surefire way to lose money.


   Understanding Weak Hands  

The term "weak hands" typically refers to an investor or trader who is driven by fear to quickly exit positions on almost any news or event that they consider detrimental, resulting in realized losses and suboptimal returns on investment (ROI). They tend to adhere to a set of rules that makes their trading activities predictable and are easily "shaken out" by normal market price gyrations. The net result is that they end up buying at the highs and selling at the lows, a surefire way to lose money.



Weak hands can also describe a trader (forex, equity, fixed income, futures, or any other class) who approaches the market from the viewpoint of a speculator, and more likely a small speculator, rather than an investor. They will normally enter and exit positions with the intention of reversing those positions based on small price movements. Typically, this is a trader without the necessary conviction or financial resources to hold on to their positions. A less-known definition of the term weak hands is that of a futures trader who does not intend to take, or provide, delivery of the underlying asset. This, by default, lumps them as a speculator.



In all markets, weak hands exhibit predictable behavior. This can include buying immediately after the market breaks to the upside from a technical pattern on the charts or selling immediately after the market breaks to the downside. Dealers and institutional traders will exploit this behavior by buying when weak hands sell and selling when weak hands buy. This forces the weak hands out before the market starts to move in the originally desired direction.


   The Sentiment Factor  

The biggest challenge for investors and traders is buying or selling at the very worst time. For example, when a bear market nears its end, the news is at its worst. Losses for those who held on as the market fell are at a maximum and fear becomes the driver in people's minds. However, valuations are likely to be cheap and charts might point out technical conditions conducive for buying, not selling.



At this point, sentiment is at an extreme for bearishness and weak hands only see the fear. Conversely, strong hands, who tend to be well financed, see the opportunity. They know they can buy even if the price dips further because they have the resources to handle the drawdown.



Since major bear markets are relatively infrequent, a more likely example of weak hands is when the stock of a strong company with solid fundamentals and chart patterns falls in sympathy with the stock of a related company that issues bad news on earnings or some other business event. Weak hands quickly sell, but the stock rebounds sharply. There was nothing fundamentally wrong with that stock in the first place. So the price dip was a buying opportunity.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Weak Longs?  

Weak longs are investors who hold a long position and are quick to exit that position at the first sign of weakness. This type of investor is typically trying to capture the upside potential of a security but without significant loss. These investors will quickly close their positions when a trade does not move in their favor.


   Understanding Weak Longs  

Weak longs are often short-term traders rather than long-term investors because they are unwilling to hold their positions through market fluctuations. If a trade does not move in their favor, they will quickly close their positions and look elsewhere for opportunities. Most weak longs are momentum traders who are more interested in a quick profit than investing in undervalued companies until they reach a fair value.



When weak longs close their position, it may present an opportunity for other investors to buy into the dip. The selling pressure that weak longs create when closing their positions can lead to consolidation in a stock after a significant uptrend. This explains why stocks tend to top out after following an earnings announcement because these traders lock in their profits and move on to other investment opportunities.



The benefit of a weak long is that the investor can secure profits immediately rather than succumbing to the disposition effect, holding onto a losing stock for too long. However, weak longs tend to generate substantial churn in their portfolio, making it harder to remain profitable such as through the use of a long-term investing strategy.


   Example of Weak Longs  

When a company announces favorable earnings for the quarter, short-term traders may buy the stock at the open to capitalize on the run-up while long-term investors may add the stock to their existing positions. Weak longs will hold the stock until it begins to consolidate following an earnings run-up, selling the stock and moving on to other opportunities. Long-term investors will continue holding the stock.



Long-term investors may take advantage of the consolidation to add to their position and lower their cost basis. Long-term investors may wait on the sidelines following a positive earnings announcement and buy the stock after it begins to move lower and consolidate. This allows them to buy the stock at a lower price and ultimately increase their long-term profit potential.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Weak Shorts?  

Weak shorts refer to traders or investors who hold a short position in a stock or other financial asset who will exit at the first indication of price strength. Weak shorts are typically investors with limited financial capacity, precluding them from taking absorbing too much risk on a short position. A weak short will generally have a tight stop-loss order in place on the short position to cap the loss on the short trade. Weak shorts are conceptually similar to weak longs, though the latter employ long positions.





Key Takeaways

A weak short is a trader holding a short position who will exit quickly if the price starts rising.Bullish traders buy stocks with a high degree of short interest and weak shorts, hoping that the price will rise, forcing weak shorts to buy and push the price up further.Retail traders are more likely to be weak shorts than institutional investors.Retail traders may benefit from weak shorts, as they can control losses, and exit if the price rises by a certain amount.


   Understanding Weak Shorts  

Weak shorts are more likely to be carried by retail traders rather than institutional investors since the retail trader's financial capacity is limited. That said, even institutional investors may find themselves in the weak-short camp if they are financially stretched and cannot afford to commit more to trade.



The presence of weak shorts may intensify volatility in stock because weak shorts will be inclined to exit their short positions if the stock shows signs of strengthening. Such short covering may drive the stock price up rapidly, forcing other traders with short positions to close them for fear of a short squeeze.



If the stock begins to weaken and is vulnerable, the weak shorts may reinstate their short positions. Weak shorts may be constrained by the availability of capital but may still have a high degree of conviction in their short strategy. Heavy shorting accentuates the stock's weakness, driving its price down quickly, a trading pattern that leads to stock volatility.



For a retail trader that is day trading or swing trading, a weak short is a positive. By exiting early when a stock no longer looks weak, the trader limits their risk and saves their capital for the short trades that are acting weak but are profitable.






Stocks or other financial assets that have a substantial weak short presence will often be more volatile than those with less of a weak short presence.


   How to Bet Against Weak Shorts  

Traders often look for stocks with heavy short interest, a contrarian indicator to identify stocks poised to move up on a short squeeze. Stocks that are heavily shorted by retail investors are better short-squeeze candidates than those held by institutions with deep pockets, such as hedge funds.



One way to identify retail short interest is by using trading software that shows major holders of the stock and block trades. A stock with (a) minimal institutional holdings, (b) few block trades, and (c) significant short interest is likely to be one with a disproportionate number of weak shorts.



Traders can wait for the price to strengthen, potentially moving above a key resistance level where many short-trade stop-loss orders are placed. A trader initiates a long position in anticipation of a further rise as weak short traders are forced out of their position.


   Weak Short vs. the Put/Call Ratio  

Puts are another way to bet on a declining stock price. The put/call ratio measures the number of puts bought versus the number of calls, those that profit if the stock price rises. The ratio indicates when traders have become extremely bearish or bullish on a stock. This can be used as a contrarian indicator that a reversal in price may be forthcoming.


   Limitations of Using Weak Shorts  

It is hard to predict the number of weak shorts and difficult to decipher if the short positions are held because the stock is falling. Whether weak shorts or not, these traders are in the correct position to profit, and buying into them may be foolish.



Trying to force weak shorts out of a position, causing a price pop, may prop the price up temporarily, but unless positive news, fundamentals, or technicals emerge, additional buyers may not decide to enter and the price will continue to fall.



Weak shorts are a strategy that can't be measured with great accuracy, therefore it's unknown exactly how many weak shorts there are or how weak they are.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Weak Sister?  

"Weak sister" is a slang term for an element that undermines an entire system. The term can either refer to a single individual or a specialized group that is considered to be the weak and undependable link in an integrated process.





Key Takeaways

"Weak sister" is slang for an undependable or weak link that threatens to undermine an entire system.The term can be used in reference to a particular individual, group of people, a company, or an entire economy.Weak sisters aren’t always undependable. Some can quickly bounce back with an adequate dose of outside help and favorable external factors.


   Understanding Weak Sisters  

Weak sisters are what hold someone or something back. It could be a malfunctioning part of a team-oriented task, such as the slowest member of an assembly line or a sluggish marketing team. Alternatively, it may describe a security, economy, or business unit that performs worse than others.



Weak sister is similar to the term the “weakest link in the chain.” Both refer to someone or something that risks single-handedly bringing about the failure of the system or the group it belongs to. “Weakest link” came from the proverb “a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.” In other words, one substandard link may cause a chain to break, even though the other, stronger links may hold when put under pressure.



This saying can be traced to the work of Thomas Reid. In Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man, published in the mid-1780s, Reid Wrote: “In every chain of reasoning, the evidence of the last conclusion can be no greater than that of the weakest link of the chain, whatever may be the strength of the rest.”


   Example of a Weak Sister  

Weak sisters can appear in every industry. For instance, in an investment portfolio, there is usually at least one laggard that weighs on total returns.



For example, suppose there is an investor, Mark, who has invested in five different stocks: Company A, Company B, Company C, Company D, and Company E. Over the past three years, four of the five stocks have done admirably, comfortably beating the rest of the stock market with returns between 17% and 40%.



Unfortunately, that impressive performance has been undermined somewhat by the weak sister. Company C returned just 2% because a large chunk of the business (its energy arm) experienced tepid demand for its products and services as a result of a fall in the price of oil. Tricky trading conditions in that division ended up weighing on the average return of the whole portfolio, bringing it in line with the market average (or below if you factor in fees).



Weak sisters can also refer to entire countries. Following the great recession, Europe struggled to pay off all the debts it had accumulated, in what became known as the Eurozone debt crisis.



Five of the region’s countries—Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain—took the majority of the blame. These nations were accused of lacking fiscal prudence, not generating enough economic growth, and being at risk of defaulting on their bonds.


   Special Considerations  

Just because something or someone is referred to as a weak sister does not mean it is beyond saving. Weak sisters might not always be undependable. In many cases, what struggled and held everything back one year might bounce back in the next one.



For instance, once the oil price rebounds, Company C might likely go from the weak sister to the biggest outperformer in Mark’s portfolio. Jittery investors pushed the valuation down to reflect the challenges facing the sector. That means the stock will look incredibly cheap if sentiment improves and trading picks up again.



Market cycles and business trading conditions shift over time, leading various asset classes to fall in and out of favor. For many investors, there’s lots of money to be made from identifying weak sisters and determining, before the rest of the market, when they have bottomed out.



Weak sisters can also become stronger with a few important tweaks made from the inside. Certain capital expenditure (CAPEX) or cost-cutting strategies can transform a bloated, misfiring laggard into a much leaner and meaner proposition.
What Is Wealth?  

Wealth measures the value of all the assets of worth owned by a person, community, company, or country. Wealth is determined by taking the total market value of all physical and intangible assets owned, then subtracting all debts. Essentially, wealth is the accumulation of scarce resources.



Specific people, organizations, and nations are said to be wealthy when they are able to accumulate many valuable resources or goods. Wealth can be contrasted with income in that wealth is a stock and income is a flow, and it can be seen in either absolute or relative terms.





Key Takeaways

Wealth is an accumulation of valuable economic resources that can be measured in terms of either real goods or money value.Net worth is the most common measure of wealth, determined by taking the total market value of all physical and intangible assets owned, then subtracting all debts.The concept of wealth is usually applied only to scarce economic goods; goods that are abundant and free for everyone provide no basis for relative comparisons across individuals.Unlike income, which is a flow variable, wealth measures the amount of valuable economic goods that have been accumulated at a given point in time.The relative differences in wealth between people are what we usually refer to in order to define who is wealthy or not.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Wealth  

Wealth can be expressed in a variety of ways. In a purely material sense, wealth consists of all the real resources under one’s control. Financially, net worth is the most common expression of wealth.



Definitions and measures of wealth have been different over time among societies. In modern society, money is the most common means of measuring wealth. Measuring wealth in terms of money is an example of money’s function as a unit of account. The extent to which outside forces can manipulate the value of money can have a dramatic impact on measuring wealth in this way, but it provides a convenient common denominator for comparison.



Otherwise, land and even livestock can be used to measure and evaluate wealth. The ancient Egyptians, for instance, once measured wealth based on wheat. Herding cultures have often used sheep, horses, or cattle as measures of wealth.






   How to Measure Wealth  

Measuring wealth in terms of money overcomes the problem of evaluating wealth in the form of different kinds of goods. These values can then be added or subtracted together. This, in turn, permits the convenient use of net worth as a measure of wealth. Net worth is equal to assets minus liabilities. For businesses, net worth is also known as shareholders’ equity or book value. In commonsense terms, net worth expresses wealth as all the real resources under one’s control, excluding those that ultimately belong to someone else.



Wealth is a stock variable, as opposed to a flow variable like income. Wealth measures the amount of valuable economic goods accumulated at a given point in time; income measures the amount of money (or goods) obtained over a given interval of time. Income represents the addition to wealth over time (or subtraction, if it is negative).



A person whose net income is positive over time will become increasingly wealthy over time. For countries, gross domestic product (GDP) can be thought of as a measure of income (a flow variable), though it is often erroneously referred to as a measure of wealth (a stock variable).



Anyone who has accumulated a large quantity of net worth can be considered wealthy, but most people think of this term in more of a relative sense. Whether measured in terms of money and net worth, or in commodities like wheat or sheep, total wealth can vary among individuals and groups. The relative differences in wealth between people are what we usually refer to in order to define who is wealthy or not.



Research has consistently shown that people’s perception of their own well-being and happiness depends much more on their estimates of wealth relative to other people than on absolute wealth. This is also part of why the concept of wealth is usually applied only to scarce economic goods; goods that are abundant and free for everyone provide no basis for relative comparisons across individuals. 






The United States is home to most of the world’s wealthiest people, including 735 billionaires.



Arkansas-based retailer Walmart is one of the wealthiest corporations in the U.S., with annual revenue exceeding the GDP of many countries. For 2021, it recorded $559 billion in revenue, with a presence in 24 countries worldwide. Ranked number one on the Fortune 500 list in 2022, Walmart operates more than 10,500 stores globally and serves more than 220 million customers weekly.





$255.3 billion

The net worth of the world’s wealthiest person, Tesla/SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, as of Sept. 2, 2022.



Equally as impressive, wealthy ecommerce giant Amazon boasted revenue of $386 billion for 2021, earning it the number two position on Fortune’s list. Despite experiencing a leadership change and a shortage of workers, the company continued to flourish in 2021, posting profits more than 54% higher vs. 2020. Its market capitalization—$1.66 trillion as of March 31, 2022—has also positioned it as one of the wealthiest companies in the world.




How do you build wealth?
To build wealth, one must allocate a portion of their income to savings and investments over time.




How much wealth does the top 1% own?
The top 1% of wage earners hold 31.9% of wealth in the United States as of June 29, 2022.




What is wealth management?
Wealth management refers to the financial, investment, and advisory services provided to clients with a high net worth.




What is generational wealth?
Generational wealth are the assets passed down to successive, familial generations.




What is the Great Gatsby Curve?
The Great Gatsby Curve illustrates the relationship between income inequality in a country and the potential for its citizens to achieve upward mobility. Graphs that depict these two variables suggest a strong positive correlation between inequality and a lack of upward advancement from one generation to the next. 


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of wealth is subjective, largely depending on one’s perception and measure of value. For most, money is the common unit of measurement, and those with an abundance of it are deemed wealthy.



There are many strategies for amassing wealth; however, there is no prescription for all. Despite variations in how it is expressed, wealth often affords access and opportunities that would ordinarily be inaccessible without it.
What Does Wealth Added Index Mean?  

Wealth Added Index (WAI) is a metric designed by Stern Value Managament, a consulting firm, that attempts to measure value created (or destroyed) for shareholders by a company. According to this calculation method, wealth is created only if the returns of a company, inclusive of share price gains and dividends, exceed its cost of equity.


   Understanding Wealth Added Index (WAI)  

The conceptual foundation of the Wealth Added Index is that the cost of equity for a company should be greater than the return available on risk-free securities such as government bonds because a company is riskier (the greater the risk an investor assumes, the greater the return required). If a company's returns do not exceed its cost of equity, then shareholders should invest their money elsewhere. In other words, according to the WAI, if the return is less than the cost of equity, the company is actually destroying shareholder value; if the return exceeds the cost of equity, the company is adding wealth for its shareholders. 



WAI is similar to Economic Value Added (EVA), another Stern Value Management measure, in that the cost of capital is compared to returns. Traditional accounting return metrics like Return on Equity (ROE) and Return on Assets (ROA) do not consider the other side—the cost of capital to achieve these returns over a certain period. A company can show a high ROE, for example, but if the cost of capital to achieve that ROE was even greater, then the value was destroyed by the company.



But there are two key differences between WAI and EVA. First, and most important, EVA is backward-looking, calculating only results that have already transpired. WAI, by contrast, takes into account both past share price performance and prospective performance. Because equity value of a company is the present value of all future cash flows, the current share price of a company's stock will reflect the future prospect of value creation, or wealth added. Second, EVA is limited in providing cross-border comparisons because it relies on accounting methodologies within individual countries. Therefore, for instance, EVA of a utility company in the U.S. will not be directly comparable to the EVA of a utility company in Spain because different accounting standards are used to derive reported profits. With a focus on the movement of the share price and dividends, readily available for calculation anywhere, WAI is able to overcome this limitation.
What is The Wealth Effect?  

The wealth effect is a behavioral economic theory suggesting that people spend more as the value of their assets rise. The idea is that consumers feel more financially secure and confident about their wealth when their homes or investment portfolios increase in value. They are made to feel richer, even if their income and fixed costs are the same as before.





Key Takeaways

The wealth effect posits that consumers feel more financially secure and confident about their wealth when their homes or investment portfolios increase in value.They are made to feel richer, even if their income and fixed costs are the same as before.Critics argue that increased spending leads to asset appreciation, not the other way around, and that only higher home values can be potentially linked to higher spending.


   How The Wealth Effect Works  

The wealth effect reflects the psychological effect that rising asset values, such as those that occur during a bull market, have on consumer spending behavior. The concept hones in on how the feelings of security, referred to as consumer confidence, are strengthened by sizable increases in the value of investment portfolios. Extra confidence contributes to higher levels of spending and lower levels of saving.



This theory can also be applied to businesses. Companies tend to increase their hiring levels and capital expenditures (CapEx) in response to rising asset values, in a similar fashion to that observed on the consumer side.



What this means is economic growth should strengthen during bull markets—and erode in bear markets.


   Special Considerations  

At first glance, the notion that the wealth effect spurs personal consumption makes sense. It is reasonable to assume that anyone sitting on huge gains from a house or stock portfolio would be more inclined to splash out on an expensive holiday, new car, or other discretionary items.



Nevertheless, critics claim that increasing asset wealth should have a much smaller impact on consumer spending than other factors, such as tax, household expenses, and employment trends. Why? Because a gain in the value of an investor’s portfolio does not actually equate to higher disposable income.



Initially, stock market gains must be considered unrealized. An unrealized gain is a profit that exists on paper, but that has yet to be sold in return for cash. The same applies to rocketing property prices.


   Example of The Wealth Effect  

Proponents of the wealth effect can point to several occasions when significant interest rate and tax increases during bull markets failed to put the brakes on consumer spending. Events in 1968 offer a good example.



Taxes were hiked by 10%, yet people continued to spend more. Even though disposable income declined because of the additional tax burden, wealth continued to grow as the stock market persistently climbed higher.


   Criticism of The Wealth Effect  

Still, there is considerable debate among market pundits about whether or not the wealth effect truly exists, especially within the context of the stock market. Some believe the effect has more to do with correlation and not causation, proposing that increased spending leads to asset appreciation, not the other way around.


   Housing vs. Stock Market Wealth Effect   

While it has yet to be definitively connected, there is more robust evidence linking increased spending to higher home values.



Economic luminaries Karl Case and Robert Shiller, the developers of the Case-Shiller home price indices, together with John Quigley set out to research the wealth effect theory by compiling data from 1982 to 1999. The results, presented in a paper titled “Comparing Wealth Effects: the Stock Market versus the Housing Market,” found “at best weak evidence” of a stock market wealth effect, but strong evidence that variations in housing market wealth have important effects upon consumption.﻿﻿



The authors later extended their study of wealth and consumer spending in a panel of U.S. states to an expanded 37-year period, from 1975 to the second quarter of 2012. The results, released in January 2013, revealed that an increase in housing wealth, similar to the rise between 2001 and 2005, would boost household spending by a total of about 4.3% over the four years. In contrast, a fall in housing wealth comparable to the crash between 2005 and 2009 would cause a spending drop of roughly 3.5%.﻿﻿



Several other economists have supported claims that an increase in housing wealth encourages extra spending. However, others dispute these theories and claim that previous research on the topic has been overstated.
What Is Wealth Management?  

Wealth management is an investment advisory service that combines other financial services to address the needs of affluent clients. Using a consultative process, the advisor gleans information about the client’s wants and specific situation, then tailors a personalized strategy that uses a range of financial products and services.



Often, a holistic approach is taken within wealth management. To meet the complex needs of a client, a broad range of services—such as investment advice, estate planning, accounting, retirement, and tax services—may be provided. While fee structures vary across comprehensive wealth management services, typically, fees are based on a client’s assets under management (AUM).





Key Takeaways

Wealth management is an investment advisory service that combines other financial services to address the needs of affluent clients.A wealth management advisor is a high-level professional who manages an affluent client’s wealth holistically, typically for one set fee.This service is usually appropriate for wealthy individuals with a broad array of diverse needs.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Wealth Management  

Wealth management is more than just investment advice. It can encompass all parts of a person’s financial life. Instead of attempting to integrate pieces of advice and various products from multiple professionals, high net worth individuals may be more likely to benefit from an integrated approach. In this method, a wealth manager coordinates the services needed to manage their clients’ assets, along with creating a strategic plan for their current and future needs—whether it is will and trust services or business succession plans.



Many wealth managers can provide services in any aspect of the financial field, but some choose to specialize in particular areas, such as cross-border wealth management. This may be based on the expertise of a specific wealth manager, or the primary focus of the business within which the wealth manager operates.



In certain instances, a wealth management advisor may have to coordinate input from outside financial experts, as well as the client’s own service professionals (for example, an attorney or accountant) to craft the optimal strategy to benefit the client. Some wealth managers also provide banking services or advice on philanthropic activities.


   Wealth Management Example  

Generally speaking, wealth management offices have a team of experts and professionals available to provide advice across different fields. For instance, consider a client who has $2 million in investable assets—in addition to a trust for their grandchildren—and a partner who has recently passed away. A wealth management office would not only invest these funds in a discretionary account but also provide will and trust services required for tax minimization and estate planning. 



Wealth management advisors in the direct employ of an investment firm may have more knowledge in the area of investment strategy, while those who work for a large bank may focus on the management of trusts and available credit options, overall estate planning, or insurance options. In short, expertise may vary across different firms.


   Wealth Management Business Structures  

Wealth managers may work as part of either a small-scale business or a larger firm, one generally associated with the finance industry. Depending on the business, wealth managers may function under different titles, including financial consultant or financial advisor. A client may receive services from a single designated wealth manager or may have access to members of a specified wealth management team.


   Fees for a Wealth Manager  

Advisors can charge for their services in several ways. Some work as fee-only advisors and charge an annual, hourly, or flat fee. Some work on commission and are paid through the investments that they sell. Fee-based advisors earn a combination of a fee plus commissions on the investment products that they sell.



A recent survey of financial advisors finds the median advisory fee (up to $1 million AUM) is just around 1%. However, some advisors charge more, especially on smaller account balances. Individuals with larger balances can often pay substantially less, with the median AUM fee declining as assets increase.






Newer, fully-automated roboadvisor platforms intended as wealth management tools for ordinary individuals often charge far less than 1% per year of AUM and come with low minimum account balances to get started.


   Credentials for Wealth Managers  

You should check the credentials of a professional to see which designation and training might best suit your needs and situation. The top three professional advisor credentials are Certified Financial Planner, Chartered Financial Analyst, and Personal Financial Specialist. Many websites for professional certifying organizations allow you to vet if a member is in good standing or has had disciplinary actions or complaints.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has a tool that explains professional designations. You can also see whether the issuing organization requires continuing education, takes complaints, or has a way for you to confirm who holds the credentials.


   Strategies of a Wealth Manager  

The wealth manager starts by developing a plan that will maintain and increase a client’s wealth based on their financial situation, goals, and risk tolerance.



Importantly, each part of a client’s financial picture, whether it is tax planning or wills and estates, are coordinated together to protect the wealth of the client. This may coincide with financial projections and retirement planning.



After the original plan is developed, the manager meets regularly with clients to update goals, review, and rebalance the financial portfolio. At the same time, they may investigate whether additional services are needed, with the ultimate goal being to remain in the client’s service throughout their lifetime.




What Do Wealth Managers Earn?
According to Indeed, the average salary for a wealth manager in the United States in 2022 was $79,395.




Is a Wealth Manager the Same as a Financial Planner?
While some financial professionals are both wealth managers and planners, a key difference between financial planners and wealth managers is that the letter are focused on assets and investments, while planners also consider everyday household finances, insurance needs, and so on.




How Much Money Does the Wealth Management Industry Manage?
As of 2020, it is estimated that the wealth management industry had AUM of upwards of $112 trillion globally. This figure is expected to grow to $145.4 trillion by the year 2025.
What Is a Wealth Psychologist?  

A wealth psychologist is a mental health professional who specializes in issues relating specifically to wealthy individuals. Wealth psychologists are also called money psychologists or wealth counselors. Wealth psychologists help their ultra-rich clients deal with issues such as the guilt they feel about being wealthy, or advise on inheritance issues and counsel parents on how to raise children who are not spoiled by money.


   Wealth Psychologist Explained  

Wealth psychologists assist many modern wealthy families, most of which built their wealth in one generation. They may not be comfortable with all aspects of being rich, and may have a lot of guilt associated with it. Even for those people who find themselves financially prepared, more are beginning to realize they may not be psychologically or emotionally prepared to cope with wealth. Ample evidence points to the notion that the more people are prepared in this way, the happier they are throughout their remaining life stages. The younger people are when they begin to work toward full preparation, the more productive their lives.


   Wealth Psychology’s Role in Holistic Planning  

Financial planning that emphasized the quantitative side of life has given way to a practice intended to broaden the scope and clarity of one’s vision of the future, and the values that drive the commitment to living a full and complete life. Expectations of longer lives, uncertainty over a frail economy, fear of market risk, disillusionment with government and concerns over world chaos are contributing factors to new attitudes about money and happiness.



Some private wealth management and financial services firms retain wealth psychologists to train their financial advisors or provide individual counseling to clients. Wealth psychologists are increasingly included as a part of a client’s advisory team engaged in a holistic financial planning process. Their focus is on helping clients better understand their values, attitudes, and beliefs about money to better cope with self-limiting or self-destructive behaviors at the center of their relationship with money or with a family of wealth.


   Preparing Future Generations for Wealth  

Wealth psychology is becoming more prominent in legacy planning, preparing family members and future generations for the emotional transfer of wealth. While the precepts for effectively maximizing the transfer of assets are well established within the traditional wealth management community, the guiding principles for preparing family members and future generations for the emotional transfer of values and beliefs are often minimized or ignored. The role of the wealth psychologist is to help families bridge the communication and trust gap for building solidarity of vision and purpose among disparate family members and generations.
What Is a Wealth Tax?  

A wealth tax is a tax based on the market value of assets owned by a taxpayer. Some developed countries choose to tax wealth, although the United States has historically relied on taxing annual income to raise revenue.



Recently, however, the immense and increasing disparity in wealth in the United States prompted politicians such as Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) to propose a wealth tax, in addition to the income tax, in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election in which they were both candidates. In March 2021, Warren introduced S.510, a revised version of her earlier proposal, to impose a tax on the net worth of very wealthy individuals.





Key Takeaways

A wealth tax is a tax levied on the net fair market value of a taxpayer’s assets.A wealth tax applies to the net fair market value of all or some of a variety of asset types held by a taxpayer, including cash, bank deposits, shares, fixed assets, personal cars, real property, pension plans, money funds, owner-occupied housing, and trusts.France, Norway, Spain, and Switzerland all have wealth taxes.U.S. politicians have proposed adding a wealth tax as a way to distribute the tax burden more fairly in a society with immense economic disparity.


   Understanding Wealth Taxes  

A wealth tax, also called capital tax or equity tax, is imposed on the wealth possessed by individuals. The tax usually applies to a person’s net worth, which is assets minus liabilities. These assets include (but are not limited to) cash, bank deposits, shares, fixed assets, personal cars, real property, pension plans, money funds, owner-occupied housing, and trusts.



An ad valorem tax on real estate and an intangible tax on financial assets are both examples of a wealth tax. Generally, countries that impose wealth taxes also impose income and other taxes.



Only four Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries currently levy a wealth tax: France, Norway, Spain, and Switzerland. Previously, in the early 1990s, 12 countries reportedly imposed a wealth tax, indicating that the popularity of this form of taxation is diminishing.



In the United States, federal and state governments do not impose wealth taxes. Instead, the U.S. imposes annual income and property taxes. However, some consider property tax a form of wealth tax, as the government taxes the same asset year after year. The U.S. also imposes an estate tax on the death of individuals owning high-value estates. However, that levy contributed roughly just 0.5% to total U.S. tax revenues in the past couple of years.


   Examples of a Wealth Tax  

In effect, a wealth tax impacts the net value of the assets accumulated over time and owned by a taxpayer as of the end of each tax year. An income tax impacts the flow of the additions in value that a taxpayer realizes, whether as earnings, investment returns such as interest, dividends, or rents, and/or profits on disposition of assets during the year.



Let’s look at an example of how the wealth tax differs from income tax. Assume a single taxpayer earns $120,000 annually and falls in the 24% tax bracket. That individual’s liability for the year will be 24% × $120,000 = $28,800. What is the tax liability if the government taxes wealth instead of income? If the taxpayer’s assessed net worth is $450,000 and the wealth tax is 24%, then the tax debt for the year will be 24% × $450,000 = $108,000.



In reality, annual wealth tax rates are significantly lower than annual income tax rates. In France, for example, the wealth tax used to apply to total worldwide assets. As of 2021, however, it only applied to real estate assets worth more than €800,000 ($904,166). If the value of those assets falls between €800,000 and €1,300,000, then it is subject to a 0.5% tax. Rates continue to rise at graduated thresholds—0.7%, 1%, 1.25%—until, finally, real estate assets over €10,000,000 are taxed at 1.5%. A wealth tax cap limits total taxes to 75% of income.






If a taxpayer is not a resident of a particular country, then the wealth tax generally only applies to their holdings in that country.


   S.510: Sen. Warren’s Wealth Tax  

Here’s what Sen. Warren is proposing, beginning with the 2023 tax year:



Taxpayers subject to the wealth tax: those whose net assets (i.e., assets minus debt) are valued at over $50 million, based on their 2022 valuationTax rate: 2% on net assets valued over $50 million and up to $1 billion; 3% on net assets in excess of $1 billionAssets subject to tax: all types of assets—anything that the wealthy person owns, including stock, real estate, boats, art, and moreRevenue effect: S.510 is estimated to raise up to $3 trillion over 10 years and to apply to approximately 100,000 households.



Upon introduction, the bill had seven Senate co-sponsors: Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand, Mazie Hirono, Edward Markey, Jeff Merkley, Bernie Sanders, Brian Schatz, and Sheldon Whitehouse. An eighth senator, Alex Padilla, later became another co-sponsor. Two House co-sponsors, Reps. Brenda F. Boyle and Pramila Jayapal, support a companion bill in that chamber. All are Democrats.


   Pros and Cons of a Wealth Tax  

Proponents of wealth taxes believe this type of tax is more equitable than an income tax alone, particularly in societies with significant wealth disparity. They believe that a system that raises government revenue from both the income and the net assets of taxpayers promotes fairness and equality by taking into account taxpayers’ overall economic status, and thus, their ability to pay tax.



Critics allege that wealth taxes discourage the accumulation of wealth, which they contend drives economic growth. They also emphasize that wealth taxes are difficult to administer.



Administration and enforcement of a wealth tax present challenges not typically entailed in income taxes. The difficulty of determining the fair market value of assets that lack publicly available prices leads to valuation disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities. Uncertainty about valuation also could tempt some wealthy individuals to try tax evasion.






Direct wealth taxes have been repealed in several countries over the past few decades, partly because they tend to scare off wealthy people and hinder foreign investment.



Illiquid assets present another issue for a wealth tax. Owners of significant illiquid assets may lack ready cash to pay their wealth tax liability. This creates a problem for people who have low incomes and low liquid savings but own a high-value, illiquid asset, such as a home. Similarly, a farmer who earns little but owns land with a high value may have trouble coming up with the money to pay a wealth tax.



Some accommodations may be feasible to address administrative and cash flow issues—for example, allowing tax payments to be spread over a period of years or creating special treatment for specific asset categories such as business assets. However, exceptions could undermine the purpose that many attach to a wealth tax: structuring the overall tax system to make all taxpayers pay their fair share.    




Does the United States have a wealth tax?
The United States imposes property and estate taxes but does not have a general wealth tax. However, that could soon change. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and some of her peers are trying to push through a bill that would see households and trusts worth over $50 million get taxed a percentage of their net worth (either 2% or 3%) each year.




What is good about a wealth tax?
Proponents view the wealth tax as a way to boost the government’s public spending coffers by taking extra money from those who don’t really need it. Such a tax generally only applies to the wealthiest, and it can be argued that the money it will cost them will have zero impact on their quality of life.




What is the downside of a wealth tax?
A wealth tax is difficult to administer, tends to encourage tax evasion, and has the potential to drive the wealthy away from countries that enforce it. These caveats, coupled with debates about how to implement it fairly, perhaps explain why so few countries in the world impose such a tax on their residents.
What Is a Wear and Tear Exclusion?  

A wear and tear exclusion is a provision in an insurance policy that states that the normal deterioration of the insured object is not covered by the insurance policy. Insurance is designed only to protect against unforeseen losses. If insurance covered inevitable losses, insurers would have to raise their premiums dramatically to cover the expenses.





Key Takeaways

A wear and tear exclusion in an insurance contract states that losses due to normal deterioration of the insured property are not covered.The list of exclusions in a policy may be extensive.The insurer and insured may disagree on whether wear and tear contributed to the damage.


   Understanding the Wear and Tear Exclusion  

Wear and tear exclusions are fairly common. Auto insurance policies, for example, do not cover the cost of replacing auto parts that deteriorate with time and use, such as brake pads, timing belts, and water pumps. Auto insurance policies cover only unpredictable events such as collisions.﻿﻿



Wear and tear exclusions are designed to keep an insurer from being held liable when damage results from a customer’s failure to properly maintain, repair, and replace deteriorated or defective portions of the insured property. To prepare for predictable losses from wear and tear, owners can self-insure by setting aside money each month in an emergency fund.


  Exclusions Are Specified  

The exclusions and limitations that are specified in the contract are what determine if a property loss is covered. The list of exclusions is generally extensive.



An insurance company may cite “wear and tear” on a claim in an effort to avoid a contractual payment. In the case of a natural disaster such as a flood or tornado, insurers will often try to invoke “wear and tear” and blame the property damage on a preexisting condition.



Other common exclusions include poor maintenance, prior damage, manufacturing defects, or faulty installation. Roof damage claims are often a cause of contention. Insurers may point to the age of the roof or its maintenance record as a cause of the damage instead of a hailstorm.






Damage to older properties is often the cause of disputes between insured and insurer.


  When Parties Disagree  

A dispute over a claim can result in an insurance bad faith lawsuit. This is particularly common when older commercial properties are damaged. An insurance company will inspect the property prior to selling the policy, and the report may show the property was in acceptable or even good condition, but the insurance company may still attempt to make the “wear and tear” argument.﻿﻿


  Wear and Tear Exclusion and Anti-Concurrent Cause Language  

A wear and tear exclusion will not have what is commonly referred to as “anti-concurrent cause” lead-in language. This indicates that damage caused or aggravated by multiple factors, including covered and uncovered causes, will not be covered. An Illinois court ruled in 1983 that, in the absence of such “anti-concurrent cause” lead-in language, when a covered and an uncovered peril combine to cause a loss, the whole loss is covered.﻿﻿
What Is Wearable Technology?  

Wearable technology, also known as "wearables," is a category of electronic devices that can be worn as accessories, embedded in clothing, implanted in the user's body, or even tattooed on the skin. The devices are hands-free gadgets with practical uses, powered by microprocessors and enhanced with the ability to send and receive data via the Internet.



The rapid adoption of such devices has placed wearable technology at the forefront of the Internet of things (IoT).





Key Takeaways

Wearable technology is evolving into an important category of the Internet of things, with life-changing applications in medicine and other fields.Also known as wearables, the growth of mobile networks, high-speed data transfer, and miniaturized microprocessors have enabled the development of this technology.These technologies may be worn, embedded in fabric or accessories, or tattooed directly onto the skin.


   How Wearable Technology Works  

Wearable technology can be said to have existed since eyeglasses were first developed in the 13th century. Timepieces small enough to be worn have been around since about 1500. But modern wearable technology is defined as incorporating a microprocessor and an internet connection.



The growth of mobile networks enabled the development of wearable technology. Fitness activity trackers were the first big wave of wearable technology to catch on with consumers. Then, the wristwatch became a screen and more robust mobile applications were added. Bluetooth headsets, smartwatches, and web-enabled glasses all allow people to receive data from Wi-Fi networks. The gaming industry adds more wearables, with virtual reality and augmented reality headsets.


   Specialized and Practical Applications  

There have been some flops, too, notably Google Glass. The Internet-connected eyeglasses may yet re-emerge for specialized uses but they most definitely did not make it as a fashion accessory.



The focus in the development of wearable technology now appears to be moving from consumer accessories to more specialized and practical applications. Microchip implants are now being used to replace keys and passwords. Embedded in a fingertip, the chips use near-field communication (NFC) or radio-frequency identification (RFID) and are similar to the chips used to track lost pets.



The real life-altering applications in wearable technology, however, can be found in medical devices.






Cyrcadia Health has developed Cyrcadia Breast Monitor, an intelligent patch that can detect early signs of breast cancer and transmit the information to a lab for analysis.


   Examples of Wearable Technology  

The past few years have seen rapid development and introduction of wearable technology products adapted for medical and healthcare uses. These include:



In Louisville, Kentucky, wearable devices made by AIR Louisville are being used to monitor local air quality, measure pollutants, and identify hotspots for residents with respiratory problems.
Cyrcadia Health has developed Cyrcadia Breast Monitor, an intelligent patch that can detect early signs of breast cancer and transmit the information to a lab for analysis.
Wearable medical alert monitors are extending greater mobility and independence to the elderly and impaired.
Smart tattoos that contain flexible electronic sensors are being developed to monitor heart and brain activity, sleep disorders, and muscle function. While these are temporary, even inks are being explored!
A smartwatch for people with Parkinson's disease tracks symptoms and transmits the data so that more personalized treatment plans can be developed.
What Is a Weather Derivative?  

A weather derivative is a financial instrument used by companies or individuals to hedge against the risk of weather-related losses. The seller of a weather derivative agrees to bear the risk of disasters in return for a premium. If no damages occur before the expiration of the contract, the seller will make a profit—and in the event of unexpected or adverse weather, the buyer of the derivative claims the agreed amount.





Key Takeaways

A weather derivative is a financial instrument used by companies or individuals to hedge against the risk of weather-related losses.They trade over-the-counter (OTC), through brokers, and via an exchange.Weather derivatives work like insurance, paying out contract holders if weather events occur or if losses are incurred due to certain weather-related events.Agriculture, tourism and travel, and energy are just a few of the sectors that utilize weather derivatives to mitigate the risks of weather.


   Understanding Weather Derivatives  

The profitability and revenues of virtually every industry—agriculture, energy, entertainment, construction, travel, and others—depend to a great extent on the vagaries of temperature, rainfall, and storms. Unexpected weather rarely results in price adjustments that entirely make up for lost revenue, making weather derivatives securities that allow companies to hedge against the possibility of weather that might adversely affect their business a pivotal investment for many.



Companies whose business depends on the weather, such as hydroelectric businesses or those who manage sporting events, might use weather derivatives as part of a risk-management strategy. Farmers, meanwhile, may use weather derivatives to hedge against a poor harvest caused by too much or too little rain, sudden temperature swings, or destructive winds.






It is estimated that nearly one-third of the world's GDP is affected by the climate.



In 1997, weather derivatives began trading over-the-counter (OTC) and, within a few years, they had become tradeable on an exchange and treated by some hedge funds as an investment class. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) lists weather futures contracts for a few dozen cities, the majority of them in the U.S.



CME weather futures, unlike OTC contracts, are standardized contracts traded publicly on the open market in an electronic auction type of environment, with continuous negotiation of prices and complete price transparency. Investors who like weather derivatives appreciate their low correlation with traditional markets.


   Types of Weather Derivatives  

Weather derivatives typically have a basis to an index that measures a particular aspect of weather. For example, an index might be the total rainfall over a specified period in a specific place. Another can be for the number of times the temperature falls below freezing. 



One climate index for weather derivatives is known as heating degree days or HDD. Under HDD contracts, each day the daily mean temperature falls below a predetermined reference point over a specified period, the amount of the departure is recorded and added to a cumulative count. The final figure determines whether the seller pays out or receives payment.


   Weather Derivatives vs. Insurance  

Weather derivatives are similar to but different from insurance. Insurance covers low-probability, catastrophic weather events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and tornadoes. In contrast, derivatives cover higher-probability events such as a dryer-than-expected summer.



Insurance does not protect against the reduction of demand resulting from a slightly wetter summer than average, for example, whereas weather derivatives can do just that. Since weather derivatives and insurance cover two different possibilities, a company might have an interest in purchasing both.



Also, since the contract is index-based, buyers of weather derivatives do not need to demonstrate a loss. In order to collect insurance, on the other hand, the damage must be shown.


   Weather Derivatives vs. Commodity Derivatives  

One important point that differentiates utilities/commodity derivatives (power, electricity, agricultural) and weather derivatives is that the former set allows hedging on price based on a specific volume, while the latter offers to hedge the actual utilization or the yield, independent of the volume.



For instance, one can lock the price of X barrels of crude oil or X bushels of corn by buying oil futures or corn futures, respectively. But getting into weather derivatives allows hedging the overall risk for yield and utilization.



A temperature dipping below 10 degrees will result in complete damage to wheat crop, whereas rain on weekends in Las Vegas will impact city tours. Hence, a combination of weather and commodity derivatives is best for overall risk mitigation.




What Are Climate Derivatives?
Climate derivatives are financial instruments used to hedge against financial losses related to adverse weather conditions, such as droughts, hurricanes, and monsoons. Climate derivatives, also known as weather derivatives, work in a similar fashion to insurance. The buyer of a climate derivative will receive a monetary payment (as stipulated by the derivative contract) by the seller of the derivative in the event a certain climate-related event occurs or if the buyer suffers any financial loss due to a climate event.




How Do Weather Derivatives Work?
Weather derivatives work as a contract between a buyer and a seller. The seller of a weather derivative receives a premium from a buyer with the understanding that the seller will provide a monetary amount in case the buyer suffers an economic loss due to adverse weather or if any adverse weather occurs. If no adverse weather event occurs, then the seller makes a profit through the premium paid.




What Are the Types of Derivatives?
A derivative is a financial instrument whose value is tied to an underlying asset. The main types of derivatives are options, futures, forwards, and swaps.
What Is Weather Future?  

Weather future is a type of weather derivative where the payoffs are based on the aggregate difference in the measured weather variable, usually the recorded temperature, over a fixed period.





Key Takeaways

Weather futures enable businesses to protect themselves against losses caused by unexpected shifts in weather conditions.Weather future payoffs are based on the aggregate difference in the measured weather variable, usually the recorded temperature, over a fixed period.Weather futures sprung up in the early 1990s as a way for firms to hedge their weather exposure based on changes to indexes that measure changes in average daily temperatures.The most common weather future contract applies to the recorded temperature, measured in HDD or CDD, at a future date.


   Understanding Weather Futures  

Weather futures enable businesses to protect themselves against losses caused by unexpected shifts in weather conditions. While businesses may have property-casualty insurance policies to cover physical damage caused by relatively rare weather-related events, such as a windstorm or hail, these insurance policies will not cover economic losses if customers aren't able to show up due to heavy rain, or if crops fail to thrive in hot weather.



Weather futures sprung up in the early 1990s as a way for firms to hedge their weather exposure based on changes to indexes that measure changes in average daily temperatures.



Essentially, a weather future obligates the buyer to purchase the cash value of the underlying weather index. The most common weather future contract applies to the recorded temperature, measured in heating degree days (HDD) or cooling degree days (CDD), at a future date. The settlement price of the underlying weather index is typically equal to the value of the relevant month's HDD/CDD multiplied by $20.



An HDD is defined as the number of degrees that a day's average temperature is below 65o Fahrenheit (18o Celsius). Conversely, a CDD is the number of degrees that a day's average temperature is above 65o Fahrenheit (18o Celsius). 650 was chosen as a benchmark by the energy sector to delineate the temperature where minimal heating or cooling occurs in office buildings. Payout is dependent on the cumulative difference in the daily temperatures relative to the benchmark (650) over a fixed period.



The buyer of an HDD weather futures contract will stand to gain if the cumulative temperature is below the specified level as heating occurs when temperatures are lower. The opposite would be true for the buyer of a CDD weather futures contract, where they will stand to gain if the cumulative temperature is above the specified level as cooling occurs when temperatures are higher.



The popularity of weather futures is growing rapidly and becoming a more common method for energy companies or agricultural producers to hedge against a change in demand due to changes in temperature. For example, if the month of October is warmer than expected, customers will not use as much heat. This will cause a loss for the energy company. If, however, the energy company has sold a weather future for the month of October, the energy company will receive the value of October's HDD, providing compensation for its losses.



It has been estimated that roughly 20% of the American economy is prone to be affected directly by the weather and that the profitability for virtually every industry sector—e.g., agriculture, energy, travel and entertainment, and construction, to name just a few—depend on fluctuations in temperature, wind, and precipitation. During sworn testimony to Congress in 1998, former commerce secretary William Daley suggested, "Weather is not just an environmental issue, it is a major economic factor. At least $1 trillion of our economy is weather-sensitive."


   Weather Futures and CME  

In 1999, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) introduced exchange-traded weather futures, as well as options on those futures, for the first time. Previously, over-the-counter (OTC) weather derivatives were privately negotiated, individualized agreements made between two parties.



The CME weather futures and options on futures are standardized contracts traded publicly on the open market in an electronic auction type of environment, with continuous negotiation of prices and complete price transparency, measured in heating degree days (HDD) or cooling degree days (CDD).



CME listed weather futures use such indexes to reflect monthly and seasonal average temperatures for 15 U.S. and five European cities, and they are cash-settled futures. These contracts' settlement prices are determined by the final monthly or seasonal index value as calculated by the Earth Satellite (EarthSat) Corp, a global corporation specializing in geographic information systems (GIS). Other firms will determine values for non-CME traded futures contracts.
What Is Weather Insurance?  

The term weather insurance refers to a form of financial protection against losses or damages incurred because of adverse, measurable weather conditions. These conditions generally include wind, snow, rain/thunderstorms, fog, and undesirable temperatures.



Weather insurance as a separate policy is commonly used to protect businesses and their related activities. As such, these policies serve various purposes, such as insuring an expensive event that could be ruined by bad weather. Insurers cover insured entities if weather conditions cause a loss of revenue from events.





Key Takeaways

Weather insurance offers financial protection against a loss that may be incurred as a result of adverse, measurable weather conditions.Premiums are determined by the likelihood of the insured weather event occurring and the amount of potential loss.Conventional weather insurance generally covers low-probability weather, including hurricanes, earthquakes, and tornados.Protection against high-probability meteorological events can be secured via weather derivatives, a financial instrument to hedge against the risk of weather-related losses.


   How Weather Insurance Works  

Weather influences our daily lives and can have a huge impact on corporate revenues and earnings. So, weather insurance, taken out in a standalone insurance policy, is commonly used to protect businesses and their related activities—such as insuring an expensive event that could be ruined or severely impacted by bad weather. Weather insurance can cover events like festivals, concerts, trade shows, seasonal events, parades, film shoots, fundraisers, and sporting events. But it can also be used by individuals to cover major celebrations, such as an outdoor wedding.



Conventional weather insurance generally includes coverage for low-probability meteorological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, and tornados. Insurers would offer reimbursement if weather conditions cause a loss of revenue from events, or the cancellation of them outright.



The premium for weather insurance is based on several factors, including the location and time of year. In other words, the dollar amount clients are charged for coverage is determined by the likelihood of the insured weather event occurring and the amount of potential loss. An actuary at the insurance company looks at weather data going back many decades to decide how to price a policy. If, for example, Cleveland gets a white Christmas every 10 years, then the insurer knows that the probability of such an event is 10%, and would set premium rates accordingly.


   Purpose of Weather Insurance  

Weather insurance is a necessity for many companies and is considered to be a key risk management strategy. It’s also highly customizable. For example, an insured party can choose the number of days, weather events, and severity of weather that will be covered by the policy.



Businesses sometimes even use these policies as a sales gimmick to lure in customers. For instance, a furniture store may advertise that all buyers of furniture in December will get their purchases free if it snows more than two inches on Christmas. In such cases, the store would buy a policy to cover this specific event.






Protection against losses caused by adverse weather conditions is covered to a certain degree by other types of insurance policies, such as homeowners insurance, property insurance, or special event insurance.


   Example of Weather Insurance  

Let's say an event planner is organizing an outdoor festival for a weekend in the summer. Although they sell tickets to the festival itself, the event organizer also expects to earn revenue from sales of food, drinks, and products—a cut of what various vendors are offering. The organizer sets the date but is unsure about whether weather conditions will cooperate.



In order to make sure there are no hiccups during the festival, the organizer decides to take out a weather insurance policy. If the festival gets a poor turnout due to rain, the organizer can file an insurance claim with the insurance company to make up lost revenue, provided premiums are paid up.


   Weather Insurance vs. Weather Derivatives  

Until recently, insurance has been the main tool used by companies for protection against unexpected weather conditions. The problem is that conventional insurance usually only provides coverage for catastrophic damage and does nothing to protect against the reduced demand businesses experience as a result of weather that is warmer or colder than expected.





20%

Percent of the U.S. economy that is directly affected by the weather.



Enter weather derivatives. They provide protection of a sort, but they are not insurance—rather, they are financial instruments used by companies or individuals to hedge against the risk of weather-related losses. The seller of a weather derivative agrees to bear the risk of disasters in return for a premium. That means that if no damages occur before the expiration of the contract, they end up making a profit. In the event of unexpected or adverse weather, they pay the buyer of the derivative the agreed-upon amount reimbursement.


  Weather Derivatives Background  

In the late 1990s, people began to realize if they quantified and indexed weather in terms of monthly or seasonal average temperatures and attached a dollar amount to each index value, they could "package" and trade the weather. The very first transaction of the sort was conducted in 1997 in a power contract by Aquila Energy.



From here, the weather became a tradable commodity, comparable to trading the varying values of stock indices, currencies, interest rates, and agricultural commodities. 



Weather derivatives usually cover low-risk, high-probability events. Weather insurance, on the other hand, typically protects against high-risk, low-probability occurrences, as defined in a highly customized policy. Because weather insurance and derivatives deal with two different possibilities, a company might have an interest in purchasing both.
What Is Web 2.0?  

Web 2.0 describes the current state of the internet, which has more user-generated content and usability for end-users compared to its earlier incarnation, Web 1.0. Web 2.0 generally refers to the 21st-century internet applications that have transformed the digital era in the aftermath of the dotcom bubble.





Key Takeaways

Web 2.0 describes the current state of the internet, which has more user-generated content and usability for end-users compared to its earlier incarnation, Web 1.0.It does not refer to any specific technical upgrades to the internet; it refers to a shift in how the internet is used.There is a higher level of information sharing and interconnectedness among participants in the new age of the internetIt allowed for the creation of applications such as Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Reddit, TikTok, and Wikipedia.Web 2.0 paved the way for Web 3.0, the next generation of the web that uses many of the same technologies to approach problems differently.


   Understanding Web 2.0  

The term Web 2.0 first came into use in 1999 as the internet pivoted toward a system that actively engaged the user. Users were encouraged to provide content, rather than just viewing it. The social aspect of the internet has been particularly transformed; in general, social media allows users to engage and interact with one another by sharing thoughts, perspectives, and opinions. Users can tag, share, post, and like.



Web 2.0 does not refer to any specific technical upgrades to the internet. It simply refers to a shift in how the internet is used in the 21st century. In the new age, there is a higher level of information sharing and interconnectedness among participants. This new version allows users to actively participate in the experience rather than just acting as passive viewers who take in information.



Because of Web 2.0, people can publish articles and comments on different platforms, increasing engaged content creation and participation through the creation of accounts on different sites. It also gave rise to web apps, self-publishing platforms like WordPress, Medium, Substack, as well as social media sites. Examples of Web 2.0 sites include Wikipedia, Facebook, X, and various blogs, which all transformed the way the same information is shared and delivered.


   History of Web 2.0  

In a 1999 article called Fragmented Future, Darcy DiNucci coined the phrase Web 2.0. In the article, DiNucci mentions that the "first glimmerings" of this new stage of the web were beginning to appear. In Fragmented Future, DiNucci describes Web 2.0 as a "transport mechanism, the ether through which interactivity happens."



The phrase became popularized after a 2004 conference held by O'Reilly Media and MediaLive International. Tim O'Reilly, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of the media company, is credited with the streamlining of the process, as he hosted various interviews and Web 2.0 conferences to explore the early business models for web content.



The interworking of Web 2.0 has continually evolved over the years. Instead of a single instance of Web 2.0 having been created, its definition and capabilities continue to change. For example, Justin Hall is credited as being one of the first bloggers, though his personal blog dates back to 1994.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Web 2.0  
  Advantages  

The development of technology has allowed users to share their thoughts and opinions with others, creating new ways of organizing and connecting with other people. One of the largest advantages of Web 2.0 is improved communication through web applications that enhance interactivity, collaboration, and knowledge sharing.



This is most evident through social networking, where individuals armed with a Web 2.0 connection can publish content, share ideas, extract information, and subscribe to various informational feeds. This has brought about major strides in marketing optimization as more strategic, targeted marketing approaches are now possible.



Web 2.0 also brings about a certain level of equity. Most individuals have an equal chance of posting their views and comments, and each individual may build a network of contacts. Because information may be transmitted more quickly under Web 2.0 compared to prior methods of information sharing, the latest updates and news may be available to more people.


  Disadvantages  

Unfortunately, there are a lot of disadvantages to the internet acting more like an open forum. Through the expansion of social media, we have seen an increase in online stalking, doxing, cyberbullying, identity theft, and other online crimes. There is also the threat of misinformation spreading among users, whether that's through open-source information-sharing sites or on social media.



Individuals may blame Web 2.0 for misinformation, information overload, or the unreliability of what people read. As almost anyone can post anything via various blogs, social media, or Web 2.0 outlets, there is an increased risk of confusion on what is real and what sources may be deemed reliable.



As a result, Web 2.0 brings about higher stakes regarding communication. It's more likely to have fake accounts, spammers, forgers, or hackers that attempt to steal information, imitate personas, or trick unsuspecting Web 2.0 users into following their agenda. As Web 2.0 doesn't always and can't verify information, there is a heightened risk for bad actors to take advantage of opportunities.


   Web 2.0 vs. Web 1.0  

Web 1.0 is used to describe the first stage of the internet. At this point, there were few content creators; most of those using the internet were consumers. Static pages were more common than dynamic HTML, which incorporates interactive and animated websites with specific coding or language.



Content in this stage came from a server’s file system rather than a database management system. Users were able to sign online guestbooks and HTML forms were sent via email. Examples of internet sites that are classified as Web 1.0 are Britannica Online, personal websites, and mp3.com. In general, these websites are static and have limited functionality and flexibility.





Web 2.0

Dynamic information (always changing)
Less control over user input
Promotes greater collaboration, as channels are more dynamic and flexible
Considered much more social and interative-driven



Web 1.0

Static information (more difficult to change)
More controlled user input
Promoted individual contribution; channels were less dynamic
Consider much more informative and data-driven





   Web 2.0 vs. Web 3.0  

The world is already shifting into the next iteration of the web (appropriately dubbed "Web 3.0"). Though both rely on many similar technologies, they use the available capabilities to solve problems differently.



One strong example of Web 3.0 relates to currency. Under Web 2.0, users could input fiat currency information such as bank account information or credit card data. This information could be processed by the receiver to allow for transactions. Web 3.0 strives to approach the transaction process using similar but different processes. With the introduction of Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other cryptocurrencies, the same problem can be solved in a theoretically more efficient way under Web 3.0.



Web 3.0 is more heavily rooted in increasing the trust between users. More often, applications rely on decentralization, letting data be exchanged in several locations simultaneously. Web 3.0 is also more likely to incorporate artificial intelligence or machine learning applications.





Web 2.0

Focuses on reading and writing content
May be more susceptible to less-secure technology
May use more antiquated, simpler processing techniques
Primarily aims to connect people



Web 3.0

Focused on creating content
Often has more robust cybersecurity measures
May incorporate more advanced concepts such as AI or machine learning
Primarily aims to connect data or information





   Web 2.0 Components  

There is no single, universally-accepted definition for Web 2.0. Instead, it's best described as a series of components that, when put together, create an online environment of interactivity and greater capacity compared to the original version of the web. Here are the more prominent components of Web 2.0.


  Wikis  

Wikis are often information repositories that collect input from various users. Users may edit, update, and change the information within a web page, meaning there is often no singular owner of the page or the information within. As opposed to users simply absorbing information given to them, wiki-based sites such as Wikipedia are successful when users contribute information to the site.


  Software Applications  

The early days of the web relied upon local software being installed on-premises. With Web 2.0, applications gained a greater opportunity to be housed off-site, downloaded over the web, or even offered as a service via web applications and cloud computing. This has shepherded a new type of business model where companies can sell software applications on a monthly subscription basis.


  Social Networking  

Often one of the aspects most thought of when discussing Web 2.0. Social networking is similar to wikis in that individuals are empowered to post information on the web. Whereas wikis are informational and often require verification, social networking has looser constraints on what can be posted. In addition, users have greater capabilities to interact and connect with other social networking users.


  General User-Generated Content  

In addition to social media posts, users can more easily post artwork, images, audio, video, or other user-generated media. This information shared online for purchase or may be freely distributed. This has led to greater distribution of content creator crediting (though creators are at greater risk for their content being stolen by others).


  Crowdsourcing  

Though many may think of Web 2.0 as allowing for individual contribution, Web 2.0 brought about great capabilities regarding crowdsourced, crowdfunded, and crowd-tested content. Web 2.0 let individuals collectively share resources to meet a common goal, whether that goal be knowledge-based or financial.






There is no single universally accepted definition for Web 2.0 or Web 3.0. Because of its expansive nature, it's often hard to confine the boundaries of Web 2.0 into a single simple definition.


   Web 2.0 Applications  

The components above are directly related to the applications of Web 2.0. Those components allowed for new types of software, platforms, or applications that are still used today.



Zoom, Netflix, and Spotify are all examples of software as a service (SaaS). With the greater capability of connecting individuals via Web 2.0, off-premise software applications are exponentially more capable and powerful.
HuffPost, Boing Boing, and Techcrunch are blogs that allow users to input opinions and information onto web pages. These pages are informative similar to Web 1.0; however, individual contributors have a much greater capability in creating and distributing their own informative content.
X, Instagram, Facebook, and Threads are social media networks that allow for personalized content to be uploaded to the web. This content can then be shared with a private collection of friends or with a broad social media user base.
Reddit, Digg, and Pinterest are also applications that allow for user input. These types of applications are more geared towards organizing social content around specific themes or topics, much like how original forums used to.
YouTube, TikTok, and Flickr are even more examples of content sharing. However, specific applications specialize in the distribution of multimedia, video, or audio.




What Does Web 2.0 Mean?
Web 2.0 describes how the initial version of the web has advanced into a more robust, capable system. After the initial breakthrough of the initial web capabilities, greater technologies were developed to allow users to more freely interact and contribute to what resides on the web. The ability for web users to be greater connected to other web users is at the core of Web 2.0.




What Are Examples of Web 2.0 Applications?
The most commonly cited examples of Web 2.0 applications include Facebook, X, Instagram, or Tiktok. These sites allow users to interact with web pages instead of simply viewing them. These types of websites extend to sites like Wikipedia, where a broad range of users can help form the information that is shared and distributed on the web.




Is Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 the Same?
Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 use many of the same technologies (AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3). Web 3.0 is more likely to leverage even more modern technologies or principles in an attempt to connect the information to drive even greater value.


   The Bottom Line  

In the early days of web browsing, users would often navigate to simple web pages filled with information and limited-to-no ability to interact with the page. Today, the web has advanced and allows for users to connect with others, contribute information, and have greater flexibility in how the web is being used. Though Web 2.0 is already shaping the way for Web 3.0, many of the fundamental pieces of Web 2.0 are still used today.
What Is Web Syndication?  

Web syndication is a marketing strategy for websites that grants a right or license to broadcast or distribute content from one site to another. The most common example of web syndication is a content licensing arrangement between two or more Internet companies in which one company provides content to be published and promoted on the other's website.





Key Takeaways

Web syndication is a marketing strategy that involves licensing the rights to broadcast or distribute content from one Internet site to another.Web syndication usually occurs between smaller, content-producing sites and larger websites that have built-in audiences.The content site increases its exposure and traffic and the distributing site is able to attract more users by providing more content.Search engine optimization (SEO) is one of the benefits of web syndication because it allows additional traffic to reach the content-producing site due to the links and codes embedded in the files.Content-producing websites can also pay for syndication to have their material showcased in high-traffic areas, such as Facebook or Instagram, or the top searches in Google and Yahoo.


   Understanding Web Syndication  

Web syndication is generally a free arrangement that's equally and mutually beneficial to both parties. Syndication increases the exposure of the website that provides the content and it may provide considerably more traffic for very little to no cost. The practice can make the content syndicator's websites more attractive to users by providing more in-depth information.



This relationship is especially common between niche, low-traffic, content-producing websites and larger websites that have large, built-in audiences, but they may not have the capability to create specialized, in-depth content.






Web syndication is the online version of content sharing that's been going on since the early days of print, radio, and television.



When a show originally aired in the early days of television, it was produced by and shown on just one network. The original network licensed it out or syndicated it after the show's conclusion, allowing another network to air it for a fee.



The one element that guides all syndication is the ability to access a larger audience for whatever content is being syndicated. 


   Web Syndication and Link Building  

Web syndication is a key tool in link building. The links embedded in a piece of syndicated content will drive traffic back to the originating website with search engine optimization (SEO). The additional web traffic that syndication can provide can help the content-providing website improve its search results and overall site ranking in an Internet search.



Web syndication may allow the company providing the content to earn additional page views and exposure to its content and its website. The benefits for the site hosting the provided material are fresh content to appeal to consumers and additional traffic. Web syndication is also sometimes referred to as "content syndication."


   Web Syndication and Paid Traffic  

A website might sometimes want to pay for syndication to get its material placed in a specific location on a high-traffic site. The bigger the distributor's site, the greater the fee usually is. Such distributors include Yahoo and Google, as well as social media platforms like Facebook and X (formerly Twitter).



There are also content syndication networks that can help bloggers spread their content. These are often seen at the bottom of web pages as "related posts" or "similar articles from around the web" and they include providers such as Outbrain, Nativo, Zemanta, and Taboola.



It's usually noted on the platform when a content-producing site pays for traffic. It may be stated that the content is an "ad" or "sponsored" on social media and similarly on search page results. The post or content might be at the top of the page and noted as a "sponsored ad."



The cost of paying for traffic is significantly less than the traditional cost of advertising space on radio or television. It costs just a few dollars to advertise content on Facebook or Instagram, but this is different from true web syndication that relies on licensing agreements.




What Do Sites Gain From Web Syndication?
The distributing site attracts more users because it's able to provide more content. The content site also increases its traffic and exposure.




Do Sites Have to Pay For Syndication?
Web syndication is often free but sometimes a fee is charged by high-traffic sites. The fee usually increases based on the size of the distributor's site because the content provider is paying for traffic. Paying for syndication can ensure premium placement on a high-traffic site and the fee is often less than paying for advertising.




Are There Any Limits to the Types of Content That Can Be Syndicated?
It depends on the distributor. Product videos, images and descriptions are typically accepted. The distributor should tell you upfront what it will or will not accept, but it may simply adjust your copy and images to meet its standards.


   The Bottom Line  

Web syndication is a content licensing agreement between Internet companies. One company provides content to be published and promoted on the other company's website, sometimes in exchange for a fee. The arrangement can provide benefits to both parties, and the cost can be much less than standard advertising on radio or television or in print media.
What Is a Wedge?  

A wedge is a price pattern marked by converging trend lines on a price chart. The two trend lines are drawn to connect the respective highs and lows of a price series over the course of 10 to 50 periods. The lines show that the highs and the lows are either rising or falling at differing rates, giving the appearance of a wedge as the lines approach a convergence. Wedge shaped trend lines are considered useful indicators of a potential reversal in price action by technical analysts.





Key Takeaways

Wedge patterns are usually characterized by converging trend lines over 10 to 50 trading periods.The patterns may be considered rising or falling wedges depending on their direction.These patterns have an unusually good track record for forecasting price reversals.






   Understanding the Wedge Pattern  

A wedge pattern can signal either bullish or bearish price reversals. In either case, this pattern holds three common characteristics: first, the converging trend lines; second, a pattern of declining volume as the price progresses through the pattern; third, a breakout from one of the trend lines. The two forms of the wedge pattern are a rising wedge (which signals a bearish reversal) or a falling wedge (which signals a bullish reversal).


   Rising Wedge  

This usually occurs when a security’s price has been rising over time, but it can also occur in the midst of a downward trend as well.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The trend lines drawn above and below the price chart pattern can converge to help a trader or analyst anticipate a breakout reversal. While price can be out of either trend line, wedge patterns have a tendency to break in the opposite direction from the trend lines.



Therefore, rising wedge patterns indicate the more likely potential of falling prices after a breakout of the lower trend line. Traders can make bearish trades after the breakout by selling the security short or using derivatives such as futures or options, depending on the security being charted. These trades would seek to profit on the potential that prices will fall.


   Falling Wedge  

When a security's price has been falling over time, a wedge pattern can occur just as the trend makes its final downward move. The trend lines drawn above the highs and below the lows on the price chart pattern can converge as the price slide loses momentum and buyers step in to slow the rate of decline. Before the lines converge, the price may breakout above the upper trend line.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



When the price breaks the upper trend line, the security is expected to reverse and trend higher. Traders identifying bullish reversal signals would want to look for trades that benefit from the security’s rise in price.


   Trading Advantages for Wedge Patterns  

As a general rule, price pattern strategies for trading systems rarely yield returns that outperform buy-and-hold strategies over time, but some patterns do appear to be useful in forecasting general price trends nonetheless. Some studies suggest that a wedge pattern will breakout towards a reversal (a bullish breakout for falling wedges and a bearish breakout for rising wedges) more often than two-thirds of the time, with a falling wedge being a more reliable indicator than a rising wedge.



Because wedge patterns converge to a smaller price channel, the distance between the price on entry of the trade and the price for a stop loss, is relatively smaller than the start of the pattern. This means that a stop loss can be placed close by at the time the trade begins, and if the trade is successful, the outcome can yield a greater return than the amount risked on the trade to begin with.




Is a Wedge a Continuation or a Reversal Pattern?
A wedge pattern indicates a reversal. The reversal is either bearish or bullish, depending on how the trend lines converge, what the trading volume is, and whether the wedge is falling or rising.




Is a Falling Wedge Pattern Bullish?
A falling wedge pattern is seen as a bullish signal as it reflects that a sliding price is starting to lose momentum, and that buyers are starting to move in to slow down the fall. 




Is a Rising Wedge Pattern Bullish or Bearish?
Usually, a rising wedge pattern is bearish, indicating that a stock that has been on the rise is on the verge of having a breakout reversal, and therefore likely to slide.
What Are Bank Reserves?  

Bank reserves are the cash minimums that financial institutions must have on hand in order to meet central bank requirements. This is real paper money that must be kept by the bank in a vault on-site or held in its account at the central bank. Cash reserves requirements are intended to ensure that every bank can meet any large and unexpected demand for withdrawals.



In the U.S., the Federal Reserve dictates the amount of cash, called the reserve ratio, that each bank must maintain. Historically, the reserve ratio has ranged from zero to 10% of bank deposits.






Bank reserves are the minimal amounts of cash that banks are required to keep on hand in case of unexpected demand.Excess reserves are the additional cash that a bank keeps on hand and declines to lend out.Bank reserves are kept to prevent the panic that can arise if customers discover that a bank doesn't have enough cash on hand to meet immediate demands.Bank reserves may be kept in a vault on-site or sent to a bigger bank or a regional Federal Reserve bank facility.Historically, the reserve rate for American banks has been set at zero to 10%.


   How Bank Reserves Work  

Bank reserves are primarily an antidote to panic. The Federal Reserve obliges banks to hold a certain amount of cash in reserve so that they never run short and have to refuse a customer's withdrawal, possibly triggering a bank run.



A central bank may also use bank reserve levels as a tool in monetary policy. It can lower the reserve requirement so that banks are free to make a number of new loans and increase economic activity. Or it can require that the banks increase their reserves to slow economic growth.



In recent years, the U.S. Federal Reserve and the central banks of other developed economies have turned to other tactics such as quantitative easing (QE) to achieve the same goals. The central banks in emerging nations such as China continue to rely on raising or lowering bank reserve levels to cool down or heat up their economies.






The Federal Reserve cut the cash reserve minimum to zero percent effective March 26, 2020, as the global pandemic set in.


  Required and Excess Bank Reserves  

Bank reserves are termed either required reserves or excess reserves. The required reserve is the minimum cash the bank can keep on hand. The excess reserve is any cash over the required minimum that the bank is holding in its vault rather than lending out to businesses and consumers.



Banks have little incentive to maintain excess reserves because cash earns no return and may even lose value over time due to inflation. Thus, banks normally minimize their excess reserves, lending the money to clients rather than holding it in their vaults.



In good times, businesses and consumers borrow more and spend more. During recessions, they can't or won't take on additional debt. In downtimes, the banks may also toughen their lending requirements to avoid defaults.






Bank reserves decrease during periods of economic expansion and increase during recessions.


   History of Bank Reserves  

Despite the determined efforts of Alexander Hamilton, among others, the U.S. didn't have a national banking system for more than a couple of short periods of time until 1913, when the Federal Reserve System was created. (By 1863, the country at least had a national currency and a national bank chartering system.)



Until then, banks were chartered and regulated by states, with varying results. Bank collapses and "runs" on banks were common until a full-blown financial panic in 1907 led to calls for reform. The Federal Reserve System was created to oversee the nation's money supply.



Its role was significantly expanded in 1977 when, during a period of double-digit inflation, Congress defined price stability as a national policy goal and directed the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) within the Fed to carry it out.


   Special Considerations  

The required bank reserve follows a formula set by Federal Reserve Board regulations. The formula is based on the total amount deposited in the bank's net transaction accounts.



The figure includes demand deposits, automatic transfer accounts, and share draft accounts. Net transactions are calculated as the total amount in transaction accounts minus funds due from other banks, and minus cash that is in the process of being collected.



The required reserve ratio can also be used by a central bank as a tool to implement monetary policies. Through this ratio, a central bank can influence the amount of money available for borrowing.


  Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)  

In addition to bank reserve requirements set by the Federal Reserve, banks must also follow liquidity requirements set by the Basel Accords. The Basel Accords are a series of banking regulations established by representatives from major global financial centers.






Required bank reserves are determined by the Federal Reserve for each bank based on its net transactions.



After the collapse of the U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers in 2008, the Basel Accords were strengthened in an agreement known as Basel III. This required banks to maintain an appropriate liquidity coverage ratio (LCR). The LCR requires banks and other financial institutions to hold enough cash and liquid assets to cover fund outflows for 30 days.



In the event of a financial crisis, the LCR is designed to help banks keep from having to borrow money from the central bank. The LCR is intended to ensure banks have enough capital on hand to ride out any short-term capital disruptions. It's important to note that even when the Federal Reserve decreases bank reserve minimums, banks must still meet LCR requirements to ensure they have enough cash on hand to meet their short-term obligations.


   Impact of the '08 Crisis  

Until the financial crisis of 2008-2009, banks earned no interest for the cash reserves they held. That changed on Oct. 1, 2008. As part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Federal Reserve began paying banks interest on their reserves. At the same time, the Fed cut interest rates in order to boost demand for loans and get the economy moving again.



The result defied the conventional wisdom that banks would rather lend money out than keep it in the vault. The banks took the cash injected by the Federal Reserve and kept it as excess reserves rather than lending it. They preferred to earn a small but risk-free interest rate over lending it out for a slightly higher but riskier return.



For this reason, the total amount of excess reserves spiked after 2008, despite an unchanged required reserve ratio.




How Much Money Do Banks Need to Keep in Reserve?
The reserve amount has historically ranged from zero to 10%. Since March 26, 2020, it has been zero.




Are Bank Reserves Assets or Liabilities?
A bank's reserves are considered part of its assets and are listed as such in its accounts and annual reports.




How Are Bank Reserves Calculated?
A bank's reserves are calculated by multiplying its total deposits by the reserve ratio. For example, if a bank's deposits total $500 million, and the required reserve is 10%, multiply 500 by 0.10. The bank's required minimum reserve is $50 million.




Where Do Banks Keep Their Reserves?
Some of it is stashed in a vault at the bank. Reserves also may be kept in the bank's account at one of the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. Some small banks keep part of their reserves at larger banks and tap into them as needed. This flow of cash between vaults peaks at certain times, like during holiday seasons when consumers withdraw extra cash. Once the demand subsides, the banks ship off some of their excess cash to the nearest Federal Reserve Bank.


   The Bottom Line  

The past banking system that existed in the U.S. before banks' regulation became centralized seems a bit Wild West by today's standards. Each state could charter banks, and small banks popped up and went under regularly. "Runs" on the banks were common.



That changed with the creation of the Federal Reserve System, and among the changes was a requirement that banks hold a minimum amount of cash in reserve to meet demand. Since March 2020, the reserve minimum has been zero, suggesting that the Federal Reserve is comfortable with the level of cash kept voluntarily by the nation's banks combined with the 30-day liquidity coverage ratio required by the Basel Accords.
What Is the Weekend Effect?  

The weekend effect is a phenomenon in financial markets in which stock returns on Mondays are often significantly lower than those of the immediately preceding Friday.



(The weekend effect is sometimes known as the Monday effect, although that theory states that returns on the stock market on Mondays will follow the prevailing trend from the previous Friday. If the market was up on Friday, it should continue through the weekend and, come Monday, resume its rise, and vice versa. )



Here's how the weekend effect works.





Key Takeaways

The weekend effect is a phenomenon in financial markets in which stock returns on Mondays are often significantly lower than those of the immediately preceding Friday.Although the cause of the weekend effect is debated, the trading behavior of individual investors appears to be at least one factor contributing to this pattern.Some theories that attempt to explain the weekend effect point to the tendency of companies to release bad news on a Friday after the markets close, which then depresses stock prices on Monday.


   Understanding the Weekend Effect  

One explanation for the weekend effect is the tendency of humans to act irrationally; the trading behavior of individual investors appears to be at least one factor contributing to this pattern. Faced with uncertainty, humans often make decisions that do not reflect their best judgment. At times, the capital markets reflect the irrationality of their participants, especially when considering the high volatility of stock prices and the markets; the decisions of investors may be impacted by external factors (and sometimes unconsciously). In addition, investors are more active sellers of stock on Mondays, especially following bad news in the market.



In 1973, Frank Cross first reported the anomaly of negative Monday returns in an article called “The Behavior of Stock Prices on Fridays and Mondays,” which was published in the Financial Analysts Journal. In the article, he shows that the average return on Fridays exceeded the average return on Mondays, and there is a difference in the patterns of price changes between those days. Stock prices fall on Mondays, following a rise on the previous trading day (usually Friday). This timing translates to a recurrent low or negative average return from Friday to Monday in the stock market.



Some theories that attempt to explain the weekend effect point to the tendency of companies to release bad news on a Friday after the markets close, which then depresses stock prices on Monday. Others state that the weekend effect might be linked to short selling, which would affect stocks with high short interest positions. Alternatively, the effect could simply be a result of traders' fading optimism between Friday and Monday.



The weekend effect has been a regular feature of stock trading patterns for many years. According to a study by the Federal Reserve, prior to 1987, there was a statistically significant negative return over the weekends. However, the study did mention that this negative return had disappeared in the period between 1987 and 1998. Since 1998, volatility over the weekends has increased again, and the cause of the phenomenon of the weekend effect remains a much-debated topic.


   Special Considerations  
  The reverse weekend effect  

Opposing research on the "reverse weekend effect" has been conducted by a number of analysts, who show that Monday returns are actually higher than returns on other days. Some research shows the existence of multiple weekend effects, depending on firm size, in which small companies have smaller returns on Mondays and large companies have higher returns on Mondays. The reverse weekend effect has also been postulated to occur only in stock markets in the U.S.
What Is a Weekly Chart?  

A weekly chart is the data series of price actions for a traded security. On a weekly chart, each candle, bar, or point on a line represents the price summary for a single week of trading. Candlestick charts and bar charts are the most common types of charts used by traders and investors.



A weekly chart—set to display in a weekly time frame—will show high, low, open, and close for the entire week but will not show the day-by-day trading movements within that week.



Weekly charts can be compared with daily charts.





Key Takeaways

Weekly charts summarize the key points of data for all the daily trading sessions that week.This time frame for charts is usually associated with longer-term forecasting and analysis.Weekly charts comfortably display one to two years of data on the screen at a time, making them a convenient way for analysts and investors to see the long-term trend of a security.


   Understanding Weekly Charts  

Weekly charts are used by technical analysts to gauge the long-term trend of a given asset. A weekly chart can vary in appearance depending on what form of chart the analyst chooses to use.



For example, a weekly line chart may only include the weekly closing price, while a weekly candlestick chart will display the open, high, low, and close for the week. This chart construction is used to give a long-term view of the security because it includes much more historical price movement than an equivalent period day chart. Oftentimes, weekly charts can be added to a trader’s display and used in comparison to daily charts and volume charts.



Weekly charts comprise a summary of data from all days of the week. The highest and lowest prices in those five trading sessions, regardless of the day they traded that week, become the high and low for the weekly marker.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The figure above shows how each individual day-data for the week becomes summarized into a single candle. The weekly candle at the end doesn't look like any of the individual daily candles, and it merely nets out the trading action into a single small body with a large trading range. But for the purposes of those who review a weekly chart, that is all the information they need.


   Advantages of Weekly Charts  

Weekly charts can help traders to view security price trends from a broader perspective than the day-to-day—or hour-by-hour—price action seen in daily or intraday charts. Since a weekly chart can show a year's worth of trading in only 52 candles or bars, the trends or patterns they form imply that any forecast that comes from them will likely last a month (or several months). Institutional analysts are looking for longer-term opportunities than short-term traders are, and weekly charts are more likely to be relevant to what they want to know.



Weekly charts can be used in conjunction with daily charts to confirm price trends and buy/sell signals. Similar to daily charts, weekly charts can be used to identify price channels with bullish and bearish trends. Since they provide a visual display of prices over a longer time, some indicators may be different than daily price charts, or may help to confirm daily price chart pattern inferences.



Weekly charts may also be used by less active investors to follow and identify long-term price trends in the securities they follow. Many investors will view weekly charts on the securities they are invested in to watch for changes in long-term trends or signals that the investment may be potentially beginning a downtrend.


   Special Considerations  

All types of investors may also choose to follow monthly charts. Monthly charts will show an even broader view of a security because prices are charted monthly. In all instances, it can also be helpful to overlay a price chart with a moving average of the prices. Moving average studies are followed closely by technical traders regardless of the time frame they trade. The moving average and moving average envelope channels can also be useful for longer-term investors who wish to follow their investment’s price in a weekly or monthly chart.
What Is the Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey?  

The Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey is conducted each week by the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) to aggregate and analyze U.S. mortgage application activity.





Key Takeaways

The Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey is conducted each week by the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) to aggregate and analyze U.S. mortgage application activity.Each week the MBA draws on the Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey to publish reports and commentary on the state of real estate financing, including new home purchases, refinancing, and mortgagesThe Weekly Applications Survey has been in operation since 1990, and since its launch, its indices have been leading indicators in the housing and mortgage finance industries. 


   Understanding the Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey  

Each week the MBA draws on the Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey to publish reports and commentary on the state of real estate financing, including new home purchases, refinancing, and mortgages. Each week’s reports include indices tracking changes in fixed-rate, adjustable, conventional, and governmental loans and refinances.



It is important to note that the Weekly Mortgage Survey primarily tracks data on the mortgage applications submitted each week, as opposed to mortgage loan applications that close.



Since the launch of the Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey in 1990, its indices have served as leading indicators in the housing and mortgage finance industries. While most of the stakeholders with an interest in the trends charted by the Weekly Application Survey may be focused on recent trends and near-term forecasting, the available data also provide historical perspectives on macro-trends in these industries.



While the Weekly Applications Survey has only been in operation since 1990, the Mortgage Bankers Association has existed since 1914. Initially known as the Farm Mortgage Bankers Association of America, the organization convened to provide loans for farmland. In 1926, the organization changed its name to Mortgage Bankers Association of America.



While anyone working in the real estate finance industry is eligible to join, MBA membership is largely composed of independent mortgage banks. The remainder of the membership comprises commercial and community banks, credit unions, mortgage servicers, insurance and title companies, and more. The Weekly Applications Survey aggregates member-reported data for its weekly reports.


   Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey and Indices  

Each Wednesday, the MBA publishes the results of the previous week’s survey with comparative data analysis to chart market trends. Real estate market stakeholders pay particular attention to two of these indices: the MBA Refinance Index and the MBA Purchase Index.



The MBA Refinance Index tracks the number of refinance applications submitted, reporting the week’s total alongside the percentage change from the prior week and the four-week moving average of the index.



This tool can be useful in forecasting mortgage activity. Some analysts look to refinancing data to predict other forms of consumer spending, while mortgage investors look to this index for trends that will impact them, especially as a wave of refinancing can decrease payments over time to mortgage investors.



Similarly, the MBA Purchase Index counts the number of new home loan applications submitted each week. These figures are useful for builders and developers in forecasting new housing construction. Mortgage investors can also look to this index for market trend indicators, such as mortgage prepayment.
What Is Weekly Premium Insurance?  

Weekly premium insurance is a type of financial protection where the payments that the insured makes in return for coverage are paid weekly.





Key Takeaways

Weekly premium insurance goes back to the late 1800s, before monthly insurance plans existed.Weekly premium insurance was popular back then because the premium payments aligned with the wage schedules of those who were insured.As incomes rose in the mid-1900s, monthly insurance policies became more popular, causing weekly premium insurance plans to decline.



This type of insurance was introduced by Prudential in 1875 and was common in the late 1800s and early 1900s. At that time, insurers were unable to get insurance with monthly premium payments to catch on with consumers. The small weekly premium payments were designed to match up with workers' pay schedules and modest incomes. Weekly premium insurance is also known as industrial life insurance.


   How Weekly Premium Insurance Works  

Weekly premiums were a feature of industrial insurance, a type of life insurance product offered to workers employed in industrial jobs such as manufacturing. Insurance companies collected the premium payments by sending agents to people's homes. In the mid-1900s, the number of weekly premium insurance policies began to decline because rising incomes made larger and less frequent premium payments more affordable for many families.


   Insuring America  

In the early days, insurance was often sold, not bought, and that suited insurance companies fine. Behind this thinking is the notion of adverse selection. It's the idea that people who seek out insurance are more likely to need or use it and therefore are prone to higher risks. So that's one reason why insurers sent out armies of salesmen to convince people that insurance was a good idea. 



The weekly policies of yesteryear were mainly whole life insurance. Weekly premiums meant the insurers collected money faster, thus lowering the cost of the policies. Workers were sold on the idea of paying a few dollars a week for, say, $2,000 worth of coverage if they died, or double that if they died in an accident, known as double indemnity. The insurance man would show up on payday, of course, either at the policy holder's home or business to collect the premium.



Building cash value was a top selling point of these policies, and still is today. At the end of 20 or 30 years worth of payments, the policy had built a cash value often equal to the premiums paid in or the policy's face value. People could borrow money against the policies as well.



Disability policies were also sold this way, long before Social Security provided disability coverage starting in 1956. Before then, there was little for the average worker to fall back on after an injury on the job made it impossible to continue working.



For people today, it's hard to imagine a society where workers received nothing from their employer beyond a paycheck and no government safety nets or retirement benefits.
What Is a Wei?  

Wei is the smallest denomination of ether—the cryptocurrency coin used on the Ethereum network. One ether = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 wei (1018). The other way to look at it is one wei is one quintillionth of an ether.





Key Takeaways

A wei is to ether as a satoshi is to bitcoin—both units are the smallest unit from which a user may make a transaction.A U.S. dollar is only divisible into 100 units—pennies—and the penny is the indivisible (atomic) unit of U.S. currency.The wei is named after Wei Dai, best known as the creator of the bitcoin predecessor "b-money" and as the developer of the Crypto++ library.


   How a Wei Works  

As the price of some cryptocurrencies has grown exponentially, people wonder how you make change out of digital asset tokens like ether. A U.S. dollar is only divisible into 100 parts, and a penny is the atomic unit of U.S. currency. But digital cryptocurrencies are divisible into much, much smaller units.



To correctly denote the quantity of a transaction that may appear to be a very small fraction in terms of ether but a high value when converted to U.S. dollars or other real-world currencies, new units have been named to correctly identify and support the transactions.



The smallest unit of the ethereum cryptocurrency, ether, is called the wei after Wei Dai, a cryptography activist who is known for supporting the widespread use of strong cryptography and privacy-oriented technologies.



Ether has many names for different units of wei. The names of these sub-units indicate the quantity of the units (for example, a kwei is a kilo, meaning a thousand wei), but they have informal names as well. For example, the kwei is also known as a "babbage" and a gwei is commonly referred to as a "shannon."











Sub-units of Ether




Unit
wei value
wei
ether value


wei
1 wei
1
10^-18 ETH


kwei
10^3 wei
1,000
10^-15 ETH


mwei
10^6 wei
1,000,000
10^-12 ETH


gwei
10^9 wei
1,000,000,000
10^-9 ETH


microether
10^12 wei
1,000,000,000,000
10^-6 ETH


milliether
10^15 wei
1,000,000,000,000,000
10^-3 ETH


ether
10^18 wei
1,000,000,000,000,000,000
1 ETH





   The Wei's Exemplar  

Wei Dai has been called an "intensely private" person, and with his skills in cryptography, he's able to make sure the public record of him is very small. We do know that he graduated from the University of Washington with a degree in Computer Science and that he worked at Microsoft in its cryptography research group.



"Mr. Dai worked in the Cryptography Research Group at Microsoft Corporation in Redmond, Washington. While at Microsoft, he was involved in the study, design and implementation of cryptosystems for specialized applications. Prior to joining Microsoft, Mr. Dai was a programmer with TerraSciences of Acton, Massachusetts."



Wei is an original member of the cypherpunk movement in the 1990s whose members eventually developed the theoretical basis for cryptocurrency in the 2010s. In his proto-crypto manifesto for a cryptocurrency called bmoney, Wei laid the foundation for "smart contracts" that would self-execute and not need intervention by a human third party for enforcement. For this innovation, he is honored by having the name of the atomic unit of ether named after him.
What is Weighted  

Weighted is a description of adjustments to a figure to reflect different proportions or "weights" of components that make up that figure. A weighted average, for example, takes into account the proportional relevance of each component instead of measuring each individual component equally. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is a price-weighted average that compares each security based on the stock's price relative to the sum of all the stocks' prices. The S&P 500 Index and Nasdaq Composite Index, on the other hand, are based on market capitalization, where each company is measured relative to its market value.



Where the DJIA and Nasdaq indexes utilize weighting in their calculation to more closely approximate the effect that changing stock prices will have on the overall market, weighting can also be used to help evaluate the past and current prices of individual instruments through technical analysis.


   BREAKING DOWN Weighted  

Emphasis can be placed on the more pertinent data through weighting; this method is used frequently in the investing and accounting world. A weighted moving average, for example, places additional emphasis on the most recent data, thereby providing a better view of current market activity. Similarly, a weighted alpha measures how much a stock has risen or fallen over a certain period, placing more emphasis on recent activity. Since more focus is placed on the current period, the calculation provides a more relevant measure for short-term analysis. Other weighted metrics include weighted average cost of capital (WACC), weighted average coupon, and time weighted average annual rate of return.


   Paying Attention to Index Weights  

Passive investing, or index investing, has many cheerleaders. Investing in an index is held out as the "best" way to participate in the stock market. For many investors who do not have the time, aptitude or inclination to follow the stock market, this may be true. For others, though, who care about balance in an index, periodic checks of sector weightings are useful. The S&P 500 Index, the most common market index upon which several passive investment vehicles are formed, can become overweighted in certain sectors such as information technology if the market caps of these constituents grow disproportionately relative to the other sectors. If an investor is uncomfortable with too much weight in a particular sector, an index fund may not be the right choice.
What Is Weighted Alpha?  

Weighted alpha measures the performance of a security over a certain period, usually a year, but with relatively more importance given to recent activity compared to earlier performance.



Alpha (α) is a term used to describe an investment strategy's ability to beat the market, or its "edge." Alpha is thus also often referred to as “excess return” or “abnormal rate of return,” which refers to the idea that markets are efficient, and so there is no way to systematically earn returns that exceed the broad market as a whole.





Key Takeaways

Weighted alpha measures the performance of a security over a certain period, usually a year, with more importance given to recent activity.A positive weighted alpha shows that the security produced a return greater than the benchmark; a negative measure indicates the converse.Weighted alpha can identify companies that have shown a strong trend over the past year and, more specifically, companies whose momentum is building.


   Understanding Weighted Alpha  

As implied in the name, weighted alpha is a weighted measure of how much a security, say a stock, has risen or fallen over a defined period, usually a year. Generally, more emphasis is placed on recent activity by assigning higher weights to later performance measurements than those assigned to earlier measurements. This helps to give a return figure that has a greater focus on the most current period, which should prove to be more relevant when analyzing that security. This metric is quite popular with technical analysts and those who tend to rely on analytics to augment their trading decision.



Weighted alpha uses weighted mathematical calculations to arrive at an alpha performance figure. Alpha is a measure of risk-adjusted performance relative to a benchmark. In the field of asset management, alpha is often thought of as a proxy for the fund manager's skill. That reasoning can also be valid when analyzing a stock, which is, in part, a reflection of the effectiveness of a firm's management team.



For example, a stock that had returns on par with the benchmark, adjusted for the level of risk assumed, has an alpha of zero. A positive alpha shows that the stock produced a return greater than the benchmark, while a negative alpha indicates the converse.


   Weighted Alpha Calculation  

Weighted calculations give an assigned weight based on various factors. Indexes use weighting to give higher weight to securities by price or market cap. In a weighted alpha calculation, higher weight is typically given to more recent time period returns over a time series.



Weighted alpha calculations usually focus on one year of a security’s return. In general, if a security has a positive weighted alpha, an investor can assume its price has been gaining over the past year. Adversely, if a security’s price has a negative weighted alpha, investors can assume that the one-year price return is lower.



﻿















Weighted Alpha


=




∑


(


W


×


α


)




n


















where:
















W


=


weight assigned to each data point
















α


=


alpha
















n


=


number of days in defined time series








\begin{aligned} &\text{Weighted Alpha} = \frac { \sum ( W \times \alpha ) }{ n } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &W = \text{weight assigned to each data point} \\ &\alpha = \text{alpha} \\ &n = \text{number of days in defined time series} \\ \end{aligned}


​Weighted Alpha=n∑(W×α)​where:W=weight assigned to each data pointα=alphan=number of days in defined time series​﻿



In a weighted alpha calculation, weights can vary based on preferences or technical analysis software programs. Some weighted alpha calculations may assign weights by quartiles, while others use a standard decreasing weight methodology.






Alpha is often used in conjunction with beta (the Greek letter β), which measures the broad market's overall volatility or risk, known as systematic market risk.


   Weighted Alpha Inferences  

Weighted alpha is used by a variety of investors. Most commonly technical analysts will use weighted alpha as an indicator for supporting buy and sell signals. Technical analysts use this measure to identify companies that have shown a strong trend over the past year and, more specifically, to focus their attention on companies whose momentum is building. When weighted alpha is positive, it can support a bullish buy signal. When weighted alpha is negative, it can support a bearish sell signal.



As an example, consider a stock that has experienced several highs and lows over the last year through both bullish and bearish trending patterns. A technical analyst using a Bollinger Band channel may see that the price is approaching its support trendline. If the stock has a positive weighted alpha it can be an affirmation that the stock’s price has largely been gaining over the last year, supporting another bullish push higher.



In another scenario, a trader may see a stock’s price reaching and beginning to exceed its resistance band in a Bollinger Band channel. Often this is a signal of a reversal and would indicate a sell signal. However, if this security has a positive weighted alpha it is more likely to break beyond its resistance level and move higher. Therefore, the weighted alpha could support a buy trade in this scenario.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Weighted Average?  

A weighted average is a calculation that takes into account the varying degrees of importance of the numbers in a data set. In calculating a weighted average, each number in the data set is multiplied by a predetermined weight before the final calculation is made. A weighted average can be more accurate than a simple average in which all numbers in a data set are assigned an identical weight.





Key Takeaways

The weighted average takes into account the relative importance or frequency of some factors in a data set.A weighted average is sometimes more accurate than a simple average.In a weighted average, each data point value is multiplied by the assigned weight, which is then summed and divided by the number of data points.A weighted average can improve the data’s accuracy.Stock investors use a weighted average to track the cost basis of shares bought at varying times.












Paige McLaughlin / Investopedia


   What Is the Purpose of a Weighted Average?  

In calculating a simple average, or arithmetic mean, all numbers are treated equally and assigned equal weight. But a weighted average assigns weights that determine in advance the relative importance of each data point.



A weighted average is most often computed to equalize the frequency of the values in a data set. For example, a survey may gather enough responses from every age group to be considered statistically valid, but the 18 to 34 age group may have fewer respondents than all others relative to their share of the population. The survey team may weigh the results of the 18 to 34 age group so that their views are represented proportionately.



However, values in a data set may be weighted for other reasons than the frequency of occurrence. For example, if students in a dance class are graded on skill, attendance, and manners, the grade for skill may be given greater weight than the other factors.



Each data point value in a weighted average is multiplied by the assigned weight, which is then summed and divided by the number of data points. The final average number reflects the relative importance of each observation and is thus more descriptive than a simple average. It also has the effect of smoothing out the data and enhancing its accuracy.











Weighted Average


Data Point
Data Point Value
Assigned Weight
Data Point Weighted Value




1
10
2
20


1
50
5
250


1
40
3
120


TOTAL
100
10
390


Weighted Average
 
 
39





  Weighting a Stock Portfolio  

Investors usually build a position in a stock over a period of several years. That makes it tough to keep track of the cost basis on those shares and their relative changes in value. The investor can calculate a weighted average of the share price paid for the shares. To do so, multiply the number of shares acquired at each price by that price, add those values, then divide the total value by the total number of shares.






A weighted average is arrived at by determining in advance the relative importance of each data point.



For example, say an investor acquires 100 shares of a company in year one at $10, and 50 shares of the same stock in year two at $40. To get a weighted average of the price paid, the investor multiplies 100 shares by $10 for year one and 50 shares by $40 for year two, then adds the results to get a total of $3,000. Then the total amount paid for the shares, $3,000 in this case, is divided by the number of shares acquired over both years, 150, to get the weighted average price paid of $20.



This average is now weighted with respect to the number of shares acquired at each price, not just the absolute price.






The weighted average is sometimes also called the weighted mean.


   Examples of Weighted Averages  

Weighted averages show up in many areas of finance besides the purchase price of shares, including portfolio returns, inventory accounting, and valuation. When a fund that holds multiple securities is up 10% on the year, that 10% represents a weighted average of returns for the fund with respect to the value of each position in the fund.



For inventory accounting, the weighted average value of inventory accounts for fluctuations in commodity prices, for example, while LIFO (last in, first out) or FIFO (first in, first out) methods give more importance to time than value.



When evaluating companies to discern whether their shares are correctly priced, investors use the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) to discount a company’s cash flows. WACC is weighted based on the market value of debt and equity in a company’s capital structure.




How Does a Weighted Average Differ From a Simple Average?
A weighted average accounts for the relative contribution, or weight, of the things being averaged, while a simple average does not. Therefore, it gives more value to those items in the average that occur relatively more.




What Are Some Examples of Weighted Averages Used In Finance?
Many weighted averages are found in finance, including the volume-weighted average price (VWAP), the weighted average cost of capital, and exponential moving averages (EMAs) used in charting. Construction of portfolio weights and the LIFO and FIFO inventory methods also make use of weighted averages.




How Do You Calculate a Weighted Average?
You can compute a weighted average by multiplying its relative proportion or percentage by its value in sequence and adding those sums together. Thus, if a portfolio is made up of 55% stocks, 40% bonds, and 5% cash, those weights would be multiplied by their annual performance to get a weighted average return. So if stocks, bonds, and cash returned 10%, 5%, and 2%, respectively, the weighted average return would be (55 × 10%) + (40 × 5%) + (5 × 2%) = 7.6%.


   The Bottom Line  

Statistical measures can be a very important way to help you in your investment journey. You can use weighted averages to help determine the average price of shares as well as the returns of your portfolio. It is generally more accurate than a simple average. You can calculate the weighted average by multiplying each number in the data set by its weight, then adding up each of the results together.
What Is Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)?  

Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) represents a firm’s average after-tax cost of capital from all sources, including common stock, preferred stock, bonds, and other forms of debt. WACC is the average rate that a company expects to pay to finance its assets.



WACC is a common way to determine required rate of return (RRR) because it expresses, in a single number, the return that both bondholders and shareholders demand to provide the company with capital. A firm’s WACC is likely to be higher if its stock is relatively volatile or if its debt is seen as risky because investors will require greater returns. 





Key Takeaways


Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) represents a firm’s cost of capital where each category of capital is proportionately weighted.
WACC is commonly used as a hurdle rate against which companies and investors can gauge the desirability of a given project or acquisition.
WACC is calculated by multiplying the cost of each capital source (debt and equity) by its relevant weight by market value, then adding the products together to determine the total.
WACC is also used as the discount rate for future cash flows in discounted cash flow analysis.













Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding WACC  

WACC and its formula are useful for analysts, investors, and company management—all of whom use it for different purposes. In corporate finance, determining a company’s cost of capital is vital for a couple of reasons. For instance, WACC is the discount rate that a company uses to estimate its net present value.



WACC is also important when analyzing the potential benefits of taking on projects or acquiring another business. For example, if the company believes that a merger will generate a return higher than its cost of capital, then it’s likely a good choice for the company. If its management anticipates a return lower than what their own investors are expecting, then they’ll want to put their capital to better use.



As the majority of businesses run on borrowed funds, the cost of capital becomes an important parameter in assessing a firm’s potential for net profitability. WACC measures a company’s cost to borrow money. The WACC formula uses both the company’s debt and equity in its calculation.



In most cases, a lower WACC indicates a healthy business that’s able to attract investors at a lower cost. By contrast, a higher WACC usually coincides with businesses that are seen as riskier and need to compensate investors with higher returns. 



If a company only obtains financing through one source—say, common stock—then calculating its cost of capital would be relatively simple. If investors expected a rate of return of 10% to purchase shares, the firm’s cost of capital would be the same as its cost of equity: 10%. 



The same would be true if the company only used debt financing. For example, if the company paid an average yield of 5% on its outstanding bonds, its cost of debt would be 5%. This is also its cost of capital.






Many companies generate capital from a combination of debt and equity (such as stock) financing. To express the cost of capital in a single figure, one has to weigh its cost of debt and cost of equity proportionally, based on how much financing is acquired through each source. 


   WACC Formula and Calculation  
















WACC


=



(



E


V



×


R


e


)



+



(



D


V



×


R


d


×


(


1


−


T


c


)


)

















where:
















E


=


Market value of the firm’s equity
















D


=


Market value of the firm’s debt
















V


=


E


+


D
















R


e


=


Cost of equity
















R


d


=


Cost of debt
















T


c


=


Corporate tax rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{WACC} = \left ( \frac{ E }{ V} \times Re \right ) + \left ( \frac{ D }{ V} \times Rd \times ( 1 - Tc ) \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &E = \text{Market value of the firm's equity} \\ &D = \text{Market value of the firm's debt} \\ &V = E + D \\ &Re = \text{Cost of equity} \\ &Rd = \text{Cost of debt} \\ &Tc = \text{Corporate tax rate} \\ \end{aligned}


​WACC=(VE​×Re)+(VD​×Rd×(1−Tc))where:E=Market value of the firm’s equityD=Market value of the firm’s debtV=E+DRe=Cost of equityRd=Cost of debtTc=Corporate tax rate​



WACC is calculated by multiplying the cost of each capital source (debt and equity) by its relevant weight and then adding the products together. In the above formula, E/V represents the proportion of equity-based financing, while D/V represents the proportion of debt-based financing. The WACC formula thus involves the summation of two terms:








(



E


V



×


R


e


)



\left ( \frac{ E }{ V} \times Re \right )


(VE​×Re)








(



D


V



×


R


d


×


(


1


−


T


c


)


)



\left ( \frac{ D }{ V} \times Rd \times ( 1 - Tc ) \right )


(VD​×Rd×(1−Tc))



The former represents the weighted value of equity capital, while the latter represents the weighted value of debt capital.



Suppose that a company obtained $1 million in debt financing and $4 million in equity financing by selling common shares. E/V would equal 0.8 ($4,000,000 ÷ $5,000,000 of total capital) and D/V would equal 0.2 ($1,000,000 ÷ $5,000,000 of total capital). 


   Calculating WACC in Excel  

WACC can be calculated in Excel. The biggest challenge is sourcing the correct data to plug into the model. See Investopedia’s notes on how to calculate WACC in Excel.


   Explaining the Formula Elements  

Cost of equity (Re) can be a bit tricky to calculate because share capital does not technically have an explicit value. When companies reimburse bondholders, the amount they pay has a predetermined interest rate. On the other hand, equity has no concrete price that the company must pay. As a result, companies have to estimate cost of equity—in other words, the rate of return that investors demand based on the expected volatility of the stock.



Because shareholders will expect to receive a certain return on their investments in a company, the equity holders’ required rate of return is a cost from the company’s perspective; if the company fails to deliver this expected return, shareholders will simply sell off their shares, which leads to a decrease in both share price and the company’s value. The cost of equity, then, is essentially the total return that a company must generate to maintain a share price that will satisfy its investors.



Companies typically use the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) to arrive at the cost of equity (in CAPM, it’s called the expected return of investment). Again, this is not an exact calculation because firms have to lean on historical data, which can never accurately predict future growth.



Determining cost of debt (Rd), on the other hand, is a more straightforward process. This is often done by averaging the yield to maturity for a company’s outstanding debt. This method is easier if you’re looking at a publicly traded company that has to report its debt obligations.



For privately owned companies, one can look at the company’s credit rating from firms such as Moody’s and S&P and then add a relevant spread over risk-free assets (for example, Treasury notes of the same maturity) to approximate the return that investors would demand.



Businesses are able to deduct interest expenses from their taxes. Because of this, the net cost of a company’s debt is the amount of interest it is paying minus the amount it has saved in taxes. This is why Rd (1 - the corporate tax rate) is used to calculate the after-tax cost of debt.


   Who Uses WACC?  

Securities analysts may use WACC when assessing the value of investment opportunities. For example, in discounted cash flow analysis, one may apply WACC as the discount rate for future cash flows to derive a business’s net present value. 






WACC may be used internally by the finance team as a hurdle rate for pursuing a given project or acquisition. For example, if the company’s investment in a new manufacturing facility has a lower rate of return than its WACC, the company probably will hold back and find other uses for that money.


   WACC vs. Required Rate of Return (RRR)  

The required rate of return (RRR) is the minimum rate that an investor will accept for a project or investment. If they expect a smaller return than what they require, they’ll allocate their money elsewhere.



One way to determine the RRR is by using the CAPM, which uses a stock’s volatility relative to the broader market (its beta) to estimate the return that stockholders will require.



Another method for identifying the RRR is by calculating WACC. The advantage of using WACC is that it takes the company’s capital structure into account—that is, how much it leans on debt financing vs. equity.


   Limitations of WACC  

The WACC formula seems easier to calculate than it really is. Because certain elements of the formula, such as the cost of equity, are not consistent values, various parties may report them differently for different reasons. As such, although WACC can often help lend valuable insight into a company, one should always use it along with other metrics when determining whether to invest in a company.



The WACC can be difficult to calculate if you’re not familiar with all the inputs. Higher debt levels mean that the investor or company will require higher WACCs. More complex balance sheets, such as varying types of debt with various interest rates, make it more difficult to calculate WACC. There are many inputs to calculating WACC—such as interest rates and tax rates—all of which can be affected by market and economic conditions.



Also, WACC is not suitable for accessing risky projects because to reflect the higher risk, the cost of capital will be higher. Instead, investors may opt to use adjusted present value (APV), which does not use WACC.


   Example of How to Use WACC  

As an example, consider a hypothetical manufacturer called XYZ Brands. Suppose the book value and market value of the company’s debt are $1 million, and its market capitalization (or the market value of its equity) is $4 million. 



Let’s further assume that XYZ’s cost of equity—the minimum return that shareholders demand—is 10%. Here, E/V would equal 0.8 ($4,000,000 of equity value divided by $5,000,000 of total financing). Therefore, the weighted cost of equity would be 0.08 (0.8 × 0.10). This is the first half of the WACC equation.



Now we have to figure out XYZ’s weighted cost of debt. To do this, we need to determine D/V; in this case, that’s 0.2 ($1,000,000 in debt divided by $5,000,000 in total capital). Next, we would multiply that figure by the company’s cost of debt, which we’ll say is 5%. Last, we multiply the product of those two numbers by 1 minus the tax rate. So if the tax rate is 0.25, then “1 minus Tc” is equal to 0.75. 



In the end, we arrive at a weighted cost of debt of 0.0075 (0.2 × 0.05 × 0.75). When that’s added to the weighted cost of equity (0.08), we get a WACC of 0.0875, or 8.75% (0.08 weighted cost of equity + 0.0075 weighted cost of debt).



That represents XYZ’s average cost to attract investors and the return that they’re going to expect, given the company’s financial strength and risk compared with other opportunities. 




What is weighted average cost of capital (WACC)?
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) represents the average cost to attract investors, whether they’re bondholders or stockholders. The calculation weights the cost of capital based on how much debt and equity the company uses, which provides a clear hurdle rate for internal projects or potential acquisitions.




Who uses WACC?
WACC is used in financial modeling (it serves as the discount rate for calculating the net present value of a business). It’s also the hurdle rate that companies use when analyzing new projects or acquisition targets. If the company’s allocation can be expected to produce a return higher than its own cost of capital, then it’s typically a good use of funds.




Are WACC and required rate of return (RRR) the same?
WACC is one way to arrive at the required rate of return (RRR)—that is, the minimum return that investors demand from a particular company. A key advantage of WACC is that it takes the company’s capital structure into consideration. If a company primarily uses debt financing, for instance, then its WACC will be closer to its cost of debt than its cost of equity.
What is the Weighted Average Cost of Equity (WACE)?  

Weighted average cost of equity (WACE) is a way to calculate the cost of a company's equity that gives different weight to different types of equities according to their proportion in the corporate structure. Instead of lumping retained earnings, common stock, and preferred stock together, WACE provides a more accurate idea of a company's total cost of equity.



Determining an accurate cost of equity for a firm is integral for the firm to be able to calculate its cost of capital. In turn, an accurate measure of the cost of capital is essential when a firm is trying to decide if a future project will be profitable or not.


   How the Weighted Average Cost of Equity (WACE) Works  

The weighted average cost of equity (WACE) is essentially the same as the cost of equity that relates to the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM). Rather than simply averaging out the cost of equity, a weighting is applied that reflects the mix of that equity type in the company at the time. If the cost of equity was averaged without being weighted, outliers in the cost of equity could cause an overstatement or understatement of the cost.





Key Takeaways

The weighted average cost of equity (WACE) measures the cost of equity proportionally for a company rather than simply averaging the overall figures.With the weighted average cost of equity, the cost of a particular equity type is multiplied by the percentage of the capital structure it represents.The cost of equity used in most formulas is usually a weighted average cost of equity, even if this is not explicitly stated.


   Calculating the Weighted Average Cost of Equity (WACE)  

Calculating the weighted average cost of equity isn't as straightforward as calculating the cost of debt. First, you must calculate the cost of new common stock, the cost of preferred stock, and the cost of retained earnings separately. The most common way to do this is the CAPM formula:



Cost of equity = Risk free rate of return + [beta x (market rate of return – risk-free rate of return)]



Generally speaking, the cost of equity for common stock, preferred stock, and retained earnings will usually be within a tight range. For this example, let us assume the cost of common stock, preferred stock, and retained earnings are 14%, 12% and 11%, respectively.



Now, calculate the portion of total equity that is occupied by each form of equity. Again, let us assume this is 50%, 25% and 25%, for common stock, preferred stock and retained earnings, respectively.



Finally, multiply the cost of each form of equity by its respective portion of total equity and sum of the values, which results in the WACE. Our example results in a WACE of 19.5%.



WACE = (.14 x .50) + (.12 x .25) + (.11 x .25) = 0.1275 or 12.8%



Simply averaging the cost of equity across categories in the example above would have yielded a cost of equity of 12.3%. That said, averaging is rarely done as the weighted average cost of equity is usually used as part of the larger calculation of a company's weighted average cost of capital (WACC).


   Why the Weighted Average Cost of Equity (WACE) Matters  

Potential buyers who are considering acquiring a company might use the weighted average cost of equity to help them assign a value to the future cash flows of the target company. The results of this formula can also be coupled with other indicators, such as the after-tax cost of debt to form an assessment. As mentioned, the weighted average cost of equity is commonly combined with the weighted average cost of debt to calculated a firm's weighted average cost of capital (WACC).



As part of the WACC, the WACE is used within the company to better assess how its campaigns and capital-intensive projects translate it into the overall return on earnings for the shareholders. As a stand-alone metric, the weighted average cost of equity tends to temper a company's issuance of new stock if it is attempting to raise more capital. Debt in the form of bonds tends to be a cheaper way of raising capital for most companies, and is easier for investors to calculate the capital costs of debt when doing balance sheet analysis.
What Is the Weighted Average Coupon (WAC)?  

The weighted average coupon (WAC) is a measurement of the rate of return on a pool of mortgages that is sold to investors as a mortgage-backed security (MBS). The underlying mortgages are repaid at different lengths of time, so the WAC represents its return at the time it was issued and may differ from its WAC later.





Key Takeaways

The WAC is the average gross interest rate of the underlying mortgages in a mortgage-backed security at the time it was issued.The WAC on a mortgage-backed security is used by analysts of these investments to estimate its pre-pay characteristics.The WAC will change over time as the mortgages underlying the security are repaid.


   Understanding a Weighted Average Coupon (WAC)  

Banks routinely sell the mortgages they issue on a secondary mortgage market. The buyers are institutional investors such as hedge funds, and investment banks. These buyers package the mortgages into marketable securities that can be traded to investors on the open market as mortgage-backed securities (MBS).






In the weighted average calculation, the principal balance of each mortgage is used as its weighting factor.



MBS holders receive interest or coupon payments which are calculated as the weighted average of the underlying coupon of the mortgage loans backing the MBS.


  Calculating the WAC  

The weighted average coupon (WAC) is calculated by taking the gross of the interest rates owed on the underlying mortgages of the MBS and weighting them according to the percentage of the security that each mortgage represents.



The WAC represents the average interest rate of different pools of mortgages with varying interest rates. In the weighted average calculation, the principal balance of each underlying mortgage is used as the weighting factor.



To calculate the WAC, the coupon rate of each mortgage or MBS is multiplied by its remaining principal balance. The results are added together, and the sum total is divided by the remaining balance.



Another way to calculate the weighted average coupon is by taking the weights of each mortgage pool, multiplying by their respective coupon rates, and adding the result to get the WAC.



For example, suppose a MBS is composed of three different pools of mortgages with a principal balance of $11 million. The first mortgage bundle, or tranche, consists of $4 million worth of mortgages that yield 7.5%. The second pool has a $5 million mortgage balance at a 5% rate. The third pool has $2 million worth of mortgages with a rate of 3.8%.



Using the first method outlined above:



WAC = [($4 million x 0.075) + ($5 million x 0.05) + ($2 million x 0.038)] / $11 million



WAC = ($300,000 + $250,000 + $76,000) / $11 million



WAC = $626,000/$11 million = 5.69%



Alternatively, the WAC an be computed by evaluating the weight of each of the mortgage tranches first:



Pool 1 weight: $4 million / $11 million = 36.36%



Pool 2 weight: $5 million / $11 million = 45.45%



Pool 3 weight: $2 million / $11 million = 18.18%



Sum of the weights is 100%. The WAC is, therefore, calculated as:



WAC = (36.36 x 0.075) + (45.45 x 0.05) + (18.18 x 0.038)



WAC = 2.727 + 2.2725 + 0.6908 = 5.69%



The weighted average coupon rate may change over the life of the MBS, as various mortgage holders pay down their mortgages at different interest rates and on different timetables.


  When an MSB Gets Risky  

No mention of mortgage-backed securities is complete without a reference to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, which was blamed on them in large part.



Many of the MBS investments of that period were backed by mortgages issued during the nationwide housing bubble and, in many cases, issued to borrowers who could not afford to repay them. When the bubble burst, many of these borrowers were forced into default and the value of the securitization of these assets melted away.



They were, in fact, collateralized with subprime loans.
What Is a Weighted Average Credit Rating (WACR)?  

The weighted average credit rating (WACR) relates to the weighted average rating regarding all bonds in a bond fund. This rating procedure provides investors with an idea as to a fund's credit quality. It also helps to identify the overall risk involved with a bond portfolio. The lower the weighted average credit rating, the riskier a bond fund is. The weighted average credit rating is designated in letter rating form, including AAA, BBB, or CCC.





Key Takeaways

A weighted average credit rating provides investors with insight into a fund's overall credit quality, designated as AAA, BBB, or CCC.The weighted-average credit rating is calculated by considering the proportion of the value of each individual credit rating and noting it as a percentage of the entire portfolio thereby producing the average credit rating. Weighted average credit ratings are questioned by some as they may cause confusion for investors who don't thoroughly understand the rating.Linear factors are also used to determine a fund’s credit quality and are assigned to a rating level based on default probability. 


   How a Weighted Average Credit Rating (WACR) Works  

How a weighted average credit rating is tabulated varies throughout the financial industry. In general, the weighted average credit rating takes into consideration the proportion of the value of each credit rating and considers it as a percentage of the total portfolio. With individual rating weights the fund can determine the average credit rating.






With a weighted average credit rating, investors can uncover the true credit quality of a bond fund.


   Special Considerations   

The weighted-average credit rating is not the only statistic that investors have access to when understanding the credit quality of a fund. Statistical reporting companies may also integrate a linear factor into weighted average credit rating calculations. Similar in concept to standard weighted average calculations, this methodology identifies the proportional weight of the value of each rating level. 



With linear factor calculations, a linear factor is assigned to each rating level based on the rating default probability. An average linear factor is determined by the proportional credit ratings of the bonds in the portfolio. The weighted-average credit rating is then determined by its corresponding linear factor.


   Criticism of Weighted Average Credit Ratings   

This type of rating is not without controversy. The weighted-average credit rating process has been disputed in the bond fund industry as a result of the potential for investor confusion. A weighted average rating methodology can take into consideration all of the potential rating classifications a fund can invest in. Therefore, the fund may not hold any bonds in the specified weighted average rating category and this can result in confusion by those who see the tabulated figures. 


   Example of a Weighted Average Credit Rating (WACR)  

A bond with 25% of its value in AAA, 25% in BBB and 50% in CCC could have an average credit rating of B+ which is between BBB and CCC. This may not necessarily provide a good representation to investors since the fund does not hold any B+ bonds. For this reason, most bond funds choose to provide a scale with weightings by credit rating in their marketing materials. This helps investors to understand the concentration of bonds by rating and not just look to the results of the weighted average credit rating. 



The Vanguard Long-Term Corporate Bond ETF is a large bond fund with more than $6 billion in assets. The fund does not provide a weighted average credit rating in its marketing materials or fund reporting. Instead, it includes the following scale which shows its credit quality dispersion as of December 31, 2020.﻿﻿﻿









U.S. Govt.
0.3%


Aaa
2.7%


Aa
9.1%


A
37.4%


Baa
50.5%


< Baa
0.0%


Total 
100.0%






Source: Vanguard.﻿﻿
What Is Weighted Average Life (WAL)?  

The weighted average life (WAL) is the average length of time that each dollar of unpaid principal on a loan, a mortgage, or an amortizing bond remains outstanding. Calculating WAL shows an investor, an analyst, or a portfolio manager how many years it will take to receive roughly half of the amount of the outstanding principal. The formula is useful in measuring the credit risk associated with fixed-income securities.


   Understanding Weighted Average Life (WAL)  

The time weightings used in weighted average life calculations are based on payments to the principal. In many loans, such as mortgages, each payment consists of payments to principal and payments to interest. In WAL, only the principal payments are considered and these payments tend to get larger over time, with early payments of a mortgage going mostly to interest, while payments made towards the end of the loan are applied mostly to the principal balance of the loan.





Key Takeaways

Weighted average life is used to determine the dollar amount that remains outstanding on a mortgage or loan balance.The calculation is "weighted" because it considers when the payments to the principal are made—if, for example, nearly all of the principal payments are made in five years, WAL will be close to five years.Weighted average life does not consider payments to interest on the loan.Most investors will select the bond with the smaller WAL, as the lower number suggests that the bond carries less credit risk.



Time periods with higher dollar amounts have more weight in WAL. For example, if the majority of the repayment to principal is in 10 years, the weighted average life will be closer to 10 years.


   Weighted Average Life Example  

There are four steps involved in calculating an amortizing bond's WAL. Assume a bond makes one payment per year. Over the next five years, the bond's payments are $1,000, $2,000, $4,000, $6,000 and $10,000. Therefore, the total value of the (unweighted) payments before the WAL computation is $23,000.



The first step of the calculation is to take each of these payments and multiply them by the number of years until the payment occurs. In this example, these values would be:



Year 1 = 1 x $1,000 = $1,000Year 2 = 2 x $2,000 = $4,000Year 3 = 3 x $4,000 = $12,000Year 4 = 4 x $6,000 = $24,000Year 5 = 5 x $10,000 = $50,000



The second step in the calculation is to add these weighted amounts together. In this example, the total weighted payments equal $91,000. Step three is to add up the bond's total unweighted payments. In this example, the total is $23,000. The final step is to take the total weighted payments and divide this value by the total unweighted payments to get the WAL:



Weighted average life = $91,000 / $23,000 = 3.96 years



In this example, WAL is roughly equal to 4.00 and, at the end of four years, $13,000 of the $23,000 of principal is paid (slightly more than half). The largest payment is the final payment, so the WAL is closer to the total five-year term of the bond. On the other hand, if year two and year five payments were switched, the weighted average life would be much lower:



Year 1 = 1 x $1,000 = $1,000Year 2 = 2 x $10,000 = $20,000Year 3 = 3 x $4,000 = $12,000Year 4 = 4 x $6,000 = $24,000Year 5 = 5 x $2,000 = $10,000



Weighted average life = $67,000 / $23,000 = 2.91 years



WAL gives investors or analysts a rough idea of how quickly the bond in question pays out returns. Since rational investors want to receive returns earlier, if two bonds were compared, the investor would select the one with the shorter WAL. Stated differently, the most significant credit risk of a loan is the risk of loss of principal and a smaller WAL indicates a higher likelihood that the principal will be repaid in full.
What Is Weighted Average Loan Age (WALA)?  

The weighted average loan age (WALA) measures the average age of the loans in a pool of mortgage-backed securities (MBS). The weights are based on the dollar amount of each loan at each maturity in proportion to the aggregate total of the pool and can be weighted on the remaining principal balance dollar figure or the nominal value of the loan.





Key Takeaways

Weighted average loan age (WALA) is a measure of the maturity of the mortgages in a mortgage-backed security (MBS).WALA is dollar-weighted based on mortgage size and time left until it matures (usually in months).WALA is computed as the mathematical inverse of weighted average maturity (WAM), a more common estimation of MBS profitability.


   How Weighted Average Loan Age Works  

Weighted average loan age is used by investors of mortgage-backed securities to estimate how long it will take for a pool of mortgage-backed securities to be repaid. The measure varies over time due to the fact that some mortgages get paid off faster than others.



Essentially, a mortgage-backed security turns the bank into an intermediary between the homebuyer and the investment industry. A bank can grant mortgages to its customers and then sell them at a discount for inclusion in an MBS. The bank records the sale as a plus on its balance sheet and loses nothing if the homebuyer defaults sometime down the road.



The investor who buys a mortgage-backed security is essentially lending money to home buyers. An MBS can be bought and sold through a broker. The minimum investment varies between issuers.



WALA is arrived at by multiplying the initial nominal value of each individual mortgage in the MBS pool by the number of months since the mortgage loan was originated. WALA and other measures of MBS maturity are used to estimate both profit potential and prepayment risk. Prepayment risk is the risk involved with the premature return of principal on a fixed-income security such as when a mortgage is refinanced or a house is sold and the mortgage paid off. When principal is returned early, future interest payments will not be paid on that part of the principal, meaning investors in associated fixed-income securities will not receive interest paid on the principal.


   Weighted Average Loan Age vs. Weighted Average Maturity  

Weighted average maturity (WAM) and WALA are both used to estimate the likelihood of an investment in a mortgage-backed security being profitable. However, WAM tends to be a more broadly used measure for the maturity of pools of mortgage-backed securities. It measures the average time it takes for securities in a debt portfolio to mature, weighted in proportion to the dollar amount invested in the portfolio. Portfolios with higher weighted average maturities are more sensitive to interest rate changes.



WALA is actually calculated as the inverse of WAM: WAM computes the percentage value of each mortgage or debt instrument in the portfolio. The number of months or years until the bond’s maturity is multiplied by each percentage, and the sum of the subtotals equals the weighted average maturity of the bonds in the portfolio.
What Is the Weighted Average Market Capitalization?  

The weighted average market capitalization refers to a type of stock market index construction that is based on the market capitalization of the index's constituent stocks. Large companies would, therefore, account for a greater portion of an index than smaller stocks. This means the movement of an index would depend on a small set of stocks.



The most well-known market capitalization weight index is the S&P 500, which tracks the 500 largest assets by market capitalization. The top four holdings combine for over 10% of the entire index. These include Apple (AAPL), Microsoft (MSFT), Amazon (AMZN), and Meta, formerly Facebook, (META). The S&P 500 is widely considered a gauge of the strength of the broader market and a benchmark for performance. 





Key Takeaways

Weighted average market capitalization is a type of market index in which each component is weighted according to the size of its total market capitalization.Market capitalization is the sum of the total value of a company's outstanding shares multiplied by the price of one share.With a weighted average market capitalization, components that have a higher market cap have more influence because they constitute a higher percentage in the index; those with smaller caps have less influence.A weighted market cap index is seen as being both stable, and reflective of the broader market, in which larger companies have a greater influence than smaller ones.On the downside, a weighted market cap index can hurt index investors if there is a rally in small-cap stocks, as those investors won't benefit as much as they would in an equal-weighted index.


   Understanding the Weighted Average Market Capitalization  

The weighted average market capitalization is determined by multiplying the current market price by the number of outstanding shares and then taking an average to determine the weighting. For example, if a company's market capitalization is $1 million, and the market capitalization of all stocks in the index is $100 million, the company would represent 1% of the index. Morningstar calculates the metric by taking a geometric mean of the market capitalization of the stocks in a fund, whereas other providers use an arithmetic mean. 



Some investors believe a weighted average market capitalization is the optimal method of asset allocation as it reflects the actual behavior of markets. This way larger companies tend to have a greater influence over the index, just as is the case in the S&P 500. This leads to a natural rebalancing mechanism where growing companies are admitted to the index, and shrinking ones become excluded. Investors also believe the methodology causes less risk because a larger proportion of the fund is allocated to stable companies.



But there are some limitations to the strategy. When small-cap stocks outperform larger ones, as they have for most of history, there are fewer opportunities for index investors to gain lofty returns. Meanwhile, market-cap-weighted indexes like the S&P 500 give off the appearance of diversification, but a few stocks dictate a larger portion of the movement. This represents a big bet that the efficient market hypothesis holds through bull and bear markets. 



The efficient market hypothesis says that stock prices reflect all information available, and trade at fair market value on all exchanges.


   Alternatives to Weighted Average Market Capitalization  

Alternative methods of asset allocation include price weighting and equal market cap weighting among many more. The holdings of a price-weighted index are determined by a simple mathematical average of several stock prices. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is perhaps the most well-known index that employs price weighting.



In contrast, an equal-weighted index gives the same weight to each stock in a portfolio or fund. For example, the S&P 500 Equal Weight Index is the equal-weighted version of the popular market-cap-weighted S&P 500.
What Is Weighted Average Maturity (WAM)?  

Weighted average maturity (WAM) is the weighted average amount of time until the maturities on mortgages in a mortgage-backed security (MBS). This term is used more broadly to describe maturities in a portfolio of debt securities, including corporate debt and municipal bonds. The higher the WAM, the longer it takes for all of the mortgages or bonds in the portfolio to mature. WAM is used to manage debt portfolios and to assess the performance of debt portfolio managers.



WAM is closely related to weighted average loan age (WALA).





Key Takeaways

Weighted average maturity (WAM) is a measure of the overall maturity of the mortgages pooled in a mortgage-backed security (MBS).A longer WAM implies somewhat greater interest rate and credit risk than MBS with shorter WAMs.WAM is the inverse of another popular MBS duration metric: weighted average loan age (WALA).


   Understanding Weighted Average Maturity  

WAM is calculated by computing the percentage value of each mortgage or debt instrument in the portfolio. The number of months or years until the bond’s maturity is multiplied by each percentage, and the sum of the subtotals equals the weighted average maturity of the bonds in the portfolio.



WAM is used as a tool to manage bond portfolios and to assess the performance of portfolio managers. Mutual funds, for example, offer bond portfolios with a variety of WAM guidelines, and a fund portfolio may have a WAM as short as five years or as long as 30 years. The investor can choose a bond fund that matches a particular investing time frame. The fund’s investment objective includes a benchmark, such as a bond index, and the benchmark portfolio’s WAM is available for investors and portfolio managers. A portfolio manager’s investment performance is judged based on the rate of return and the WAM on the fund’s bond portfolio.



Bond laddering is an investment strategy that involves purchasing bonds with different maturity dates, which means that the dollars in the portfolio are returned to the investor at different points over time. A laddering strategy allows the owner to reinvest bond maturity proceeds at current interest rates over time, which reduces the risk of reinvesting the entire portfolio when interest rates are low. Bond laddering helps an income-oriented investor maintain a reasonable interest rate on a bond portfolio, and these investors use WAM to assess the portfolio.


   Example of How WAM Is Computed  

Assume, for example, that an investor owns a $30,000 portfolio, which includes three bond holdings.



Bond A is a $5,000 bond (16.7% of the total portfolio) and matures in 10 yearsBond B is a $10,000 investment (33.3%) that matures in six years.Bond C, a $15,000 bond (50%) with a maturity of four years.



To compute WAM, each of the percentages is multiplied by the years until maturity, so the investor can use this formula: (16.7% X 10 years) + (33.3% X 6 years) + (50% X 4 years) = 5.67 years, or about five years, eight months.


   Weighted Average Maturity vs Weighted Average Loan Age  

Weighted average maturity (WAM) and weighted average loan age (WALA) are both used to estimate the likelihood of an investment in a mortgage-backed security being profitable. However, WAM tends to be a more broadly used measure for the maturity of pools of mortgage-backed securities. It measures the average time it takes for securities in a debt portfolio to mature, weighted in proportion to the dollar amount invested in the portfolio. Portfolios with higher weighted average maturities are more sensitive to interest rate changes.



WALA is actually calculated as the inverse of WAM: WAM computes the percentage value of each mortgage or debt instrument in the portfolio. The number of months or years until the bond’s maturity is multiplied by each percentage, and the sum of the subtotals equals the weighted average maturity of the bonds in the portfolio.
What Is Weighted Average Rating Factor (WARF)  

The weighted average rating factor (WARF) is a measure that is used by credit rating companies to indicate the credit quality of a portfolio. This measure aggregates the credit ratings of the portfolio's holdings into a single rating. WARFs are most often calculated for collateralized debt obligations (CDOs).


   Understanding the Weighted Average Rating Factor (WARF)  

To calculate the weighted average rating factor on a CDO, the rating agencies must first determine a credit rating for each instrument underlying the CDO. In the Fitch Ratings taxonomy, for example, this rating can range from extremely high credit quality (AAA) to low quality (CCC) to default (D). This letter rating corresponds to a numerical rating factor, which in turn correspond to the 10-year probability of default. The WARF is determined by calculating the weighted average of these numerical factors. To calculate the weighted average, the notional balance of the asset is multiplied by the rating factor and then these values are summed. This sum is then divided by the total notional balance of the portfolio.
What Is the Weighted Average Remaining Term (WART)?  

Weighted Average Remaining Term (WART) is a metric that captures the average time to maturity of a portfolio of asset-backed securities (ABS). The longer the WART, the longer the portfolio's assets will take to mature, on average.



Also known as the weighted average maturity (WAM), WART is often used in relation to mortgage-backed securities (MBS) but can also be applied to any portfolio of fixed-income securities.



WART is closely related to weighted average loan age (WALA), which is its inverse.





Key Takeaways

The weighted average remaining term (WART) is a measure of the average time to maturity of a fixed-income portfolio.WART is also known as weighted average maturity, or WAM.It is often used in relation to mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and other asset-backed securities (ABS), although it can be applied to any fixed-income portfolio.Some investors may prefer having exposure to investments with particular maturity profiles, making WART a helpful tool for comparing alternative investments.WART is particularly important in assessing a portfolio's interest rate and prepayment risk exposures.


   How the Weighted Average Remaining Term (WART) Works  

The WART of a portfolio is a helpful metric because it helps investors understand whether the time to maturity of the assets within the portfolio is relatively short or long. For instance, a MBS whose underlying mortgages are all very near to the end of their terms would have a low overall WART, while one with mortgages that have only recently been initiated would have a higher WART. Depending on their risk tolerances and sources of funding, some investors may prefer being exposed to investments with a particular time to maturity.



To calculate the WART of a portfolio, the investor first adds together the outstanding balance of the underlying assets and calculates the size of each asset in relation to that total. Then, the investor would weigh the remaining time to maturity of each asset by using each asset’s relative size. As a final step, they would then add up the weighted times to maturity of each asset to arrive at a WART for the entire portfolio.



WART is commonly used in the disclosure materials associated with MBS, such as those offered by Freddie Mac. In this context, WART serves not to compare two securities but to demonstrate the effects of external forces such as prepayment on the WART of the security.  An investor considering a Freddie Mac security would consider these WART calculations when comparing it to an alternative investment or when seeking to construct a portfolio containing different WARTs.


   Example of WART  

To illustrate, consider an MBS consisting of four mortgage loans, in which loan 1 has $150,000 of remaining principal due in five years, loan 2 has $200,000 due in seven years, loan 3 has $50,000 due in 10 years, and loan 4 has $100,000 due in 20 years. The total remaining value of the loans is therefore $500,000.



To calculate the WART, our next step would be to calculate each mortgage’s share of the total remaining value. By dividing each mortgage’s remaining principal by the $500,000 total, we would find that loan 1 represents 30% of the total, loan 2 represents 40%, loan 3 represents 10%, and loan 4 represents 20%.



We can then calculate the weighted remaining term of each mortgage by multiplying its time to maturity by its share of the $500,000 total. In doing so, we find the following weighted remaining terms:



Loan 1: 5 years x 30% = 1.5 weighted yearsLoan 2: 7 years x 40% = 2.8 weighted yearsLoan 3: 10 years x 10% = 1 weighted yearsLoan 4: 20 years x 20% = 4 weighted years



Our final step is to simply add these weighted years together, to arrive at a WART for the entire portfolio. In this case, our WART is: 1.5 + 2.8 + 1 + 4 = 9.3 years.


   WART and Interest Rate Risk  

In general, bonds and other fixed-income securities with longer maturities have greater price sensitivity to interest rate changes than shorter maturity securities (known as the security's duration). MBS and ABS with larger WARTs, therefore, hold bonds that, on average, will have more interest rate risk than those with smaller WARTs.



One way to reduce this type of risk is through laddering. Bond laddering is an investment strategy that involves purchasing bonds with different maturity dates, which means that the dollars in the portfolio are returned to the investor at different points over time. A laddering strategy allows the owner to reinvest bond maturity proceeds at current interest rates over time, which reduces the risk of reinvesting the entire portfolio when interest rates are low.



Bond laddering helps an income-oriented investor maintain a reasonable interest rate on a bond portfolio, and these investors use WART to assess the portfolio.


   WART vs. WALA  

Weighted average remaining term (WART) and weighted average loan age (WALA) are both used to estimate the credit risk, interest rate sensitivity, and potential profitability of fixed-income portfolios. WAM tends to be used as a measure for the maturity of pools of mortgage-backed securities (MBS). It measures the amount of time for the securities in a fixed-income portfolio to mature, weighted in proportion to the dollar amount invested. Portfolios with higher WARTs are more sensitive to interest rate changes.



WALA is essentially the inverse of WART: The number of months or years until the bond’s maturity is multiplied by each percentage, and the sum of the subtotals equals the weighted average maturity of the bonds in the portfolio.




What Is Prepayment Risk?
Prepayment risk applies to MBS and ABS and is the reduction of the fund's WART due to homeowners or other debtors refinancing their loans or making early unscheduled payments. These repayments effectively shorten the average maturity of a portfolio and change its risk profile. This is especially a risk in an environment of declining interest rates.As mortgages, for example, are refinanced, the original loans are completely paid off and replaced with a new, lower-interest rate loan. Funds holding MBS with the original mortgage will no longer receive cash flows from that homeowner.




What Is the Purpose of a Mortgage-Backed Security (MBS)?
Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) effectively take a pool of many mortgages and package them together into a single security. The idea is that while any single home loan may have idiosyncratic risk that the borrower will default, a portfolio of many mortgages would mute the effect of any single bad loan.




What Is the Difference Between Weighted Average Maturity (WAM) and Weighted Average Life (WAL)?
WAM and WAL are mainly used when evaluating money market funds. The difference between WAM and WAL is that WAM takes into account interest rate resets and WAL does not. The SEC limits the WAL for money market mutual funds to 120 days.
What Is the Weightless Economy?  

The term "weightless economy" refers to the trade of intangible or abstract products and services such as consulting, software, and professional services. The weightless economy sells ideas, information, expertise, or services.



Other terms, such as post-industrial economy or new economy, are also used to describe these intangible products.



The concept of the weightless economy largely evolved at the turn of the 21st century with the rise of information technology and the many products associated with it.





Key Takeaways

The weightless economy is made up of intangible products and services. The growth of information technology has given the weightless economy a dominant role compared to traditional components of the economy such as manufacturing and distribution.For entrepreneurs, the weightless economy has created opportunities for a fast ramp-up from an idea in its infancy to a profitable business.


   Understanding the Weightless Economy  

Granted, weightless products have existed throughout civilization: Music is one. However, it is only since the mass adoption of computing and the development of the internet that economies have become dominated by weightless products.



It is now possible to deliver products and services to large numbers of customers and across great distances without the need to manufacture, ship, or store those products and services using physical labor and machines. Some products, like music or software, must be created only once before being distributed at minimal cost to as many consumers as want them.


  Making Music in the Weightless Economy  

For example, a musician records a song only once. In the past, a record company needed to physically manufacture vinyl records or CDs reproducing the song, package them, move them from factories to warehouses, and finally deliver them to record stores where they could be purchased by customers. All of these stages involve costs in terms of both money and labor.



Today, that same artist and record label can distribute their music online through streaming services such as Spotify and online marketplaces such as the iTunes Store. Although the time needed to produce a song is largely unchanged, its delivery is virtually effortless and instantaneous whether the song is sold to one customer or one million.


  The Economics of the Weightless Economy  

An economist looking at this example would say that the musician has a marginal cost of production of nearly $0. Therefore, the marginal profit associated with selling each additional song is essentially 100%. Once you have already recorded the song and made it available for sale online, it costs you almost nothing to sell each additional unit.



This is the fundamental reason why it is possible for some technology companies to become so profitable in a relatively short amount of time. In the weightless economy, there is almost nothing preventing a company from acquiring a large pool of customers if demand for the product or service takes off.



When a product or service comes to dominate its market, the company that produces it can achieve almost limitless growth and profitability in the weightless economy. Examples are Microsoft's Windows operating system, Google's search engine or Android operating system, and Facebook's social network and advertising platform.



All of these products have substantial ongoing costs related to their management, marketing, and product enhancements. But their production costs are minimal.



By comparison, traditional firms such as manufacturing plants and brick-and-mortar retailers face more obstacles to growth and profitability due to the higher costs and logistical hurdles they must overcome in order to make their sales.


   Real-World Example of the Weightless Economy  

The weightless economy is characterized by information technology and is made possible by intellectual property rights. An artist cannot make money selling songs online if their rights to those songs are not protected by copyright laws.



One of the consequences of the weightless economy is that it permits new entrepreneurs to offer products and services to a large potential customer base with relatively limited barriers to entry.



For example, if coding is part of your skillset, you can create a smartphone application and sell it through the Apple and Android app stores. Although there are certainly costs involved in doing so, those costs pale in comparison to the cost of establishing a factory, for example.



In 2011, Garrett Gee created a barcode scanning application called Scan while he was a student at Brigham Young University. In 2014, he sold the application to Snapchat for $54 million. Although Gee is an outlier in having achieved this level of success, his story is representative of the kind of success that is made possible by the weightless economy.
What Is Welfare?  

The term welfare refers to a range of government programs that provide financial or other aid to individuals or groups who cannot support themselves. Welfare programs are typically funded by taxpayers and allow people to cope with financial stress during rough periods of their lives. In most cases, people who use welfare will receive a biweekly or monthly payment. The goals of welfare vary as it looks to promote the pursuit of work, education, or, in some instances, a better standard of living.





Key Takeaways

Welfare refers to federal government-sponsored assistance programs for individuals and families in need.Welfare programs are typically funded through federal taxation.In the U.S., the federal government provides grants to each state through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program.Eligibility for benefits is based on a number of factors, including income levels and family size.Welfare beneficiaries receive monthly SNAP payments in the form of direct payments to an EBT card.


   How Welfare Works  

Social welfare systems assist individuals and families through health care, food assistance, unemployment compensation, housing assistance, and child care assistance. In the U.S., a caseworker is assigned to each individual or family applying for housing benefits to determine and confirm the applicant's needs.



The benefits available to an individual vary by state. Eligibility is determined based on factors surrounding the person’s financial status and its relation to the minimum acceptable levels within a particular state. The factors involved can include the family unit's size, current income levels, or an assessed disability.



Social welfare systems may go by different names within each state, but they often serve similar functions. This can cause confusion when attempting to compare one state's program to another. Additionally, the requirements to qualify also vary, depending on the poverty line in a particular state. This allows for adjustments based on the cost of living that isn't based on one standard.



An individual who is on welfare is usually provided free or deeply discounted goods and services. The government requires that individuals or families seeking assistance must prove that their annual income falls below the federal poverty level (FPL). The FPL is an economic measure of income used to determine whether an individual or family qualifies for certain subsidies or aid.



The 2023 poverty guideline for one person is $14,580 and $30,000 for a family of four.






There is no standardized system for the administration of social welfare programs. As such, they vary by state. These programs are listed under different names and have different requirements to qualify.


   Special Considerations  

Welfare programs are initiatives set up by the government to support poor, developmentally challenged, and disadvantaged groups. Compared to other developed countries, the U.S. provides a relatively small social safety net and has fewer welfare programs available, and with greater restrictions.



The history of welfare programs in the United States is complex and controversial in some circles of politics. In the 1960s, President Lyndon Johnson created programs like Head Start, food stamps, and Medicare. All of these programs were designed to fight what he called "the war on poverty" in America. Former President Richard Nixon was responsible for spearheading the Family Assistance Plan.



Fast-forward to the 1980s, former president Ronald Regan slashed welfare budget programs designed to help families and created "welfare to work" programs instituted in 40 states during the 1980s. In 1996 welfare reform legislation focused on shifting responsibility to welfare participants and advocating work over general assistance. In the 21st century, welfare reform and assistance programs continue to expand and change under President Joe Biden's leadership.



There are seven major welfare programs in America, they include:



Medicaid
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
Child’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)
Temporary Assistance to Needy Families
housing assistance
Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)






The U.S. federal government does not give out grants to individuals or families in need. If someone offers to help you get one, do not give that individual any personal information, it is a scam.


   Types of U.S. Welfare Programs  
  Medicaid  

Medicaid is a health insurance program for people with income below federal poverty standards and aging adults. Pregnant women, children, people with disabilities, and aging adults who fall below a certain income threshold are guaranteed coverage under the Medicaid program.



Medicaid is only offered to those that meet a specific low-income threshold, and children, who do not qualify for Medicaid, have their own special welfare assistance program called the Child's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). When the Affordable Care Act (ACA) went into effect, data found that both forms of health care assistance, CHIP and Medicaid increased under the ACA.


  Supplemental Security Income (SSI)  

Supplemental Security Income is administered by the Social Security Administration (SSA) and provides public assistance to children and adults living with disabilities like blindness, neurological challenges, respiratory disease, and failure to thrive. The full list of disabilities that qualify can be found on the SSA's website.



According to statistics from the SSA, about 7.6 million people receive approximately $622 in disability income in the form of SSI each month.


  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)  

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, previously known as the Food Stamp Program, is run by each state and provides vouchers to low-income households to buy nutritious and low-cost foods. Millions of Americans use SNAP vouchers every year to buy food for their households.



Two other programs designed to help children and families are the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and the Child Nutrition Program. WIC's offering includes nearly everything a mother and young child need to thrive up until the age of five. WIC's services include food, educational class and support, vouchers, and health referrals for pregnant, breastfeeding, and postpartum services.



The Child Nutrition Program is an umbrella that shelters the National School Lunch Program, the School Breakfast Program, and the Summer Food Service Program. All of these programs are designed to ensure kids get free or reduced-cost breakfast and lunch when school is in session, and when it is closed for the summer.






In 2022, over 41 million households benefited from SNAP vouchers.


  Child's Health Insurance Program (CHIP)  

The Child’s Health Insurance Program is administered by the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It provides low-cost health care to children in households that won’t otherwise qualify for Medicaid.



This program covers all benefits for children including dental care, plus special needs assistance like physical, speech and language, and occupational therapy providing a strong safety net for children in low-income homes.


  Temporary Assistance to Needy Families  

The US government provides welfare assistance through Temporary Assistance to Needy Families. Congress created the program to prevent recipients from abusing the welfare program by mandating that all recipients find a job within two years or risk losing their welfare benefits.



The government provides an annual welfare grant of $16.5 billion to all states under this program. The states use their allocated funds to operate their own welfare programs. However, to receive the federal grant, states must also use some of their own money to fund their programs.


  Housing Assistance  

The housing choice voucher program is a federal program designed to help families with income below federal poverty standards, people with disabilities, and aging adults have access to affordable and liveable, meaning clean, sanitary, and safe, rental homes in safe neighborhoods in the private market. These vouchers are given out by local public housing agencies that receive the funding for these vouchers from the federally run U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) office.



Individuals and families who qualify for vouchers may live anywhere. These vouchers are not limited to subsidized housing projects but can be used in any residential neighborhood that meets PHA's health and safety requirements. Voucher recipients must find their own housing under this program, and the housing subsidy is directly paid to the landlord of the rental by the PHA.



The family or individual is responsible for paying out of pocket the difference between the market price of the rent and the amount subsidized by the voucher program. In rare instances and under specific requirements, a family could use vouchers to purchase a modest home in an affordable neighborhood. However, the transaction would have to be authorized by the PHA, according to the HUD website.


  Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)  

The EITC is designed to help low to moderate income individuals and families get a tax break. The maximum tax credit for 2023 for qualifying taxpayers is $7,430.



The phaseout amount for married couples filing jointly in 2023 is $63,398.





Welfare vs. Entitlements

Entitlements are social or economic programs promised by the government to all of its citizens. Unlike welfare, entitlements do not typically have certain criteria or qualifications attached to them. For instance, Social Security income and Medicare are federal entitlement programs offered to older Americans regardless of income or wealth (although the amounts of the entitlement may be affected by these).


   Who Qualifies for Welfare  

Government welfare is primarily aimed at people with little to no income, aging adults, and people with disabilities. Welfare can include grants, food stamps, vouchers, Medicaid, health care, and housing assistance. The subsidized program is only available for legal citizens and permanent residents of the United States. Federal law bans states from using grants to assist most legal immigrants unless they have resided in the country for five years or more.



A valid Social Security Number (SSN) is needed to apply for welfare. In households with more than one member, all members must have an SSN. In addition to meeting the requirements postulated by the federal government, individuals applying for welfare must also meet their states' requirements. For example, some states require that the applicant be a resident of that state to live there continuously.



People's desired outcomes on welfare will depend primarily on the circumstances that caused them to apply for aid:



A mentally or physically disabled person may not be expected to assume independence after a period of time, so a welfare program would provide ongoing aid to better their standard of living.A person lacking education, or who cannot currently provide for themselves, also might be provided welfare. In this case, the person would be expected to receive training or take steps toward financial independence.



Ongoing welfare is not a desirable outcome for this individual, according to those giving it.




What Is Considered Welfare?
Any federal or state government program that provides financial or other assistance for housing, food, and healthcare to individuals and families who meet specific guidelines (such as having a low to moderate income) is considered welfare.




What Makes You Eligible for Welfare?
Different welfare programs have their own eligibility requirements including meeting income limits, offering proof that you are a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen, and providing information about family size.




What Can Welfare Help Me With?
The goal of welfare is to support families and individuals in need as they work towards a more secure financial life. Welfare programs are designed to help individuals and families secure safe and clean housing, get access to neonatal, health, and medical care, purchase food, provide financial assistance for daily living, and take advantage of tax breaks.




What Welfare Programs Does the United States Have?
The following welfare programs are offered in the U.S.: Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Children's Health Insurance Program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, housing assistance, and the Earned Income Tax Credit.




What Is Social Welfare?
A social welfare system provides assistance to those in need whether they are individuals or families. There are various types of welfare available and how much welfare you are eligible for, depends on factors like the country, region, or state you live in. For example, in the U.S., the federal government provides money to each state and the welfare programs operate on a state-by-state basis. However, in certain countries like Canada, some social welfare programs send money directly to the individual or family in need as long as they qualify.


   The Bottom Line  

Welfare encompasses a range of government programs designed for individuals and families who do not make enough money to have a decent standard of living. Housing, food, medical care, and financial assistance for daily life are all provided by different social welfare programs.



Welfare programs are funded by taxpayers and help those in need cope with financial stress and hardship. Recipients often receive biweekly or monthly payments in the form of food stamps, vouchers, or, in some cases, direct payments. The goal of welfare is to support families and individuals in need as they work towards a more secure financial life.
What Was the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act (WPPDA)?  

The Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act (WPPDA) was a 1950s-era law that gave the U.S. Department of Labor regulatory authority over private employee benefits plans for the first time. In an effort to increase transparency, the WPPDA mandated that employers and labor unions provide plan descriptions and financial reports to the government. It was intended to make plan sponsors more accountable to participants and beneficiaries for the financial health of the plans.





Key Takeaways

The Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act (WPPDA) was a piece of U.S. legislation in effect from the 1950s through the 1970s that regulated employee benefits and retirement plans.The law required that employers and labor unions give the U.S. Department of Labor detailed reports about the benefits they offered employees. WPPDA was the first such law to provide rules and oversight to protect employee benefits and establish favorable tax treatment and other incentives.In 1974, WPPDA was replaced by the much broader Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).


   Understanding the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act  

The Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act required the U.S. Labor Department to file information about all pension plans with more than 25 employees participating. It also required pension plans that totaled between 25 and 100 employees to file detailed descriptions about plan administration. Plans that had more than 100 participants needed to file financial reports on an annual basis, in addition to providing relevant details about their plan.



A 1962 amendment to the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act increased regulatory authority over the plans by giving the government enforcement, interpretative, and investigatory powers. The WPPDA was a precursor to the much broader Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), which replaced it in 1974.


   How ERISA Expanded on the WPPDA  

The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 protects Americans' retirement assets by implementing rules that qualified retirement plans must follow to ensure plan fiduciaries use plan assets appropriately. As outlined by ERISA, plans must provide participants with information about plan features and funding, and regularly produce relevant information free of charge.



ERISA adds to the requirements under the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act by establishing standards of fiduciary duty, protecting the plans from mismanagement, and increasing the rights of participants and beneficiaries. ERISA defines a fiduciary as anyone who exercises discretionary authority or control over a plan's management or assets, including anyone who provides investment advice to the plan.



Fiduciaries who do not follow the principles of proper conduct may be held responsible for making up losses to the plan. In addition, ERISA addresses fiduciary provisions and bans the misuse of assets through this particular set of provisions. 



In addition to keeping participants informed of their legal rights, ERISA grants participants the right to sue for benefits and breaches of fiduciary duty. To ensure participants do not lose their retirement contributions if a defined plan is terminated, ERISA guarantees payment of certain benefits through the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally charted corporation.
What Is Welfare Economics?  

Welfare economics is the study of how the allocation of resources and goods affects social welfare. This relates directly to the study of economic efficiency and income distribution, as well as how these two factors affect the overall well-being of people in the economy.



In practical terms, welfare economists seek to provide tools to guide public policy to achieve beneficial social and economic outcomes for all of society. However, welfare economics is a subjective study that depends heavily on chosen assumptions regarding how welfare can be defined, measured, and compared for individuals and society as a whole.





Key Takeaways

Welfare economics is the study of how the structure of markets and the allocation of economic goods and resources determine the overall well-being of society. Welfare economics seeks to evaluate the costs and benefits of changes to the economy and guide public policy toward increasing the total good of society, using tools such as cost-benefit analysis and social welfare functions. Welfare economics depends heavily on assumptions regarding the measurability and comparability of human welfare across individuals and the value of other ethical and philosophical ideas about well-being.


   Understanding Welfare Economics  

Welfare economics begins with the application of utility theory in microeconomics. Utility refers to the perceived value associated with a particular good or service. In mainstream microeconomic theory, individuals seek to maximize their utility through their actions and consumption choices, and the interactions of buyers and sellers through the laws of supply and demand in competitive markets yield consumer and producer surplus.



A microeconomic comparison of consumer and producer surplus in markets under different market structures and conditions constitutes a basic version of welfare economics. The simplest version of welfare economics can be thought of as asking, "Which market structures and arrangements of economic resources across individuals and productive processes will maximize the sum total utility received by all individuals or will maximize the total of consumer and producer surplus across all markets?" Welfare economics seeks the economic state that will create the highest overall level of social satisfaction among its members.


   Pareto Efficiency  

This microeconomic analysis leads to the condition of Pareto efficiency as an ideal in welfare economics. When the economy is in a state of Pareto efficiency, social welfare is maximized in the sense that no resources can be reallocated to make one individual better off without making at least one individual worse off. One goal of economic policy could be to try to move the economy toward a Pareto efficient state.



To evaluate whether a proposed change to market conditions or public policy will move the economy toward Pareto efficiency, economists have developed various criteria, which estimate whether the welfare gains of a change to the economy outweigh the losses. These include the Hicks criterion, the Kaldor criterion, the Scitovsky criterion (also known as Kaldor-Hicks criterion), and the Buchanan unanimity principle.



In general, this kind of cost-benefit analysis assumes that utility gains and losses can be expressed in money terms. It also either treats issues of equity (such as human rights, private property, justice, and fairness) as outside the question entirely or assumes that the status quo represents some kind of ideal on these types of issues. 


   Social Welfare Maximization  

However, Pareto efficiency does not provide a unique solution to how the economy should be arranged. Multiple Pareto efficient arrangements of the distributions of wealth, income, and production are possible. Moving the economy toward Pareto efficiency might be an overall improvement in social welfare, but it does not provide a specific target as to which arrangement of economic resources across individuals and markets will actually maximize social welfare.



To do this, welfare economists have devised various types of social welfare functions. Maximizing the value of these functions then becomes the goal of welfare economic analysis of markets and public policy.



Results from this type of social welfare analysis depend heavily on assumptions regarding whether and how utility can be added or compared between individuals, as well as philosophical and ethical assumptions about the value to place on different individuals' well-being. These allow the introduction of ideas about fairness, justice, and rights to be incorporated into the analysis of social welfare, but render the exercise of welfare economics an inherently subjective and possibly contentious field. 


   How Is Economic Welfare Determined?  

Under the lens of Pareto efficiency, optimal welfare, or utility, is achieved when the market is allowed to reach an equilibrium price for a given good or service—it’s at this point that consumer and producer surpluses are maximized.



However, the aim of most modern welfare economists is to apply notions of justice, rights, and equality to the machinations of the market. In that sense, markets that are “efficient” do not necessarily achieve the greatest social good.



One reason for that disconnect: the relative utility of different individuals and producers when assessing an optimal outcome. Welfare economists could theoretically argue, for example, in favor of a higher minimum wage—even if doing so reduces producer surplus—if they believe the economic loss to employers would be felt less acutely than the increased utility experienced by low-wage workers.



Practitioners of normative economics, which is based on value judgments, may also try to measure the desirability of “public goods” that consumers don’t pay for on the open market.






The desirability of improvements to air quality brought about by government regulations is an example of what practitioners of normative economics might measure.



Measuring the social utility of various outcomes is an inherently imprecise undertaking, which has long been a criticism of welfare economics. However, economists have a number of tools at their disposal to gauge individuals’ preferences for certain public goods.



They may conduct surveys, for example, asking how much consumers would be willing to spend on a new highway project. And as the economist Per-Olov Johansson points out, researchers could estimate the value of, say, a public park by analyzing the costs people are willing to incur in order to visit it.



Another example of applied welfare economics is the use of cost-benefit analyses to determine the social impact of specific projects. In the case of a city planning commission that’s trying to evaluate the creation of a new sports arena, the commissioners would likely balance the benefits to fans and team owners with that of businesses or homeowners displaced by new infrastructure.


   Criticism of Welfare Economics  

In order for economists to arrive at a set of policies or economic conditions that maximize social utility, they have to engage in interpersonal utility comparisons. To draw on a previous example, one would have to deduce that minimum wage laws would help low-skill workers more than they would hurt employers (and, potentially, certain workers who might lose their jobs).



Detractors of welfare economics contend that making such comparisons in any accurate way is an impractical goal. It’s possible to understand the relative impact on the utility of, for example, changes in prices for the individual. But, beginning in the 1930s, British economist Lionel Robbins argued that comparing the value that different consumers place on a set of goods is less practical. Robbins also disparaged the lack of objective units of measurements to compare utility among different market participants.



Perhaps the most potent attack on welfare economics came from Kenneth Arrow, who in the early 1950s introduced the “Impossibility Theorem,” which suggests that deducing social preferences by aggregating individual rankings is inherently flawed. Rarely are all the conditions present that would enable one to arrive at a true social ordering of available outcomes.



If, for instance, you have three people and they’re asked to rank different possible outcomes—X, Y, and Z—you might get these three orderings:



Y, Z, XX, Y, ZZ, X, Y



You might conclude that the group prefers X over Y because two people ranked the former over the latter. Along the same lines, one can conclude that the group prefers Y to Z since two of the participants put them in that order. But if we, therefore, expect X to be ranked above Z, we would be wrong—in fact, the majority of subjects put Z ahead of X. Therefore, the social ordering that was sought is not attained—we’re simply stuck in a cycle of preferences.



Such attacks dealt a serious blow to welfare economics, which has waned in popularity since its heyday in the mid-20th century. However, it continues to draw adherents who believe—despite these difficulties—that economics is, in the words of John Maynard Keynes, “a moral science.”




What Is the First and Second Welfare Theorem?
Welfare economics is associated with two main theorems. The first is that competitive markets yield Pareto efficient outcomes. The second is that social welfare can be maximized at an equilibrium with a suitable level of redistribution.




What Are the Assumptions of Welfare Economics?
Welfare economics seeks to evaluate how economic policies affect the well-being of the community. As a consequence, it is generally based on a lot of assumptions that include, above all, taking individual preferences as a given.




Who Is the Founder of Welfare Economics?
Many different economists have been credited for their contributions to welfare economics. Neoclassical economists Alfred Marshall, Vilfredo Pareto, and Arthur C. Pigou played a key role in its conception. However, it’s also true that some of the main ideas behind welfare economics can be traced all the way back to the theories of Adam Smith and Jeremy Bentham.
What Is the Welfare Loss of Taxation?  

Welfare loss of taxation refers to a decrease in economic and social well-being caused by the imposition of a new tax. It is the total cost to society incurred just by the process of transferring purchasing power from taxpayers to the taxing authority.



These costs consist of economically productive activity foregone and real resources consumed either by the process of taxation or by the compensating behavior of workers, consumers, and businesses in response to the tax.





Key Takeaways

The welfare loss of taxation is the total cost imposed on society by levying a new tax. These costs arise from the administration of, compliance with, avoidance of, or evasion of the tax, in addition to the deadweight losses and other welfare losses associated with microeconomic distortions created by the tax. The welfare loss of taxation can be thought of as the total transaction costs involved with the process of transferring purchasing power from taxpayers to the taxing authority. 


   Understanding the Welfare Loss of Taxation  

Taxes are collected by governments to serve a variety of ends such as to fund the provision of public goods, to achieve equitable distributions of wealth and income among the population, or simply to transfer wealth from the subjects to the ruling class. However, the imposition and implementation of any tax is not itself a costless process and the impact of the tax on taxpayers changes the economic incentives that they are faced with, and thus their behavior.



In a sense, these costs can be thought of as the transaction costs of the tax side of public finance.



Several types of costs can contribute to the total cost of taxation, including deadweight losses in the taxed market and welfare losses in related markets, compliance costs, administrative costs, tax evasion costs, and tax avoidance costs.



They arise from two principal sources:



The act of taxation itself consumes some real resources.
People adjust their economic behavior in response to the tax leading to opportunity costs in the form of forgone economically productive activity that is discouraged by the tax and the consumption of real resources by activities encouraged by the tax.



Note that some of these changes in behavior may be considered positive in the presence of externalized costs or benefits to activities being discouraged or encouraged, and this may offset some or all of the social cost of the tax as in the case of a Pigouvian tax.



Net of such externalities, the costs of taxation, represent a social welfare loss that can offset the social welfare benefits produced through the expenditure of public revenues generated. These costs are an essential consideration in the design and implementation of economically optimal taxes, which need to be balanced against any social benefits that may arise from the public services that can be funded or other benefits of the tax itself.


   Categories of Social Costs of Taxation  

The costs that make up the total welfare loss of taxation can be broken down into several categories. The deadweight loss of taxation in the taxed market is the welfare loss of taxation most discussed and focused on by economists, but because it is only one aspect of the total cost of taxation it at best represents a lower bound on the total welfare loss.


  Deadweight Losses and Other Microeconomic Distortions  

Deadweight losses occur anytime the market price and quantity of a good are held apart from the equilibrium price and quantity implied by the (fully internalized) costs and benefits of producing and consuming the good embodied in the relevant supply and demand curves.



In welfare economics, it can be calculated or depicted graphically as the difference between total economic surplus generated by a market with or without the tax, based on the amount of consumer surplus, producer surplus, and the tax revenue collected.



Because a tax drives a wedge between the price that buyers pay for some goods and the price the sellers receive for that good, there is always a deadweight loss for any tax other than a perfect Pigouvian tax. Deadweight losses tend to increase in direct proportion to the tax rate.



Furthermore, because changes in the after-tax market price and quantity of the taxed good impact demand and supply conditions for other goods (substitutes, complements, and goods that are upstream or downstream from the taxed good in the production process), the tax can cause additional welfare losses in related markets.



Additional losses may be incurred to the extent that the process of adjusting all the impacted markets to the after-tax situation from their initial equilibria may itself be costly.


  Administrative Costs  

Creating and implementing any tax involves some cost in and of itself. The legislative process of enacting the tax (and any subsequent reforms), the process of documenting the goods to activities to be taxed, the physical collection of the tax, and the pursuit of tax evaders in order to enforce the tax all involve some cost to carry out. These costs may vary based on the efficiency of the respective processes and the degree of voluntary compliance with the tax.


  Compliance Costs  

Compliance costs are related to administrative costs in that they represent the administrative cost of the tax that has been externalized on to those who are taxed. This includes the cost of producing and storing any accounting records, forms, or tax returns that are required for tax purposes and related professional tax preparation services. This can also include any agency costs arising from taxes administered by third-parties, such as employers. These costs can vary based on the complexity and specific requirements of the tax code.


  Avoidance Costs  

Avoidance costs represent the transaction costs and opportunity costs arising from any transactions that take place for the purpose of reducing one’s tax burden. Examples include holding on to capital gains longer than an investor would otherwise prefer in order to get a lower tax rate, investing in tax-advantaged assets despite an otherwise lower rate of return, or traveling to another tax jurisdiction to avoid paying a local tax. The costs of any action that a taxpayer engages voluntarily in order to legally reduce their tax can be included here.


  Evasion Costs  

Evasion costs are similar to avoidance costs, but in addition to the cost of any activities pursued solely to evade the tax itself, they also include the cost of any activities by the taxpayer to avoid detection when illegally evading taxes (or alternatively the subjective cost to the taxpayer of incurring the risk of detection and punishment).
What Is a Welfare State?  

The term "welfare state" refers to a type of governing in which the national government plays a key role in the protection and promotion of the economic and social well-being of its citizens. A welfare state is based on the principles of equality of opportunity, equitable distribution of wealth, and public responsibility for those unable to avail themselves of the minimal provisions of a good life. Social Security, federally mandated unemployment insurance programs, and welfare payments to people unable to work are all examples of the welfare state.



Most modern countries practice some elements of what is considered the welfare state. That said, the term is frequently used in a derogatory sense to describe a state of affairs where the government in question creates incentives that are beyond reason, resulting in an unemployed person on welfare payments earning more than a struggling worker. The welfare state is sometimes criticized as being a "nanny state" in which adults are coddled and treated like children.





Key Takeaways


The welfare state is a way of governing in which the state or an established group of social institutions provides basic economic security for its citizens.
By definition, in a welfare state, the government is responsible for the individual and social welfare of its citizens.
Most modern countries have programs that are reflective of a welfare state, such as unemployment insurance and welfare payments.
However, the term "welfare state" is a charged one, as critics of such a system say it involves too much government involvement in the lives and well-being of citizens.



   Understanding the Welfare State  

The welfare state has become a target of derision. Under this system, the welfare of its citizens is the responsibility of the state. Some countries take this to mean offering unemployment benefits and base level welfare payments, while others take it much further with universal healthcare, free college, and so on. Despite most nations falling on a spectrum of welfare state activity, with few holdouts among the most developed nations, there is a lot of charged rhetoric when the term comes up in conversation. A lot of this owes to the history of the welfare state. 


   The History of the Welfare State  

Although fair treatment of citizens and a state-provided standard of living for the poor dates back further than the Roman Empire, the modern welfare states that best exemplify the historical rise and fall of this concept are the U.K. and the United States. From the 1940s to the 1970s, the welfare state in the U.K.—based on the Beveridge Report—took hold, leading to a growth in the government to replace the services that were once provided by charities, trade unions, and the church. In the U.S., the groundwork for the welfare state grew out of the Great Depression and the massive price paid by the poor and the working poor during this period.



The U.K.'s system grew despite some spirited opposition by Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s, and it continues today although it frequently needs restructuring and adjustments to keep it from getting too unwieldily. The U.S. never went to the extent of the U.K., let alone somewhere like Germany or Denmark, and Ronald Reagan had much more success than Thatcher in shrinking government. Many people look at the differing economic growth rates of the U.S. and the U.K. throughout periods where the welfare state flourished and floundered to make conclusions on whether it is good or bad for a nation as a whole.


   Special Considerations  

While it is true that the government is rarely the most cost-effective agent to deliver a program, it is also true that the government is the only organization that can potentially care for all its citizens without being driven to do so as part of another agenda. Running a welfare state is fraught with difficulties, but it is also difficult to run a nation where large swaths of the population struggle to get the food, education, and care needed to better their personal situation.
What Is a Wellbore?  

A wellbore is a hole that is drilled to aid in the exploration and recovery of natural resources, including oil, gas, or water. A wellbore is the actual hole that forms the well. A wellbore can be encased by materials such as steel and cement, or it may be uncased. The motivation for drilling a wellbore is usually to extract oil or gas for a protracted period of time.





Key Takeaways

A wellbore is a type of borehole that is used to extract oil or gas.A borehole can also be used for mineral extraction, environmental assessment, and temperature measurement.Wellbores are typically vertical shafts that might be uncased or encased with cement and steel.The purpose of the wellbore is to extract oil and gas for a protracted period of time.


   Understanding a Wellbore  

A wellbore is a type of borehole, which is a narrow shaft that is drilled into the ground—either horizontally or vertically—to extract water, petroleum, or gases. Other reasons for drilling boreholes include mineral exploration, environmental site assessment, and temperature measurement.



Resource extraction companies dig wellbores to gain access to the natural resources they are seeking, such as oil and gas. A wellbore is usually a straight vertical shaft that "bores" into the ground to allow the recovery of natural resources. It also includes the open hole and uncased portions of the well.


   Examples of a Wellbore  

The following is a diagram of an oil wellbore encased in steel and cement. The wellbore is the actual drilled hole. The drilled hole may refer to the inside diameter of the wellbore wall or the rock face that bounds the drilled hole. The wellbore can then be cased with materials to improve its stability while improving operation and resource recovery.



Borehole is often used as a synonym for wellbores, though sometimes the borehole refers to the open diameter of the hole itself, whereas the wellbore is the hole including the casing between the opening and the rock or earth walls on the outside.













Wellbores must be cleaned before and after production because if mud or debris is not removed, it can increase operating costs while increasing safety and environmental risks. Furthermore, drilling wellbores is complex and requires specialized training, tools, and equipment. When successful, the wellbore creates a well that can extract oil and gas for a protracted period of time.



Though wellbores are commonly thought to belong to oil drillers, a wellbore can be used for any type of well. For thousands of years, drillers have used drilling rigs or a hand-operated rigs to dig wells. The machinery and techniques used to create wellbores differ based on geological conditions and the intended purpose of the well. For offshore drilling, floating units or platforms supported by the seafloor are used for the drilling rig.



Chinese miners have been creating wellbores since at least the Qin Dynasty (221–206 BC). Initially, these wells could reach depths of 30 meters. By the 1800s, depths of 1,000 meters were being achieved.﻿﻿



K.S. Tom describes the drilling process: "The Chinese method of deep drilling was accomplished by a team of men jumping on and off a beam to impact the drilling bit while the boring tool was rotated by buffalo and oxen." Early oil extraction in California in the 1860s and beyond used this method, which they called "kicking her down."﻿﻿
What Is a Wellness Program?  

The term wellness program refers to an organizational approach to improving individual health. Wellness programs are commonly offered by companies to their employees, providing financial incentives or other resources to stay healthy.



Local and state governments and insurance companies may also offer incentive-based wellness programs aimed at promoting the health of the public, their employees, or insured individuals. Some of the main offerings of wellness programs include company-sponsored exercise and tobacco cessation programs.





Key Takeaways

Wellness programs are provided by companies, governments, and insurance companies to encourage individuals to lead healthier lifestyles.These programs improve productivity, decrease sick days, lower insurance expenses, reduce turnover, and lowers workers' compensation claims.Individuals can benefit financially and through an increased sense of wellbeing.Critics argue that these programs only cater to healthy individuals, may lead to discrimination of individuals with below-average health, and are geared to improve corporate bottom lines.Companies may spend anywhere from $150 to $1,200 per employee on wellness programs.


   Understanding Wellness Programs  

Employers are taking a very serious approach to the health and wellbeing of their employees. As such, wellness programs have become a very important part of the corporate world. These are initiatives that are designed to promote healthy living and work/life balance for employees. Insurance companies and governments may also offer wellness programs for individuals.



When individuals are healthy, it improves productivity, decreases sick days and leaves of absences, lowers an organization's health insurance expenses, reduces turnover, and lowers the chances of workers' compensation claims. Employees can also benefit from wellness programs through lower health insurance premiums, decreased out-of-pocket medical expenditures, and an increased sense of wellbeing.



There are many ways that wellness programs can help individuals make healthy choices to improve their lifestyles. Companies can offer in-house workout spaces or marked walking paths on the corporate campus to encourage physical activity. Some corporations may even offer financial incentives, such as lower health insurance premiums or gift cards for meeting fitness goals. Offerings may include:



Company-sponsored exerciseDiscounted or fully-paid gym membershipsWeight-loss competitionsEducational seminarsTobacco cessation programsHealth screenings that are designed to improve food choices, weight loss, and overall physical wellbeing.



Regardless of how they may be advertised by those who offer them, many people choose not to participate in wellness programs. Some of the main reasons may include a lack of time and commitment and a general lack of knowledge on how to claim wellness-related benefits. Some people may feel uncomfortable about how health screenings and personal information will be used.






Corporate wellness programs should aim to promote the mindfulness of workplace noise and allow individuals to take regular breaks.


   Special Considerations  

Organizations may create wellness-related linkages between their programs and other company benefits such as employee assistance programs (EAPs). These programs provide support for employees when they find themselves in difficult emotional or physical situations that affect both their health and work.



EAPs connect employees to counselors, who can advise them confidentially on issues ranging from emotional distress, a difficult medical diagnosis, and personal or work-related issues to life events such as marriage or parenting.


   Criticism of Wellness Programs  

Although they are designed to give individuals a leg up on their health by improving wellbeing and reducing operating costs, there is some criticism of wellness programs. One common criticism of these programs is that they only cater to individuals who are already healthy and that they don't necessarily appeal to those who may have emotional and/or physical issues.



Some critics argue that health screenings are controversial components of many company wellness programs. Corporate wellness programs can lead to unnecessary over-testing That's because some people contend that tracking cholesterol, body mass index, and other figures leads to de facto discrimination and heavier financial burdens placed on workers with below-average health.



The motivations for employer- and insurance company-sponsored wellness programs are heavily debated. Although these programs may be designed to improve individual health, corporations may adopt certain initiatives that may not actually contribute to people's wellbeing. Instead, they may be developed to simply boost a company's bottom line.


   How Much Corporate Wellness Programs Cost  

Companies spend anywhere from $150 to $1,200 per employee on wellness programs, depending on the size of the company and the number of individuals employed. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), any "employer-provided cash rewards," such as subsidies for gym memberships count as taxable income since they are not considered medical care.



That being said, many studies have been done on the return on investment (ROI) of wellness programs. For example, a Towers Watson and the National Business Group on Health study found that companies with highly effective wellness programs had a significantly lower turnover rate than companies with ineffective programs, with 9% voluntary attrition compared to 15% without. Research published in the Harvard Business Review shows that ROI on effective employee wellness programs can be as high as six to one.


   Examples of Wellness Programs  

Corporate wellness programs offer a variety of scheduled programs, including stress management seminars that cover topics such as sleep to work-life balance, cooking classes, healthy recipe exchanges, financial well-being, and fitness challenges. Other components of an effective corporate wellness program may include healthy options at vending machines and cafeterias. Healthy food may also be served at meetings and included in company-provided overtime meals.



Google provides employees at-home fitness, a massage program, and other wellness extras. This is, of course, in addition to on-site gyms and free workout classes.Draper, an Indiana-based manufacturer of gym equipment, window shades, and projection screens, instituted a 10-week weight-loss challenge called “Dump Your Plump,” which consists of 12 teams of six employees each competing to win weekly grocery gift cards. A cash prize is awarded to the overall winner.The State of Wisconsin started its Well Wisconsin initiative in 2018 to fill the gap in wellness programs offered by more than 70% of the state's private employers at the time. State employees , including employees of the University of Wisconsin System, the UW Healthcare, and their families (who are also enrolled in the State Group Health Insurance Program), could earn $150 per adult for fulfilling three wellness activities: a health assessment survey, a physical check-up or health screening, and participation in one or more wellness activities.




How Effective Are Workplace Wellness Programs?
Research published in the Harvard Business Review shows that the return on investment for effective employee wellness programs can be as high as six to one.




What Are Reasons Why Employees Don’t Participate in Wellness Programs?
Many employees don't participate in wellness programs due to lack of time, lack of knowledge on how to claim these benefits, or sensitivities around certain types of wellness programs, such as health screenings that may compromise their personal information.




What Steps Should Companies Take to Start a Wellness Program?
Companies looking to start a wellness program should poll their employees on the perks they find most beneficial. While a younger company base may prefer wellness programs such as subsidized gym memberships, more established corporations may prefer health screenings or mental health benefits such as access to free therapy, counseling sessions, or otherwise.


   The Bottom Line  

Corporate wellness programs can offer their employees a huge benefit in managing their work and personal life balance. From cooking classes to gym memberships, health screenings, massage therapists on-campus, and subsidized counseling sessions, wellness programs come in all shapes and sizes. Ultimately, serious investment in these benefits is ultimately about understanding the employees' expectations. If done well, the return on investment in health care savings and lowering attrition can be significant.
What Is a Wells Notice?  

A Wells Notice is a notification issued by regulators to inform individuals or companies of completed investigations where infractions have been discovered. It usually takes the form of a letter, which notifies recipients both of the broad nature of the violations uncovered as well as the nature of the enforcement proceedings to be initiated against the recipient.





Key Takeaways

A Wells Notice is a formal notice from the SEC informing a recipient that the agency is planning to bring enforcement actions against them.﻿﻿A Wells Notice letter is sent at the end of an investigation into potential securities-law or regulatory violations.The accused may respond to the Wells Notice within 30 days via a Wells Submission, taking the form of a legal brief.


   Understanding Wells Notices  

The Wells notice is named after the Wells Committee, formed in 1972 by then-SEC Chair William J. Casey in order to review the enforcement practices and policies of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and chair by John Wells.



The receipt of a Wells Notice means that the SEC may bring a civil action against the person or firm named therein, and gives said person or firm the chance to offer information as to why such an action shouldn’t be brought.


   Responding to a Wells Notice  

After receiving a Wells Notice, recipients have a chance for prospective defendants in SEC enforcement proceedings to speak on their own behalves, directly to the decision-makers involved in the case.



A prospective defendant’s response to a Wells Notice is known as a Wells Submission. Prospective defendants have a certain number of days to make a Wells Submission, which should take the form of a legal brief, and include both factual and legal arguments to prove why charges should not be brought against the prospective defendants.



A Wells Submission, and its contents, are public information, and as a result, most securities law attorneys may advise that making such a submission is not always to the prospective defendants’ best interests. Anything alleged in the Wells Submission can be used against the defendant in the enforcement proceedings; it can also be subpoenaed and used against the respondents in any other civil litigation brought against the defendants.


   The “Pre-Wells” Process  

In some cases, regulators are willing to start a dialog with the accused party at the conclusion of their investigation, but before issuing a formal Wells Notice. When this occurs, it may be referred to as a “pre-Wells” process.



This process will often include written submissions and oral arguments made by the defense counsel. The SEC may be willing to engage in a pre-Wells process if a case involves novel or highly technical issues, or significant policy questions. In other cases, the SEC is willing to allow a pre-Wells process because they believe it will facilitate reaching a settlement. Finally, there may be extenuating circumstances in a particular case that cause regulators to be willing to proceed on a pre-Wells basis.
What Is the XOF (West African CFA Franc)?  

The West African CFA franc (XOF) is the shared currency of eight independent states in West Africa. The XOF uses both coins and banknotes, with the franc subdivided into 100 centimes. The Central Bank of West African States, located in Dakar, Senegal, regulates the currency. The members that use the West African CFA France consist of the West African Economic and Monetary Union and include Benin, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Together, these countries have a spending power that exceeds over 78 billion dollars.






CFA stands for Communatué financière d'Afrique or African Financial Community. 


   Understanding the West African CFA Franc  

The CFA franc is one of two regional African currencies backed by the French treasury with pegging to the euro. 'CFA franc' can refer to either the Central African CFA franc, abbreviated XAF in currency markets, or the West African CFA franc, abbreviated XOF in currency markets. Although they are separate currencies, the two are effectively interchangeable as they hold the same monetary value against other currencies. In theory, however, the French government or the monetary unions using the currencies could decide to change the value of one or the other.



Because the members are joined together by their use of the CFA franc, they have created what is known as the CFA franc zone. The CFA franc zone is made up of the two independent unions of the West African Economic and Monetary Union and the Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community. The dual union helped cement the value and usability of the CFA franc, first by setting its equivalent to the French franc, which later became the euro. By aligning the values, the colonies were able to gain security and stability with the franc. In return, however, the French treasure required large deposits of their external reserves into their accounts, first at 65-percent and then later, lowered down to 50-percent.





Key Takeaways

The West African CFA Franc (XOF) is the currency shared by eight West-African nations: Benin, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.XOF was once pegged to the French franc,and when France switched to the euro, the currencies retained parity, where 100 CFA franc = 0.152449 euroThe West African CFA franc should not be confused for the Central African CFA franc (XAF), shared by Central African nations.


   History of the West African CFA Franc (XOF)  

Along with the Central African CFA franc (XAF), the West African CFA franc (XOF) makes up the currency for most of central and west Africa. The currency was introduced following the World War II and replaced the French West African franc. 



Several countries belonging to the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) were French colonies using the French West African franc, including the Ivory Coast, Dahomey, French Sudan, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo and Upper Volta. As those colonies gained independence, they continued to use the CFA France for their currency. 



Mali, also known as French Sudan, was the only independent colony to create a national currency in 1961. However, by 1984, Mali returned to use the CFA franc, with an exchange of 1 CFA France to 2 Malian francs. The CFA pegs to the euro.



Creation of the CFA franc was in 1945, following the end of the Second World War. Previously, French colonies had their currencies pegged to the French franc. However, changes made by the signing of the Bretton Woods Agreement, ratified in 1945, pegged the French franc to the dollar, which devalued the French Franc. France created the new currency to avoid devaluing the money in its colonies.



The initial exchange rate in 1945 was 1 CFA franc to 1.70 French francs. In 1948, the rate changed to 1 CFA franc to 2 French francs after the devaluation of the French franc. This artificially high exchange rate for the CFA franc caused economic stagnation among the countries in the CFA franc zone in the 1980s and early 1990s. In consultation with France and the International Monetary Fund, the African monetary unions decided to devalue their currencies by 50 percent, which, along with other fiscal and monetary policy adjustments, generated GDP growth of 5 percent in the CFA franc zone between 1995 and 2000.



When France switched from the franc to the euro, the currencies retained parity, so the currencies currently trade at 100 CFA franc to 0.152449 euro.
What Is West Texas Intermediate (WTI)?  

West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil is a specific grade of crude oil and one of the main three benchmarks in oil pricing, along with Brent and Dubai Crude. WTI is known as a light sweet oil because it contains between 0.24% and 0.34% sulfur, making it "sweet," and has a low density (specific gravity), making it "light."



WTI is the underlying commodity of the New York Mercantile Exchange's (NYMEX) oil futures contract and is considered a high-quality oil that is easily refined.





Key Takeaways

West Texas Intermediate (WTI) is a light, sweet crude oil that serves as one of the main global oil benchmarks.It is sourced primarily from inland Texas and is one of the highest quality oils in the world, which is easy to refine.WTI is the underlying commodity for the NYMEX's oil futures contract.WTI is often compared to Brent crude, which is an oil benchmark for two-thirds of the world's oil contracts based on oil extracted in the North Sea.


   Understanding West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  

WTI is the main oil benchmark for North America as it is sourced from the United States, primarily from the Permian Basin. The oil comes mainly from Texas. It then travels through pipelines where it is refined in the Midwest and the Gulf of Mexico. The main delivery point for physical exchange and price settlement for WTI is Cushing, Oklahoma.



The Cushing hub delivery system consists of 35 (20 inbound and 15 outbound) pipelines and 16 storage terminals. The hub has 90 million barrels of storage capacity and accounts for 13% of U.S. oil storage. The inbound and outbound capacity is 6.5 million barrels a day. Cushing is known as "The Pipeline Crossroads of the World."


   West Texas Intermediate as an Oil Market Benchmark  

The significance of a benchmark in the oil market is that benchmarks serve as a reference price for buyers and sellers of crude oil. Oil benchmarks are frequently quoted in the media as the price of oil. Though Brent crude and WTI crude are the most popular benchmarks, their prices are often contrasted. The difference in price between Brent and WTI is called the Brent-WTI spread.



WTI is not the most commonly used benchmark globally, that honor goes to Brent, where two-thirds of oil contracts globally use Brent as a benchmark. Both, however, are considered high-quality oils and are therefore the two most important oil benchmarks in the world. As mentioned, WTI has a sulfur content between 0.24% and 0.34%, whereas Brent has a sulfur content between 0.35% to 0.40%. The lower the sulfur content of an oil, the easier it is to refine, making it more attractive. A sulfur content below 0.5% is considered sweet. WTI is ideal for gasoline whereas Brent is ideal for diesel.



Theoretically, WTI crude should trade at a premium to Brent crude, given the quality, but this is not always the case. While the two crude oil varieties can trade at similar price points, each one has its own unique supply and demand market, and therefore its price reflects its individual market fundamentals.



Since the shale boom in the U.S., which resulted in a production increase of WTI, the price of WTI has gone down and usually trades at a discount to Brent. Furthermore, transporting WTI overseas to Brent crude's market could come at a cost that would make WTI unable to compete with Brent crude in terms of pricing.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020
What Is a Western Account?  

A western account is a type of agreement among underwriters (AAU) in which each underwriter agrees to share responsibility for only a specific portion of the overall new issuance. They are the opposite of an “eastern account,” in which each underwriter shares responsibility for the entire issuance.



Western accounts are popular among some underwriters because they reduce each underwriter's risk. These accounts lower each participant's effective liability should the new issuance prove more difficult than expected. On the other hand, western accounts also limit the potential upside enjoyed by underwriters in the event that the new issuance is unusually successful.





Key Takeaways

A western account is a type of agreement among underwriters in which the parties agree to be responsible only for their own allocation of the new securities issuance.By contrast, the eastern account structure requires all parties to share liability for the entire issue.A western account lowers the risk each underwriter takes on but also limits the potential profit.In both types of accounts, the underwriters seek to profit from the spread between the price paid to the issuer and the price obtained from the investing public.


   How Western Accounts Work  

The western account is one of the ways that underwriters seek to manage the risk associated with bringing new securities to the public, such as in the case of an initial public offering (IPO). These transactions are inherently risky for the underwriters involved, because they are required to pay a certain amount of money to the issuer of the security regardless of the price at which those securities can then be sold to the public. The profit of the underwriter is based on the spread between the price paid to the issuer and the price ultimately obtained from selling the new securities to the public.



To mitigate this risk, underwriters generally conduct new issuances in collaboration with one another. This creates what are known as underwriting “consortiums.”



When bringing together several underwriting firms in this manner, it is necessary to clearly delineate the rights and responsibilities of the parties involved. This is accomplished through explicit agreements known as agreements among underwriters, or AAUs, which lay out which underwriter is responsible for which portion of the new issuance.



The western account, also known as a “divided account,” is simply one common example of an AAU structure. In it, each underwriter agrees to take on liability for only the portion of the issuance that it takes into its own inventory. If any of the securities held by other underwriters fail to sell (or obtain disappointing prices), then that risk is only borne by the specific underwriter left holding that inventory.


   Example of a Western Account  

XYZ Corporation is a prominent manufacturing company preparing for its IPO. Its management team are experts in their industry, but are not especially knowledgeable about the financial markets. For this reason, they hire a lead underwriter who in turn forms a consortium of firms who are collectively responsible for carrying out XYZ’s IPO.



Under the terms of this transaction, XYZ is paid a sum by the underwriters that is equivalent to $25 per share. In order to profit from the transaction, the underwriting consortium needs to sell its shares to other investors for greater than $25 per share.



In forming their consortium, XYZ’s underwriters adopted an AAU modeled on the western account structure. Accordingly, each of the underwriting firms involved only assumed responsibility for a specific portion of the newly issued shares. For this reason, the ultimate profit or loss of the underwriters will vary from one firm to the next.




What Is an Underwriter?
An underwriter is a person or organization that takes on another party's financial risk through a mortgage, loan, insurance, or other financial transaction. The underwriter often makes money through interest payments. Underwriters can also make money through the difference between what they pay for a new investment or security issuance and the price at which it is eventually sold to the public.




What Is an IPO?
An IPO is an initial public offering, which means a large company is selling shares to the public for the first time. An IPO is a way for companies to raise money from public investors. After an IPO, the company's shares are available to buy and sell on a public stock exchange.




Who Underwrites an IPO?
Initial public offerings (IPOs) are usually underwritten by investment banks. These banks usually have IPO specialists on staff who work with the company making the IPO to ensure that all regulatory requirements are met.


   The Bottom Line  

When a new security is offered to the public, such as through an IPO, the risk of the new security is taken on by underwriters that may form an underwriting consortium. The underwriters may use an agreement known as a western account. In this arrangement, each underwriter is only responsible for a specific portion of the new shares.



This type of agreement lowers the risk each underwriter takes on. However, it also lowers the potential profit they can make once the shares are sold to the public.

What Is a Wet Loan?  

A wet loan is a mortgage in which the funds realize at—or with the completion of—a loan application. Submission of other required documentation for closing the property, such as surveys and title searches, happens after the dispersion of funds.



Wet loans allow the borrower to purchase property more rapidly and to complete the necessary documentation after the transaction. Conditions surrounding the use of wet loans differ based on state laws, and not all states allow a wet loan.


   Understanding a Wet Loan  

​​​​​​​In a wet-funded mortgage, the borrower receives money at the time their loan is approved. The borrower may then purchase property and complete the other required documentation to officially transfer the property title. After the transfer of funds, the bank will obtain the loan documentation for review. Wet loans expedite the purchasing process by allowing the sale to occur before the paperwork is completed.






A wet loan allows a borrower to purchase property more rapidly, before completing the necessary paperwork.


   Wet Loans vs. Dry Loans  

With wet-loan transactions, speed comes at the price of increased risk. The likelihood of fraud and loan default is significant with a wet loan. The risk comes from the seller receiving funds before the review and approval of the loan documentation. If, after evaluation, the bank determines the loan is too risky, it faces great time and expense in revoking the mortgage.



In contrast, a dry loan is one where the release of funds is after completion and review of all necessary sale and loan documentation. Dry funding provides an added layer of consumer protection and helps to ensure the legality of the transaction. With a slower closing process and no funds disbursed at the closing, there’s more time to address or avoid issues.



Dry loans date to pre-electronic banking days, when property buyers and sellers often lived far apart from one another and their mortgage lenders, so transactions took longer. The dispersal of funds happens when the mortgage is considered officially closed. The new owner can take possession of the property at this point.


   Wet Closings vs. Dry Closings  

Wet loans may go through either a traditional closing or a dry closing. A real estate closing is the completion of a transaction involving the sale or exchange of real property. A conventional closing consists of the following events:



All necessary buyer and seller documentation are completed.The property title transfers to the purchaser.All funds pending are settled.



In contrast, a dry closing takes place for the benefit and convenience of both the buyer and the seller, but in itself it is not technically a closing. A dry closing usually occurs when there has been some delay in the funding of the loan and buyer and seller are geographically separated. Dry closings allow for the signing of documents, but no money changes hands.


   Special Considerations for a Wet Loan  

Wet loans are permitted in all states except Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, and Washington. States that have wet-settlement laws require lending banks to disburse funds within a certain period. Some require payment to the sellers and other involved parties on the day of the settlement; others allow payment within one or two days of closing. Wet-settlement laws are in place to curb the bank practice of delaying funding after closing documents have been signed by the borrowers. All of the before-funding conditions must be met for the lender to allow closing in wet states.
What Is the Wharton School?  

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania—often referred to simply as Wharton—is one of the most prestigious business schools in the world.



Wharton's Master of Business Administration (MBA) program placed first in front of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business in a 2023 global survey of the best business finance schools by U.S. News & World Report.



The school is best known for its rigorous finance program. It is a top choice for those seeking careers in investment banking, private equity (PE), investment management, or venture capital (VC).





Key Takeaways


The Wharton School of Business, part of the University of Pennsylvania, is one of the world’s foremost business schools.
Its finance program has long been considered the gold standard internationally.
It is associated with a noteworthy series of founders and senior executives in the financial sector.
The school has made new investments in its technology sector educational offerings while establishing new partnerships in the Greater China region.



   Overview of the Wharton School  

As is understandable given its prized Ivy League brand value, the admissions process at Wharton is highly competitive. For example, its MBA Class of 2024 received over 6,300 applications, and only 877 were enrolled.



On average, the accepted applicants boasted an average GMAT score of 733 and an average undergraduate GPA of 3.6 on a 4.0 scale. Although these applicants hailed from a wide variety of industries, the most common fields were consulting, technology, government/nonprofit, private equity, and venture capital, which collectively represented about 59% of the total.



In addition to its well-known MBA program, Wharton also offers a variety of undergraduate business degrees, along with a Ph.D. program. Examples of specific specializations that the school offers include accounting, finance, marketing, real estate, statistics, and entrepreneurship.



In 1975, Wharton launched an Executive MBA (EMBA) program, which students can pursue out of its Philadelphia or San Francisco campus (the latter of which is strategically located near the hub of California’s technology sector).



In a similar move, Wharton also established the Penn Wharton China Center in 2015, a new campus based in Beijing which is supported by over 20 additional partnerships with Chinese organizations.



Wharton’s main campus is located at the heart of the University of Pennsylvania.






Some of the notable figures who have attended Wharton are Donald Trump; Warren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B); Sundar Pichai, CEO of both Alphabet (GOOG) and Google; and Elon Musk, founder of Tesla (TSLA) and SpaceX and co-founder of PayPal (PYPL).


   The Wharton School's Reputation and Standing  

Wharton claims the largest alumni network of any business school in the United States, with a total membership of nearly 100,000 strong.



Historically, Wharton’s reputation has been especially strong with regard to finance. The school produces a steady stream of top candidates for Wall Street firms and other finance-related institutions.



However, with the recent growth of the American technology sector, Wharton has been making greater efforts to bolster its programs outside of its core strength of finance in order to better prepare its students for the workforce of the future.



The school’s recent investments in China are also oriented in a similar direction. The Penn Wharton China Center already has over 15,000 alumni in the Greater China region.


   Costs to Attend Wharton  

Wharton is one of the more expensive business schools in the U.S. Total expenses (including room and board, books, supplies, and tuition) for its two-year MBA program are $246,952 for the 2023-2024 school year.



First year costs include:



Tuition and Fees (with a $2,000 Pre-Term Fee): $87,370Room and Board: $26,028Books, Supplies, Misc.: $6,868Health Insurance: $4,210Total: $124,476



Second year costs include:



Tuition and Fees: $85,370Room and Board: $26,028Books, Supplies, Misc.: $6,868Health Insurance: $4,210Total: $122,476




Is Wharton Better Than Harvard?
Each school is known for its focus. Wharton is famous for its business and corporate finance research, while Harvard is known for its business management and leadership research.




Why Is Wharton So Famous?
Wharton has been teaching business finance for more than 120 years, creating a brand and education that is in demand by students and industries worldwide.




Is Wharton Considered Ivy League?
Wharton is a school within the University of Pennsylvania, which is one of the eight universities that make up the Ivy League (University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, Harvard, Dartmouth, Yale, Cornell, Brown, and Princeton).


   The Bottom Line  

The Wharton School of Business was founded in the U.S. in 1881 as the country's first business school. Since then, it has become the premier business finance school in the world, attracting students globally and extending its presence into other countries.



Correction—Sep. 19, 2023: This article previously misidentified the University of Pennsylvania as Penn State in its description of the Ivy League.
What Is a Whartonite?  

"Whartonite" is a colloquial term used to refer to graduates of The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Because of the Wharton School's reputation in the financial sector, the term "Whartonite" is often associated with professionals in industries such as investment banking, investment management, private equity, and venture capital.



In some cases, the term can be used in a derogatory manner, referring to a professional with an attitude of superiority or arrogance. In this sense, it is associated with the negative stereotypes that sometimes surround the financial sector.





Key Takeaways

"Whartonite" is a term referring to graduates of The Wharton School, the prestigious business school at the University of Pennsylvania.It can have a negative connotation, implying that the person in question has a superiority complex.Wharton is widely considered among the best business schools in the world, with its undergraduate and graduate programs regularly ranked among the top 5 in global business school rankings.The school offers a variety of majors for both undergraduate and graduate students and has a large alumni network of many prestigious graduates.


   The Wharton School  

The Wharton School was established in 1881 by the industrialist Joseph Wharton. It is widely referred to simply as "The Finance School," due to having long been rated as the preeminent school for those pursuing careers in finance.



Despite its reputation for producing graduates who work for Wall Street and other financial firms, Wharton also boasts MBA majors in a diverse range of subjects, including healthcare management, marketing, real estate, and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors.



The school has been expanding outside of its Pennsylvania location. It launched an Executive MBA program in 2001, through which students can complete their studies out of a newly-established campus building located in San Francisco. Similarly, the school opened the Penn Wharton China Center in 2015, a new campus located in Beijing that aims to strengthen Wharton’s connections and influence in the Greater China region.


   Rankings and Alumni  

Wharton is widely regarded as one of the world's top institutions for business education. U.S. News & World Report ranks Wharton's MBA program as the third best in the United States. It ranks its undergraduate business program as number one.



Those looking for examples of individual Wharton graduates will have no shortage of people to choose from. In fact, Wharton boasts a large alumni network for its MBA program of 100,000 graduates. It is no surprise that some among them are very prominent indeed: including Sundar Pichai, CEO of Alphabet; John Sculley, former CEO of Pepsi, and Peter Lynch, the one-time manager of Fidelity's Magellan Fund. Elon Musk and Warren Buffett both also attended Wharton as undergrads, though Buffett transferred out before graduating.




Is Wharton Better Than Harvard?
Wharton's MBA program is ranked better than Harvard's by U.S. News & World Report: number three and number five, respectively; however, for undergraduate purposes, Harvard is a better-ranked school that offers a variety of more subjects for students while Wharton is business focused.




How Much Does Wharton's MBA Cost?
The first-year of Wharton's MBA program costs $124,476, which includes tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and health insurance. Second-year costs are $122,476.




How Hard Is It to Get Into Wharton Grad School?
Wharton's MBA program is extremely difficult to get into. The school receives between 6,000 and 7,000 applicants a year and accepts approximately 1,000 of those.




Is Wharton School an Ivy League School?
Yes, The Wharton School is an Ivy League school as it is part of the University of Pennsylvania, which is one of the eight Ivy League schools. The other schools are Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Yale, and Brown. The term "Ivy League" applies only to U.S. schools, which were originally tied together through athletics before the formation of the United States. They are now considered to be some of the best schools in the world and admittance into them is extremely competitive.


   The Bottom Line  

Whartonites are those individuals that graduated from The Wharton School, one of the most prestigious business schools in the world. The Ivy League school offers undergraduate and graduate programs in a wide range of majors, not only finance, with graduates going on to find employment in many successful companies.
What Does "When Issued" Mean?  

When issued (WI) is a transaction that is made conditionally because a security has been authorized but not yet issued. Treasury securities, stock splits, and new issues of stocks and bonds are all traded on a when-issued basis.



Prior to a new issue's offering, underwriters solicit potential investors who may elect to book an order to purchase a portion of the new issue.





Key Takeaways

When issued (WI) is a transaction made conditionally because a security has been authorized but not yet issued. Treasury securities, stock splits, and new issues of stocks and bonds are all traded on a when-issued basis. When-issued orders are made conditionally because they may not be completed, particularly if the offering is canceled. When-issued markets can provide an indication regarding the level of interest that a new issue may attract.


   Understanding When Issued  

When-issued orders are made conditionally because they may not be completed, particularly in the event the offering is canceled. Orders, when issued, are sometimes called orders "with ice" or orders "when distributed." The term is short for "when, as, and if issued."



Securities trade on a when-issued basis when they have been announced but not yet issued. The transaction is settled only after the security has been issued. A when-issued market exists where when-issued instruments are traded.



When-issued markets can provide an indication regarding the level of interest that a new issue may attract from investors. When-issued transactions are dependent upon the actual security being issued and the exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers ruling that the transaction is settled.


   Example of When Issued  

An industrial conglomerate wants to spin off its chemicals division due to its drag on earnings and low margins. In order to effectuate the spinoff, the conglomerate plans to pay its shareholders a dividend in the form of stock of the new chemicals divisions company.



After the record date—the date on which holders of the conglomerate's stock are entitled to receive stock in the spinoff—the conglomerate's shareholders can effectively begin trading the right to receive shares in the spinoff on a when-issued basis.



Those shareholders who buy the rights but do not hold shares of the conglomerate on the distribution date, the date in which the actual shares in the spinoff are issued and begin trading, receive their shares in the spinoff, and the when-issued market ceases.


   Benefits of When Issued  

When issued sheds light on the demand for securities and can, therefore, attract investors who would otherwise sit out the bidding process for the securities for fear of a volatile market. Thus, when issued can decrease volatility when the securities are actually issued because investors have confidence in the level of demand for the securities in question.



When issued helps develop the market for a new security by attracting investors, and it also offers investors liquidity prior to the actual distribution of the securities in question, allowing them to monetize financial assets more readily.
What Is Whipsaw?  

Whipsaw describes the movement of a security when, at a particular time, the security's price is moving in one direction but then quickly pivots to move in the opposite direction.



There are two types of whipsaw patterns. The first involves an upward movement in a share price, which is then followed by a drastic downward move causing the share's price to fall relative to its original position. The second type occurs when a share price drops in value for a short time and then suddenly surges upward to a positive gain relative to the stock's original position.





Key Takeaways

Whipsaw describes the movement of stocks in a volatile market when a stock price will suddenly switch direction.There is no set rule as to how to manage whipsaw movements in a volatile market as it is an unexpected movement.Whipsaw in trading securities often results in trading losses.Day traders expect whipsaw movements and often assume long-term, buy and hold positions to ride out the fluctuations in price to avoid a loss.


   Understanding Whipsaws  

The origin of the term whipsaw is derived from the push and pull action of lumberjacks when cutting wood with a saw of the same name. A trader is considered to be "whipsawed" when the price of a security they have just invested in abruptly moves in the opposite and unexpected direction.



Whipsaw patterns most notably occur in a volatile market in which price fluctuations are unpredictable. Day traders or other short-term investors are accustomed to being whipsawed. Those who have a long-term, buy and hold approach to investing can often ride out the volatility of the market and emerge with positive gains.



For example, when an investor goes long on a stock, the expectation is that the price will increase in value over time. However, there are many occasions when an investor purchases shares of a company at the top of a market rally. The investor buys a stock at its peak assuming that it will continue to post significant gains. Almost immediately after purchasing the stock, the company releases a quarterly report that shakes investor confidence and causes the stock to decline in value by more than 10%, never to recover. The investor is holding the stock at a loss, with no option to sell the stock, effectively whipsawed.



Conversely, some investors, specifically those who short sell, can face a whipsaw at the bottom of a market. For example, an investor may anticipate a downturn in the economy and purchase put options on the S&P 500. The investor profits if the market continues to decline. However, almost immediately after purchasing the put options, the market unexpectedly rallies, and the investor's options quickly become "out of the money," or worthless. In this case, the whipsaw occurs during a recovery phase, and the investor loses the investment.


   Special Considerations  

Financial markets change abruptly. Many analysts seek models that explain patterns in the markets so that an investor can select the right asset classes. A study by Sonam Srivastava and Ritabrata Bhattacharyya, titled, "Evaluating the Building Blocks of a Dynamically Adaptive Systematic Trading Strategy," explains that stock patterns vary because of fundamental changes in macroeconomic variables, policies, or regulations.



The authors state that a trader needs to adapt their trading style to leverage the different phases in the stock markets. They also suggest that investors select asset classes in different market regimes to ensure a stable risk-adjusted return profile. However, different experts will offer different advice.



A whipsaw references any price movement that is in the opposite direction of a trader's intended bet, often resulting in a loss, or if they are able, to ride out the fluctuations in price to maintain the investment and even realize a profit.


   Real World Example  

Stocks have whipsawed recently due to uncertainty about the future of the economy, rising inflation, and geopolitical unrest.



To weather the volatility, experts recommend that investors stick to a long-term strategy that plays to their strengths and follow that strategy regardless of whipsaw movements. In terms of investment, another expert recommended investing in more stable sectors such as healthcare and avoiding more volatile sectors such as real estate. Most experts were expecting significant volatility in the short term, and one recommended assuming a defensive position. However, they did also state that a long-term portfolio based on the stock would win out.














How Can Traders Profit from Whipsaws?
While it may look like a sideways market, whipsaws imply that there are large up and down swings within a certain trading band. This can be profitable for swing traders who can catch momentum both up and down as the market oscillates. Buying long straddles in the options market is another strategy that can profit as prices move both up and down.




How Can Whipsaws Hurt Traders?
Whipsaws can cause losses for traders by triggering closing trades, only to be reversed in short order. Traders are often stopped out when a market whipsaws, or moves sharply in one direction before returning to its original state. For example, a stock may whipsaw during an earnings announcement or other market moving event. This can execute stop-loss orders that close out positions, even as the stock subsequently rebounds.




What Technical Indicators Can Be Used to Spot Whipsaws?
Certain technical indicators are useful in identifying a whipsawing market. Envelopes, momentum indicators, parabolic SAR, and the vortex indicator are some good examples.
What is a Whisper Number?  

A whisper number refers to the purported, unofficial, and unpublished earnings per share (EPS) forecasts of professional traders and fund managers on Wall Street. The whisper number can also be applied to any news or data release in any market



A whisper number can also refer to the expected future earnings or revenues according to a herd of individual investors. In this sense, a whisper number could be compiled by a website polling its visitors. Essentially, the whisper number is the unofficial consensus of what earnings and revenue for a company will be at the next announcement.





Key Takeaways

The whisper number is the unofficial expectation of what a news release will be.This sometimes differs from the officially published analyst forecasts.Market prices often react relative to the whisper number, since the whisper is what traders believe and have acted on, or will act on.


   Understanding the Whisper Number  

Earnings forecasts are based on analyst expectations. Analyst's generally group their forecasts around one another, this way they aren't singled out if they make a predication that is way off the mark. While consensus estimates can be accurate, the whisper number is what analysts, traders, and fund managers are thinking, but the analyst dare not publish it in case it singles them out and they turn out to be wrong. Staying with the pack is smart in terms of keeping one's career as an analyst. Straying from the pack and making too many erroneous calls could result in being fired.



Whisper numbers may be useful when they differ from analysts's consensus forecast. They can be used as a tool to help spot (or avoid) an earnings surprise (or disappointment). Of course, this is only relevant if they are more accurate than the consensus estimate. Until the actual announcement no ones knows if the whisper number or the consensus forecast is more accrue.



Whisper numbers can be wrong. If the whisper number is much higher than the consensus estimate, people may buy a stock ahead of the earnings release. If actual earnings are less than the whisper number the stock may sell off, even if the earnings beat the consensus (but below the whisper number). If the company release earnings higher than the whisper number, the stock will likely rise, regardless of what the consensus is. In other words, stock prices typically react to earnings relative to the whisper number, as the whisper number is what traders believe and are therefore likely acting on.


   Myths And Questions Raised About Whisper Numbers  

Individual investors have access to a wealth of information (and misinformation) relative to the investors of history. In the old days, the whisper number was the best information provided by brokers to their richest clients. The brokers would whisper to these clients what the firm's analyst really thought or knew, but wouldn't publish publicly.



Increased regulatory scrutiny on the brokerage industry made it much more difficult to get a whisper number in this traditional sense. For example, regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley provided for stricter rules on how companies disclose financial data. Employees, financial professionals, and brokerages face significant penalties if they provide insider earnings data to a select group of people.



There has been some doubt raised about whether whisper numbers were actually shared by brokers with their high-net-worth clientele. Some brokers have sought to debunk the entire concept as a myth.



Whisper numbers, based on individual opinions and assessments rather than broker input, are now marketed by a variety of websites. Traders can even get an idea of the whisper based on the chatter they hear on social media.



It is possible for a whisper number to be a more accurate forecast than consensus estimates when it comes to predicting earnings. This does not necessarily make whisper numbers more valid as a predictive option. It does help explain why sometimes stock prices have weird reactions, when compared to consensus estimates, following earnings releases.


   Example of a Whisper Number  

Assume that Apple Inc. (AAPL) has an earnings forecast for the quarter of $5 per share.



Traders actually believe the earnings will be higher, near $6 per share. As a result, the price gets pushed up ahead of the earnings, effectively pricing in the $6 EPS.



If the stock comes out with $6 EPS, a few people may be surprised and the stock may rise or fall marginally, but for the most part the price reflects the $6 number heading into the earnings.



If the earnings come out at $7, most everyone is surprised, and the stock jumps higher. If the EPS comes in at $5, in line with the consensus forecast but below the whisper number, the stock will likely sell off.



The whisper number isn't the only determinant on the stock price though. If the EPS comes in ahead of the whisper number, but stock index futures have sold off that day, the stock may sell off too. It is also hard to estimate how many people are using the whisper number ahead of earnings, which then makes it hard to predict how people will react when the actual number is released.
What Are Whisper Stocks?  

A public company's shares can briefly become a whisper stock if rumors circulate that the company is the target of a takeover offer. The whispers will probably be followed by an immediate surge in trading volume and an increase in its share price.



When two companies discuss a merger or an acquisition of one company by the other, the talks are held in the strictest secrecy. An insider who acts on the information in an attempt to make a profit or help someone else make a profit is committing the crime of insider trading.



Its price can fall back to Earth just as quickly when the whispers stop, whether they prove to be true or false.





Key Takeaways

A whisper stock describes when a public company becomes the subject of speculation on a pending buyout announcement.Often, these whispers are followed by an immediate surge in trading volume and share price.The buyout, if it happens, will cause the stock to increase in price, allowing the trader who buys stock to benefit.Whisper stocks may occur as a response to other rumored events, though few are as positive and consequential long-term as a takeover. However, any individual who acts on private information about a company in an attempt to make a profit is considered insider trading.


   Understanding Whisper Stocks  

An inadvertent leak is nearly as bad since one person or a small group has the power to act on information that most investors do not know.



Whisper stocks may occur as a response to other rumored events, though few are as positive and consequential long-term as a takeover. For example, a whisper about the pending approval of an important drug could do it for a pharmaceutical company. A rumor about a massive government order could be the trigger for a defense contractor.


  Buying at the Right Time  

Despite any concerns about insider trading, Wall Street loves a whisper. Stock traders who act on an event that is about to happen can profit more than those who act on the event after it happens. That is, they profit if the whisper turns out to be correct and if the trader succeeds in both buying and selling the stock at the right time.



At one time such trading on inside information was flagrant. Loose talk by a banker or attorney who was on the fringe of a merger discussion could cause a stock to soar in advance of the deal's announcement.






Whispers that originate with someone on the inside of a company can amount to illegal insider trading.


   SEC Rules on Insider Trading  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has since tightened its rules and cracked down on insider trading. Anyone with inside information has to become more discreet about passing it on. Resources to go after those who trade on insider information are generally insufficient, but when someone is caught, the penalties are severe.



It's impossible to put a stop to gossip, however. The sight of two CEOs having a private lunch is enough to start speculation in the stock of either or both companies.


   Whisper Stock vs. Whisper Number  

A whisper stock is similar to a whisper number. The latter is an unofficial estimate of a company's impending announcement on quarterly earnings, typically shared by an investment professional with favored clients. The number tops earlier published estimates by the company and by analysts, suggesting that those who buy the stock immediately will profit when the good news is announced.
What Is a Whistleblower?  

A whistleblower is anyone who has and reports insider knowledge of illegal, illicit, and fraudulent activities occurring in an organization. Whistleblowers can be employees, suppliers, contractors, clients, or any individual who becomes aware of dubious business activities. Whistleblowers are protected from retaliation under various programs created by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Federal employees are protected under the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989.





Key Takeaways

Whistleblowers report illegal, unsafe, or fraudulent activities within a private or public organization.Whistleblowers are protected from retaliation by various laws enforced by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The term originates from the 19th century. Sports referees were also once referred to as whistleblowers.


   Whistleblower Explained  

Many organizations dedicate themselves to addressing whistleblowing, but some organizations specialize in specific aspects of it. For example, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is more interested in environmental and safety breaches, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is more concerned with securities law violations. Many organizations offer rewards for impactful information, allow anonymous tips, and provide various methods for submission of information.



A whistleblower may release information to company officials or a large governing or regulating body. In cases where fraud or other illegal activity involves high-ranking officials and executive members of management, the optimal choice is to report wrongdoings to a regulating body.


   Origin of the Term  

The use of the term "whistleblower" dates back to the 19th century. However, Ralph Nader is sometimes credited with coining the modern usage of the term in the 1970s as a way to avoid the negative connotations of alternatives like "informer." The term combines "whistle," a device used to alert or call attention to, and "blower," referencing the person issuing the alert by the blowing of the whistle.



Less commonly, sports referees were also called whistleblowers as they alerted the crowd, players, and coaches of illegal sports plays. Journalists and other political activists, such as Ralph Nader, excessively used the term during the 1960s, changing the public's understanding of the term to what it is today.


  Notable Whistleblowers  

One of the most notable whistleblowers is W. Mark Felt, also known as "Deep Throat," who exposed former President Richard Nixon's involvement in illegal dealings during the Watergate Scandal. Another famous whistleblower is Sherron Watkins, a former Enron employee, who shed light on the company's fraudulent accounting practices. As a result, Enron ceased operations and brought about the birth of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.


   Whistleblower Protection  

Whistleblowers are protected from retaliation should the information provided be confirmed to be true. This protection includes prohibiting the accused company from taking adverse or harmful actions against the reporter. Antagonistic activities include demotion, termination, reprimands, and other punitive reactions. Whistleblower protection also prohibits the company from pursuing legal action against the whistleblower to recoup losses incurred during the investigation or imposed penalties. 



In certain circumstances, more protection may be offered where threats of physical violence against the whistleblower or associates and family of the whistleblower are found.


   Whistleblower Rewards  

Often the whistleblower may be entitled to a reward as compensation for reporting illicit activities. Usually, this reward is a percentage of the dollar amount recuperated by the government or regulating agency resulting from the whistleblower's information. Recovery of a minimum amount may be necessary to qualify, and the information provided must be unique or otherwise not previously reported.



Many companies have mechanisms to inform management of wasteful practices. These practices may, or may not be, illegal in nature. Therefore, persons reporting wasteful practices may not receive protection as a whistleblower. However, many organizations encourage suggestions from all associates to improve operations and practices. The reporting person may be recognized for their efforts in improving efficiency and may be entitled to some nominal reward.



In incidences involving the discovery of gross waste, or waste involving a significant dollar amount of value, especially within government agencies, the reporting of waste can qualify the person as a whistleblower.
What Is a White Candlestick?  

A white candlestick depicts a period where the security's price has closed at a higher level than where it had opened. It is a point on a security's candlestick chart representing a bullish period.



On some charts, an up-candlestick may be depicted as either green or black. These may be contrasted with a red candlestick, which denotes a lower closing price than the prior period.





Key Takeaways

A white candlestick depicts a period where the security's price has closed at a higher level than where it had opened.A candlestick will show the security's open, high, low, and close for the user-specified time period.Candlestick charts are convenient for technical traders because they can easily display a full day's price movement.Several recurring white candlesticks will typically signal an uptrend. Depending on which program is used, the candlestick may be white, green, blue, or black. 


   Understanding White Candlesticks  

White candlesticks represent a positive increase in a security’s price during the observed period of time. The body of the candlestick will typically be displayed in white on a candlestick series chart to show that the net result of the period's price action was up. However, in some technical charting systems, the trader may have the option to choose a specified color, such as blue or green, to represent price gains.



Typically, a candlestick will show the security's open, high, low, and close for a specified time period (e.g., weekly, daily, hourly, etc.). The high and low will be shown by the two wicks on each end of the body. The body comprises the distance between the period's open and closing prices. Thus, candlestick marks show the range of prices that the security has reported through a single period.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Candlestick charts are convenient for technical traders because they can easily display a full day's price movement. Generally, the default colors for candlestick charts will be either white/green (UP) and red/black (DOWN), though nowadays, charting packages offer the trader the option to customize the color schemes to their specifications.



Red/black candlesticks are the opposite of white candlesticks. They represent a downward movement for the day. In a red/black candlestick, the closing price of a security is reported as lower than the opening price.



The last possibility for charting a period's price action is where the open and close prices are identical. This is called a doji and is graphically portrayed by a dash, signifying that the charted security’s opening price is equal to its closing price.


   Candlestick Shading  

Most charting software allows you to change the colors of candlesticks, but the most commonly used colors are white/black/green-filled or hollow and red-filled or hollow. Each color conveys a different meaning:



White/Green/Black Filled Candlesticks occur when the close is greater than the prior close but lower than the open.White/Green/Black Hollow Candlesticks occur when the close is greater than the prior close and the open.Red Filled Candlesticks occur when the close is below the open and prior close.Red Hollow Candlesticks occur when the close is greater than the open but lower than the prior close.






The two most common types of candlesticks are white/green/black hollow candlesticks, which are indicative of a strong uptrend; and red-filled candlesticks, which are indicative of a strong downtrend. Red hollow and black-filled candlesticks are less common since they require a price gap to occur.


   Candlesticks vs. Bar Charts  

Candlestick and bar charts show the same information—open, high, low, and close—but in a different way. A bar is a vertical line, with no real body like a candlestick, consisting of a small horizontal line to the left marking the open price and a small horizontal line on the right marking the close.


   Technical Analysis and Candlestick Indicators  

Technical analysis indicators are formed from the combination of white, red, and doji candlesticks. There are many short-term and long-term formations that can be used as indicators for security investment. Technical analysts can quickly glean a lot of information from the color of a candlestick before looking at any aspects of the chart.



For example, a white, green, or black-filled candlestick might suggest that the price is becoming top-heavy, while a red-filled candlestick represents a clear and strong downtrend. Traders may use these insights to gauge market sentiment.






Almost all traders use candlestick charts in conjunction with other forms of analysis. It is considered unwise to trade based on candlestick patterns alone.



The investor or trader may gauge market sentiment using candlestick charts and then use chart patterns to identify potential areas of breakdowns or breakouts. Technical indicators can also be useful as a confirmation of market sentiment. For example, the relative strength index (RSI) may be used in conjunction with candlestick charts to show how strong a trend is in a given direction.



Below are a few candlestick patterns commonly identified on a technical analysis chart.



Ascending channel: An ascending channel is formed when a security’s price is rising. This type of channel will predominantly include white candlesticks.
Descending channel: A descending channel is formed when a security’s price is decreasing over time. This type of channel will predominantly include red candlesticks.
Bearish abandoned baby: A bearish abandoned baby pattern is comprised of three consecutive candlesticks centered with a doji. A bearish abandoned baby can signal a breakout to the downside. This pattern occurs when a white candlestick is followed by a doji above the previous day’s close and then a red candlestick with an open below the previous day’s close.
Bullish abandoned baby: A bullish abandoned baby pattern is the opposite of a bearish abandoned baby. This pattern signals a potential reversal to the upside. A bullish abandoned baby pattern will begin with a red candlestick, followed by a doji below the previous day’s close and then a white candlestick with an open above the previous day’s doji open/close.




What Does Candlestick Mean?
A candlestick is a symbol that traders and investors use. It can provide a lot of information such as whether the period the candlestick follows is one where the price increased or decreased, by how much, and with what amount of momentum.




What Does a White Candlestick Mean?
A white candlestick means that the candle closed its period at a higher price than when it opened. A white candlestick is the opposite of a red candlestick, which indicates a closing price lower than the opening.




What Is the Most Powerful Candlestick Pattern?
Some of the most powerful bullish patterns are the Three Line Strike, Bullish Abandoned Baby, and Morning Star. Some of the most powerful bearish patterns are Three Black Crows, Identical Three Crows, and Evening Star.




What Is the Difference Between Red, Green, Black, and White Candlesticks?
A read candlestick is one where the price closes lower than the opening. Green, black, and white candlesticks are all the same thing, where the price closes higher than the open. The difference in colors is due to different programs, but the candlesticks mean the same thing.




What Does a White Line in a Candlestick Chart Represent?
A white line in a candlestick chart represents a closing with a higher price than the open but without much price fluctuation during the period. Candles are taller when there is a greater price spread so when a candle is flat and looks like a line, it is because of nominal price movement during the period.


   The Bottom Line  

A white candlestick is a trading signal used by many investors that shows that during a specific period of time represented by the candle, the closing price was higher than the open price. White candlesticks can be other colors such as green or black and signal a higher close. Many trading strategies rely heavily on candlestick patterns but still rely on additional technical indicators to confirm their trade.
What Is White Collar?  

A white-collar worker belongs to a class of employees known for earning higher average salaries doing highly skilled work, but not by performing manual labor at their jobs. White-collar workers historically have been the "shirt and tie" set, defined by office jobs and management, and not "getting their hands dirty."



This class of workers stands in contrast to blue-collar workers, who traditionally wore blue shirts and worked in plants, mills, and factories.





Key Takeaways

White-collar workers are suit-and-tie workers who work at a desk and, stereotypically, eschew physical labor.White-collar jobs typically are higher-paid, higher-skilled jobs that require more education and training than low-skilled or manual work.Examples may include managerial roles or professions like doctors or lawyers.White-collar workers and jobs are often portrayed in contrast to blue-collar work, insinuating a stratification of the working class.


   Understanding White Collar  

White-collar workers are suit-and-tie workers who work at a desk and, stereotypically, eschew physical labor. They tend to make more money than blue-collar workers. White-collar work used to mean a high level of education and the assumption of securing a cushy job with perks. That distinction today is blurred by the fact that white-collar employment has become the dominant working class in the U.S. and other advanced nations.



American writer Upton Sinclair is partially responsible for the modern understanding of the term "white collar," having used the phrase in conjunction with administrative work. The differences in connotation between white collar and blue collar have much more to say about the way we perceive the service industry in comparison to manufacturing and agriculture.



Typical white-collar jobs include company management, lawyers, accountants, financial and insurance jobs, consultants, and computer programmers, among many others.






Many jobs that require a shirt and tie today are actually low-paying and high stress, especially in the modern services and technology sectors.



There are white-collar workers' unions, though, historically, union membership has been a distinction of blue-collar workers.


   Expectations of White-Collar Jobs  

White-collar positions are often expected to offer opportunities to advance to more significant roles as managers or executives. A white-collar role is likewise expected to generate higher paying salaries with the potential to continue to rapidly scale up their income with further advancement.



These jobs typically are based in an office; however, some industries may still require a presence in the field. This is especially true for professionals who regularly meet with clients and customers, or travel to conferences and meetings.



Attorneys, accountants, architects, bankers, real estate agents, business consultants, and brokers are often described as white-collar positions. Though the actual work performed typically is not menial, white-collar roles can require the professional to commit to extensive hours during the workweek, as well as on weekends.



White-collar professionals may be expected to be on call even during vacation times and outside of normal business hours. At senior levels, they may be part of a firm's upper management and hierarchy.






A white-collar crime is a non-violent crime committed by an individual, often of middle or upper socioeconomic status, typically for financial gain.



White-collar workers are often expected to develop specialized skills over time, making them increasingly valuable intellectual assets for the growth of the company. For example, an accountant may have to keep abreast of all regulatory changes that could affect how their clients or company reports income.



An attorney will need to keep themselves apprised of recent rulings and changes in case law that affect their area of expertise. Real estate agents will need to keep track of fluctuations in real estate prices and the underlying influences that drive such trends.


   Other "Collars"  

White collar is often contrasted with blue-collar jobs. Blue-collar jobs are typically classified as involving manual labor and compensation by an hourly wage. Some fields that fall into this category include construction, manufacturing, maintenance, and mining.



Those who have this sort of job are characterized as members of the working class. The blue-collar worker is often perceived as lower-status than a white-collar worker who might work behind a desk in the service industry, while the blue-collar worker gets their hands dirty doing manual labor or manufacturing.



Other types of colored collar categories of workers are used less often. These include pink collar, green collar, gold collar, and gray collar. Unlike white and blue collars, the other categories are not derived from the workers traditionally wearing any particular color of shirts.



Green-collar workers refer to employees in the conservation and sustainability sectors. Pink collars are employees who work in service fields: store salespeople, waiters, secretaries, receptionists, or elementary school teachers (the word "pink" referring to the fact that women have traditionally held these posts).



Gold collars are found in specialized fields of law and medicine; a reference, perhaps, to the high salaries these professions command. Gray collars refer to those, like engineers, who are officially white-collar but perform blue-collar tasks regularly as part of their jobs.


   White Collar Definition FAQs  
  What Is a White Collar Crime?  

White-collar crime is a nonviolent crime committed for monetary gain. Examples of white-collar crimes include securities fraud, embezzlement, corporate fraud, and money laundering.


  Are White Collar Jobs Better?  

What counts as a good job is subjective and depends on a myriad of personal and situational factors. That said, white-collar jobs tend to pay more than blue-collar jobs and come with more generous benefits.


  How Can I Find a White Collar Job?  

Many white-collar jobs require a significant amount of education, training, and experience. Management-level positions may require additional credentials such as an MBA, CPA, or CFA. Professions like doctors or lawyers require additional schooling. For qualified individuals, white-collar job openings may be posted on job boards, but these types of jobs can also be found through word of mouth among people's social networks.
What Is White-Collar Crime?  

White-collar crime is a nonviolent crime often characterized by deceit or concealment to obtain or avoid losing money or property, or to gain a personal or business advantage.



Examples of white-collar crimes include securities fraud, embezzlement, corporate fraud, and money laundering. Entities that investigate white-collar crime include the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and state authorities.





Key Takeaways

White-collar crime is a nonviolent crime of deceit or concealment to obtain or avoid losing money or to gain a personal or business advantage.Securities fraud, embezzlement, corporate fraud, and money laundering are white-collar crimes.The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and state authorities investigate white-collar crime.


   Understanding White-Collar Crime  

"White-collar crime" is a term first coined by sociologist Edwin Sutherland in 1949 who defined it as a crime committed by a person of respectability and high social status during his occupation. White-collar workers historically held non-laboring office positions while blue-collar workers traditionally wore blue shirts and worked in plants, mills, and factories.



High-profile individuals convicted of white-collar crimes include Ivan Boesky, Bernard Ebbers, Michael Milken, and Bernie Madoff. Their crimes have included insider trading, accounting scandals, securities fraud, and Ponzi schemes.



Rampant new white-collar crimes facilitated by the internet include so-called Nigerian scams, in which fraudulent emails request help in forwarding a substantial amount of money to a criminal ring. Other common white-collar crimes include insurance fraud and identity theft.





$3.7 Billion

The Madoff Victim Fund (MVF) distributed over $3.7 billion to nearly 40,000 victims worldwide in connection with the Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (BLMIS) fraud scheme.


   Corporate Fraud  

The FBI cites large-scale corporate fraud perpetrated by many throughout a corporate or government institution, as among its highest enforcement priorities. This type of crime incurs a significant financial loss to investors and can damage the U.S. economy and investor confidence.



Corporate fraud gathers the widest group of partners for investigations, including the FBI, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Labor, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service.


  Falsification of Financial Information  

The majority of corporate fraud cases involve accounting schemes that are conceived to deceive investors, auditors, and analysts about the true financial condition of a corporation or business by manipulating financial data, share price, or other measurements to inflate the financial performance of the business.



In 2014, Credit Suisse pleaded guilty to helping U.S. citizens avoid taxes by hiding income from the Internal Revenue Service and paid penalties of $2.6 billion. Bank of America sold billions in mortgage-backed securities (MBS) tied to properties with inflated values without proper collateral and agreed to pay $16.65 billion in damages.


  Self-Dealing  

Self-dealing occurs when a fiduciary acts in their own best interest rather than in the best interest of their clients. Considered a conflict of interest, this illegal activity can lead to litigation, penalties, and termination of employment for those who commit it.



Self-dealing includes front-running, when a broker enters into a trade with the foreknowledge of a non-publicized transaction that will influence the price of the asset, resulting in a financial gain for the broker. It also occurs when a broker or analyst buys or sells shares for their account ahead of their firm's buy or sell recommendation to its clients.



Insider trading occurs when individuals act upon or divulge to others information that is not yet public and is likely to affect share price and company valuations once it is known. Insider trading provides an unfair advantage for individuals to profit and does not matter how the material nonpublic information was received or if the person is employed by the company.


   Money Laundering  

Money laundering is accepting cash earned from illicit activities, such as drug trafficking, and making the cash appear as earnings from legal business activity. Criminals often filter money from crimes such as human and narcotics trafficking, public corruption, and terrorism in a three-step process:



• Placement is the initial entry of a criminal’s financial proceeds into the financial system.



• Layering separates the criminal’s financial proceeds from their source and creates a deliberately complex audit trail through a series of financial transactions.



• Integration occurs when the criminal’s financial proceeds are returned to the criminal after "laundering" from what appear to be legitimate sources.



A cash-based business, such as a restaurant that is owned by a criminal organization, is a common tool to launder illegal money. Daily cash receipts may be inflated to funnel illegal cash through the restaurant and into the bank for distribution to the owners.





Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020

The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 assists financial institutions in their efforts to meet their obligations under laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering by targeting foreign and domestic terrorist financing, transnational criminal organizations, drug trafficking organization activity, human trafficking, and human smuggling, and proliferation financing.


   Securities and Commodities Fraud  

The perpetrator of a securities fraud can be an individual, such as a stockbroker, or an organization, such as a brokerage firm, corporation, or investment bank, and includes crimes such as:



• High-yield investment fraud involves promises of high rates of return coupled with claims of little or no risk in investments like commodities, securities, and real estate.



• Ponzi and pyramid schemes are fraudulent investment scams that generate returns for earlier investors with money taken from later investors.



• Advance fee schemes involve fraudsters convincing their targets to advance small amounts of money with a promise to deliver greater returns.



• Broker embezzlement schemes involve illicit and unauthorized actions by brokers to steal directly from their clients, usually with a myriad of false documents.



• “Pump and dump” schemes artificially inflate the price of lower-volume stocks on small over-the-counter markets. "The 'pump' involves recruiting unwitting investors through false or deceptive sales practices, public information, or corporate filings. Once the target price is achieved, the perpetrators “dump” their shares at a huge profit and leave innocent investors to foot the bill.



• Late-day trading is the illegal practice of recording trades that are executed after hours as having occurred before a mutual fund calculated its daily net asset value (NAV). Late-day trading can dilute the value of a mutual fund's shares and harm long-term investors.




What Are Well Known Securities Fraud Cases Investigated by the FBI?
Examples of cases of securities fraud are the Enron, Tyco, Adelphia, and WorldCom scandals.




What Are the Penalties for White-Collar Crime?
If convicted, an individual may be sentenced to time in county jail, state prison, or federal prison, depending on the severity of the crime. Additionally, fines may be imposed as well as required restitution to the victim.




Who Investigates Securities Fraud?
Allegations of securities fraud are investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), often in concert with the FBI.State authorities can also investigate investment scams. In a unique attempt to protect its citizens, the state of Utah established the nation’s first online registry for white-collar criminals where photos of individuals who are convicted of a fraud-related felony rated as second-degree or higher are featured on the registry.




What Are Anti-Money Laundering Rules Used in Banking?
Many companies, especially those involved in finance and banking, have anti-money laundering (AML) rules in place to detect and prevent money laundering. For banks, compliance starts with verifying the identity of new clients, a process sometimes called Know Your Client (KYC) and customer due diligence detects money laundering strategies like breaking up large money laundering transactions into smaller ones to evade reporting limits and avoid scrutiny.




What Is Intellectual Property Theft?
Intellectual property theft is a white-collar crime which robs people or companies of their ideas, inventions, and creative expressions, known as intellectual property, and may include trade secrets and proprietary products or movies, music, and software.


   The Bottom Line  

Securities fraud, embezzlement, corporate fraud, and money laundering are considered white-collar crimes, perpetrated traditionally by those in corporate or office settings. The SEC, NASD, the FBI, and state authorities work in concert to investigate white-collar crimes which are often prosecuted at the federal level. Penalties for committing a white-collar crime include prison, fines, and restitution.
What Is a White Elephant?  

A white elephant is something whose cost of upkeep is not in line with its usefulness or value. From an investment perspective, the term refers to an asset, property, or business that is so expensive to operate and maintain that it is extremely difficult to actually make a profit from it.



White elephants also tend to be illiquid assets, meaning they cannot be easily or quickly exchanged or sold for cash without the seller experiencing a significant loss.





Key Takeaways

A white elephant is a burdensome asset, property, or investment whose cost of upkeep is not in line with its usefulness or value.The term derives from the old Thai custom of gifting rare, expensive-to-keep white elephants to the reigning monarch.Nowadays it is often associated with unprofitable real estate.These assets are often illiquid, meaning the owners cannot easily sell them without taking a substantial loss.


   Understanding White Elephants  

A white elephant is a burdensome possession. When applied to investments, it can be used to describe anything that is expensive to maintain, unprofitable, and impossible to sell. In other words, a white elephant is a name given to undesirable investments that are more trouble than they are worth.



Corporations may invest money in property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) with the goal of using these fixed assets to improve the company's bottom line in the future. However, if economic conditions change, these assets can become white elephants. For example, suppose a company builds a factory to meet anticipated demand for its new product line. If the product fails to sell, that new factory becomes an expensive property that does not help the company generate enough revenue to cover the cost of its maintenance.



Over the years, the term white elephant has also been linked to various government-funded construction projects. Governments look to these endeavors to generate rapid economic growth by funneling lots of money into subsidized building and infrastructure projects.



In the United States, funding for these projects sometimes comes in the form of controversial earmarks, which refers to spending provisions slipped into legislation that allocates money for a project favored by a particular politician or government official. Critics of these white elephant projects point out they are frequently ill-conceived, poorly planned, and a waste of taxpayer money.


   History of White Elephants  

The term white elephant derives from Asia. The white elephant is an icon with roots in Siam, now commonly known as Thailand. These rare animals were regarded as holy in ancient times and automatically gifted to the reigning monarch.



The story goes that the monarch would give the white elephant as a gift of either good or bad fortune. If he liked the recipient, he would gift land along with the elephant to help pay for the cost of the elephant. If he did not like you, he would not include land, turning the gift into a money pit.


   Examples of White Elephants  

White elephants are common in real estate, as the following examples illustrate:


  The Empire State Building  

The Empire State Building is an example of a property that initially seemed destined to stay a white elephant, but eventually became a source of positive cash flow and growth. The property did not become profitable until the 1950s, more than 20 years after it was completed. Built against the backdrop of the Great Depression, the building struggled to become an office building, despite being planned for that purpose.



Now owned by a real estate investment trust (REIT), the building provides multiple sources of revenue. In 2019, the building's observation deck generated approximately $128.8 million, equal to about 39% of the building's total revenue.﻿﻿ The building generates additional sources of revenue from leases of office and retail space along with fees generated from third-party television and radio broadcasters for use of its broadcasting mast.


  The T-Mobile Center  

Another example is the T-Mobile Center (formerly known as the Sprint Center) owned by the city of Kansas City, MO. The multi-purpose arena opened in 2007, hosting a concert by Elton John as its first event.



At a cost of roughly $276 million, the T-Mobile Center was supposed to house a major sports anchor team.﻿﻿ Kansas City did enter discussions with the National Basketball Association and National Hockey League teams. However, as of 2020, neither league has agreed to relocate to the arena.


  The Ryugyong Hotel  

Finally, there’s the Ryugyong Hotel. Originally intended to hold five revolving restaurants and over 3,000 hotel rooms, the Ryugyong Hotel stands 105 stories tall as a pyramid-shaped skyscraper in Pyongyang, North Korea.



Developers began construction on the tallest structure in North Korea in 1987, but plans were later halted in 1992 due to a lack of funds. Eventually, in 2008, work on the building resumed, with a view to unveil its grand opening in 2012, the centenary of Kim Il-Sung's birth.



As of 2020, the building still remains unfinished, earning it the nickname the "hotel of doom" and the dubious distinction as the tallest unfinished building in the world.
What Is a White Knight?  

A white knight is a hostile takeover defense whereby a 'friendly' individual or company acquires a corporation at fair consideration when it is on the verge of being taken over by an 'unfriendly' bidder or acquirer. The unfriendly bidder is generally known as the "black knight."



Although the target company does not remain independent, acquisition by a white knight is still preferred to the hostile takeover. Unlike a hostile takeover, current management typically remains in place in a white knight scenario, and investors receive better compensation for their shares.





Key Takeaways

A white knight is a hostile takeover defense whereby a friendly company purchases the target company instead of the unfriendly bidder.While the target company still loses its independence, the white knight investor is nonetheless more favorable to shareholders and management.A white knight is just one of several strategies that a company can employ to try to avert a hostile takeover.


   How a White Knight Defense Works  

The white knight is the savior of a company subject to a hostile takeover. Often, company officials seek out a white knight to preserve the company's core business or to negotiate better takeover terms. An example of the former can be seen in the movie "Pretty Woman" when corporate raider/black knight Edward Lewis, played by Richard Gere, had a change of heart and decided to work with the head of a company he'd originally planned to ransack.



Some notable examples of white knight rescues are United Paramount Theaters 1953 acquisition of the nearly bankrupt ABC, Bayer's 2006 white knight rescue of Schering from Merck KGaA, and JPMorgan Chase's 2008 acquisition of Bear Stearns that prevented their complete insolvency.






The terms white knight and black knight can find their origin the adversarial game of chess.



A white squire is similarly an investor or friendly company which buys a stake in a target company to prevent a hostile takeover. This is akin to a white knight defense, except here the target firm does not have to give up its independence as it does with the white knight, because the white squire only buys a partial share in the company.


   Hostile Takeovers  

A few of the most hostile takeover situations include AOL's $162 billion purchase of Time Warner in 2000, Sanofi-Aventis' $20.1 billion purchase of biotech company Genzyme in 2010, Deutsche Boerse AG's blocked $17 billion merger with NYSE Euronext in 2011, and Clorox's rejection of Carl Icahn's $10.2 billion takeover bid in 2011.



Successful hostile takeovers, however, are rare; no takeover of an unwilling target has amounted to more than $10 billion in value since 2000. Mostly, an acquiring company raises its price per share until shareholders and board members of the targeted company are satisfied. It is especially hard to purchase a large company that does not want to be sold. Mylan, a global leader in generic drugs, experienced this when it unsuccessfully attempted to purchase Perrigo, the world's largest producer of drugstore-brand products, for $26 billion in 2015. 


   Variations on the White Knight  

In addition to white knights and black knights, there is a third potential takeover candidate called a gray knight. A gray/grey knight is not as desirable as a white knight, but it is more desirable than a black knight. The gray knight is the third potential bidder in a hostile takeover who outbids the white knight. Although friendlier than a black knight, the gray knight still seeks to serve its own interests. Similar to the white knight, a white squire is an individual or company that only exercises a minority stake to aide a struggling company. This aide provides the company with enough capital to improve its situation while allowing the current owners to maintain control. A yellow knight is a company that was planning a hostile takeover attempt, but backs out of it and instead proposes a merger of equals with the target company.
What Is a White Label Product?  

White label products are sold by retailers with their own branding and logo but the products themselves are manufactured by a third party. White labeling occurs when the manufacturer of an item uses the branding requested by the purchaser, or marketer, instead of its own. The end product appears as though it has been produced by the purchaser.



White label products are easily spotted on store shelves, as they have the retailer's own name (commonly known as the "store brand") on the label. For example, Whole Foods Market's "365 Everyday Value" line of products.





Key Takeaways

White label products are made by one company and packaged and sold by other companies under various brand names.Big-box retailers have been successful in selling white label items that feature their own branding.Private label branding is a worldwide phenomenon that has been growing steadily since the late 1990s.A major benefit of white label branding is that it saves companies time, energy, and money in terms of production and marketing costs.


   Understanding a White Label Product  

White label products are manufactured by a third party, not the company that sells it, or necessarily even markets it. The advantage is that a single company does not have to go through the entire process of creating and selling a product. One firm can concentrate on producing the product; another on marketing it; and another can focus on selling it, each according to its expertise and preference. The major benefits of white label branding are that it saves companies time, energy, and money in terms of production and marketing costs.



Another big advantage of private label brands is that if a supermarket has an exclusive deal with a manufacturer, then the average transportation expenses might be lower than usual and the company would benefit from distributional economies of scale. Because of lower transportation costs, the retailer could sell the product for less and still reap a bigger profit margin.



Private label brands have become increasingly popular, which suggests that consumers are becoming more sensitive to price and less loyal to their favorite traditional brands. In many countries, the growth of private label brands is hurting national brands’ (the manufacturers') market share.


   Types of Businesses That Use White Label Products  
  Retailers  

Although technically white label products may appear in any industry or sector, large retailers have done quite well with them. Companies like Whole Foods and Walmart have benefited by selling their own branded products that have been created by other manufacturers.


  Multinationals and Mass Merchandisers  

In 1998, Tesco (TSCDY), a British multinational grocery and general merchandiser, began segmenting its customers and developing brands that cater to each group. In the United States, retailers were quick to follow Tesco's precedent.



White labeling in the U.S. has worked particularly well for big-box retailers like Target Corporation (TGT), with at least 10 different brands each catering to a specific consumer group and product line, and together bringing in at least $1 billion a year.


  Electronics Companies  

Private label branding is not limited to the supermarket segment. Major electronics manufacturers of top-tier mobile phones and computers often put their brand names on cheaper-priced white label products to expand their offerings.


   White Label in the Form of Services  

White label products don't always need to be tangible items. Service offerings also have adopted white labeling. Some banks, for example, use white label services like credit card processing when they do not have these services in house. Furthermore, businesses that have no banking operations often extend branded credit cards to their customers, which is also a form of white labeling. For example, L.L. Bean Inc. offers its consumers a branded credit card, though the card is actually provided by Barclays Bank (BCS). Macy’s (M) also offers its customers a branded card, and theirs is provided by American Express (AXP).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of White Label Products  

The concept of white labeling comes with numerous considerations, both positive and negative.


  Advantages  

Expanded product lines. Firms can use white label brands to expand their offerings and target customers strategically; in turn, this could bolster their competitive advantage.
Large contracts. Third-party producers get huge contracts, which could come with guaranteed sales and revenue.
Discounted sales. Stores can boost revenue selling white label products at a discount relative to national brands.
Quality. White label brands can be just as good as national brands, as they often use the same producers; high quality creates satisfied customers.


  Disadvantages  

Copycatting. Using very similar packaging among brands is called copycatting, which can be illegal in some cases. Private label brands must differentiate themselves sufficiently so as not to mislead consumers.Monopsony. A powerful retailer could push out smaller competitors, resulting in a market condition where there is only one buyer.Barriers to entry. The growing dominance of white label brands could make it hard for new firms to enter the market, reducing overall competition.


   Real World Example  

One large retailer that's being creative with branding is Costco (COST), the U.S.-based warehouse club operator, with its Kirkland brand of private label products. Does this mean that Costco makes all of the Kirkland products you see on the shelves? Not at all. They simply contract with various producers that have agreed to put their products into the Kirkland packaging.



A Kirkland-branded product often sits next to the national brand (that actually makes the product) on the shelf: identical products, different names, the national brand selling at a higher price. For example, Costco sells Saran Wrap. Saran is a trade name currently owned by S.C. Johnson & Son. But Costco also sells its own Kirkland Signature stretch-tite plastic food wrap.



Costco has further blurred the line between national brands and private labels by using premium offerings and co-branding strategies with the likes of Starbucks (SBUX), Quaker Oats, a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc. (PEP), and Tyson Foods, Inc. (TSN). Interestingly, both consumer product executives and retail executives tend to believe that co-branding between retailers and traditional national brands is a win-win situation.
What Are White List States?  

White list states maintain a list of insurance companies that can use unauthorized insurers to provide specialized or supplemental coverage, known as surplus lines insurance.



Surplus lines insurance protects against a financial risk that is too high for a regular insurance company to take on. Surplus line insurance can be used by companies or purchased individually. Unlike normal insurance, this insurance can be bought from an insurer not licensed in the insured’s state. However, the surplus lines insurer requires a license in the state where it is based.





Key Takeaways

Essentially, "white list states" are the group of U.S. states that permit admitted insurance companies to use non-admitted insurers to provide specialized liability or property coverage in the policy.This practice is commonly referred to as surplus line insurance.Surplus line insurers provide coverage for risks that the licensed insurers will not accept because they do not meet their guidelines or the risk is too unusual or large.


   Understanding White List States  

Essentially, "white list states" are the group of U.S. states that permit admitted insurance companies to use non-admitted insurers to provide specialized liability or property coverage in the policy. This practice is commonly referred to as surplus line insurance. Surplus line insurance is coverage provided by a non-admitted insurer in the event that this coverage is currently unavailable from insurers that are licensed by the state. Surplus line producers can provide coverage for risks that the licensed insurers will not accept because they do not meet their guidelines or the risk is too unusual or large.



Each white list state may have a long list of eligible surplus line suppliers. If a firm is categorized as a surplus line insurer, then this does not mean that this firm cannot become licensed in that state. Rather, it is because they typically choose to operate on a surplus line and unlicensed basis in certain states. The fact that they are not licensed in a particular state means that they are not subject to that state's regulations, as set forth by that state's Department of Insurance, in the same manner as the licensed insurers, which gives them more leeway in terms of rate and form regulation.


   Surplus Lines  

The surplus lines market is also referred to as the specialty, non-admitted, or excess lines market. Surplus lines insurance protects against a financial risk that is too high for a regular insurance company to take on. Surplus lines insurance, unlike regular insurance, can be purchased from an insurer that is not licensed in the insured's state, though the surplus lines insurer will still need to be licensed in the state where it is based.



An insurance agent must have a surplus lines license to sell a surplus lines policy. Also called excess lines insurance, surplus lines insurance makes it possible to get insurance for entities with unique risks that most insurers don't cover or for those with claims histories that make them otherwise uninsurable.



Examples of major surplus lines insurers include American International Group (AIG), Nationwide Mutual Insurance, W.R. Berkley Corp., Zurich Insurance Group, Markel Corp., Chubb, Ironshore Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Fairfax Financial Holdings, CNA Financial Corp., XL Group PLC, and Lloyd's of London.



One type of surplus lines insurance that consumers might purchase is flood insurance. Lloyd's offers this insurance through the Natural Catastrophe Insurance Program, which offers an alternative to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) flood insurance. Consumers who find FEMA's insurance too expensive might be able to get a more affordable policy through surplus lines insurance. That being said, surplus lines insurance is often more expensive than regular insurance because it protects against unusual or higher-than-usual risks that other insurers won't cover.
What Is a White Paper?  

A white paper is an informational document issued by a company or not-for-profit organization to promote or highlight the features of a solution, product, or service that it offers or plans to offer.



White papers are also used as a method of presenting government policies and legislation and gauging public opinion.





Key Takeaways

A white paper promotes a certain product, service, or methodology to influence current and prospective customer or investor decisions.Three main types of white papers include backgrounders, numbered lists, and problem/solution white papers.A white paper provides persuasive and factual evidence that a particular offering is a superior product or method of solving a problem.White papers are commonly designed for business-to-business marketing purposes between a manufacturer and a wholesaler, or between a wholesaler and a retailer. 






   Purpose of a White Paper  

White papers are sales and marketing documents used to entice or persuade potential customers to learn more about a particular product, service, technology, or methodology.



White papers are commonly designed for business-to-business (B2B) marketing purposes between a manufacturer and a wholesaler, or between a wholesaler and a retailer. It can provide an in-depth report or guide about a specific product or topic and is meant to educate its readers.



The facts presented in white papers are often backed by research and statistics from reliable sources and can include charts, graphs, tables, and other ways of visualizing data. A white paper can communicate an organization’s philosophy or present research findings related to an industry.


   Types of White Papers  

A startup, large corporation, or government agency will use white papers differently. There are three main types of white papers, including backgrounders, numbered lists, and problem/solution white papers.



Backgrounders detail the technical features of a new product or service. Designed to simplify complicated technical information, they are used to:



•Support a technical evaluation



•Launch a product



•Promote a product or industry leader



Numbered lists highlight the key takeaways of a new product or service, and are often formatted with headings and bullet points such as the following familiar format:



•3 Questions to Ask



•5 Things You Need to Know



•10 Tips



Problem/solution papers identify specific problems faced by potential customers and suggest a data-driven argument about how a featured product or service provides a solution to:



•Generate new sales



•Educate salespeople on product characteristics



•Build industry interest.


   How to Write a White Paper  

White papers differ from other marketing materials, such as brochures. Brochures and traditional marketing materials might be flashy and obvious, but a white paper is intended to provide persuasive and factual evidence that solves a problem or challenge.






White papers are commonly at least 2,500 words in length and written in an academic style.



A white paper should provide well-researched information that is not found with a simple internet search and have a compelling narrative to keep the reader's attention. The author of a white paper should:



• Research and fully define the topic.



• Create an accurate outline of information.



• Write an attention-grabbing introduction.



• Format the paper for easy reading.



• Revise and proofread.




What Is an Example of a White Paper?
All of these documents, publicly available on Microsoft’s website, focus on aspects of the company's suite of cloud services. In contrast with brochures, these white papers don’t have a clear sales pitch. Instead, they dive into relevant topics, such as cloud security, hybrid clouds, and the economic benefits of adopting cloud computing.An AI-First Infrastructure and Toolchain for Any ScaleMoving your Mission Critical Mainframe Data to AzureMesh and hub-and-spoke networks on AzureBackup and recovery overview for Azure usersBackup and recovery overview for users new to Azure




How Have New Industries Used White Papers?
Cryptocurrencies have also been known to publish white papers during initial coin offerings (ICOs) and frequently issued white papers to entice users and "investors" to their projects.Bitcoin famously launched a few months after the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto issued its famous white paper online in October 2008.




Why Is It Called a White Paper?
White Papers may have developed from the use of “Blue Papers” in 19th century Britain, where a Parliamentary report cover was blue. When a topic for the government was less serious, the blue cover was discarded and published with white covers. These reports were called White Papers. In the United States, the use of government white papers often means a background report or guidance on a specific issue.


   The Bottom Line  

A white paper is an informational document issued by a company, government agency, or not-for-profit organization to promote the features of a solution, product, or service that it offers or plans to offer. The facts presented in white papers are often backed by research and statistics from reliable sources and commonly written in one of three formats that include backgrounders, numbered lists, and problem/solution papers.
What Is a White Shoe Firm?  

A "white shoe firm" is an old-fashioned term for the most prestigious, well-established businesses and companies in elite professions. The term originally was used only to refer to legal practices—"white-shoe law firm" was a common variation—but now may be used to describe those in other fields, such as investment banking and management consulting.



White shoe firms typically have a venerable history—preferably (but not necessarily) a century or so—in the business and a blue-chip clientele acquired over generations. They tend to be based on the East Coast (occupying sizable spaces at exclusive addresses) and, while leaders in their field, often have a reputation for being traditional and conservative.





Key Takeaways

A "white shoe firm" is an old-fashioned term for the most prestigious, well-established businesses and companies.White shoe firms are concentrated in certain professions, especially law, banking, and finance.White shoe firms have also been associated with Ivy League/WASP exclusivity, and a conservative, cautious way of operating.The term "white shoe" derives from white buck oxfords, a men's shoe highly popular among Ivy League students in the 1950s. The term "white shoe firm" emerged in the 1970s.Over the years, a number of white-shoe firms have been acquired by bigger rivals or have gone out of business.


   Understanding a White Shoe Firm  

The term "white shoe firm" is believed to have originated in reference to a preppy style of footwear: white buck shoes, specifically oxfords. Introduced around 1910, light-colored buck oxfords became popular at Princeton University—generally considered the headquarters for the country's best-dressed students—and among other male fashionistas of the period. Rubber-soled versions were adopted by tennis and golf players, too.



The white buck (or suede) version of the oxford became the "in" shoe at Yale University and other Ivy League colleges during the 1950s, and thanks to the power of advertising, trickled down to other institutions. "The Ivy Buck—for upper-class comfort on campus" a 1950s ad proclaimed. In between their popularity at prestigious schools, their association with aristocratic sports, and their white color—always hard to keep clean, especially in suede—the white shoe came to connote the throwaway elegance of the elite and, eventually, the elite themselves; old-money types whose work wouldn't muddy or scuff their footwear.



So a "white shoe firm" is one that is full of such "white-shoe men" (and increasingly women). The New York Times columnist William Safire could "track it back in print to the mid-'70s," citing articles published in Forbes and Business Week.






Originally, most white-shoe law firms were based in New York City, although other historic Northeastern metropolises, like Boston or Philadelphia, were also acceptable locales, and even a few southern cities, like Washington D.C. or Charleston.



Although the shoes themselves have long gone out of fashion, the term is still used in reference to leading American companies such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. or Goldman Sachs in banking; Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Shearman & Sterling in law; Ernst & Young in accounting, and McKinsey & Company in management consulting. It has even expanded to denote top-tier firms in other countries.


   Negative Connotations of a White Shoe Firm  

While it connotes a well-established, well-regarded company, the term "white shoe firm" once had negative connotations, as well. Some people felt that white-shoe firms were the exclusive preserve of the East Coast WASP elite and no one else need apply. The employees at these firms were as white as the shoes they wore on weekends at their country clubs, many of which refused to admit Jews, Catholics, or people of color.



Irwin M. Stelzer, the director of the Hudson Institute's economic policy studies group and a columnist for The Sunday Times of London, recalled how he and his partner in a fledgling economic consulting firm didn't even bother pursuing business among the white-shoe firms when they started out in the 1960s.



Because Stelzer and his partner were Jewish, "The “white-shoe” firms were off-limits," he noted. "We identified them by adding up the Roman numerals after partners’ names—I, II, III, etc.—adding to that, partners with first and last names that were interchangeable, and dividing by the total number of partners. A high result meant we had no chance."



Prejudice aside, the term "white shoe firm" also sometimes serves as "a passionate derogation of old-fogeyism," as Safire wrote, indicating an outfit where caution and conservatism prevail; sometimes to a detrimental degree. His Business Week reference used the phrase this way: "First Boston had let its white-shoe image and big-name client list go to its head. They simply vegetated."


   White Shoe Firms Today  

Today, a white-shoe firm can be almost any company that's been in business a long time and looms large, both in literal size and as a leader in its field. The term implies quality, stability, and longevity. What blue-chip companies are to stocks, white-shoe firms are to business.


  Examples of Contemporary White Shoe Firms  

Some contemporary white-shoe firms, identified by Market Business News, include:



Accounting/Advisory



DeloitteErnst & YoungKPMGPricewaterhouseCoopers



Legal



Cahill Gordon & ReindelCleary, Gottlieb, Steen & HamiltonFried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & JacobsonGreenberg TraurigJones DayKramer Levin Naftalis & FrankelO'Melveny & MyersPaul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & GarrisonProskauer RoseQuinn Emanuel Urquhart & SullivanSkadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & FlomWachtell, Lipton, Rosen & KatzWeil, Gotshal & Manges



Banking



Goldman SachsLazard LtdUBSDeutsche BankWilliam Blair & Company


  Troubled White Shoe Firms  

But not even blue chips are immune to economic downturns, business disruption, and internal pressures.



Although white-shoe U.S. firms in relatively stable professions such as law and management consulting have managed to thrive, those in the finance industry have struggled to retain their independence in the face of sweeping changes and challenges.



The global financial crisis of 2008 claimed several white-shoe firms in investment banking and financial services. One prominent victim was Lehman Brothers, founded in 1844, and the fourth-largest investment bank in the U.S. at the time, it was forced to file for bankruptcy, due to its $600+ billion in losses in mortgage-related instruments.



Lehman's problems were caused in part by its investments in funds run by Bear Stearns. Though younger than Lehman—it only dated back to 1923—it too was one of the leading investment banks in the country, until its leveraging techniques and heavy involvement in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) led to massive losses. Bear Stearns was broken up and sold off to JPMorgan Chase, itself the product of a merger between two white-shoe firms:  Chase Manhattan Corporation and  J.P. Morgan & Co.



Yet another venerable brokerage firm, Merrill Lynch, was sold to Bank of America in the wake of the financial crisis.



Over the years, a number of white-shoe firms have been acquired by bigger rivals or have gone out of business. For example, for much of the 20th century, the U.S. accounting profession spoke of the Big Eight firms that handled the books of Fortune 500 companies. Today, they refer to the Big Four. Closures and mergers have shrunk the ranks, such as the union of Price Waterhouse (founded 1894) with Coopers & Lybrand (with roots going back to 1854) to form PricewaterhouseCoopers in 1998.


   White Shoe Firm FAQs  
  What Is a Silk Stocking Law Firm?  

A silk stocking law firm is often based in a large city and itself is quite large, like a company with hundreds of attorneys. Catering to a well-to-do or "silk stocking" clientele, it often charges high fees. It pays big salaries but also expects a lot of billable hours from staffers, who are often graduates of top law schools. It is similar to a white-shoe law firm, though not necessarily as old or established.


  How Can I Get Into a White Shoe Firm?  

Once, the answer would have been to be a WASP (white Anglo-Saxon Protestant) male, preferably one raised in the Northeast, with an Ivy League education. White shoe firms are considerably more diverse today and continue to work to be more so.



But, as prestigious leaders in their industry, they can demand the best from candidates. So, for entry-level jobs, good grades from a prestigious educational institution are important. For higher-level positions, considerable related experience—especially at a similarly sized firm—is required.



And, while connections alone won't get you in without credentials and experience, knowing someone—or someone who knows someone and can recommend you—never hurts either.


  Do White Shoe Firms Pay Well?  

Although some may expect you to consider the prestige of working there as part of your compensation, most white-shoe firms do pay well. Top dollar, in fact. But they also demand a lot from employees, expecting long hours and imposing tight deadlines.
What Is a White Squire?  

A white squire is an investor or friendly company that buys a stake in a target company to prevent a hostile takeover. This is similar to a white knight defense, except the target firm does not have to give up its independence as it does with the white knight, because the white squire only buys a partial share in the company.





Key Takeaways

A white squire is an investor or company that takes a stake in a company to prevent a hostile takeover. A white squire only buys a partial stake, unlike a white knight that purchases the entire company. White squires don’t take controlling interests, rather, it’s just large enough to block the binding company. Incentives often offered to a white squire can include discounted shares or hefty dividends. 


   How a White Squire Works  

A white squire is a friendly acquirer which does not require a controlling interest like a white knight does. A white knight buys the entire company to fend off a hostile takeover. A white squire buys part of the company. Their stake is just large enough to block the bidding company and gives the target company time to rethink its strategy. The white squire may be given a seat on the board, offered discounted shares or promised generous dividends, as an incentive to do the deal.



Once the unfriendly acquirer has withdrawn its bid, the white squire will typically sell its shares. To prevent it from switching allegiances in the future, the deal may be structured so that the shares given to the white squire may not be tendered to the hostile bidder.


   Special Considerations   

Beyond dividends and discounted shares, white squires can also get other benefits, such as a seat on the board. This is done to ensure the white squire sides with the target company and doesn’t change their minds. As part of this, an agreement is usually inked requiring a white squire to vote in favor of the target company. 



Inviting a white squire aboard can help, but later on can hurt the company, as they now have partial control of the company. Thus, companies may enforce a standstill agreement, which prevents a white squire investor from raising their stake in the company.


   Example of a White Squire  

An example of the white squire defense occurred when America Movil, owned by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, attempted to purchase Dutch telecoms company KPN in 2013. An independent foundation entrusted with protecting KPN was able to block it. 



In the past, Disney and CBS have used white squires to help avoid takeovers. CBS previously had Loews Corp. take a 25% stake in the company to prevent a takeover by Ted Turner. However, ultimately, Loews was not happy with CBS management and pressured the chair of CBS’ board to resign. While a white squire is meant to be a positive presence for the targeted company, they can push for change if they see their own issues. 



Other takeover defenses include poison pills, greenmail, the pac-man defense, creating staggered boards and supermajority rules.
What Is Whitemail?  

Whitemail is a defensive strategy that a takeover target can use to try to thwart a hostile takeover attempt. Whitemail involves the target firm issuing a large number of shares at below-market prices, which are then sold to a friendly third party.



This helps the target avoid the takeover by increasing the number of shares the acquirer must purchase in order to gain control, thus increasing the price of the takeover. It also dilutes the firm's shares. Plus, since a friendly third party now owns and controls a large block of shares, the aggregate number of friendly shareholders increases.



If the whitemail strategy is successful in discouraging the takeover, then the company can either buy back the issued shares or leave them outstanding.





Key Takeaways

Whitemail is a hostile takeover defense that involves issuing a large number of new shares to friendly shareholders.The goal is to dilute the shares enough and secure sufficient proxy votes to fend off an unwanted acquirer.A successful whitemail defense can conclude with the target company re-acquiring its new shares.


   Understanding Whitemail  

There are two main tactics employed to acquire a controlling interest in a company as a hostile takeover bid.



First, the acquirer may make a tender offer to the company's shareholders. A tender offer is a bid to buy a controlling share of the target's stock at a fixed price. The price is usually set above the current market price to allow the sellers a premium as an added incentive to sell their shares. This is a formal offer and may include specifications included by the acquirer such as an offer expiry window or other items. Paperwork must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the acquirer must provide a summary of its plans for the target company to aid the target company's decision.



Many takeover defense strategies protect against tender offers, so often the proxy fight is utilized. The goal of a proxy fight is to replace board members who are not in favor of the takeover with new board members who would vote for the takeover. This is done by convincing shareholders that a change in management is needed and that the board members who would be appointed by the would-be acquirer are just what the doctor ordered.



Whitemail is a strategy that can be used to fend off an unwanted takeover attempt by issuing shares at a below-market price and selling them to friendly a third party. These new shares undermine the tender offer by making it relatively more expensive for the acquirer to attempt this route. At the same time, the new friendly shareholder will be less likely to agree to a tender offer or to a proxy fight to install new board members.



Whitemail is just one of several defensive strategies to avert a hostile takeover.


   Example of Whitemail  

XYZ Corporation has 1,000,000 shares outstanding. ABC Inc. wants to acquire XYZ Corp. and begins to buy up all of the shares they can in the public secondary market in an attempt to get to a controlling proportion of shares.



XYZ Corp. gets wind of this and proceeds to institute a whitemail policy. They issue 250,000 new shares at a significant discount to the current secondary market price and sell them all to DEF Industries, which is a company that XYZ has a good relationship with.



The increase of outstanding shares from 1,000,000 to 1,250,000 increases the number of shares ABC will need to purchase in order to gain a controlling interest. Plus, the voting rights of all XYZ shares are now diluted, reducing ABC's power to vote for board members who favor their takeover.
What Is a Whitewash Resolution?  

Whitewash resolution is a European term used in conjunction with the Companies Act of 1985, which refers to a resolution that must be passed before a target company in a buyout situation can give financial assistance to the buyer of the target. A whitewash resolution occurs when directors of the target company must swear that the company will be able to pay its debts for a period of at least 12 months. Oftentimes, an auditor must then confirm the company's solvency.





Key Takeaways

A whitewash resolution must be passed before a target company can offer financial assistance to the buyer. Directors must swear the company can pay debts for at least a year and many times an auditor must confirm the company’s solvency. The whitewash resolution is meant to prevent companies from using acquisitions as a means of financing and draining the assets of the target companies.  The resolution is meant to protect acquired companies from being financially drained by the acquirer. The whitewash resolution means the buyer promises via a resolution that the target company will be solvent for at least a year and the auditor’s role is to ensure it’s financially possible. 


   How a Whitewash Resolution Works  

Some companies have used acquisitions as a means of obtaining financing and draining the assets of the target companies only to leave those companies debt-ridden and unable to pay their bills. 



The Companies Act Of 1985 and the whitewash resolution is meant to ensure that the target company will remain solvent and will not seek to discharge its liabilities once the acquisition is complete.



The whitewash resolution means the buyer promises via a resolution that the target company will be solvent for at least a year. The auditor’s role in this is to ensure this is financially possible. Once this is done the target company can shift the responsibility to the acquiring company. 


   Special Considerations  

Another form of whitewash resolution is a corporate law concept in Hong Kong and Singapore. The whitewash resolution, in this case, is a waiver of rights of certain independent shareholders. A whitewash resolution is a waiver of rights for these shareholders to receive a mandatory takeover from other shareholders.



An investor can appeal to an executive for a whitewash resolution (or whitewash waiver). This waiver, if approved, would be subject to the approval of shareholders. 


   Example of a Whitewash Resolution  

As a whitewash example, say private company ABC wishes to be purchased by company XYZ. Company ABC might provide financial assistance to Company XYZ to give it enough capital to purchase its shares. 



Before this can happen, Company ABC directors must pass a whitewash resolution. The resolution passed by Company ABC would note that even after providing assistance the company will remain viable for at least a year. 



The company must remain financially viable at least 12 months after the financial assistance is issued to Company XYZ for the purchase. As well, Company ABC shareholders must approve the transaction.
What Is a Whole Life Annuity?  

A whole life annuity, also known as a life annuity, is a financial product sold by insurance companies; it gives out monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, or annual payments to a person for as long as they live, beginning at a stated age. Annuities are usually purchased by investors who want to secure an income stream during retirement.





Key Takeaways

Annuities are insurance financial products that can be structured to pay a policyholder for a specific amount of time, or for as long as the policyholder and their spouse are alive.A whole life annuity is an annuity that pays a person for their lifetime, starting at an age agreed upon in the contract.The payment schedule can vary and can be as often as monthly or as infrequently as on an annual basis. Annuities can either be paid out at a fixed rate that holds steady regardless of how the underlying investments perform, or at a variable rate, meaning the rate changes based on the performance of the underlying investments. Most variable annuities allow the policyholder to invest in a variety of funds in order to build a diversified portfolio. 


   How a Whole Life Annuity Works  

Annuities can be structured to make payments for a fixed amount of time, commonly 20 years, or make payments for as long as the annuitant and their spouse is alive. Actuaries work with insurance companies to apply mathematical and statistical models to assess risk when determining policies and rates.



The accumulation period occurs as payments are being made by the buyer of the contract to the insurance company; the annuitization phase occurs when the insurance company makes payments to the annuitant.



At the end of the term, the value in the account would be turned into a stream of payments in what's called the annuitization phase.


   Special Considerations  

Annuities can be structured generally as either fixed or variable. Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant. Variable annuities allow the owner to receive greater future cash flows if investments within the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly.



Most variable annuities let you invest in a variety of assets, mainly stock mutual funds. This provides for a less stable cash flow than a fixed annuity but allows the annuitant to reap the benefits of strong returns from their fund's investments.



There are no IRS contribution limits, and any earnings are not taxed until withdrawn. Withdrawals of taxable amounts from an annuity are subject to ordinary income tax and, if taken before age 59½, may be subject to a 10% IRS penalty.



Agents or brokers selling annuities need to hold a state-issued life insurance license, and also a securities license in the case of variable annuities. These agents or brokers typically earn a commission based on the notional value of the annuity contract.


   Example of a Whole Life Annuity  

Assuming a 6% rate of return for all years, a $100,000 lump-sum investment over 20 years in a taxable account would be worth $222,508 at the end of the term. A tax-deferred variable annuity pre-tax (0.25% annual annuity charge) would be worth $305,053 at the term's end, and a tax-deferred variable annuity post-tax, assuming lump-sum withdrawal (0.25% annual annuity charge), would be worth $239,436.
What Is a Whole Life Annuity Due?  

A whole life annuity due is a financial product sold by insurance companies that requires annuity payments at the beginning of each monthly, quarterly, or annual period, as opposed to at the end of the period. This is a type of annuity that will provide the holder with payments during the distribution period for as long as they live. After the annuitant passes on, the insurance company retains any funds remaining.



Annuities are usually purchased by investors who want to secure some type of income stream during retirement. The accumulation phase occurs as payments are being made by the buyer of the contract to the insurance company; the liquidation phase occurs when the insurance company makes payments to the annuitant.





Key Takeaways

A whole life annuity due is an insurance financial product that pays monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, or annual payments to a person for as long as they live, beginning at a stated age.Whole life annuities provide payments as long as the annuitant is alive; after they die the annuity is terminated.An annuity due is an annuity whose payment is due immediately at the beginning of each period.


   Understanding Whole Life Annuity Due  

Annuities are financial products that are often purchased as part of a retirement plan to ensure income during the retirement years. Investors make payments into the annuity, and then, upon annuitization, the annuitant will receive regular payments.



Annuities can be structured to make payments for a fixed length of time, commonly 20 years, or make payments for as long as the annuitant and their spouse is alive. Actuaries work with insurance companies to apply mathematical and statistical models to assess risk when determining policies and rates.



An annuity due requires payments made at the beginning, as opposed to the end, of each annuity period. Annuity due payments received by an individual legally represent an asset. Meanwhile, the individual paying the annuity due has a legal debt liability requiring periodic payments.






Income payments from an annuity are taxed as ordinary income unless the annuity is kept in a Roth IRA.


   Periodic or Lump Sums  

The major decision for annuity investors is whether to take periodic or lump-sum payments. This is when the time value of money comes into play. This means the money in your hands today is worth more than money sometime later. Or conversely, money received at some future date is worth less than money in your pocket today.



Thus, if you receive a $100,000 lump-sum payout today, you'll want to compare that with receiving a stream of payments over many years. Which is worth more depends on a number of factors such as the implied interest rate or discount rate of the payments, the risk and return of investing the lump sum, and your need for immediate cash.



Lump-sum payments open you to risk. If the money is invested aggressively, you could earn outsized returns beyond what the periodic payments could provide, or you could lose it all if the markets or your investments sour. You might also be forced or tempted to spend all of a lump sum, leaving you with nothing. It's the reason many people opt for periodic payments when given the chance. In addition, there are tax consequences tied to each method.
What Is Whole-Life Cost?  

Whole-life cost is the total expense of owning an asset over its entire life, from purchase to disposal, as determined by financial analysis. It is also known as the life-cycle cost, the lifetime cost, "cradle to grave," or "womb to tomb." Whole-life cost includes purchase and installation, design and building costs, operating costs, maintenance, associated financing costs, depreciation, and disposal costs.



Whole-life cost also takes into account certain costs that are usually overlooked, such as those related to environmental and social impact factors. In the example of constructing a nuclear power station, it is possible to calculate the environmental impact of making the concrete containment and the water required for copper refinement, in addition to other components.



Whereas a number of options may be portrayed as "good" for the environment, a whole-life cost analysis allows a determination of whether or not one solution carries a lower or higher environmental cost than another.





Key Takeaways

Whole-life cost is the total expense of owning an asset over its entire life, from purchase to disposal.Whole-life cost includes purchase and installation, design and building costs, operating costs, maintenance, associated financing costs, depreciation, and disposal costs.Whole-life cost also takes into account certain costs that are usually overlooked, such as those related to environmental and social impact factors.Typically, the focus is on the up-front capital costs of creation or acquisition, and many organizations fail to take into account the longer-term costs of an asset.


   Understanding Whole-Life Cost Analysis  

Whole-life cost analysis is often applied when evaluating different options when investing in new assets and for analyses that attempt to minimize whole-life cost over the lifetime of an asset. It may also be used to decide between two different projects or to make acquisition decisions.



When comparing investment decisions, a financial analyst must look at all potential future costs, not just acquisition expenses. Typically, the focus is on the up-front capital costs of creation or acquisition, and many organizations fail to take into account the longer-term costs of an asset. Without considering whole-life costs, it's possible that an asset’s return will likely be overestimated. While an asset may have low development costs, its purchase may lead to high maintenance or customer service costs in the future.



While most short-term costs—and even depreciation—can be readily measured or estimated, long-term costs are more difficult to estimate. In addition, factors such as environmental or social impact cannot be easily quantified. Nevertheless, whole-life costing may provide a more accurate picture of the true cost of an asset than most other methods.



The value of determining whole-life cost can be demonstrated when considering the purchase of a large piece of equipment for a factory. Consider for example a machine that attaches nylon flock to foam rubber pads used in the construction of painting tools. Beyond the initial cost of purchasing and installing the flocking machine, it will have any number of components requiring periodic maintenance and replacement. Such a machine may also present environmental hazards when cleaned or require complex disassembly in order to be disposed of. The whole-life cost analysis of this equipment purchase will be critical in estimating the long-term financial benefit of its purchase and use.
What Is Whole Life Insurance?  

Whole life insurance provides coverage throughout the life of the insured person. In addition to paying a tax-free death benefit, whole life insurance also contains a savings component in which cash value may accumulate. Interest accrues on a tax-deferred basis.



Whole life insurance policies are one of several types of permanent life insurance, meaning they cover you for your entire life. Universal life, indexed universal life, and variable universal life are others. 





Key Takeaways

Whole life insurance lasts for an insured's lifetime, as opposed to term life insurance, which is for a specific amount of years.Most whole life policies feature level premiums, meaning the amount you pay every month won’t change. Whole life insurance has a cash savings component, known as the cash value, which the policy owner can draw on or borrow from.The cash value of a whole life policy typically earns a fixed rate of interest.Withdrawals and outstanding loan balances reduce death benefits.


   How Whole Life Insurance Works  

Whole life insurance guarantees payment of a death benefit to beneficiaries in exchange for level, regularly-due premium payments. The policy includes a savings portion, called the “cash value,” alongside the death benefit. In the savings component, interest may accumulate on a tax-deferred basis. Growing cash value is an essential component of whole life insurance.



To build cash value, a policyholder can often remit payments greater than the scheduled premium to purchase extra coverage (known as paid-up additions or PUA). Policy dividends can also be reinvested into the cash value and earn interest. Over time, the dividends and interest earned on the policy's cash value will provide a positive return to investors, growing larger than the total amount of premiums paid into the policy. 



The cash value offers a living benefit to the policyholder, meaning the policyholder can access it while the insured is still alive. To access cash reserves, the policyholder requests a withdrawal of funds or a loan. Withdrawals are tax-free up to the value of the total premiums paid. 



Interest is charged on policy loans with rates varying per insurer, but the rates are generally lower than you’d get with a personal loan or home equity loan. 



However, withdrawals and unpaid loans also reduce the cash value of the policy. Depending on the policy type and the size of its remaining cash value, a withdrawal could chip away at the death benefit or even wipe it out entirely. 





Note

Whole life insurance is different from term life insurance, which only provides coverage for a certain number of years, rather than a lifetime. Term life does not have a cash savings component and only pays out a death benefit. 


   Whole Life Insurance Cash Value  

A cash value life insurance policy is similar to a retirement savings account, in that it allows investments to accumulate tax-deferred interest.



Part of each premium payment goes toward the policy's cash value, which can be withdrawn or borrowed against later in life. The cash value of a life insurance policy grows quickly when the insured is young. But because more of the premium is needed to cover the cost of insurance as the insured ages, the cash value grows more slowly as they get older, due to the higher risks associated with age.



The insured can access their policy’s cash value by borrowing against it the cash value, or by withdrawing money in a partial cash surrender. Surrenders will reduce the final death benefit of your policy. 



You can also use the cash value to cover your monthly premium payments instead of paying out of pocket. Or you can surrender the whole policy to receive the entire available cash value (minus any surrender fees). However, the policy will be terminated and the death benefit is no longer be available to your beneficiaries.


   Whole Life Death Benefit  

The dollar amount of the death benefit is typically specified in the policy contract. But it can be changed in some instances. 



Some policies are eligible for dividend payments, and the policyholder may elect to use the dividends to buy paid-up additions to the policy, which will increase the amount paid at the time of death.






Death proceeds are non-taxable to the beneficiary.



The death benefit can also be affected by certain policy provisions or events. As mentioned before, unpaid policy loans (including accrued interest) reduce the death benefit dollar for dollar.



Alternatively, many insurers offer voluntary riders—for a fee—that secure or guarantee coverage, including the stated death benefit. Two of the most common such riders are the accidental death benefit and waiver of premium riders, which protect the death benefit if the insured becomes disabled or critically or terminally ill and is unable to remit premiums due.



Beneficiaries may also have decisions to make about how the death benefit is paid. The default option is to receive a lump-sum payment. But some policies also allow beneficiaries to choose to get the death benefit in installments, or to convert it to an annuity. An annuity may pay out for a set amount of time until the death benefit is exhausted, or it could pay out for the life of the beneficiary. The death benefit continues to earn interest until it is paid, and that interest may be taxable. 






As is the case with any kind of permanent policy, it's important to thoroughly research all insurers being considered to ensure they're among the best whole life insurance companies currently operating.


   Uses of Whole Life Insurance  

As with any kind of life insurance, a whole life insurance policy gives individuals and their families financial security against the loss of a breadwinner. For families that rely on the income of a single person, a whole life policy can provide financial security against the sudden loss of an income provider.



But unlike term life, whole life can also be used as an investment. Once the cash value has grown big enough, you may be able to withdraw or borrow from it to pay for large purchases such as a home. Some people also use whole life cash value to supplement their income in retirement when markets are low.



Whole life insurance is also useful for businesses as a contingency plan for the loss of a key employee or partner. If a key employee passes away, a whole life policy can provide a financial offset to the loss of their skills or expertise. If the deceased is part owner of the company, a whole life policy can provide the remaining owners with enough capital to buy out the deceased partner's share of the business.


   Types of Whole Life Insurance  

There are several main types of whole life insurance, categorized based on how premiums are paid.



Level Payment: Premiums remain unchanged throughout the duration of the policy. This is the most common type of payment plan.
Single Premium: The insured pays a one-time large premium, which funds the policy for life. But this type of policy is almost always a modified endowment contract, which has tax consequences. 
Limited Payment: As the name suggests, you pay a limited number of payments. Premiums will be higher than they would be in a level-payment situation, but you’ll only pay them for a certain number of years. 
Modified Whole Life Insurance: The opposite of a limited payment policy, this type of whole life insurance offers lower premiums than a standard policy in the first two or three years, and higher-than-standard premiums in the later years. It is more expensive in the long run.



Whole life insurance policies are further distinguished as participating and non-participating plans. With a non-participating policy, any excess of premiums over payouts becomes profit for the insurer. However, the insurer also assumes the risk of losing money.



With a participating policy, any excess of premiums is redistributed to the insured as a dividend. This dividend can then be used to make payments or increase one's policy coverage limits. However, dividends are not guaranteed and often vary each year, as they are primarily based on the company’s financial performance. 


   Whole Life Insurance vs. Term Life Insurance  

Whole life insurance is similar to term life insurance, in that both types of policies offer a payout upon the death of the insured. However, there are important differences. While whole life insurance offers a guaranteed death benefit for the entire lifetime of the insured, a term policy only pays out if the insured dies within a certain time frame—usually 10, 20, or 30 years.



There are other considerations as well. In order to provide greater benefits, a whole life policy requires significantly higher premiums than a term policy with the same coverage limit. Whole life premiums are typically fixed throughout the policy duration, while term rates increase at each renewal as the insured grows older.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Whole Life Insurance  



Advantages

Lifetime coverage
Cash value you can use for loans, withdrawals, or premium payments
Guaranteed death benefit amount
Predictable premium payments
Tax-free loans



Disadvantages

More expensive than term life
Cash value may grow slower than with other policies
No flexibility to adjust the premium
Limited ability to adjust the death benefit





   Advantages Explained  

Lifetime coverage: As with all permanent insurance, whole life insurance provides coverage until the insured’s death.Cash value you can use for loans, withdrawals, or premium payments: Part of each premium payment accumulates as cash value, which you can withdraw or borrow against during your lifetime.Guaranteed death benefit amount: Your death benefit is established when you sign up for your policy and stays the same while the policy remains active.Predictable premium payments: Your premium is also fixed at issue and will not typically vary over your lifetime (unless you choose a non-level premium option). Tax-free loans: While withdrawals of more than you’ve contributed to the cash value are taxed, policy loans are not.


   Disadvantages Explained  

More expensive than term life: Premiums of a whole life policy are usually significantly higher than term premiums because the policy accumulates cash value and covers you for your whole life. Cash value may grow slower than with other policies: The growth rate of your whole life policy’s cash value is fixed when you buy it, while returns on other types of permanent coverage (such as universal life) vary based on such factors as investment returns and interest rate fluctuations, so they could be higher.  No flexibility to adjust the premium: Unlike universal life policies, whole life plans do not allow you to change your premiums.Limited ability to adjust the death benefit: Your death benefit is also established when the policy is issued. While you cannot directly increase the original death benefit, you can use dividends to purchase additional coverage.


   How Much Does Whole Life Insurance Cost?  

On average, whole life insurance policies are significantly more expensive than term life insurance. Investopedia research using Quotacy found that the average monthly premium for a $500,000 whole life insurance policy ranges from $247 for a 30-year old female to $887 for a 60-year male. 



In contrast, monthly premiums for term life insurance range from $25 for a 30-year-old female to $241 for a 55-year-old male for the same amount of coverage.










Term Life Insurance Costs




$500,000 Coverage
Average Monthly Cost, Male
Average Monthly Cost, Female


30 years old
$30
$25


40 years old
$52
$42


50 years old
$138
$101


55 years old
$241
$180



Source: Quotacy. Quotes are for a $500,000 30-year term life policy, for men and women in excellent health.










Whole Life Insurance Costs




$500,000 Coverage
Average Monthly Cost, Male
Average Monthly Cost, Female


30
$282
$247


40
$382
$352


50
$571
$498


60
$887
$782



Source: Quotacy. Quotes are for a $500,000 permanent life insurance policy, for men and women in excellent health.




What Is the Difference Between Universal and Whole Life Insurance?
Universal life insurance and whole life insurance are types of permanent life insurance that offer guaranteed death benefits for the life of the insured. However, a universal life policy allows the policyholder to adjust the death benefit as well as the premiums. Higher death benefits require higher premiums. Whole life insurance, on the other hand, does not allow for changes to the death benefit or premiums, which are set upon issue.




How Much Is Whole Life Insurance?
The cost of whole life insurance varies based on several factors, such as age, occupation, and health history. Older applicants typically have higher rates than younger applicants. People with a stellar health history normally receive better rates than those with a history of health challenges. The face amount of coverage also determines how much a policyholder will pay; the higher the face amount, the higher the premium. Also, certain companies have higher rates than others, independent of the applicant and their risk profile. It's also worth noting that for the same amount of coverage, whole life insurance is far more expensive than term life insurance.




What Is Modified Whole Life Insurance?
Modified whole life insurance is permanent life insurance in which premiums increase after a specific period. Policyowners pay lower premiums than they would for a level premium policy during the first few years, and higher premiums in the later years. Traditional whole life insurance premiums, in contrast, remain the same throughout the life of the policy.


   The Bottom Line  

Whole life insurance generally has a level premium and death benefit, and provides a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured, regardless of when they die. Part of the premiums you pay for a whole life policy go to a savings component known as the cash value. Those funds are invested with a guaranteed return, and after they’ve grown big enough, you can borrow from or withdraw from the cash value, tax-free. 



This and the fact that whole life covers you until death (as long as you pay your premiums) offer clear advantages over term life insurance, which only pays out if the death occurs within a specific time frame. However, whole life insurance also has significantly higher costs.
What Is a Whole Loan?  

A whole loan is a single loan issued to a borrower. Lenders of whole loans often sell them in the secondary market to institutional portfolio managers and agencies, such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Lenders sell their whole loans to reduce their risk. Rather than keeping a loan on their books for 15 or 30 years, by selling the whole loan to an institutional buyer, the lender can almost immediately recoup the principal.





Key Takeaways:

A whole loan is a single loan issued to a borrower.Whole loan lenders may sell their whole loans on the secondary market to reduce their risk.Instead of holding a loan for 15 or 30 years, the lender can recoup the principal almost immediately by selling it to an institutional buyer such as Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae.


   Understanding Whole Loans  

Whole loans are issued by lenders to borrowers for multiple purposes. A lender may issue a personal loan or a mortgage loan to a borrower with specified terms determined by the credit issuer following the underwriting process. Generally, whole loans are held on a lender’s balance sheet, and the lender is responsible for servicing the loan.






Selling whole loans in the secondary market allows a lender to generate cash that it can use to make more whole loans, which generate more cash from closing costs paid by borrowers.


   How Do Lenders Use a Whole Loan?  

Many lenders choose to package and sell their whole loans in the secondary market, which allows for active trading and market liquidity. Various buyers are available for different types of loans in the secondary market. The mortgage market has one of the most well-established whole loan secondary markets, with agencies Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae serving as whole loan buyers. Whole loans are often packaged and sold in the secondary market through a process called securitization. They may also be individually traded through institutional loan trading groups.



The whole loan secondary market is a type of fourth market that is used by institutional portfolio managers and facilitated by institutional dealers. Lenders work with institutional dealers to list their loans on the secondary market. Lenders can sell personal, corporate, and mortgage loans. Loan portfolio managers are active buyers within the whole loan secondary market.



Lenders also have the option to package and sell loans in a securitization deal. This type of deal is supported by an investment bank that manages the packaging, structuring, and sales process of a securitization portfolio. Lenders will typically package loans with similar characteristics in a securitization portfolio with various tranches that are rated for investors.



Residential and commercial mortgage loans have a well-established secondary market through agency buyers Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which typically buy securitized loan portfolios from mortgage lenders. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have specific requirements for the types of loans they buy in the secondary market, which influences the underwriting of mortgage loans for lenders.


   Example of Selling a Whole Loan  

Suppose lender XYZ sells a whole loan to Freddie Mac. XYZ no longer earns interest on the loan, but it gains cash from Freddie Mac to make additional loans. When XYZ closes on those additional loans, it earns money from origination fees, points, and other closing costs paid by borrowers. XYZ also reduces its default risk when selling the whole loan to Freddie Mac. It has essentially sold the loan to a new lender who services the loan, and the loan is removed from XYZ’s balance sheet.
What Is Wholesale Banking?  

Wholesale banking refers to banking services sold to large clients, such as other banks, other financial institutions, government agencies, large corporations, and real estate developers. It is the opposite of retail banking, which focuses on individual clients and small businesses. Wholesale banking services include currency conversion, working capital financing, large trade transactions, mergers and acquisitions, consultancy, and underwriting, among other services.





Key Takeaways


Wholesale banking refers to banking services sold to large clients, such as corporations, other banks, and government agencies.
Typical services sold are mergers and acquisitions, consulting, currency conversion, and underwriting.
Wholesale banking is the opposite of retail banking, which services individuals and small businesses.
Most standard banks offer wholesale banking services in addition to traditional retail banking services.
Wholesale banking also refers to the borrowing and lending between institutional banks.













Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Wholesale Banking  

In its essence, wholesale banking is the financial practice of lending and borrowing between two large institutions. The types of services are provided by investment banks that often also offer retail banking. ﻿This means that an individual looking for wholesale banking wouldn't have to go to a special institution and could instead engage the same bank in which he conducts his personal retail banking.



The services that are considered "wholesale" are reserved only for government agencies, pension funds, corporations with strong financials, and other institutional customers of a similar nature. It is for entities that require more service than an individual or a small business, and one that needs it on a large scale. Because of the large scale, the prices offered for these services are typically lower than what is offered to an individual.



Wholesale banking also refers to the borrowing and lending between institutional banks. This type of lending occurs on the interbank market and often involves extremely large sums of money.


   Wholesale Banking vs. Retail Banking  

Wholesale and retail banking are distinct sectors within the banking industry, catering to different customer segments and needs. Wholesale banking focuses on institutional clients, such as corporations, governments, large businesses, financial institutions, and high-net-worth individuals. Retail banking focuses on individual customers and small businesses.



Wholesale banking handles large-scale financial transactions, while retail banking handles small to medium-sized transactions including everyday banking activities. Wholesale banks tend to offer a range of sophisticated financial products and services, while retail banks provide standardized banking products and services to individual customers.



Very broadly speaking, wholesale banking focuses on building long-term, strategic relationships with corporate clients. On the other hand, retail banking emphasizes customer service and building relationships with individual customers. Retail banking focuses on smaller, more standardized transactions with lower risk profiles; as such, retail banking may be seen as having lower risk as the client base often have less assets or resources. Despite their differences, many banks operate in both sectors, providing a diverse range of financial services to cater to a wide range of clients' needs.






Many financial institutions offer both retail and wholesale banking. For example, Wells Fargo, U.S. Bank, Bank of America, and many other large banks supports both industries.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Wholesale Banking  
  Pros of Wholesale Banking  

Wholesale banking provides a number of benefits, not only to financial institutions but also to the customers they serve at the institutional level.



Wholesale banking offers individualized financial services to cater to the intricate and particular requirements of its institutional customers. These banks are able to offer customized products and services to cater to the specific needs of their customers.
Wholesale banking provides access to substantial capital, making it suitable for large-scale projects, corporate expansions, mergers and acquisitions, and other types of business endeavors.
Wholesale banks deploy complex risk models, carry out exhaustive due diligence, and put risk mitigation plans into action in order to have higher safeguards not only the interests of the bank but also those of its customers.
Because wholesale banking is conducted on a worldwide scale, it enables customers to gain access to a diverse set of financial services and to participate in markets all over the world. Clients are able to exploit the global reach of wholesale banks for cross-border transactions, trade finance, foreign currency services, and international business expansion because wholesale banks frequently have large networks and a presence in numerous countries.
Wholesale banking is characterized by its primary focus on the effective processing of large-scale transactions. Banks operating in this sector are equipped with sturdy infrastructure, advanced technological platforms, and streamlined processes to manage complicated financial activities. 
Wholesale banks have extensive market knowledge and different perspectives on the market, both of which they share with their customers. They offer research reports, economic analyses, and updates on market trends, which enables clients to make well-informed decisions and maintain a competitive advantage in a corporate climate that is constantly shifting and evolving.


  Cons of Wholesale Banking  

Wholesale banking may also come with a few possible drawbacks; the following is a list of some of the drawbacks of wholesale banking.



Because wholesale banking deals with financial transactions that are larger and more complicated, it is intrinsically subject to a greater range of hazards than retail banking is. It is possible for wholesale banks to be exposed to credit risks, market risks, and operational risks as a result of the operations of their institutional clients. 
The wholesale banking industry is intimately connected to the conditions of the market and macroeconomic cycles. Changes in market volatility, interest rates, and currency rates are all factors that have the potential to have negative economic effects on the profitability and stability of wholesale banks.
The wholesale banking industry is extensively regulated because of the nature of the activities it engages in and the potential impact they have on the stability of the financial system. This results in a complex regulatory and compliance environment. 
The risk of concentration is present in wholesale banking since the business frequently interacts with a small number of very big institutional customers. This high level of concentration of risk might elevate the stakes in the event that a significant customer runs into financial difficulties or fails to fulfill their commitments. The loss of a big customer for a bank can have a considerable negative effect on both its overall financial health and its profitability.
In order to keep their business running well, wholesale banks need to make significant investments in capital. The need for a large amount of capital can have a negative effect on a bank's profitability and restrict its flexibility in allocating resources to other uses.






A 2023 evaluation of the wholesale banking sector by PwC led to the consulting firm stating the upcoming challenge of the industry is "balancing the growing complexities of daily operations within the wholesale banking industry with a focus on the extended time horizons of an enterprise-wide transformation".


   Example of Wholesale Banking  

The easiest way to conceptualize wholesale banking is to think of it as a discount superstore, like Costco, that deals in such large amounts that it can offer special prices or reduced fees, on a per-dollar basis. It becomes advantageous for large organizations or institutions with a high amount of assets or business transactions to engage in wholesale banking services rather than retail banking services.



For example, there are many occasions when a business with multiple locations needs a wholesale banking solution for cash management. Technology companies with satellite offices are a prime candidate for these services. Let's say that a SaaS (software-as-a-service) company has 10 sales offices distributed around the United States, and each of its 50 sales team members has access to a corporate credit card. The owners of the SaaS company also require that each sales office keeps $1 million in cash reserves, totaling $10 million across the business. It's easy to see that a company with this profile is too large for standard retail banking.



Instead, the business owners can engage a bank and request a corporate facility that keeps all the company's financial accounts. Wholesale banking services act like a facility that offers discounts if a business meets minimum cash reserve requirements and minimum monthly transaction requirements, both of which the SaaS company will hit.



It is thus beneficial for the business to engage in a corporate facility that consolidates all its financial accounts and reduces its fees, rather than keeping 10 retail checking accounts and 50 retail credit cards open.




What Services Does Wholesale Banking Offer?
Wholesale banking offers a range of services, including corporate banking, investment banking, treasury management, trade finance, risk management, and capital market solutions.




How Can Companies Choose the Right Wholesale Bank?
Companies should consider factors such as the bank's expertise, reputation, global reach, services offered, industry knowledge, and relationship-building capabilities when choosing a wholesale bank.




How Does Wholesale Banking Contribute to Economic Growth?
Wholesale banking supports economic growth by providing capital for large-scale projects, facilitating mergers and acquisitions, enabling trade finance, and offering financial expertise and advisory services to businesses and institutions.




What Are the Career Opportunities in Wholesale Banking?
Wholesale banking offers diverse career opportunities, including roles in corporate banking, investment banking, risk management, treasury services, capital markets, relationship management, and financial advisory.


   The Bottom Line  

The wholesale banking sector provides specialized financial services to institutional clients such as corporations, governments, and large businesses. It encompasses areas such as corporate banking, investment banking, treasury services, risk management, and capital market solutions. Wholesale banks offer tailored products supporting the complex financial needs of their clients compared to retail banking which may prioritize individual customer daily transactions.
What is Wholesale Energy  

Wholesale energy is a term referring to the bulk purchase and sale of energy products—primarily electricity, but also steam and natural gas—in the wholesale market by energy producers and energy retailers. Other participants in the wholesale energy market include financial intermediaries, energy traders, and large consumers. Wholesale energy markets developed following the deregulation and restructuring of utilities and electricity markets around the world in the 1990s.


   BREAKING DOWN Wholesale Energy  

The concept of wholesale trading relates to the business of selling goods in large quantities and at low prices, typically to be sold by retailers at a profit. In general, it is the sale of goods to anyone other than a standard consumer. In the wholesale energy market, the term generally relates to purchasing and selling large quantities of electricity between utility companies, but other smaller independent renewable energy producers are also entering the wholesale energy market.



In the wholesale energy market there are independent system operators that coordinate, control and monitor its operation. The deregulation of electricity markets and the development of wholesale energy markets have provided end-user benefits such as enhanced reliability, efficient grid dispatch and better price transparency. However, detractors of the wholesale energy concept maintain that it may actually lead to higher prices for retail consumers and can cause artificial shortages such as the California energy crisis of 2000—2001 due to market manipulation.


   Wholesale Renewable Energy  

As the energy market becomes increasingly deregulated, it has become possible, but not easy, for retail energy consumers to enter the wholesale energy market and sell electricity produced from renewable sources like solar or wind back to the electric utility companies. There is still a lot of work to do in order for this to be efficient and fair. For example, updating outmoded grid systems to make it easier for customers to sell back power to their power providers could yield fairer rates for customers.



According to the North Carolina Clean Energy Technology Center, 40 states and the District of Columbia allow for some kind of “net metering.”﻿﻿ In other words, households that generate electricity through residential solar projects can receive checks from the power companies for excess energy sent to the grid.﻿﻿ Many states offer tax incentives to homeowners who take steps to make their homes more sustainable and energy-efficient. These are early steps that allow retail customers to participate in the wholesale energy market. The long-term aim is a more efficient and lower-cost model that benefits consumers and producers alike.
What Is Wholesale Insurance?  

Wholesale insurance refers to coverage for employer groups that are too small to qualify for true group coverage. A wholesale insurance policy is also known as franchise insurance. It covers an entire group, though individual policies are written for each person that is to be insured. These kinds of policies are offered by nonadmitted carriers, or insurance companies that aren't approved by the state's insurance department.





Key Takeaways

Wholesale insurance refers to coverage for employer groups that are too small to qualify for true group coverage.Wholesale insurance is sold to groups that aren't large enough to get typical group coverage, usually with fewer than 10 employees.Policies come at individual rates but normally contain the same provisions.Wholesale insurance is normally offered by nonadmitted carriers—also known as surplus line or excess line carriers.


   Understanding Wholesale Insurance  

Wholesale insurance is sold to groups that may not be large enough to get typical group coverage. They are essentially provided by companies with fewer than 10 employees. Plans come with individual contracts but generally contain the same provisions for all members of the group. Some companies allow employees to purchase a policy while others pay premiums as part of the employee benefits package. 



Wholesale insurance is normally offered by nonadmitted carriers. These providers are also known as surplus line or excess line carriers. These companies don't necessarily have to follow regulations outlined for insurance companies by the state. As such, policies offered by nonadmitted carriers can be risky because they may not guarantee claims if the insurer becomes insolvent.






Wholesale insurance may be risky because carriers may not guarantee claims if they become insolvent.



Products for small businesses offered through wholesale insurance vary and generally include the following:



Environmental liability products
High-risk products for chemical and flammable incidents
Pharmaceutical and medical products against product failure
Privacy protection products against identity theft
Products that are critical to safety for transportation
Construction-related structural integrity products



Insurance wholesalers rarely have direct contact with insured parties except when it comes to employee benefit and health plans. Because nonadmitted carriers don't operate under state insurance laws, they have more pricing flexibility to ensure against unusual circumstances such as catastrophic events. While there is a certain risk that comes with some nonadmitted carriers, the fact that they operate outside of state insurance laws shouldn't be a red flag of financial instability. State licensing, filing, and reporting requirements are simply different for these carriers. Larger nonadmitted carriers are usually well-capitalized subsidiaries of major financial services companies.


   Special Considerations  

Wholesale insurance brokers often possess specialized expertise in a particular line of coverage or in a line of coverage that is unusual and/or have greater access to or influence with certain insurance markets, which is especially valuable when dealing with a difficult-to-place risk.



Wholesale insurance agents place business brought to them by retail agents. Unlike a retail broker, wholesale brokers have a direct working relationship with the insurer, whereas the retail agent who produced the business does not. The same broker can function as a retailer or wholesaler, depending on the specific situation. 



There are two types of wholesale brokers: managing general agents and surplus lines brokers. The latter work with retail agents and insurers to obtain coverage for the insured. Unlike a managing general agent, a surplus lines broker does not have binding authority from the insurer.


   Wholesale Insurance vs. Retail Insurance  

Wholesale insurance coverage is unlike the retail insurance market. Most individuals are used to the retail insurance market where they buy auto, home, and life insurance. Policies in this market are normally underwritten by carriers who are admitted, or companies that are licensed in the state in which the policy is sold. Admitted carriers are regulated by the state, and broker-agents are also held to regulatory standards by the state as well.
What Is Wholesale Money?  

Wholesale money refers to the large sums of money lent by financial institutions in the money markets. This wholesale banking encompasses the market for tradable securities, such as Treasury bills, commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, foreign or brokered deposits, certificates of deposit, bills of exchange, repo agreements, federal funds, and short-lived mortgage and asset-backed securities.





Key Takeaways

Wholesale money refers to large sums of money lent by financial institutions in money markets.As the subprime crisis showed, it is quick to arrange but dangerous to rely on.Wholesale money markets are a good leading indicator of stress in the financial system.


   Understanding Wholesale Money  

Wholesale money is a way for large corporations and financial institutions to obtain working capital and other types of short-term financing—and it is critical to the proper functioning of the U.S. and global financial systems.



Wholesale funding can be quick to arrange but dangerous to rely on, as banks discovered during the global financial crisis when the wholesale funding market collapsed. Excessive use of short-term wholesale funding—instead of retail deposits—and repurchase agreements left banks exposed to liquidity risk when liquidity mattered most.



An example of this occurred after the collapse of Lehman Brothers during the 2008 financial crisis. A bank run ensued and investors took out their wholesale funds. Wachovia is reported to have lost approximately 1% (or approximately $5 billion) of its funds. The bank was directed by FDIC to negotiate with Citigroup and Wells Fargo for a takeover instead of filing for bankruptcy. Over a weekend, it was sold to Wells Fargo for approximately $15 billion.



A defining moment of the subprime crisis happened in 2007, when Northern Rock, a British bank that had relied on wholesale markets for most of its finance, was no longer able to fund its lending activities and had to ask the Bank of England for emergency funding.


   Indications of Wholesale Money Markets  

Wholesale money markets are therefore a good leading indicator of stress in the financial system—and paint a truer picture of the cost of borrowing than central banks’ official interest rates. Today, the OIS discounted overnight rate has become a key measure of credit risk within the banking sector, using short-term benchmark rates such as the Federal Funds Rate.



The demand for high quality liquid assets (HQLA) in the global financial markets suggests that wholesale money markets are a long way from being repaired, even as global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) comply with new Basel III capital and liquidity measures—such as the liquidity coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio.



In the U.S., new money market regulations came into force in 2016, but the Federal Reserve will have to provide stability to the lending markets through its Reverse Repurchase (RRP) facility for some time. This is because rising interest rates increase banks’ reliance upon wholesale funding by reducing retail deposits. This, in turn, increases systemic risk.
What Is a Wholesale Price Index (WPI)?  

A wholesale price index (WPI) measures change in the overall price of goods before they are sold at retail. This includes the prices charged by manufacturers and, often outside the U.S., wholesalers. Usually expressed in terms of the percentage change from the prior month or a year earlier, the WPI is an inflation indicator.



In the U.S., the WPI has been reported as the Producer Price Index (PPI) since 1978.





Key Takeaways

A wholesale price index (WPI) measures overall change in producer prices over time.It is a measure of inflation based on the prices of goods before they reach consumers.In the U.S. the WPI was renamed the Producer Price Index (PPI) in 1978.The U.S. WPI never measured the prices charged by wholesaling intermediaries.The U.S. PPI includes product category indexes distinguishing between intermediate and finished goods.


   How a Wholesale Price Index (WPI) Works  

Wholesale price indexes are reported monthly to track the overall rate of change in producer and wholesale prices. The index is set at 100 for its base period, and calculated based on subsequent price changes for the aggregate output of goods.



To illustrate, assume January 2021 is the base period. If the aggregate price level rose 9.7% over the next year, the WPI for January 2022 will be at 109.7.



A WPI typically takes into account commodity prices, but the products included vary from country to country. They are also subject to change, as needed, to better reflect the current economy. Some small countries only compare the prices of 100 to 200 products, while larger ones tend to include thousands of products in their WPIs.


   The Wholesale Price Index vs. the Producer Price Index  

In the U.S. wholesale price index reporting dates back to 1902. In 1978, the BLS renamed the WPI the producer price index (PPI) in part because the index never measured price change in the wholesale market, focusing consistently on the prices charged by producers.



At that time, the BLS shifted to a methodology dividing goods based on their stage of production. That focus, which minimizes double counting, persists in the current PPI methodology aggregating prices into final demand and intermediate demand indexes depending on whether the price is that of a finished product or an intermediate good.
What Is Wholesale Trade?  

Wholesale trade is an economic indicator that measures the value in U.S. dollars of all merchant wholesalers' sales and inventories. Wholesale trade is one component of business sales and inventories. Only those firms that sell to governments, institutions, and other businesses are considered part of wholesale trade.





Key Takeaways

Wholesale-trade data gives investors a closer look at the consumer economy, as wholesalers' sales and inventory numbers can be a leading indicator of consumer trends.By looking at the ratio of sales to inventories, investors can see whether or not production may grow or slow in the future.Only those firms that sell to governments, institutions, and other businesses are considered part of wholesale trade.


   Understanding Wholesale Trade  

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the wholesale trade sector includes the sale of merchandise that is outputted from manufacturing, agriculture, mining, publishing, and some other information industries.



Wholesaling is considered to be an intermediate step in the overall distribution of merchandise and goods. A wholesaler sells or organizes the transaction for the resale of goods to other wholesalers or retailers. They might also arrange the sale or purchase of raw materials, supplies for production, or durable consumer goods.



Typically wholesalers operate from a warehouse or office facility and sell goods to other businesses. Such transactions are rarely done through walk-in business as the operation is not established, nor advertised for, that type of activity. Traditionally, wholesalers do not market their services to the general public. They conduct business with vendors or retailers who are part of the overall supply and sales chain.



While wholesale trade is separate from consumer sales transactions, wholesalers are part of the channel that feeds consumer trade. The relationships between wholesalers and their customers may be long-standing with new orders and follow-ups coming in as those retailers and vendors need more merchandise.






The United States Census Bureau furnishes monthly and annual wholesale trade reports.


   How Wholesale Trade Data Is Used  

Wholesale-trade data gives investors a closer look at the consumer economy, as wholesalers' sales and inventory numbers can be a leading indicator of consumer trends. By looking at the ratio of sales to inventories, investors can see whether or not production may grow or slow in the future.



For example, if inventories are growing more slowly than sales, producers will have to make more product so that no shortages occur. Alternatively, if sales growth is slower than inventory growth, there will be an excess of supply, and production should slow in the coming months.



Because manufacturing is such a large part of gross domestic product (GDP), the wholesale-trade data can be a valuable tool for keeping a finger on the pulse of the economy. Equity markets are positively affected by an increase in production, as corporate profits tend to increase. The bond markets, on the other hand, prefer moderate growth so as to stem inflation.
What Is Wholesaling?  

Wholesaling is the act of buying goods in bulk from a manufacturer at a discounted price and selling to a retailer for a higher price, for them to repackage and in turn resell in smaller quantities at an even higher price to consumers. Due to the large quantities purchased from the manufacturer at a discounted price, the wholesaler can also pass on this discount to retailers. The retailer sells at a price that reflects the overall cost of doing business.





Key Takeaways

Wholesalers are not manufacturers. Their business is distributing the end products. They purchase goods from manufacturers in bulk at a discount and sell to retailers.Wholesalers also provide cost savings to retailers when retailers buy in bulk from the wholesaler. The retailer then repackages the bulk items into smaller quantities for sale directly to consumers.Wholesaling is one step in the supply chain that starts with a supplier of raw materials and ends with a sale to an end-user.In banking, the term wholesaling refers to financial services provided to large institutional clients rather than individual retail customers.


   Understanding Wholesaling  

Most wholesalers do not manufacture the goods they sell but rather buy them from the source and concentrate on the business of sales and delivery to retailers. They are known as the intermediary in the supply chain. It is more cost-effective for a wholesaler to buy in bulk from a manufacturer and receive a discount than it would be to buy items individually.



The wholesaler will then sell to a retailer at a higher price than it paid for the goods but are still able to provide a similar discount to the retailer as they received when the retailer buys in bulk. For example, Walmart will purchase its products from wholesalers in bulk; they may buy thousands of bottles of hand moisturizer. It will receive a discount on buying such a large volume than if it were to just buy a few. Walmart then stocks its shelves with the moisturizers and continuously restocks from its large inventory when the shelves are empty.



A wholesaler may specialize in a single product or product category or may offer a variety of goods. It can be anything from milk to electricity. Some wholesalers also broker deals between other wholesalers and retail businesses that require a variety of goods, or components of goods, that can be more efficiently obtained from a single source.



A wholesaler should not be confused with an "official distributor" for a brand's product line. The wholesaler does not generally offer product support, may not be connected directly to the company from which it purchases products, and may even have limited familiarity with the products. Moreover, unlike distributors, many wholesalers sell competing products.


   Where Wholesaling Fits into the Supply Chain  

Wholesaling is one step in the supply chain, which also includes suppliers of raw materials, manufacturers of finished goods, and retailers to end-users. Retailers purchase goods from wholesalers and then sell them at a high enough price to cover their costs and generate profits.



Supply chain management (SCM) was developed in the 1980s to address the need to maximize efficiency in the business processes involved in moving goods from the original suppliers to end-users.


   Wholesaling in Banking and Finance  

In banking, the term wholesaling refers to financial services provided to large institutional clients such as real estate developers, pension funds, and large corporate clients rather than individual retail customers.



In the financial services industry, a wholesaler can also be a sponsor of a mutual fund or act as an underwriter in a new issue.



An asset management company, which creates and manages mutual funds, employs a mutual fund wholesaler, also known as a mutual fund representative, to sell the product to resellers. Typically, the wholesaler is a salesperson.



In this case, the wholesaler distributes access to mutual funds to companies that wish to make them available to investors. For example, a company that has a 401(k) plan may meet with wholesalers before choosing the asset management company, such as Fidelity Investments or the Vanguard Group, that will offer its products to the company's employees. Mutual fund wholesalers are compensated from the fees of the mutual funds they sell.
What Is a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary?  

A wholly owned subsidiary is a company whose common stock is 100% owned by another company. A company may become a wholly-owned subsidiary through an acquisition.



A majority-owned subsidiary is a company whose common stock is 51% to 99% owned by a parent company. The parent company may opt for majority ownership rather than an outright purchase in order to lower the costs and risks involved in the venture. The majority-owned company might then be called an affiliate, associate, or associate company.





Key Takeaways

A wholly-owned subsidiary is a company whose common stock is 100% owned by a parent company.Wholly-owned subsidiaries allow the parent company to diversify their product lines, streamline management, and possibly reduce risk.By its nature, a wholly-owned subsidiary has no obligations to minority shareholders.The financial results of a wholly-owned subsidiary are reported on the parent company's consolidated financial statement.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary  

Having a wholly-owned subsidiary may help the parent company maintain operations in diverse geographic areas and markets or related industries. These factors help the parent hedge against changes in the market or in geopolitical and trade practices.



Because the parent company owns all the shares of a wholly-owned subsidiary, there are no minority shareholders. The subsidiary operates with the permission of the parent company, which may or may not have direct input into the subsidiary’s operations and management. This may make it an unconsolidated subsidiary.



Despite being owned by another entity, a wholly-owned subsidiary may maintain its own management structure, clients, and corporate culture.



Nevertheless, when a company is acquired, its employees worry about layoffs or restructuring. That happens often, as one of the potential benefits to both companies is the opportunity to cut costs by consolidating certain departments.






Although subsidiaries are separate entities, they may share some executives or board members with their parent company.


   Accounting for a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary  

From an accounting standpoint, a wholly-owned subsidiary remains a separate company, so it keeps its own financial records and bank accounts and tracks its own assets and liabilities. Any transactions between the parent company and the subsidiary must be recorded.



Both Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require companies to report the financial data of their subsidiaries if the parent company is public. This information can be found in the parent company's consolidated financial statement.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary  

A parent company has operational and strategic control over its wholly-owned subsidiaries. How it exercises that control has a great deal to do with the success or failure of the partnership.



When a company hires its own staff to manage the subsidiary, forming common operating procedures is generally less complicated than leaving the established leadership in place.



A parent company that acquires a subsidiary overseas or in an industry that's new to it might take a less heavy-handed approach, leaving current management in place.


  Shared Policies and Processes Reduce Costs  

The parent company is likely to apply its own data access and security directives for the subsidiary to lessen the risk of losing intellectual property to other companies. Using compatible financial systems, sharing administrative services, and creating similar marketing programs help reduce costs for both companies.



A parent company also directs how its wholly-owned subsidiary’s assets are invested.


  Pitfalls for Parent Companies  

Acquiring a wholly-owned subsidiary may force the parent company to pay a high price for the subsidiary's assets, especially if other companies are bidding on the same business.



There can be a difficult transition period as well. Establishing relationships with vendors and local clients takes time, which may hinder the operations of both companies. Cultural differences can become an issue when hiring staff for an overseas subsidiary.



Finally, the parent company assumes all the risk of owning a subsidiary. That risk may increase when local laws differ significantly from the laws in the parent company's country.


  Tax Advantages of Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries  

There are tax advantages for wholly-owned subsidiaries that may be lost if the parent company simply absorbs the assets of an acquired company.



When a parent company acquires a subsidiary by buying up that company's stock, the acquisition is a qualified stock purchase for tax purposes. Moreover, any losses by the subsidiary can be used to offset the profits of the parent company, resulting in a lower tax liability.



Sometimes, a subsidiary can do things that the parent company cannot do on its own. For example, a non-profit entity can create a for-profit subsidiary in order to raise revenue. While the subsidiary would be subject to federal income taxes, the parent company would remain exempt.




Pros and Cons of Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries

Pros

Tax-exempt organizations can have for-profit subsidiaries.
Parent companies can use losses from one subsidiary to offset taxes on profits from another.
The parent company inherits the acquired company's clients and good-will, which would be hard to recreate from scratch.



Cons

Running a subsidiary can be difficult if the acquired company has a different management culture.
Acquiring another company can be expensive, especially if other companies are competing for it.
Risks may be higher if the subsidiary is located in a different jurisdiction.





   Subsidiary vs. Wholly-Owned Subsidiary  

A subsidiary is a company whose stock is more than 50% owned by a parent company or a holding company. That gives the parent company a controlling interest in the subsidiary's operations, management, and profits. However, the subsidiary still has financial obligations to its minority shareholders.



A wholly-owned subsidiary is 100% owned by the parent company, with no minority shareholders.


   Examples of Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries  

Volkswagen AG is an example of a wholly-owned subsidiary system. The parent company wholly owns Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. and its brands, which include Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, and Lamborghini (wholly owned by Audi AG) as well as Volkswagen.



In addition, Marvel Entertainment and Lucasfilm are now wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Walt Disney Company. Starbucks Japan is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Starbucks Corp.




What Is the Difference Between a Holding Company and a Parent Company?
A holding company exists only as a legal entity to hold stock in other companies. A parent company has its own operations. For example:Berkshire Hathaway is a holding company whose business is acquiring shares of other companies.Pepsi is a parent company whose core business is producing Pepsi soft drinks but it owns several subsidiaries, including Tropicana, Gatorade, and Aquafina.




How Are Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries Accounted for?
Wholly-owned subsidiaries maintain separate accounts from their parent companies, but their finances are usually reported together.If a public company has wholly-owned subsidiaries, the financial data for the subsidiaries will be reported alongside those of the parent on the company's consolidated balance sheets.




What Are the Tax Benefits of a Subsidiary?
A company with multiple subsidiaries can use the losses of one subsidiary to offset the profits of another, thereby reducing its overall tax bill.Moreover, non-profit entities can establish for-profit subsidiaries without endangering their tax-exempt status.


   The Bottom Line  

Acquiring a wholly-owned subsidiary can be a relatively cost-efficient way for a company to expand its product line or its geographic reach. It may acquire a competitor, thus expanding its own market share, or invest in a part of its own supply chain, making its production process more efficient.



The difficulty comes after the deal is done. Combining some operations is efficient. Replacing some management may be necessary. But these changes must be made while avoiding disruption at the subsidiary as much as possible.
What Is Whoops?  

Whoops is a negative slang word used at one time in history for the former Washington Public Power Supply System (WPPSS). Formed in the 1950s to ensure consistent electrical power for the Pacific Northwest, WPPSS did not succeed on many fronts—hence, its nickname of "Whoops."





Key Takeaways

Whoops is a derogatory slang term for the Washington Public Power Supply System.Today, the Washington Public Power Supply Company is called Energy Northwest company and is no longer referred to as "Whoops."In the 1980s, the company faced a series of expensive setbacks.In 1983 the Washington Public Power Supply Company was responsible for the largest municipal debt default in history.


   Understanding Whoops  

Whoops, or WPPSS, financed the construction of five nuclear power plants by issuing billions of dollars in municipal bonds in the 1970s and 1980s.



In 1983, because of extremely poor project management, construction on some plants was canceled, and completion of the remaining plants seemed unlikely.



Consequently, the take-or-pay arrangements that had been backing the municipal bonds were ruled void by the Washington State Supreme Court. As a result, in 1983, the WPPSS had the largest municipal debt default in history.


   Early History of Whoops  

Nuclear power became popular in the 1960s when it was perceived as clean and inexpensive. WPPSS or Whoops saw this as an opportunity to meet the growing demand for power in its region. It scheduled five nuclear power plants financed by a public bond issuance to be repaid with proceeds from the plants. The bonds were issued, but sales did not meet expectations.



The Packwood Lake Dam, its first project, ran seven months over the scheduled completion date. This was the beginning of WPPSS’s public works problems.






The construction problems at the plant included cost overruns and poor project management. Contractors leveraged government inefficiency and overcharged and under-delivered.



This caused safety inspectors to demand more stringent rules, which were implemented mid-construction by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). As a result, much of the project had to be scrapped then redesigned and rebuilt.


   High Costs and Big Trouble  

At the beginning of the 1980s, only one of the five WPPSS plants was close to complete. And to add insult to injury, by then, nuclear power was found not to be as cheap and beneficial as claimed, and public opinion turned against it.



Some cities in the region even boycotted nuclear power before the facilities were up and running. Cost overruns continued to where more than $24 billion would have been required to complete the work. But the low power sales could not cover the deficits. Construction halted on all but the near-completed second plant. The first plant again had to be redesigned.



The Washington Public Power Supply System was forced to default on $2.25 billion in municipal bonds. The second plant finally became operational in 1984, but it too little too late for investors. On Christmas Eve 1988, a $753 million settlement was reached. While some of the system's approximately 75,000 bondholders received $0.40 on every dollar they had invested, other bondholders received as little as $0.10 for every dollar they had invested.


   Special Considerations  

The WPPS changed into Energy Northwest in 1999, and the moniker of "Whoops" is now antiquated.﻿﻿
What Is a Wide Basis?  

A wide basis is a condition found in futures markets whereby the local cash (spot) price of a commodity is relatively far from its futures price. It is the opposite of a narrow basis, in which the spot price and futures prices are very close together.



It is normal for there to be some difference between spot prices and futures prices, due to factors such as transportation and holding costs, interest rates, and uncertain weather. This is known as the basis. However wide, this gap typically converges as the expiration date of the futures contract approaches.





Key Takeaways

A wide basis is a market condition in which the gap between spot prices and futures prices is relatively large.Such a divergence between spot price and futures price may be associated with illiquidity or high carrying costs.Basis inevitably reduces as the futures contract approaches its expiration date; any gap that remains would produce opportunities for arbitrage profits.


   Understanding Wide Basis  

Ultimately, a wide basis indicates a mismatch between supply and demand. If short-term supply is relatively low due to factors such as unusually poor weather, local cash prices may rise relative to futures prices. If, on the other hand ,short-term supply is relatively high, such as in the case of an unusually large harvest, then local cash prices might fall relative to futures prices.



Either of these situations would give rise to a wide basis, where "basis" is simply the local cash price minus the futures contract price. This gap should gradually disappear as the futures contracts near their expiration date, because otherwise investors could simply exploit an arbitrage opportunity between the local cash prices and the futures prices.



When the basis shrinks from a negative number like -$1, to a less negative number like $-0.50, this change is known as a strengthening basis. On the other hand, when the basis shrinks from a larger positive number to a smaller positive number, this is known as a weakening basis.





Important

Generally speaking, a narrow basis is consistent with a very liquid and efficient marketplace, whereas a wide basis is associated with a relatively illiquid and inefficient one. Nonetheless, some variation between local cash prices and futures prices is normal and expected.


   Real World Example of a Wide Basis  

Suppose you are a commodities futures trader interested in the oil market. You note that the local cash price for crude oil is $40.71, whereas the price of crude oil futures maturing in two months is $40.93. In this scenario, you note that the basis between these two prices is relatively small, at only -$0.22 (spot price of $40.71 minus futures price of $40.93). This narrow basis makes sense, considering that the contract is heavily traded and there are only two months until the expiration of the contract.



Looking farther into the future, however, you begin to find some contracts with a wide basis. The same contract for delivery in nine months, for example, has a futures price of $42.41. This relatively wide spread of -$1.70 could be due to many different factors. For instance, traders might be expecting the price of oil to rise as a result of decreased supply or increased economic activity. No matter the reason, the basis will almost certainly diminish as the contract date approaches.
What Is a Wide Economic Moat?  

A wide economic moat is a type of sustainable competitive advantage possessed by a business that makes it difficult for rivals to wear down its market share. The term economic moat was made popular by the investor Warren Buffett and is derived from the water-filled moats that surrounded medieval castles. The wider the moat, the more difficult it would be for an invader to reach the castle.



A wide economic moat can be caused by several factors that might make it difficult for other businesses to steal market share. These factors may include high barriers to industry entry, or the business with the moat might own patents on several products that are essential to providing their particular product or service.





Key Takeaways

An economic moat is a distinct advantage a company has over its competitors that allows it to protect its market share and profitability.A wide economic moat is one that is difficult to mimic or duplicate (e.g., brand identity, patents) and thus creates an effective barrier against competition from other firms.Companies with a wide economic moat have are able to generate large amounts of free cash flow and have a track record of strong returns.


   Understanding a Wide Economic Moat  

The term economic moat, popularized by Warren Buffett, refers to a business' ability to maintain competitive advantages over its competitors in order to protect its long-term profits and market share from competing firms. Just like a medieval castle, the moat serves to protect those inside the fortress and their riches from outsiders.



Businesses that possess at least one factor of Porter's 5 forces model would possess a wide economic moat. For example, a business that holds an exclusive patent for the creation of a miracle drug would effectively keep potential competitors out of its business. Having few or no competitors would allow the company to continually generate high levels of profit.



A company that exists in a business where the start-up costs are prohibitive for small entrants would also have a wide moat. There are several ways in which a company creates an economic moat that allows it to have a significant advantage over its competitors.


   Sources of Economic Moats  

A company that is able to maintain low operating expenses in relation to its sales compared to its peers has cost advantages, and it can undercut its competition by lowering prices and keeping rivals at bay. Consider Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which has an immense volume of sales and negotiates low prices with its suppliers, resulting in low-cost products in its stores that are hard to replicate by its competitors.



Intangible assets refer to the patents, brands, and licenses that allow a company to protect its production process and charge premium prices. While brands are typically derived from superior product offerings and marketing, patents are obtained as a result of companies' filings with governments to protect know-how for a specific period of time, typically 20 years. Pharmaceutical companies earn high profits due to patented drugs after spending billions on research and development.



Efficient scale arises when a particular market is best served by a limited number of companies, giving them near-monopoly statuses. Utility firms are examples of companies with an efficient scale that is necessary to serve electricity and water to their customers in a single geographic area. Building a second utility company in the same area would be too costly and inefficient.



Switching costs are another type of economic moat, which makes it very time-consuming and expensive for consumers to switch products or brands. Autodesk Inc. offers various software solutions for engineers and designers that are very difficult to learn. Once an Autodesk customer starts using its software, he is unlikely to switch, allowing Autodesk to charge premium prices for its products.



The network effect can further fortify a company's economic moat by making its products more valuable the more people use them. An example of a network effect is online marketplaces such as Amazon and eBay, which are widely popular among consumers because of the large number of people buying and selling various products through their platforms.
What Are Wide-Ranging Days?  

Wide-ranging days describe the price range of a stock on a particularly volatile day of trading. Wide-ranging days occur when the high and low prices of a stock are much further apart than they are on a typical day. Some technical analysts identify these days by using the volatility ratio.





Key Takeaways

Wide-ranging days occur when the high and low prices of a stock are much further apart than they are on a typical day.Extreme wide-ranging days can help predict major trend reversals.The average true range (ATR) provides a way to compare the trading range between multiple days.Meanwhile, the volatility ratio can be used to identify wide-ranging days using a technical indicator that automates the process of finding wide-ranging days.Wide-ranging days typically occur when the volatility ratio exceeds a reading of 2.0 over a 14-day period.


   Understanding Wide-Ranging Days  

Wide-ranging days have a true range that is larger than the surrounding days, and wide-ranging days usually predict a trend reversal. Extreme wide-ranging days signal major trend reversals, while less extreme wide-ranging days signal minor reversals.



The average true range (ATR) provides a way to compare the trading range between multiple days by looking at the difference between the current low, minus the close of the previous period. The absolute true range for a given period is the greater of the high for the period minus the low for the period, the high for the period minus the close for the previous period, or the close for the previous period minus the low for the current period.



The average true range is usually a 14-day exponential moving average (EMA) of the true range, although different trades may use different periods. An exponential moving average is a type of moving average that places a greater weight and significance on the most recent data points. This is also referred to as the exponentially weighted moving average.






After a sharp down-trend, a wide-ranging day with a strong close (close near the high of the day) is a signal that the trend will reverse. Meanwhile, after a strong advance, a wide-ranging day with a weak close (close near the low of the day) signals a downside reversal.


   Special Considerations   

The volatility ratio can be used to identify wide-ranging days using a technical indicator. In essence, this automates the process of finding wide-ranging days and makes it possible for traders to easily screen for opportunities rather than simply looking at charts.



The volatility ratio is calculated by dividing the true range for a given day by the exponential moving average of the true range over a period, which is usually 14 days. In general, wide-ranging days occur when the volatility ratio exceeds a reading of 2.0 over a 14-day period. Traders may use volatility ratios in their stock charts when looking for potential reversal opportunities.



Wide-ranging days occur when the price range of a particular stock greatly exceeds the volatility of a normal trading day. Oftentimes, these days are measured with the average true range, and analysis is automated using the volatility ratio. Wide-ranging days usually predict trend reversals, although traders should confirm reversals using other technical indicators and chart patterns.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Wide Variety?  

The wide variety strategy is a merchandising strategy that relies on an impressive range of goods to draw customers into the store. The old-fashioned five-and-dime store is a classic example of a wide variety strategy. In modern times, the controlled chaos of a dollar store may best illustrate the concept.


   Understanding Wide Variety  

Generally, a wide variety strategy is best suited to a boutique or small store rather than a big box store. The sheer range of goods is meant to impress. A deep assortment of each category of product is not needed to pull it off.



A variety store may offer miscellaneous food and beverages, personal hygiene products, small home and garden tools, office supplies, holiday decorations, electronics, garden plants, toys, pet supplies, remaindered books, recorded media, sewing supplies, motor oil, and home decor.





Key Takeaways


A wide variety merchandising strategy draws customers in with an impressive array of products in a relatively compact space.
The deep assortment strategy, by contrast, offers a greater range of sizes, colors, styles, and brands.
Wide variety can be most effective in a boutique or small store.
A wide variety store can compete with big box stores by offering superior service and a more enjoyable shopping experience.




The retailer who uses a wide variety strategy doesn't have the floor space to stock many different sizes and brands of a specific product, but it usually has what the customer is looking for.



A convenience store, for example, may offer a wide variety of products, but won't stock half a dozen brands of it in multiple sizes. In recent years, even pharmacy chains like CVS and Walgreen's have turned to the wide variety strategy, stocking general merchandise well beyond medical necessities.


   The Disadvantages of Wide Variety  

Carrying a wide variety of products limits the space available for a deep assortment of products. There is a risk that consumers will go to a specialized retailer with a better selection of a specific type of product. Some businesses, such as supermarkets, manage to offer both wide variety and deep assortment.






The sheer range of goods is meant to impress; a deep assortment is not needed to pull it off.



A wide variety business can also rely on convenience, personal service, and a more enjoyable shopping experience to make it a preferred destination for its customers.


   Wide Variety vs. Deep Assortment  

Retailers face a trade-off when determining whether to pursue a wide variety or a deep assortment merchandising scheme. Trying to do both requires a great deal of space, and these days that means competing with big box retailers.



Retailers with smaller spaces can go with a deep assortment if they choose to specialize in a certain product or products that they can offer in a range of colors, sizes, styles, and brands.



The deep assortment strategy may be most appropriate for serving a clearly defined demographic. For instance, a retailer can cater to new parents with a deep assortment of baby clothes, toys, and bedding. All of those things can be found at a nearby big box store like Costco and Walmart, but many shoppers may prefer the baby boutique.
What Is a Widely Held Fixed Investment Trust (WHFIT)?  

A widely held fixed investment trust (WHFIT) is a type of unit investment trust (UIT) with at least one interest held by a third party. Investors who purchase shares of the trust receive any regular payments of interest or dividends earned on the equities or bonds held in trust.





Key Takeaways

A widely held fixed investment trust (WHFIT) is an investment vehicle where at least one interested third-party is involved. The third party, or middleman, is responsible for holding the unit shares as custodian.Without this middleman role, the WHFIT would be simply a unit investment trust (UIT), and in many ways they function identically from an investor's perspective.WHFITS may invest in a fixed portfolio of stocks and bonds, or else real estate mortgage investments.


   Understanding Widely Held Fixed Investment Trusts  

Widely held fixed investment trusts must have at least one third-party interest holder, or middleman. Otherwise, they function the same way as any other unit investment trust offering shares in a fixed portfolio of assets to prospective investors. Because the investors who fund the initial purchase of the assets in the portfolio typically participate as trust interest holders, widely held fixed investment trusts fall under the category of grantor’s trusts.



Trust interest holders receive dividend or interest payments derived from the underlying assets in the portfolio based upon the proportion of shares they hold. The presence of middlemen in the trust means investors may hold either direct interest in the trust or indirect interest if a middleman such as a broker holds the shares in another investor’s name.



WHFITs are classified as pass-through investments for income tax purposes. The parties involved in the creation and maintenance of a WHFIT include:



Grantors: Investors that pool their money to purchase the assets placed in the trust.Trustee: Typically a broker or financial institution that manages the trust's assets.Middleman: Usually a broker that holds the unit shares in the trust on behalf of their client / beneficiary.Trust Interest Holder: This is the investor that owns unit shares in the WHFIT and is entitled to income generated by the trust.


   Other Types of Investment Companies  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) considers unit investment trusts one of three types of investment companies, along with mutual funds and closed-end funds. Like mutual funds, widely held fixed investment trusts offer investors an opportunity to purchase shares in a diversified portfolio of underlying assets at a lower cost and with less hassle than it would take to build the portfolio independently. Unlike mutual funds, widely held fixed investment trusts offer a static portfolio of assets. They also specify a termination date on which the trust will sell the underlying assets and distribute the proceeds to investors.



The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) generally treats widely held investment trusts as flow-through entities for tax purposes. Because of this, the trust itself does not pay taxes on its earnings. Instead, individuals who invest in the trust receive a Form 1099 detailing their annual earnings and must pay taxes on those amounts as they would any other earned income.


   Widely Held Mortgage Trusts  

One common variety of widely held fixed investment trust, the widely held mortgage trust, offers portfolios consisting of mortgage assets. In these cases, the trust typically purchases a pool of mortgages or other similar debt instruments tied to real estate. Investors earn returns based upon the interest collected on the underlying mortgages. The three major federal mortgage lenders, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and Ginnie Mae, all periodically issue widely held mortgage trusts.



Related to this is a real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC), which is a special purpose vehicle that is used to pool mortgage loans and issue mortgage-backed securities (MBS).Real estate mortgage investment conduits hold commercial and residential mortgages in trust and issue interests in these mortgages to investors.


   The Differences Between UITs and Mutual Funds  

Mutual funds are open-ended funds, meaning that the portfolio manager can buy and sell securities in the portfolio. The investment objective of each mutual fund is to outperform a particular benchmark, and the portfolio manager trades securities to meet that objective. A stock mutual fund, for example, may have an objective to outperform the Standard & Poor’s 500 index of large-cap stocks.



Many investors prefer to use mutual funds for stock investing so that the portfolio can be traded. If an investor is interested in buying and holding a portfolio of bonds and earning interest, that individual may purchase a UIT or closed-end fund with a fixed portfolio. A UIT, for example, pays the interest income on the bonds and holds the portfolio until a specific end date when the bonds are sold and the principal amount is returned to the owners. A bond investor can own a diversified portfolio of bonds in a UIT, rather than manage interest payments and bond redemptions in a personal brokerage account.
What Is a Widow-and-Orphan Stock?  

Widow-and-orphan stock refers to an equity investment that often pays a high dividend and is moreover generally considered low-risk. These tend to be large, mature, stalwart companies in non-cyclical business sectors.





Key Takeaways

Widow-and-orphan stocks are low-volatility yet high-dividend paying stocks.These stocks are traditionally held as blue chip companies in non-cyclical industries like consumer staples.While this term is no longer used commonly today, large-cap value stock investors tend to pick stocks that could be classified as widow-and-orphan.


   Understanding Widow-And-Orphan Stocks  

Widow-and-orphan stocks usually are found in non-cyclical sectors such as utilities and consumer staples, which tend to hold up better during economic downturns. For example, many investors had considered AT&T prior to its government break-up in 1984 a widow-and-orphan stock, meaning they found it to be of lower risk and suitable for even some of the most vulnerable members of society.



Widow-and-orphan stocks generally provide low, but steady returns cushioned partly by their dividends or monopoly-like positions. In comparison, growth stocks with high price-earnings multiples that do not pay dividends are the opposite of widow-and-orphan stocks.






Historically, dividends were considered best for widows and orphans—i.e. those without the knowledge or guts to take the big risks and make momentum plays.


   Special Considerations  

Most investors think of regulated utilities as widow-and-orphan stocks because many of these investments tend to trade in fairly narrow average true ranges and also have lower peak-to-trough volatility over a full market cycle, compared with the average stock. What’s more, the majority of them often pay steady dividends backed by meaningful cash flows. As a result, some have coverages ratios that are comparatively high. This is partly because of their fairly steady earnings, driven by customer demand that changes little, even when the economy is weak.



The downside is that regulated utilities cannot charge customers a premium during periods of peak demand, as the government controls the prices they charge. All rate increases must be approved. Partly as a result, earnings tend to rise slowly over time, but not as fast as those of highly successful companies in non-regulated cyclical industries. For this reason, younger investors and those seeking higher returns tend to shy away from widow-and-orphan stocks, although they appeal to investors seeking steady returns.


   Pros and Cons of Widow-and-Orphan Stocks  

Few investors use the term widow-and-orphan stock today, and tend to call many of the equities in this category low-volatility investments. To qualify, these stocks typically need to have a beta meaningfully below 1. Some investment managers specialize in these types of stocks and build up a track record of beating a low-volatility market index by selecting equities with potential for a higher dividend growth rate, as well as price appreciation.



Sometimes there are fairly short time frames in which fairly safe stocks in seemingly safe sectors add to market volatility, rather than evening out returns. When this happens, widow-and-orphan stocks can underperform cyclical stocks.



Also of note, widow-and-orphan stocks cannot avoid specific risk, such as a consumer staples company facing a significant lawsuit, or a utility company facing a plant fire that knocks out capacity for an extended time period.



Moreover, it’s hard to tell when corporate executives using creative accounting to cook the books, a technique management teams sometimes use to fraudulently achieve profit goals. Companies made headlines for cooking the books far more frequently in the late 1990s, but the point is, fraud tends only to be revealed over time, and no sector is immune.
What Is a Widow Maker?  

In the world of financial markets, a widow maker is an investment that results in large, potentially devastating losses. It can also refer to a trade that results in a loss for virtually everyone who tries it. In colloquial usage, a widow maker refers to anything with the potential to kill someone quickly. The phrase has historically been used in forestry and medicine.





Key Takeaways

In financial markets, the term widow maker refers to a trade that results in a large, even catastrophic loss.Widow maker can also refer to a trade in which the market repeatedly confounds market consensus and even defies historical patterns, resulting in losses for everyone who tries the trade.The term widow maker has also been used in forestry and medicine and denotes the possibility of sudden death.A common widow maker trade in the financial markets involves natural gas futures.The most famous widow maker trade is shorting Japanese government bonds (JGBs) given that the Japanese government continues to push interest rates lower.


   Understanding a Widow Maker  

Traders apply the term widow maker to financial investments that cause catastrophic losses or are risky enough to do so. The use of the term in forestry refers to loose limbs lodged overhead that are at risk of suddenly falling and killing someone. In medicine, the term refers to a blocked artery likely to cause a patient’s death by a heart attack.



Excessive risk often plays a critical role in widow maker trades. As a general rule, investments likely to offer high returns also hold the potential for bigger losses. Many investors make decisions about their investments based upon the amount of risk they are willing to take on to achieve a certain level of return. This is known as the risk/reward ratio.



Some widow maker trades, though, make perfect sense from a rational perspective, meaning they don't appear to be that risky. But in the end, the market confounds consensus expectations and even defies historical patterns.


   Real-World Examples  
  Japanese Government Bonds  

Shorting Japanese government bonds (JGBs) is perhaps the most well-known widow maker trade of all. Traders have shorted JGBs over the past two decades as Japanese government debt spiraled ever higher. Usually, this trade would make sense. But the Japanese central bank has repeatedly pushed interest rates to unprecedented lows—even below zero—and this drove JGB prices to record highs, making "widows" of many traders over the years.


  Amaranth and Commodities  

Another famous example of a widow maker trade occurred in natural gas futures, which professional traders have long considered widow makers because of their price volatility. In 2006, the hedge fund Amaranth Advisors made a massive leveraged trade on natural gas futures, trying to repeat its success on a similar speculative trade made a year earlier.






Amaranth was a $9.5 billion hedge fund when it was forced to close due to its massive losses in the natural gas market.



The energy desk at Amaranth sought higher-than-average rewards by taking on a risky trade in a market prone to unpredictable and swift price changes. Adding leverage increased that risk further. Instead of enjoying a replay of their previous money-making trade, Amaranth lost $6 billion as the bottom fell out of the natural gas market. This massive loss forced the hedge fund to liquidate its assets.


  Natural Gas Today  

The futures spread in the energy market known as the widow maker discussed above in the Amaranth example is the spread between March natural gas futures contracts and April natural gas futures contracts. March marks the low point of natural gas contracts because the contract is more actively traded in winter when natural gas is needed for heating.



March is usually the last month when utility companies are moving natural gas out of storage. April is the first month when utility companies start moving natural gas back into storage. When the spread is wide, it indicates there is a high demand/need for natural gas. When the spread is low, it indicates there is little demand/need for natural gas.



In December 2021, gas futures dropped to their lowest point in three months and the widow maker trade hit a 20-month low, which indicated that natural gas stockpiles were ample. If investors were on the wrong side of the trade, misjudging the spread due to a miscalculation in supply and demand, their investments would have witnessed losses.




What Is a Widow Maker Stock?
A widow maker stock is a stock that has high risk and high returns. The stock would have the potential of causing a large loss to an investor. Typically, a widow maker would not refer to a specific stock but rather a type of trade that could result in a loss.




Why Is Natural Gas Called the Widow Maker?
Natural gas is called a widow maker because investors seek to take advantage of the spread between March natural gas futures contracts (when trading hits a low due to the end of winter) and April natural gas futures contracts (when utilities resupply natural gas storage). Depending on the demand/need for natural gas throughout winter, if investors are on the wrong side of the trade, misjudging the spread, their investments can be wiped out. The volatility of the spread causes it to be a widow maker trade.




What Is the Japanese Interest Rate?
The Japanese interest rate is currently -0.10%.
What Is a Widow's Allowance?  

A widow’s allowance is traditionally an allowance of funds or personal property received by a widow after her husband's death to meet her immediate requirements. This financial process is also known as a widower or surviving civil partner’s allowance, depending upon the parties involved.



The amount of the allowance is decided by statute or court and is meant to protect the surviving partner and family of a deceased person from financial hardship during the administration of the deceased's estate.



The relevant jurisdiction may have an established limit dictating the length of time during which these benefits can be disbursed.





Key Takeaways

A widow’s allowance is traditionally an allowance of funds or personal property received by a widow after her husband's death to meet her immediate requirements.This financial process is also known as a widower or surviving civil partner’s allowance, depending upon the parties involved.The amount of the allowance is decided by statute or court and is meant to protect the surviving partner and family of a deceased person from financial hardship during the administration of the deceased's estate.The relevant jurisdiction may have an established time limit dictating the length of time during which these benefits can be disbursed.A widow’s pension can also refer to a recurring benefit payment a surviving spouse may receive from Social Security or a VA death pension.


   Understanding Widow's Allowances  

A widow’s allowance is a disbursement of funds that is sometimes also referred to as a widow’s benefit bereavement allowance or something similar.



The amount of the widow's allowance is either fixed by statute or, more commonly, determined by probate court on the basis of the deceased person's estate and the family's standard of living.



The amount of this allowance is typically proportional to the size of the estate or pension involved. Under most circumstances, the widow's allowance is likely to be higher if the deceased was wealthy and left behind a large estate than if the family had a modest standard of living and the size of the estate is modest. The amount of this allowance may also be impacted by the age and dependency status of any children the couple may have.


   Widow’s Allowance Names and Policies  

Although traditionally known as a widow’s allowance in the United States, this financial process is known as a widow, widower, or surviving civil partner’s allowance in some contexts and areas of the world. Some countries also allow for a widow’s allowance, or a similar disbursement of funds called by another name, for partners who become divorced or separated after a certain age.






This financial process can be known as a widow's, widower's, or surviving civil partner’s allowance.



The terms can vary depending on the local vernacular and applicable financial systems. However, a widow’s allowance is generally something different from a widow’s pension. A widow’s pension generally refers to an ongoing, recurrent payment a surviving spouse may be entitled to receive as a beneficiary of a pension plan or retirement account.



A widow’s pension can also refer to a recurring benefit payment a surviving spouse may receive from Social Security or a VA death pension. The criteria for qualifying for these benefits will vary according to the individual program, and will usually be spelled out in the written documentation and policies dictated in the program terms and guidelines. Likewise, the formula for determining the amount of these allowance payments will also be dictated by the program.
What Is a Widow's Exemption?  

A widow’s exemption refers to a reduction of tax burdens on a taxpayer following the death of a spouse. State laws vary but generally allow for a reduction in taxes for a surviving spouse for a certain period, which often comes in the form of a reduction in property taxes. This can help survivors and their dependents financially after a death that may cause internal economic turmoil in a household. On a federal level, widows and widowers receive tax relief from estate and inheritance windfalls.





Key Takeaways

A widow's exception is a tax statute that reduces the tax burden for a widow or widower after their spouse passes away.In many states, the widow's exception comes in the form of reduced property taxes for a period of time.The widow's exception typically appears on federal taxes as an exemption on certain limits for gifts and inheritances from the deceased's estate.Anyone who is legally married qualifies to receive tax relief after a spouse's death, but not state-recognized domestic partnerships.State tax relief for widows and widowers varies state by state. 


   Understanding Widow's Exemptions  

Widow’s exemption refers to a tax deduction available to a recently widowed spouse. This type of benefit is available to a surviving spouse regardless of gender. State tax relief varies from state to state but most commonly involves a reduction in property tax for the surviving spouse.



The most common form of a state widow’s exemption refers to the type offered in Florida. The state allows for a $500 deduction in the tax basis on which property taxes are based. This is not a $500 tax credit; it means that the taxable value of a property is reduced by $500 for a surviving spouse. This benefit is available in perpetuity but is waived if the surviving spouse remarries.



Federal tax benefits for a surviving spouse take a broader range of forms. A recently widowed taxpayer may be allowed to take advantage of the benefits of filing a joint return for up to two years following their spouse’s death.



The surviving spouse is also eligible for a stepped-up basis on any property they inherit. This means that the cost basis for that property, a significant factor in determining taxes when the property is sold, is adjusted to the date of the spouse’s death. If the surviving spouse can prove that a property was the couple’s primary residence, the first $250,000 of profit in selling the home is considered tax-free by the IRS.






These are just a few of the major forms of tax relief available to a widowed spouse. Other smaller benefits involve inherited individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and life insurance policies.


   IRS's Policy on Same-Sex Marriage  

The Defense of Marriage Act ("DOMA") prevented same-sex couples, with marriages recognized in their states but not the federal government, from receiving benefits like those received by widows and widowers because, at the time of DOMA,, same-sex married couples were not recognized by the federal government. When Section 3 of DOMA was struck down in June 2013, same-sex couples' marriages were recognized as legal by the federal government and, in turn, the Internal Revenue Service.



Since the repeal of Section 3, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS ruled that same-sex couples who are legally wed will receive and be able to take advantage of tax benefits for married couples. However, the key is that couples must be legally married, not simply long-term partners for widows and widowers, to take advantage of key tax benefits for surviving spouses. Any couple (LGBT+ or not) in a long-term partnership but not a marriage cannot benefit from the tax breaks and benefits offered to legally married couples.



Even couples in registered domestic partnerships, civil unions, or similar formalized relationships recognized by their state still will not be recognized for tax purposes by the Internal Revenue Service.


   Special Considerations  

Another major tax issue for surviving family members has become a topic of political debate in recent years. The federal estate tax applies to families when a wealthy individual passes away and leaves a significant estate to their survivors. The estate tax has traditionally allowed an exempt amount and has undergone revisions by Congress several times in recent years.



The estate and gift tax exemption was raised to approximately $11.5 million in 2020. However, this is not strictly a widow’s exemption, as all assets passed to a spouse are by law exempt from federal taxation. An estate's exemption and subsequent taxation apply to assets passed on to non-spouse family members.




Do I Qualify for Tax Benefits If My Live-In Partner Dies?
If you are legally married to your partner, then you will qualify for tax benefits as a surviving spouse. If you are only living together, even if recognized by the state, you will not qualify.




What Is a Widow's Exemption on Taxes?
A widow's exemption is a tax deduction offered after your spouse dies.




What Benefits From the IRS Do I Get If I Am a Widow?
If your spouse dies, besides being eligible for benefits from the Social Security Administration, you may qualify for a widow's tax exemption in the form of a deduction, and you may be eligible to file joint taxes for two years following a spouse's death.




Do I Have to Pay Taxes on Social Security Survivor's Benefits?
Yes. If you receive any form of survivor benefits from the Social Security Administration, they will be taxed as income.
What Is the Wilcoxon Test?  

The Wilcoxon test, which can refer to either the rank sum test or the signed rank test version, is a nonparametric statistical test that compares two paired groups. The tests essentially calculate the difference between sets of pairs and analyze these differences to establish if they are statistically significantly different from one another.





Key Takeaways

The Wilcoxon test compares two paired groups and comes in two versions, the rank sum test, and signed rank test.The goal of the test is to determine if two or more sets of pairs are different from one another in a statistically significant manner.Both versions of the model assume that the pairs in the data come from dependent populations, i.e., following the same person or share price through time or place.


   Understanding the Wilcoxon Test  

The rank sum and signed rank tests were both proposed by American statistician Frank Wilcoxon in a groundbreaking research paper published in 1945. The tests laid the foundation for hypothesis testing of nonparametric statistics, which are used for population data that can be ranked but do not have numerical values, such as customer satisfaction or music reviews. Nonparametric distributions do not have parameters and cannot be defined by an equation as parametric distributions can.



The types of questions that the Wilcoxon test can help answer include things like:



Are test scores different from 5th grade to 6th grade for the same students?Does a particular drug have an effect on health when tested on the same individuals?



These models assume that the data comes from two matched, or dependent, populations, following the same person or stock through time or place. The data is also assumed to be continuous as opposed to discrete. Because it is a nonparametric test, it does not require a particular probability distribution of the dependent variable in the analysis.


   Types of the Wilcoxon Test  

The Wilcoxon rank sum test can be used to test the null hypothesis that two populations have the same continuous distribution. A null hypothesis is a statistical test that says there's no significant difference between two populations or variables. The base assumptions necessary to employ the rank sum test is that the data are from the same population and are paired, the data can be measured on at least an interval scale, and the data were chosen randomly and independently.
The Wilcoxon signed rank test assumes that there is information in the magnitudes and signs of the differences between paired observations. As the nonparametric equivalent of the paired student's t-test, the signed rank can be used as an alternative to the t-test when the population data does not follow a normal distribution.


   Calculating a Wilcoxon Test Statistic  

The steps for arriving at a Wilcoxon signed rank test statistic, W, are as follows:



For each item in a sample of n items, obtain a difference score, Di, between two measurements (i.e., subtract one from the other).Neglect then positive or negative signs and obtain a set of n absolute differences |Di|.Omit difference scores of zero, giving you a set of n non-zero absolute difference scores, where n' ≤ n. Thus, n' becomes the actual sample size.Then, assign ranks Ri from 1 to n to each of the |Di| such that the smallest absolute difference score gets rank 1 and the largest gets rank n. If two or more |Di| are equal, they are each assigned the average rank of the ranks they would have been assigned individually had ties in the data not occurred.Now reassign the symbol "+" or "–" to each of the n ranks Ri, depending on whether Di was originally positive or negative.The Wilcoxon test statistic W is subsequently obtained as the sum of the positive ranks.



In practice, this test is performed using statistical analysis software or a spreadsheet.
What Is a Wild Card Option?  

A wild card option is a type of option that is embedded in certain Treasury securities. It permits the seller of a Treasury bond to postpone delivery of its underlying asset until after regular trading hours. 



This option benefits the seller because it allows them to benefit from a few hours’ extra time in which to secure a favorable price before settling their futures contract.





Key Takeaways

The term “wild card option” refers to a right held by the seller of a Treasury bond futures contract.It permits the seller to wait until after-hours trading before delivering its bonds to the futures contract buyer.This can occasionally lead to a more favorable price for the seller, lowering the cost of their short position and thereby increasing their profits.


   How Wild Card Options Work  

U.S. Treasury bond futures contracts have been traded on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) commodity exchange since 1977. Under the rules of the CBOT, trading in the Treasury futures market is terminated at 2:00 pm, but traders that have sold Treasury futures are not required to settle their contracts until 8:00 pm. 



The amount that the short seller must pay in order to compensate the holder of the futures contract—known as the contract’s invoice price—is set as of 2:00 pm. Because of the wild card option, however, Treasury futures sellers have the option of waiting for up to six hours, during which time they might benefit from favorable price movements during after-hours trading.



When exercising the wild card option, the seller of the Treasury futures contract would wait to see whether the spot price declines below the invoice price during after-hours trading. If it does, then the seller could exercise their wild card option and make their delivery based on the low spot price, decreasing the overall cost of their short position.


   Example of a Wild Card Option  

Treasury bond futures contracts are among the most actively traded investment securities in the world. To illustrate how a wild card option works in practice, consider the case of ABC Capital, a hypothetical investment firm that has taken a short position in the Treasury market by selling Treasury bond futures contracts. As the seller of the Treasury bonds, ABC Capital is obligated to deliver a specified quantity of Treasury bonds to the buyer, at a predetermined time. Once the settlement date is reached, however, ABC Capital can opt to use the wild card option embedded in its futures contract.



On the settlement date, ABC Capital can therefore wait for up to 6 hours following the end of the trading day before announcing its intention to deliver the bonds. During those 6 hours, the market price of bonds during after-hours trading might sink, giving ABC Capital the chance to purchase bonds at a more favorable price before rendering them to the buyer. This in turn would lower the cost of ABC Capital’s short position, thereby increasing their profit or reducing their loss.
What Is a Wild Card Option?  

A wild card option is a type of option that is embedded in certain Treasury securities. It permits the seller of a Treasury bond to postpone delivery of its underlying asset until after regular trading hours. 



This option benefits the seller because it allows them to benefit from a few hours’ extra time in which to secure a favorable price before settling their futures contract.





Key Takeaways

The term “wild card option” refers to a right held by the seller of a Treasury bond futures contract.It permits the seller to wait until after-hours trading before delivering its bonds to the futures contract buyer.This can occasionally lead to a more favorable price for the seller, lowering the cost of their short position and thereby increasing their profits.


   How Wild Card Options Work  

U.S. Treasury bond futures contracts have been traded on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) commodity exchange since 1977. Under the rules of the CBOT, trading in the Treasury futures market is terminated at 2:00 pm, but traders that have sold Treasury futures are not required to settle their contracts until 8:00 pm. 



The amount that the short seller must pay in order to compensate the holder of the futures contract—known as the contract’s invoice price—is set as of 2:00 pm. Because of the wild card option, however, Treasury futures sellers have the option of waiting for up to six hours, during which time they might benefit from favorable price movements during after-hours trading.



When exercising the wild card option, the seller of the Treasury futures contract would wait to see whether the spot price declines below the invoice price during after-hours trading. If it does, then the seller could exercise their wild card option and make their delivery based on the low spot price, decreasing the overall cost of their short position.


   Example of a Wild Card Option  

Treasury bond futures contracts are among the most actively traded investment securities in the world. To illustrate how a wild card option works in practice, consider the case of ABC Capital, a hypothetical investment firm that has taken a short position in the Treasury market by selling Treasury bond futures contracts. As the seller of the Treasury bonds, ABC Capital is obligated to deliver a specified quantity of Treasury bonds to the buyer, at a predetermined time. Once the settlement date is reached, however, ABC Capital can opt to use the wild card option embedded in its futures contract.



On the settlement date, ABC Capital can therefore wait for up to 6 hours following the end of the trading day before announcing its intention to deliver the bonds. During those 6 hours, the market price of bonds during after-hours trading might sink, giving ABC Capital the chance to purchase bonds at a more favorable price before rendering them to the buyer. This in turn would lower the cost of ABC Capital’s short position, thereby increasing their profit or reducing their loss.
What Is Wildcat Banking?  

Wildcat banking refers to the banking industry in parts of the United States from 1837 to 1865, when banks were established in remote and inaccessible locations. During this period, banks were chartered by state law without any federal oversight. Less stringent regulations on the banking industry at the time led to this period, also being referred to as the Free Banking Era.





Key Takeaways

Wildcat banking refers to the banking industry in parts of the United States from 1837 to 1865, when banks were established in remote and inaccessible locations.Wildcat banks were not fully free of regulation; they were only free of federal regulation. Wildcat banks were chartered under applicable state laws and regulated on the state level. Banking regulations, therefore, varied from one state to the next during the Free Banking Era.The term "wildcat banking" supposedly had its genesis in the 1830s in Michigan, where bankers were believed to have set up banks in areas so remote that wildcats roamed there. Others say the term originated with an early bank that issued currency bearing an image of a wildcat.


   Understanding Wildcat Banking  

Wildcat banks were not fully free of regulation; they were only free of federal regulation. Wildcat banks were chartered under applicable state laws and regulated on the state level. Banking regulations, therefore, varied from one state to the next during the Free Banking Era. The Free Banking Era came to an end with the passage of the National Bank Act of 1863, which implemented federal regulations governing banks, established the United States National Banking System, and encouraged the development of a national currency backed by the holdings of the U.S. Treasury and issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.


   Origins of the Term 'Wildcat Banking'  

The term "wildcat banking" supposedly had its genesis in the 1830s in Michigan, where bankers were believed to have set up banks in areas so remote that wildcats roamed there. Others say the term originated with an early bank that issued currency bearing an image of a wildcat.



As early as 1812, wildcat was used to refer to an impetuous or foolhardy speculator. By 1838, the term was applied to any business venture considered unsound or perilous. The term "wildcat" then, when applied to a bank, came to mean an unstable bank at risk of failure, and it’s for this reason that wildcat banks have been portrayed as such in Westerns. For example, some Westerns portray wildcat bankers as leaving their vaults open for depositors to see barrels of cash therein. However, the barrels are actually full of nails, flour, or other similarly worthless items, with a layer of cash on top to fool depositors.


   Currency Issued by Wildcat Banks  

Regardless of the origins of the term, wildcat banks issued their own currency until the National Bank Act of 1863 forbade this practice. These bank locations were sometimes the only places where the bank's notes could be redeemed, thereby creating a formidable obstacle for their redemption by note-holders and providing an unfair advantage to unscrupulous bankers.



Traditionally, the currency issued by wildcat bankers has been viewed as worthless, and the securities used to back wildcat currencies have historically been questionable. While some wildcat banks used specie to back their issued currencies, others used bonds or mortgages. Different currencies issued by different banks traded at different discounts as compared to their face values. Published lists were used to distinguish legitimate bills from forgeries, and to help bankers and currency traders appraise wildcat currencies.



Before the Federal Reserve System was established in 1913, banks issued notes to extend loans to their customers. An individual could take his or her own banknotes or bills of exchange to the issuing bank and trade them in for a discount of the cash value. Borrowers would obtain bank notes backed by government bonds or species. Such a note gave its holder a claim on assets held by the bank, which, during the Free Banking Era, were required to be backed by state bonds in many states.
What is Wildcat Drilling?  

Wildcat drilling, a form of high-risk exploratory drilling, is the process of drilling for oil or natural gas in unproven or fully exploited areas that either have no concrete historic production records or have been completely exhausted as a site for oil and gas output.



This higher degree of uncertainty necessitates that the drilling crews be appropriately skilled, experienced and aware of what various well parameters are telling them about the formations they drill. The most successful energy companies are the ones with a very high rate of drilling success, irrespective of whether the wells are drilled in known areas of production.





Key Takeaways

Wildcat drilling is a form of exploratory drilling in the oil & gas exploration and production process that seeks to exploit unproven or high-risk areas.A wildcat driller may alternatively seek to return to existing or older wells that are no longer profitable or useful for larger oil companies.Wildcatting often involves smaller firms and can involve both high risk and high reward for stakeholders.


   Understanding Wildcat Drilling  

Exploration and production are the first stages of energy production, which include searching and extracting oil and gas. An E&P company finds and extracts the raw materials used in the energy business.



The term "wildcat drilling" probably has its origins in the fact that drilling activity in the first half of the 20th century was often undertaken in remote geographical areas. Because of their remoteness and distance from populated areas, some of these locations may have been or appeared to be, infested with wildcats or other untamed creatures in the American West. Presently, with global energy companies have scoured much of the Earth's surface for oil and gas, including deep oceans, few areas remain unexplored for their energy potential.



Because wildcat drillers look for otherwise undesirable claims, they are able to obtain those claims for far less than otherwise. At the same time, this type of exploratory drilling will tend to result in far more misses than hits, making it expensive to operate without successes.



Wildcat drilling amounts to only a small proportion of the drilling activity of large energy companies. For small energy companies, wildcat drilling can be a make-or-break proposition. Investors in such companies can reap significant rewards if such drilling results in locating large energy reservoirs. Conversely, wildcat drilling that repeatedly results in dry holes can lead to adverse stock performance or even bankruptcy for small-cap energy companies.


   Special Considerations  

Another aspect of wildcat drilling involves small producers exploring for oil in fields that have already been fully exploited by larger oil companies. These fields can have sizable pockets of oil reserves that are uneconomic for larger producers due to economies of scale but are still worthwhile for smaller, more agile wildcat drillers. A 2008 Massachusetts Institute of Technology study estimated that even with high oil prices, about two-thirds of the oil in known oil fields is being left in the ground. They say this is because existing technologies that could extract far more oil, as much as about 75 percent of the oil in some oil fields, are not being widely used by large oil companies.﻿﻿ This leaves an important market segment open to smaller wildcat oil drillers.



Wildcat drillers have little impact on the market price of oil, but provide an essential role that allows for greater oil and gas output than would be possible without their participation.
What is Wildcatting?  

Wildcatting informally refers to a practice instituted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that calls for the review of an entire industry whenever critical problems are found within one or two companies in that industry.





Key Takeaways

Wildcatting informally refers to a practice instituted by the SEC that calls for the review of an entire industry whenever critical problems are found within one or two companies in that industry.Wildcatting is a term used in the oil industry, where companies drill test wells for oil in unexplored or wild areas.Wildcatting emerged after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which provided greater transparency for investors.﻿﻿


   Understanding Wildcatting  

The SEC may investigate any number of critical issues with a particular firm, including accounting irregularities, executive compensation and the use of derivative transactions, and parlay this investigation into an investigation of other firms within the same industry.﻿﻿﻿



This term is derived from the oil industry, where companies drill test wells for oil in unexplored or wild areas. The intent of this practice as it pertains to the securities industry is to probe industries or practices about which the SEC has concerns, even if there is no clear indication of wrongdoing. Under this initiative, the SEC has conducted investigations on many industries, including the oil, cable TV and video game industries. This policy emerged after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which provided greater transparency for investors.﻿﻿
What Is Wilder's DMI (ADX) Indicator?  

Wilder’s DMI (ADX) consists of three indicators that measure a trend’s strength and direction. Three lines compose the Direction Movement Index (DMI): ADX (black line), DI+ (green line), and DI- (red line). The Average Directional Index (ADX) line shows the strength of the trend. The higher the ADX value, the stronger the trend. The color of the lines can be altered, but black, green, and red are the default in most software.



The Plus Direction Indicator (DI+) and Minus Direction Indicator (DI-) show the current price direction. When the DI+ is above DI-, the current price momentum is up. When the DI- is above DI+, the current price momentum is down.





Key Takeaways

The DMI is a collection of indicators including +DI, -DI, and ADX.Both +DI and -DI measure up and down price movement, and crossovers of these lines can be used as trade signals.ADX measures the strength of the trend, either up or down; a reading above 25 indicates a strong trend.


   The Formula for Wilder's DMI (ADX) is  










 Investopedia


   How to Calculate Wilder's DMI (ADX)  

The indicator has multiple components. Here's how the components are calculated.



Calculate +DM, -DM, and True Range (TR) for each period. Using 14 periods is common
Use +DM when Current High - Previous High > Previous Low - Current Low. Use -DM when Previous Low - Current Low > Current High - Previous High.
TR is the greater of the Current High - Current Low, Current High - Previous Close, or Current Low - Previous Close.
Smooth the 14-period averages of +DM, -DM, and TR. The TR formula is below. Insert the -DM and +DM values to calculate the smoothed averages.
First 14TR = Sum of first 14 TR readings.
Next 14TR value = First 14TR - (Prior 14TR / 14) + Current TR
Divide the smoothed +DM value by the smoothed TR value to get +DI. Multiply by 100.
Divide the smoothed -DM value by the smoothed TR value to get-DI. Multiply by 100.
The Directional Movement Index (DX) is +DI minus -DI, divided by the sum of +DI and -DI (all absolute values). Multiply by 100.
To get the ADX, continue to calculate DX values for at least 14 periods. Then, smooth the results to get ADX
First ADX = sum 14 periods of DX / 14
Later values, ADX = ((Prior ADX x 13) + Current DX) /14


   What Does Wilder's DMI (ADX) Tell You?  

Wilder’s DMI, developed by J. Welles Wilder in 1978, shows the strength of a trend, either up or down.﻿﻿ According to Wilder, a trend is present when the ADX is above 25. DMI values range between zero and 100.



If DI+ is above DI-, an ADX reading of 25 or higher indicates a strong uptrend. If DI- is above DI+, an ADX reading of 25 or higher indicates a strong downtrend.



The ADX may stay above 25 even when the trend reverses. Since ADX is non-directional, this shows the reversal is as strong as the prior trend. Traders may find readings other than 25 are better suited to indicate a strong trend in certain markets.



For example, a trader might find that an ADX reading of 20 provides an earlier indication that the price of a security is trending. Conservative traders may want to wait for readings of 30 or above before employing trend following strategies.


   Trading with Wilder’s DMI  

There are a number of ways the DMI can be used to trade, in addition to the general guidelines discussed above.


  DI Crossovers  

Traders could enter a long position when the DI+ line crosses above the DI- line and set a stop-loss order under the current day’s low, or below a recent swing low. When the DI- line crosses above the DI+ line, traders could place a short position with a stop above the high of the current day, or above a recent swing high. Traders could use a trailing stop if the trade moves in their favor to help lock in profits.



Irrespective of whether the trader takes a long or short position, the ADX should be over 25 when the crossover occurs to confirm the trend’s strength. When the ADX is below 20, traders could use trading strategies that exploit range bound or choppier conditions.


  DI Contractions and Expansions  

The DI+ and DI- line move away from each other when price volatility increases and converge toward each other when volatility decreases. Short-term traders could enter trades when the two lines move apart to take advantage of increasing volatility. Swing traders might accumulate into a position when the lines contact in anticipation of a breakout.



Traders should use Wilder's DMI in conjunction with other technical indicators and price action to increases the probability of making profitable trades.


   Example of How to Use Wilder's DMI (ADX) Indicator  

The following chart shows Shopify Inc. (SHOP) with both trending periods and less trending periods. -DI and +DI crossover multiple times—potential trade signals—but there is not always a strong trend present (ADX above 25) when those crossovers occur.



If the +DI is already above the -DI, when the ADX moves above 25 (or 20, 30) that could trigger a long trade. These are marked with up arrows.



If the -DI is above the +DI, when the ADX moves above 25 that could trigger a short trade. These are marked with down arrows.



Contraction periods are also marked when the +DI and -DI lines become squished together. These are contractions in volatility, which are often followed by periods of larger, trending movement where the lines separate again. Breakouts from these contractions (blue boxes) may present trading opportunities.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The indicator is susceptible to creating multiple false signals, meaning the price doesn't end up moving in the same direction as the crossover dictates.Therefore, the indicator is best used in conjunction with other forms of analysis, or with additional filters applied to the signals generated.


   Wilder's DMI vs. Aroon  

The two indicators both have crossover signals, but they are calculated in different ways and are measuring different things. DMI is measuring up and down movement by smoothing price fluctuations. The Aroon indicator is measuring the time or periods since a high or low within the look-back period.


   Limitations of Using Wilder's DMI (ADX)  

The indicator is looking at past data. It may lack predictive value in forecasting future price moves. The indicator lags and will therefore tend to indicate trend changes after the price has already reversed course. This could lead to some trade signals occurring too late to be of use. This can also occur with the ADX reading. A reading of 20, or 25, or 30 doesn't mean that trend will persist. Many trends will fizzle out after reaching such a reading. The indicator can't predict a trend will continue, only that the security trended recently.



If using the indicator for signals, there will be whipsaws. Whipsaws occur when the indicators criss-cross back and forth, resulting in multiple trade signals that produce losing trades.
What Is a Will?  

A will, also known as a last will and testament, is a legally enforceable declaration of how a person wants their property and assets distributed after death. In a will, a person can also recommend a guardian for their minor children and make provisions for any surviving pets.


   Understanding a Will  

A will is an important component of estate planning. A will ensures that the person's wishes are carried out and can make things easier for their heirs. If an individual dies without a will, the distribution of their property is left up to the government, and may even end up becoming state property. The format of wills can vary, but most follow a fairly uniform layout.



The document usually begins with a statement that the writer is of legal age and making the will freely and without duress. It also attests to the writer's mental soundness at the time the will was made. This section establishes the writer's identity and includes an explicit statement that this final will rescinds all previous documents.



In the will the writer names an executor, who oversees the liquidation and distribution of the decedent's assets according to the terms of the will. The executor must also pay off any outstanding debts and taxes on the estate. The executor may be an attorney or financial expert, or anyone the writer of the will trusts to act responsibly. The executor may be entitled to receive a reasonable fee for services rendered. Fee guidelines may be mandated by the state.



After naming an executor and guardian for any minor children, the will should discuss insurance policies that already have a named beneficiary. Wills do not supplant agreements related to life insurance proceeds, retirement assets, or transfer-on-death investment accounts. This section may also itemize joint bank accounts and property that is co-owned with other individuals.



The bequest section of the will specifies beneficiaries for all the deceased person's property or assets, except for insurance policies and joint accounts already covered in a preceding section. Should a family's benefactor retire, it's crucial that all beneficiaries are named before they or their spouse dies in order to ensure the financial health of their loved ones. Clear and reasonable instructions are important for preventing possible legal challenges that could delay probate and create significant legal expenses.



A will may also include instructions about the writer's funeral and burial wishes. If the decedent has made prior arrangements for a burial plot or funeral expenses, those will usually be discussed in this section.


   State Requirements for Wills  

Most states require that the will be witnessed by two individuals and signed by the writer at the end of the document. Holographic wills may be used in some states. After death, the will is submitted to the probate court of the county or city in which the individual resided. The probate process can be fairly quick or protracted, depending on the complexity of the estate and whether there are legal challenges to the will.
William Cavanaugh III is an American businessman with a long history of leadership positions in the energy production and real estate industries. Born in New Orleans, Cavanaugh served in the United States Navy for eight years before jumping into work in the energy sector.



He served in leadership roles in several energy companies and was most recently on the board of directors of Duke Realty, which was an American real estate investment trust (REIT) based in Indianapolis. Cavanaugh has also been a key player in fighting deregulation in the energy industry and in the safe exploration of nuclear energy.





Key Takeaways

William Cavanaugh III was the CEO of Carolina Power & Light, which later became Progress Energy.He studied at Tulane University and received several certifications that helped boost him as a leader. Cavanaugh opposed the deregulation of the energy industry because he didn't see how the move would make energy companies both more profitable and better for customers.Cavanaugh retired from Progress Energy in 2004.Since his retirement, he held positions at energy industry groups like the World Association of Nuclear Operators.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Early Life and Education  

William Cavanaugh III was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1939. As a young man, he enrolled at Tulane University in New Orleans, where he studied mechanical engineering. He graduated with his undergraduate degree in 1961.



Upon graduation, Cavanaugh enlisted in the U.S. Navy, where he served for the next eight years, learning important lessons about nuclear power generation through the United States Navy’s nuclear submarine program. He received an honorable discharge from the Navy in 1969.



Cavanaugh attended the Kidder-Peabody Utility Corporate Finance program in 1983 and Harvard University’s advanced management program in 1991. As a working student, these designations helped prepare him for senior management roles in production within the energy sector.


   Notable Accomplishments  

After leaving the Navy, Cavanaugh began his career at Entergy in New Orleans. Here, he served in executive leadership roles at three of the firm’s electric utility subsidiaries:



Arkansas Power & LightLouisiana Power & LightMississippi Power & Light 



He joined Carolina Power & Light Company as the company's president and chief operating officer (COO) in 1992. Seven years later, he assumed the role of and rose to the role of chairman and chief executive officer (CEO). As the company's leader, he was a key player in the firm's acquisition of Florida Progress, which CP&L bought for $54 a share.



The combined company adopted a new name, Progress Energy, and became what was at the time the ninth-largest energy producer in the United States. Under Cavanaugh’s leadership, the firm grew to become a Fortune 500 company with a new headquarters in Raleigh, North Carolina with approximately $8 billion in annual revenues. Cavanaugh retired from the company in 2004.



After retiring from Progress Energy, Cavanaugh served as chair of the World Association of Nuclear Operators. WANO is an international association of nuclear power plant operators dedicated to promoting the safe exploitation of nuclear energy. The role of chairman is now filled by Tom Mitchell, former president and CEO of Ontario Power Generation in Canada.






Progress Energy was taken over by Duke Energy in July 2012 in a $26 billion merger that formed the nation’s largest electric utility at the time.


   Legacy  

Cavanaugh notably resisted the trend in the energy industry to take advantage of deregulation in order to shift operations into energy trading. This is in contrast to other players in the energy sector at the time, like Enron Corporation, the leader in this movement, which was later disgraced after it was accused of lying to shareholders and manipulating energy markets.



Cavanaugh's skepticism led him to lobby against the deregulation of the energy industry. In the end, Cavanaugh was vindicated, and his reputation as a CEO with integrity grew.


   Personal Life  

Cavanaugh is married to Alyce Lee Cocchiara. The couple has four children, Kyle, Craig, Chris, and Connie. Although he did assume the role of chairman of the World Association of Nuclear Operators after retiring, he does enjoy spending time with his family.




What Is William Cavanaugh III Best Known for?
Although not necessarily a household name, William Cavanaugh III may be better known in the energy industry. He worked with several energy companies, including Carolina Power & Light Company. The company later became known as Progress Energy and was acquired by Duke Energy in July 2012. Cavanaugh was also against the trend after the energy industry was deregulating, helping his company buck many problems that other, larger energy companies faced.




What Happened to Progress Energy?
Progress Energy, which was previously known as Carolina Power & Light Company, was acquired by Duke Energy in 2012. At the time, the $26 million merger created the largest electric utility company in the United States.




Why Was William Cavanaugh III Against Energy Industry Deregulation?
While many companies within the energy sector celebrated the deregulation of the industry, William Cavanaugh III was skeptical about the move. Congress passed laws between 1989 and 1994 that allowed the purchase and sale of power on a wholesale basis and for energy to be traded. Rather than jump in and expand the company as others did, he remained cautious. Instead, he focused on Progress's primary business and helped keep it afloat. This gave him a reputation as a solid leader within the industry.


   The Bottom Line  

The average person may not know of William Cavanaugh III. But those in the energy sector may be more familiar with him. Cavanaugh worked in the public energy sector for decades, heading up Carolina Power & Light Company, which later became Progress Energy. He was one of the key voices against the deregulation of the energy sector. At a time when others were trading and sharing energy and expanding, he bucked the trend and helped keep his company afloat by focusing on the company's primary business.
William T. Dillard II is the CEO of Dillard's Inc., a department store chain based in Little Rock, Arkansas. As caretaker of his father's company, founded in 1938, William T. Dillard II strives to preserve the company's strategy to offer fashionable products with exceptional customer service.





Key Takeaways

William T. Dillard II became CEO of Dillard's Inc. in 1998.He implemented one of the first computerized inventory management systems in the retail industry.Dillard II was inducted into the Arkansas Business Hall of Fame in 2016. 


   Early Life and Education  

William T. Dillard II was born in Nashville, Arkansas, on March 4, 1945. He graduated from the Sam M. Walton College of Business at the University of Arkansas in 1966 with a bachelor's degree in accounting and earned an MBA from Harvard University.



As the eldest son of William T. Dillard Sr, founder of Dillard Department Stores, he began his career at Dillard's in 1967.


   CEO of Dillard's  

Founded in 1938, William T. Dillard Sr. built his company to include his children. In addition to William T. Dillard II, his brothers, Alex Dillard and Mike Dillard, serve as president and executive vice president, respectively. Daughters Drue Matheny and Denise Mahaffy and grandson Bill Dillard III are also vice presidents. The retail chain went public in 1969, offering two classes of stock, a move meant to keep the family firmly in control and give the family the majority of voting rights. Today, William T. Dillard II owns 10% of the company.



Capitalizing on the growth of the mall in the mid-20th century, some of Dillard's success resides in its investment in real estate. Dillard's Inc. owns approximately 90% of the real estate that its stores occupy. Under William T. Dillard II's leadership, Dillard instituted changes in automated inventory systems, private label branding, and real estate acquisition. Yet, critics have claimed that the company's management is insular and reluctant to change with the retail industry of the 21st century.



However, post-pandemic success is evident in 2022 under William T. Dillard II. Dillard's is a family business that's profitable, debt-free, and leveraged in real estate holdings. Its stores are located in popular shopping malls and attract a slightly older customers, making it somewhat less vulnerable to the online retail shift. 90% of Dillard's sales are in-store purchases, compared to 80% for Nordstrom and 70% for Macy’s, Dillard's main competitors.


   Notable Accomplishments  

William Dillard II has served on the board of directors of Acxiom Corporation since 1988 and on the board of directors of Barnes & Noble, Inc. since 1993. In 2015, he received the University of Arkansas Chancellor's Medal for service in higher education and society. He was inducted into the Arkansas Business Hall of Fame in 2016.




Why Did William T. Dillard II Start a Private Label at Dillard's?
By offering a private discounted brand at Dillard's, William T. Dillard II provided customers with a choice between higher-priced brand names and the less expensive private label.




What Is William T. Dillard II's management style?
He is regarded as a hands-on manager, who oversees product lines before they are stocked. William T. Dillard II has a reputation for traveling to stores and surveying customers and staff.




How Has William T. Dillard II Changed Dillard's as its CEO?
Under Dillard II, the company has capitalized on growth opportunities in physical stores and e-commerce. Its strong long-term prospects are also supported by ongoing inventory management initiatives, trendy product offerings, and shareholder-approved moves.


   The Bottom Line  

William T. Dillard II is regarded as a hands-on CEO at Dillard's Inc. With a lifetime of experience within his family business, William T. Dillard II has led Dillard's into the 21st century while maintaining the original strategy of Dillard's as defined by his father in 1938.
William Forsyth Sharpe is an American economist who won the 1990 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences, along with Harry Markowitz and Merton Miller, for developing models to assist with investment decision making.



Sharpe is well known for developing the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in the 1960s. The CAPM describes the relationship between systematic risk and expected returns, and states that taking on more risk is necessary to earn a higher return. He is also known for creating the Sharpe ratio, a figure used to measure the risk-to-reward ratio of an investment.





Key Takeaways

William F. Sharpe is an economist credited with developing the CAPM and Sharpe ratio.The CAPM is a cornerstone in portfolio management and seeks to find the expected return by looking at the risk-free rate, beta, and market risk premium.The Sharpe ratio helps investors decipher which investments provide the best returns for the risk level.












Alison Czinkota / Investopedia


   Early Life and Education  

William Forsyth Sharpe was born in Boston on June 16, 1934. He and his family eventually settled in California, and he graduated from Riverside Polytechnic High School in 1951. After several false starts in deciding what to study at college, including abandoned plans to pursue medicine and business administration, Sharpe decided to study economics.



He graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1955 and a Master of Arts degree in 1956. Sharpe then completed his Ph.D. in economics in 1961.



Sharpe has taught at the University of Washington, the University of California at Irvine, and Stanford University. He has also held several positions in his professional career outside of academia.



Notably, he was an economist at RAND Corporation, consultant at Merrill Lynch and Wells Fargo, founder of Sharpe-Russell Research in conjunction with Frank Russell Company, and founder of the consulting firm William F. Sharpe Associates.



Sharpe received many awards for his contribution to the field of finance and business, including the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business award for outstanding contribution to the field of business education in 1980, and the Financial Analysts' Federation Nicholas Molodovsky Award for outstanding contributions to the [finance] profession in 1989. The Nobel Prize award he won in 1990 is the most prestigious achievement.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  CAPM  

Sharpe is most well-known for his role in developing CAPM, which has become a foundational concept in financial economics and portfolio management. This theory has origins in his doctoral dissertation.



Sharpe submitted a paper summarizing the basis for CAPM to the Journal of Finance in 1962. Although it is now a cornerstone theory in finance, it originally received negative feedback from the publication. It was later published in 1964 following a change in editorship.






The Sharpe ratio assumes a normal distribution of data, which is very rarely the case in financial markets and is one of the limitations of the ratio.



The CAPM model theorized that the expected return of a stock should be the risk-free rate of return plus the beta of the investment multiplied by the market risk premium.



The risk-free rate of return compensates investors for tying up their money, while the beta and market risk premium compensates the investor for the additional risk they are taking on over and above simply by investing in treasuries which provides the risk-free rate.


  Sharpe Ratio  

Sharpe also created the oft-referenced Sharpe ratio. The Sharpe ratio measures the excess return earned over the risk-free rate per unit of volatility. The ratio helps investors determine if higher returns are due to smart investment decisions or taking on too much risk.



Two portfolios may have similar returns, but the Sharpe ratio shows which one is taking more risk to attain that return. Higher returns with lower risk are better, and the Sharpe ratio helps investors find that mix.



In addition, Sharpe's 1998 paper, Determining a Fund's Effective Asset Mix, is credited as being the foundation of return-based analysis models, which analyze historical investment returns in order to determine how to classify an investment.


   Example of How Investors Use the Sharpe Ratio  

Assume an investor wants to add a new stock to their portfolio. They are currently considering two and want to pick the one with the better risk-adjusted return. They will use the Sharpe ratio calculation.



Assume the risk-free rate is 3%.



Stock A has a returned 15% in the past year, with a volatility of 10%. The Sharpe ratio is 1.2. Calculated as (15-3)/10.



Stock B has returned 13% in the past year, with a volatility of 7%. The Sharpe ratio is 1.43. Calculated as (13-3)/7.



While stock B had a lower return than stock A, the volatility of stock B is also lower. When factoring in the risk of the investments, stock B provides a better mix of returns with lower risk. Even if stock B only returned 12%, it would still be a better buy with a Sharpe ratio of 1.29.



The prudent investor chooses stock B because the slightly higher return associated with stock A doesn't adequately compensate for the higher risk.



There are a few issues with the calculation, including the limited time frame being looked at and the assumption that prior returns and volatility are representative of future returns and volatility. This may not always be the case.




What Did William F. Sharpe Win the Nobel Prize for?
William F. Sharpe won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1990. He won it for his capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The premise of CAPM is to demonstrate how the prices of securities show the potential risks and returns of an investment.




Is the Sharpe Ratio Based on CAPM?
Yes, the Sharpe ratio is based on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The Sharpe ratio is one of the indexes derived from CAPM, which investors use to determine an investment's return in relation to its risk.




What Is the Harry Markowitz Model?
The Harry Markowitz model is a financial model that is used for portfolio optimization. It helps investors choose the most efficient portfolio out of a wide array of portfolios for a specific set of securities. Markowitz won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1990 along with William F. Sharpe and Merton Miller.


   The Bottom Line  

William F. Sharpe's theories have contributed largely to the economic world and have helped investors make better and safer investment decisions. His work has also been the building block of other investment tools, such as return-based analysis models.
Bill Gross is a renowned bond investor who co-founded the Pacific Investment Management Company, PIMCO, and is known as the "Bond King."



Gross is the author of Bill Gross on Investing, Everything You've Heard About Investing Is Wrong! and I'm Still Standing.





Key Takeaways

Bill Gross co-founded Pacific Investment Management Company, PIMCO, and is known as the "Bond King."He created the first investable market for fixed income securities.Gross is a successful stamp collector and benefactor of the William H. Gross Stamp Gallery at the Smithsonian National Postal Museum.


   Early Life and Education  

Bill Gross was born on April 13, 1944, in Middletown, Ohio. He earned a bachelor's degree in psychology from Duke University in 1966 and served in the United States Navy during the Vietnam War.



A risk-taker, Bill Gross spent his early career gambling and counting cards at poker tables before joining Pacific Mutual Life in Los Angeles as an investment analyst. In 1971, he founded his firm, Pacific Investment Management Company, PIMCO, in Newport Beach, California, with friends Jim Muzzy and Bill Podlich.


   PIMCO  

Known as the "Bond King," Bill Gross created the first investable market for fixed income securities accessible to all investors. The company serves institutional investors, high-net-worth individuals, and individual investors with its account services and mutual funds.



Bill Gross is credited with aggressive bond investing and turning the quiet bond market into a destabilized game of high risk and reward. Before PIMCO, bonds were rarely traded and only through paper documents. Historically, the largest purchasers of bonds were insurers and pension funds, but PIMCO initiated active trading in and out of positions and expanded into areas like junk bonds and emerging markets. Managing assets of nearly $2 trillion in 2022, PIMCO is the largest active fixed income fund management firm in the world.



In 2014, Bill Gross resigned from PIMCO during a period of internal management struggles. He eventually sued and settled with PIMCO following his ousting.


   Notable Accomplishments  

After leaving PIMCO, Bill Gross joined Janus Capital Group until his retirement in 2019. Gross' reputation followed him and on the day his move to Janus was publicly announced, Janus's share price climbed 43% representing a historical one-day gain for the company.



Bill Gross is a renowned philatelist and is the benefactor of the William H. Gross Stamp Gallery at the Smithsonian National Postal Museum. In 2005, he formed a complete collection of 19th-century United States postage stamps. He auctioned a collection of British stamps in 2007, garnering proceeds of about $9 million, all of which Gross donated to Doctors Without Borders.



In 2022, Bill Gross released his memoir, I'm Still Standing detailing his own American success story. All proceeds from the book will be donated to charity through the William, Jeff, and Jennifer Gross Family Foundation.




Why Did Bill Gross Resign From PIMCO?
Bill Gross clashed with PIMCO's management, including Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, and was known for his outbursts and boasts. Tensions allegedly forced Gross to resign in September 2014, when he left PIMCO for Janus.




How Did Gambling in Las Vegas Influence Bill Gross?
As an avid blackjack player in Las Vegas, Gross noted that it gave him a “sense of risk” and taught him to avoid placing too many high-stakes bets, citing “although the odds were many times in my favor, if you took too much leverage and had too much debt then the house of cards will come tumbling down.”




What Is the William H. Gross Stamp Gallery?
Established in 2013 as part of the Smithsonian National Postal Museum in Washington D.C. and named after its primary benefactor, the William H. Gross Stamp Gallery is the world’s largest gallery dedicated to philately. Distributed throughout the thematic areas are hundreds of pullout frames containing more than 20,000 objects, providing opportunities to view noteworthy stamps that have never been on public display.


   The Bottom Line  

Bill Gross is a renowned bond investor who led his Pacific Investment Management Company, PIMCO, to become the largest active fixed income fund management firm in the world. He is a successful author and stamp collector.
William J. O’Neil is a noted investor, stockbroker, and author. He is known as one of the first investors to incorporate computers into his research and investment decision-making process. O’Neil also founded the influential investment publication Investor’s Business Daily.



O’Neil has published the highly acclaimed books How to Make Money in Stocks and 24 Essential Lessons for Investment Success.





Key Takeaways

William J. O'Neil worked as a stockbroker at Hayden, Stone, & Co. in Los Angeles.O'Neil bought a seat on the NYSE at age 30.He founded William O'Neil Co. Inc. in 1963, which developed the first computerized securities database.William J. O'Neil created the CAN SLIM growth investment strategy.He founded the Investor's Business Daily in 1984.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Early Life and Education  

William J. O'Neil was born on March 25, 1933, in Oklahoma City. His early years and financial habits were influenced by the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl. He studied business at Southern Methodist University and received a bachelor's degree in 1955 before later serving in the U.S. Air Force.


   The Stockbroker  

O'Neil began his career as a stockbroker in 1958 with Hayden, Stone, & Co. in Los Angeles. While building his client list and portfolio, he found that data analytics was the key to investment success. In 1963, he founded William O'Neil Co. Inc., a firm that developed the first computerized daily securities database, tracking more than 70,000 companies worldwide. By the age of 30, he was the youngest person to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).


  CAN SLIM  

Using technical and fundamental analysis, O'Neil created the CAN SLIM strategy, a bullish formula of seven traits determining which stocks were likely to grow in value. According to the philosophy, investors can determine the likelihood of growth based on a company's current quarterly earnings, annual earnings, new positive changes within the company, the supply of the company shares available on the market, the leadership role the company plays within the industry, the investment in the company from large financial institutions, and the company's ability to follow the market trends.


  Daily Graphs  

William J. O'Neil established Daily Graphs in 1972 as a printed book of stock charts delivered weekly to subscribers. The stocks charts offered individual investors the same quality of research tools that institutional investors were using. The charts gained popularity for their clarity and design, and MarketSmith launched in 2010 as the next generation of the popular Daily Graphs Online investment research service. Based on fundamental and technical analysis, the stock charts incorporate O'Neil's seven basic factors, the basis of the CAN SLIM philosophy, that occur over and over in almost all top-performing companies over decades of market cycles.


   Investor's Business Daily  

In 1984, O'Neil launched Investor's Daily, a national business newspaper. Its name was later changed to the more familiar Investor's Business Daily (IBD) in 1991. In 2021, News Corp announced that it had agreed to acquire Investor’s Business Daily from O’Neil.



IBD provides unique investor tools, research, and analytical products. As of 2023, IBD's website attracted more than 5.2 million unique visitors a month.




What Is the CAN SLIM Strategy?
CAN SLIM was devised by William J. O'Neil and is an acronym representing seven traits investors should look for in a company to determine the most successful growth stocks.




What Is the Main Lesson in How to Make Money in Stocks?
William J. O'Neil incorporates his CAN SLIM method in How to Make Money in Stocks as well as lessons in reading charts to improve stock selection, reduce loss, and turn a profit.




Who Founded Investor's Business Daily?
William J. O'Neil founded Investor's Daily, later called Investor's Business Daily, in 1984.


   The Bottom Line  

William J. O'Neil remains an influential business leader and educator dedicated to providing investor education and data-driven methodology through his books, publications, and seminars.
What is Williams %R?  

Williams %R, also known as the Williams Percent Range, is a type of momentum indicator that moves between 0 and -100 and measures overbought and oversold levels. The Williams %R may be used to find entry and exit points in the market. The indicator is very similar to the Stochastic oscillator and is used in the same way. It was developed by Larry Williams and it compares a stock’s closing price to the high-low range over a specific period, typically 14 days or periods.﻿﻿












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Key Takeaways

Williams %R moves between zero and -100.A reading above -20 is overbought.A reading below -80 is oversold.An overbought or oversold reading doesn't mean the price will reverse. Overbought simply means the price is near the highs of its recent range, and oversold means the price is in the lower end of its recent range.Can be used to generate trade signals when the price and the indicator move out of overbought or oversold territory.


   The Formula for the Williams %R Is:  

﻿















Wiliams %


R


=




Highest High


−


Close




Highest High


−


Lowest Low


















where
















Highest High


=


Highest price in the lookback
















period, typically 14 days.
















Close


=


Most recent closing price.
















Lowest Low


=


Lowest price in the lookback








\begin{aligned} &\text{Wiliams \%}R=\frac{\text{Highest High}-\text{Close}}{\text{Highest High}-\text{Lowest Low}}\\ &\textbf{where}\\ &\text{Highest High} = \text{Highest price in the lookback}\\ &\text{period, typically 14 days.}\\ &\text{Close} = \text{Most recent closing price.}\\ &\text{Lowest Low} = \text{Lowest price in the lookback}\\ &\text{period, typically 14 days.} \end{aligned}


​Wiliams %R=Highest High−Lowest LowHighest High−Close​whereHighest High=Highest price in the lookbackperiod, typically 14 days.Close=Most recent closing price.Lowest Low=Lowest price in the lookback​﻿



How to Calculate the Williams %R



The Williams %R is calculated based on price, typically over the last 14 periods.



Record the high and low for each period over 14 periods.On the 14th period, note the current price, the highest price, and lowest price. It is now possible to fill in all the formula variables for Williams %R.On the 15th period, note the current price, highest price, and lowest price, but only for the last 14 periods (not the last 15). Compute the new Williams %R value.As each period ends compute the new Williams %R, only using the last 14 periods of data.


   What Does Williams %R Tell You?  

The indicator is telling a trader where the current price is relative to the highest high over the last 14 periods (or whatever number of lookback periods is chosen).



When the indicator is between -20 and zero the price is overbought, or near the high of its recent price range. When the indicator is between -80 and -100 the price is oversold, or far from the high of its recent range.



During an uptrend, traders can watch for the indicator to move below -80. When the price starts moving up, and the indicator moves back above -80, it could signal that the uptrend in price is starting again.



The same concept could be used to find short trades in a downtrend. When the indicator is above -20, watch for the price to start falling along with the Williams %R moving back below -20 to signal a potential continuation of the downtrend.



Traders can also watch for momentum failures. During a strong uptrend, the price will often reach -20 or above. If the indicator falls, and then can't get back above -20 before falling again, that signals that the upward price momentum is in trouble and a bigger price decline could follow.



The same concept applies to a downtrend. Readings of -80 or lower are often reached. When the indicator can no longer reach those low levels before moving higher it could indicate the price is going to head higher.


   The Difference Between Williams %R and the Fast Stochastic Oscillator  

The Williams %R represents a market’s closing level versus the highest high for the lookback period. Conversely, the Fast Stochastic Oscillator, which moves between 0 and 100, illustrates a market’s close in relation to the lowest low. The Williams %R corrects for this by multiplying by -100. The Williams %R and the Fast Stochastic Oscillator end up being almost the exact same indicator. The only difference between the two is how the indicators are scaled. 


   Limitations of Using the Williams %R  

Overbought and oversold readings on the indicator don't mean a reversal will occur. Overbought readings actually help confirm an uptrend, since a strong uptrend should regularly see prices that are pushing to or past prior highs (what the indicator is calculating).



The indicator can also be too responsive, meaning it gives many false signals. For example, the indicator may be in oversold territory and starts to move higher, but the price fails to do so. This is because the indicator is only looking at the last 14 periods. As periods go by, the current price relative to the highs and lows in the lookback period changes, even if the price hasn't really moved.
DEFINITION of the Williams Act  

The Williams Act is a federal law enacted in 1968 that defines the rules of acquisitions and tender offers. It came in response to a wave of hostile takeover attempts from corporate raiders, making cash tender offers for stocks they owned. Cash tender offers threatened to destroy value by forcing shareholders to tender shares on a shortened timetable.



To protect investors, Senator Harrison A. Williams of New Jersey proposed new legislation that required mandatory disclosure of information regarding takeover bids. It demands bidders include all details of a tender offer in filings to the Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC) and the target company. The filing must include the offer terms, cash source and the bidder's plans for the company after the takeover.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   BREAKING DOWN Williams Act  

The Williams Act also includes time constraints that specify the minimum time an offer may be open and the number of days shareholders can make a decision. The law was passed in response to a wave of unannounced takeovers in the 1960s. This posed a threat to managers and shareholders who were forced to make critical decisions under unreasonable time pressure. Legislators passed the Williams Act and amended the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to protect affected parties from ongoing takeovers.



When a tender offer is made, the bidding company must provide full and fair disclosure to shareholders and financial regulators. Any entity making a cash tender offer for a corporation must outline the source of the takeover funds, the purpose for making a bid, and the outlook of the acquired company. That way, shareholders have greater transparency into the potential outcomes of an acquisition. 



The act aimed to strike a careful balance in the market for corporate governance by providing shareholders with timely information to thoughtfully evaluate tender offers and allowing managers an opportunity to win over shareholders. In passing the legislation, Congress aimed to protect shareholders without making takeover attempts overly difficult. They recognize takeovers can benefit shareholders and managers when the company is failing or needs new management. 


   Time to Update the Williams Act?  

Some experts believe the ongoing evolution of corporate governance calls for a comprehensive review of the Williams Act. For one thing, the enactment of federal and state antitakeover laws render the coercive tender offers the Williams Act sought to address ineffective. In addition, the demographic of shareholders for publicly traded companies has changed dramatically in the past 50 years.



Today, majority shareholders are knowledgeable, have access to information and can make decisions on a moment's notice. Other things to consider is the emergence of active shareholders who pursue investments differently from corporate raiders of the past.
What Is the Willie Sutton Rule?  

The Willie Sutton Rule is based on a statement by notorious American bank robber Willie Sutton, who, when asked by a reporter about why he stole from banks, answered: “Because that's where the money is.”



In other words, his end goal was money so why waste time looking for it in obscure or questionable places instead of taking the path of least resistance and most success and going straight to the source? The rule can be applied across many different disciplines, from investing to medicine, science, business and accounting.





Key Takeaways

The Willie Sutton Rule states that one's first choice should be to choose the most obvious route.Named after bank robber William Sutton, the rule applies to investors in that they should most often seek out low hanging fruit first before trying more obscure strategies.In medicine, the rule suggests that the most likely diagnosis for an ailment should be ruled out first before exploring uncommon conditions.


   Understanding the Willie Sutton Rule  

Some historians explain the Willie Sutton Rule by way of Arthur Conan Doyle’s famous detective, Sherlock Holmes, who once said, “When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.” Both quotes mean the same; they just drew conclusions coming from opposite directions.



In the financial world, the rule is similar to, “picking the low-hanging fruit.” In other words, if you’re looking to make money in the stock market, start by choosing those positions that you can see clearly for what they are. They may not be the biggest pieces of fruit, but at least you know what you’re getting. Only after seeking out the more obvious choices should you venture further into the tree and pick something that may be rotten or never develop fully.



Another school of thought with respect to investing and the Willie Sutton Rule is that it stresses the need for an individual to focus on activities that generate high returns, rather than on actions that might be frivolous or yield lower returns. The same goes for accounting. The rule with respect to management accounting says that activity-based costing (prioritizing by necessity and budgeting accordingly) should be applied to the highest costs because that will ultimately be where the largest savings are incurred.


   Willie Sutton Rule and Medicine  

In medicine, it is referred to when doctors make a diagnosis, suggesting that it is worthwhile to first focus on the obvious and conduct medical tests that may confirm the most likely diagnosis, rather than trying to diagnose a relatively uncommon medical condition. This approach may yield faster and more accurate results, while avoiding needless costs that would be incurred by conducting unnecessary medical tests.



The Willie Sutton Rule is often taught to medical students as Sutton's Law. It states that when making a diagnosis, it is worthwhile to first focus on the obvious and conduct medical tests that may confirm the most likely diagnosis, rather than trying to diagnose a relatively uncommon medical condition. This approach may yield faster and more accurate results, while avoiding needless costs that would be incurred by conducting unnecessary medical tests.
What Is the FT Wilshire 5000 Index (FTW5000)?  

The FT Wilshire 5000 Index (FTW5000) is a broad-based market capitalization-weighted index that seeks to capture 100% of the United States investible market. The FT Wilshire 5000 Index was formerly known as the Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index (TMWX) before being rebranded on June 30, 2021, as part of Wilshire's partnership with The Financial Times.





Key Takeaways

The FT Wilshire 5000 Index (FTW5000) seeks to capture 100% of the investible U.S. market.It previously (before June 30, 2021) traded as the Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index (TMWX).At its high point, the FT Wilshire 5000 Index had over 7,500 stocks but currently has just 3,687.


   Understanding the FT Wilshire 5000 Index (FTW5000)  

Named for the nearly 5,000 stocks it contained at launch, the Wilshire 5000 grew to a high count of over 7,500 in 1998. Since then, the roster has fallen to the current level of 3,687 (as of Dec. 31, 2021). The index includes all U.S. equities with readily available prices, with thinly-traded and bulletin-board issues excluded.



As with all market capitalization-weighted indices, the Wilshire overweights companies with a higher firm value and underweights those with a lower firm value. As of Dec. 31, 2021, the index was weighted 28% toward the information technology sector, 13% to the health care sector, and 13% to the consumer discretionary sector.


   Special Considerations  

Wilshire, as part of its partnership with The Financial Times, launched six other indexes—as part of the FT Wilshire 5000 Series. The other six indexes include the FT Wilshire 2500 Index (FTW2500), FT Wilshire US Mega Cap Index (FTWUSG), FT Wilshire US Large Cap Index (FTWUSL), FT Wilshire US Mid Cap Index (FTWUSD), FT Wilshire US Small Cap Index (FTWUSS), and FT Wilshire US Micro Cap Index (FTWUSO).



The FT Wilshire 5000 Index is meant to be the broadest-based market index. A broad-based index is designed to reflect the movement of an entire market. Although it does not include every publicly-traded company, it does include a lot more than the other indices which people often refer to as "the market," like the S&P 500 or the Dow Jones Industrial Average.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   History of the FT Wilshire 5000 Index (FTW5000)  

The FT Wilshire 5000 Index was established by the Wilshire Associates in 1974 and was renamed the "Dow Jones Wilshire 5000" in April 2004, after Dow Jones & Company took over its management. On March 31, 2009, the index returned to Wilshire Associates when the partnership with Dow Jones was terminated.



When it started, the value of the index was 1404.60 points on base date Dec. 31, 1980, with a total market capitalization of $1,404.596 billion. On that date, each point on the index was equal to $1 billion, but divisor adjustments due to corporate actions and index composition changes have changed the relationship over time.



The index increased more than 10 times over in less than 20 years, closing at a record high of 14,751.64 points on March 24, 2000. That level wasn't surpassed until Feb. 20, 2007.



On April 20, 2007, the index closed above 15,000 for the first time. On that day, the S&P 500 was still several percentage points below its March 2000 high, because small-cap issues absent from the S&P 500 and included in the Wilshire 5000 outperformed the large-cap issues that dominate the S&P 500 during the cyclical bull market. The index reached an all-time high on Oct. 9, 2007, at the 15,806.69 point level, right before the onset of The Great Recession.



On Oct. 8, 2007, the Wilshire 5000 closed below 10,000 for the first time since 2003. The index continued trading downward toward a 13-year low, reaching a bottom of 6,858.43 points on March 9, 2009, representing a loss of about $10.9 trillion in market capitalization from its highs in 2007.



The Wilshire 5000 hit its first intraday high over 20,000 points on Feb. 28, 2014. On March 4, the index closed above this milestone for the first time. On July 1, 2014, the index closed above the 21,000 level for the first time. As of Feb. 1, 2022, the index traded at a near all-time high level of over 45,000.


   Other Broad Market Indexes  

The Wilshire 5000 may still be the most widely-cited broad-based market index, but several other important broad indices also exist, such as the CRSP US Total Market Index. Like the Wilshire 5000, the CRSP US Total Market Index also strives to represent a full picture of U.S. equities with almost 4,000 holdings representing mega-, large-, small-, and micro-capitalizations.



The Dow Jones U.S. Total Market Index (DWCF) is a market-capitalization-weighted index that Dow Jones Indexes maintains that provides broad-based coverage of the U.S. stock market. The Dow Jones U.S. Market Index, considered a total market index, includes all U.S. common market equities that meet certain eligibility requirements.



The Russell 3000 Index is another market-capitalization-weighted equity index maintained by FTSE Russell that provides exposure to the entire U.S. stock market. The index tracks the performance of the 3,000 largest U.S.-traded stocks which represent about 98% of all U.S incorporated equity securities.
What Is the Win/Loss Ratio?  

The win/loss ratio for traders is the total number of winning trades compared to the total number of losing trades in a specific period of time, such as a trading session.



It does not take into account how much was won or lost, but simply the number of trades that made money versus the number of trades that lost money.



The win/loss ratio is also known as the success ratio.





Key Takeaways

The win/loss, or success ratio, is a trader's number of winning trades divided by the number of losing trades.The win/loss ratio can indicate how many times a trader will have successful, money-making trades relative to how many times they'll have money-losing trades.The win/loss ratio doesn't take into account the amounts of money that trades made or lost.Traders can use the win/loss ratio to rate the success of a trading strategy.The win/loss ratio and the win rate (wins/total trades) can be used to determine the probability of being profitable.


   The Formula for the Win/Loss Ratio  






Win/loss ratio


=



Wins


Losses




\text{Win/loss ratio} = \frac{\text{Wins}}{\text{Losses}}


Win/loss ratio=LossesWins​
The win/loss ratio can also be stated as winning trades : losing trades.


   What the Win/Loss Ratio Can Tell You  

The win/loss ratio is used mostly by day traders to assess their daily wins and losses from trading and as a way to gauge the success of the trading strategy that they used.



For example, if the win/loss ratio shows more wins than losses, then they might continue using their current strategy, all other things being equal. If the ratio shows more losses than wins, they might review and fine-tune their trading strategy to address why they had those losses.



The win/loss ratio is often used with the win rate, which is the number of trades that make money out of the total number of trades conducted. Together, the win/loss ratio and the win rate can help traders understand the probability of their trading being profitable.


  How to Interpret a Win/Loss Ratio  

A win/loss ratio of more than 1.0 means that a trader had more winning trades than losing trades.A win/loss ratio of less than 1.0 means that a trader had more losing trades than winning trades.A win/loss ratio equal to 1.0 means that a trader had the same number of winning trades as losing trades.






Active traders should make it a habit to regularly review their win/loss ratios, risk/reward ratios, and win rates to stay on top of their trading efforts and avoid losing too much money. Essentially, win/loss ratios and win rates can alert you to how often you are winning or losing money on your trades.


   Example of the Win/Loss Ratio  

Assume that you made a total of 30 trades, of which 12 were winners and 18 were losers. This would make your win/loss ratio 12/18, which equals 0.67. Such a ratio means that you are losing 67% of the time. Using the benchmarks above, .67 is less than 1.0 and an indication of a less-than-winning strategy.



Along with that figure, the win rate, or probability of success, is 12/30, or 40%.


  Incorporating the Risk/Reward Ratio  

The risk/reward ratio indicates the profit potential of a trade relative to its loss potential. The profit potential of a trade is determined by the difference between the entry price and the targeted exit price (at which a profit will be made).



The trade is executed using a stop-loss order set at the target exit price, and the profit is determined by the difference between the entry point and the stop-loss price.



For example, a trader purchases 100 shares of a company for $5.50 and places a stop loss at $5.00. The trader also places a sell limit order to execute when the price hits $6.50. The risk on the trade is $5.50 - $5.00 = $0.50, and the potential profit is $6.50 - $5.50 = $1.00. The trader is, thus, willing to risk $0.50 per share to make a profit of $1.00 per share after closing the position.



The risk/reward ratio is $0.50/$1.00 = 0.5. In this case, the trader’s risk is half of his potential payoff. If the ratio is greater than 1.0, it means the risk is greater than the profit potential on the trade. If the ratio is less than 1.0, then the profit potential is greater than the risk.



Together, the win/loss ratio and the risk/reward ratio can provide a trader with a good idea of their trading success and risk profile. For example, these ratios can help them determine whether they should temporarily stop trading due to lack of successful trades and financial losses or keep trading based on positive results.



In addition, having a high win rate (again, winning trades/total trades) doesn't necessarily mean a trader will be successful or even profitable if the risk-reward ratio is very high. And a high risk-reward ratio may not mean much if the win rate is very low.


   Limitation of the Win/Loss Ratio  

Although the win/loss ratio is used to determine the success rate and probability of future success of stock traders, it is not very useful on its own because it does not take into account the monetary value won or lost in each trade.



For example, a win/loss ratio of 2:1 means the trader has twice as many winning trades as losing. Sounds good, but if the losing trades have dollar losses three times as large as the dollar gains of the winning trades, the trader has a losing strategy.




What Does the Win/Loss Ratio Imply?
The win/loss ratio can indicate performance success as a trader and a probability of future success. It can also point to the effectiveness (or lack thereof) of trading strategies.




Is a High Win/Loss Ratio Good?
Generally, yes. It means that there were more trades that made money than trades that lost money. Bear in mind, though, that it says nothing about the amounts of money made or lost. For instance, you may have 15 winning trades and five losing trades for a positive win/loss ratio of 3.0. However, those five losing trades may have cost you more than the 15 winning trades made you.




What Is the Win/Loss Ratio if I Have Zero Losses?
In such a case, you wouldn't bother to calculate a win/loss ratio (or any other ratio) because dividing a number by zero results in an undefined result.


   The Bottom Line  

For traders, the win/loss ratio compares the number of trades that made money to the number of trades that lost money in a given trading session. It has nothing to do with the amount of money made or lost by those trades.



It's used by traders to get an idea of the success of their trading efforts for that session, which, in turn, can help them decide whether to stick with a particular trading strategy or devise a new one.
What Are Windfall Profits?  

Windfall profits are large, unexpected gains resulting from lucky circumstances. Such profits are generally well above historical norms and may occur due to factors such as a price spike or supply shortage that are either temporary in nature or longer-lasting. Windfall profits are generally reaped by an entire industry sector but can also find their way to an individual company.



In terms of an individual, a windfall profit could be a spike in income as a result of a specific, one-time event, such as winning the lottery, inheriting money or suddenly being able to sell that rare piece of music memorabilia you own for a large amount of money after the singer passes away.






There was previously a tax on corporate windfall profits; however, it was unpopular and there are currently no such taxes in the United States, though reintroducing the tax has drawn much debate on Wall Street and in Washington.


   How Windfall Profits Work  

Among the reasons that windfall profits can arise are a sudden change in market structure, an executive order from the government, a court ruling, or a dramatic shift in trade policy. Companies that are beneficiaries of windfall profits had not planned for them, but they would be naturally pleased to receive them.



These profits would have a variety of uses: dividend increases or a special one-time dividend, share buybacks, reinvestments in the business for future growth, or debt reduction. Windfall profits are presently not taxed in the U.S., though there have been tepid efforts to reintroduce the tax.



For an individual, a windfall profit might result in a sudden boost in their income, beyond what they could have reasonably expected. Unlike a corporation, an individual is not expected to pass the profits on to others.





Key Takeaways

Windfall profits are a sudden and unexpected spike in earnings, often caused by a one-time event that is out of the norm.A business reaps windfall profits when there is a sudden industrywide change, such as a drop or spike in prices or a spike in demand for a certain product.Businesses typically use these profits in part to increase dividends, buy back shares, reinvest in the business for future growth, or reduce debt.


   Example of Windfall Profits  

From time to time, surging prices for crude oil and natural gas have generated windfall profits for many energy companies. In this industry, wherein supply and demand are the main force determining price levels for the commodities, unexpected supply shortages have led to sharp and quick price rises.



In 2008, a barrel of WTI crude oil climbed above $140 from $60 per barrel just one year earlier. Several factors on both the supply and demand sides conspired to spike the price. Turmoil in the Middle East, lingering effects of Hurricane Katrina, supply disruptions in Venezuela and Nigeria, strong demand from developing nations, and speculative fervor by traders were all believed to be causes of the steep ascent of oil prices. Windfall profits for oil and gas producers followed, but they proved short-lived because a mere five months after the price peaked, a barrel of oil was trading at only $40 per barrel.
What Is a Windfall Tax?  

A windfall tax is a tax levied by governments against certain industries when economic conditions allow those industries to experience significantly above-average profits. Windfall taxes are primarily levied on companies in the targeted industry that have benefited the most from the economic windfall, most often commodity-based businesses.





Key Takeaways

A windfall tax is a surtax imposed by governments on businesses or economic sectors that have benefited from economic expansion.The purpose is to redistribute excess profits in one area to raise funds for the greater social good; however, this can be a contentious ideal.Some individual taxes—such as inheritance tax or taxes on lottery or game-show winnings—can also be construed as a windfall tax.


   How Windfall Taxes Work  

Oil and gas companies are common targets of windfall taxes. The massive net income increase for oil and natural gas producers—the International Energy Agency estimates they will double from 2021 to 2022, hitting an unprecedented $2 trillion—is the current trigger for the discussion and recent imposition of windfall taxes.



For example, on September 30, 2022, the Council of the European Union agreed to impose a "temporary solidarity contribution" on businesses in the crude petroleum, natural gas, coal and refinery sectors on profits that are "above a 20% increase of of the average yearly taxable profits since 2018." This is on top of whatever taxes they already owe in their individual countries. In each member state, proceeds are to help households and companies, and to ease the effects of high electricity prices.



And in October 2022, President Biden threatened that he would seek a windfall profits tax on oil and gas companies, which have reported very high profits and continue to charge high prices. He told them to use their "outrageous" bonanza—the effect of the Ukraine war—to expand oil supplies or reduce consumer prices.


   The Windfall Tax Debate  

As with all tax initiatives instituted by governments, there is always a divide between those who are for and those who are against the tax. The benefits of a windfall tax include proceeds being directly used by governments to bolster funding for social programs. Those against windfall taxes claim that they reduce companies' initiatives to seek out profits. They also believe that profits should be reinvested by companies to promote innovation that will, in turn, benefit society as a whole.



Then there is the question of whether windfall taxes actually raise the amounts that are predicted. Consider the most recent example in the U.S., the Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax of 1980, imposed by Congress during President Jimmy Carter's administration.



According to a 2006 report from the Congressional Research Service, the windfall profits tax (WPT) generated $80 billion in gross revenues between 1980 and 1988, "significantly less than the $393 billion projected. Due to the deductibility of the WPT against the income tax, cumulative net WPT revenues were about $38 billion, significantly less than the $175 billion projected." In a more current example, The Washington Post reports that the windfall tax in Italy had "(as of September [2022]) yielded only about one-fifth the income the government had hoped for." On the other hand, the taxes do yield revenue that would not otherwise be available to offset the societal costs of high prices.



Critics point to other possible negative consequences. While windfall profits are taxed to encourage the taxed entities to lower their prices for the benefit of consumers, the tax could end up reducing investment because the new tax could make the after-tax profit not be worth the effort. This happened with the 1980 tax, according to the Congressional Research Service report. It notes that, from "1980 to 1988, the WPT may have reduced domestic oil production anywhere from 1.2% to 8.0% (320 to 1,269 million barrels). Dependence on imported oil grew from between 3% and 13%." The tax was repealed in 1988.


   Windfall Taxes on Individuals  

Windfall taxes may also apply to individuals who gain sudden riches from receiving a significant sum of money through a gift, inheritance, or through game-show, gambling or lottery winnings. In many cases, inheritances, gifts from family members or friends, and life insurance payouts are tax-free to the recipient.



However, federal, state, or local taxes may be owed by the giver or by the estate from which the inheritance is received. Any wealth gained from playing the lottery or gambling is considered taxable income. These winnings are fully taxable and must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by filing the individual tax return.



An individual who is awarded a sizeable monetary settlement after winning a lawsuit is likely to owe federal tax on the amount received. While certain settlements, such as damages for personal physical injuries or physical sickness, are considered non-taxable by the IRS, most other types of damages are taxed as ordinary income.




Who Has To Pay a Windfall Tax?
Companies and industrial sectors that can be subject to windfall taxes are those with massive increases in profits, generally due to situations such as wartime, commodities shortages, and other situations and events that drive up prices. Individuals may also be taxed on windfalls, such as those from inheritances or lottery winnings.




Who Benefits From Revenue Raised by Windfall Taxes?
Taxes are imposed by governments and can be used for a variety of purposes. During World War I and World War II, windfall profit tax revenue went to support the war effort. The 1980 taxes added to general government funds. Revenue from the new EU Council 2022 tax is to be used to "provide financial support to households and companies and to mitigate the effects of high retail electricity prices."




What Was America's First Windfall Tax?
During World War I, before the U.S. entered the war in 1917, U.S. Steel and DuPont's annual profits increased by more than 1,000% each and pressure grew for a "war efforts profit tax." Instituted in October, 1917, the tax raised nearly $7 billion in revenue—nearly 40% of all funds raised for the war—and was the largest source of wartime taxation. As larger companies found ways around the tax, smaller companies were more affected. The tax was abolished in 1921.


   The Bottom Line  

Windfall taxes will always be a contentious issue debated between the shareholders of profitable companies and the rest of society. The massive net income increase oil and natural gas producers—the International Energy Agency estimates they will double from 2021 to 2022, hitting an unprecedented $2 trillion—is the current trigger for the discussion. Currently, it is Exxon's shareholders who have benefited; they received a higher dividend, raised after the company announced a nearly $20 billion profit just for July to September.



Windfall taxes can be imposed on companies in certain segments of the economy, such as oil and gas, that benefit from situations such as commodity shortages that greatly increase the prices of their products at the expense of consumers. Individuals may also owe tax on a windfall, depending on its source and the tax laws of the federal government or their state or locality.
What Is Winding Up?  

Winding up is the process of liquidating a company. While winding up, a company ceases to do business as usual. Its sole purpose is to sell off stock, pay off creditors, and distribute any remaining assets to partners or shareholders. The term is synonymous with liquidation, which is the process of converting assets to cash.





Key Takeaways

Winding up refers to the process of liquidating the assets of a business that has ceased operations.The sole purpose of a business that is winding up is to sell off assets, pay off creditors, and distribute any remaining assets to the owners.The two main types of winding up are compulsory winding up and voluntary winding up.Winding up a business is not the same as bankruptcy, although it is usually an end result of bankruptcy.


   How Winding Up Works  

Winding up a business is a legal process regulated by corporate laws as well as a company's articles of association or partnership agreement. Winding up can be compulsory or voluntary and can apply to publicly and privately held companies.


  Compulsory Winding Up  

A company can be legally forced to wind up by a court order. In such cases, the company is ordered to appoint a liquidator to manage the sale of assets and distribution of the proceeds to creditors.



The court order is often triggered by a suit brought by the company's creditors. They are often the first to realize that a company is insolvent because their bills have remained unpaid. In other cases, the winding-up is the final conclusion of a bankruptcy proceeding, which can involve creditors trying to recoup money owed by the company.



In any case, a company may not have sufficient assets to satisfy all of its debtors entirely, and the creditors will face an economic loss.


  Voluntary Winding Up  

A company's shareholders or partners may trigger a voluntary winding up, usually by the passage of a resolution. If the company is insolvent, the shareholders may trigger a winding-up to avoid bankruptcy and, in some cases, personal liability for the company's debts.



Even if it is solvent, the shareholders may feel their objectives have been met, and it is time to cease operations and distribute company assets.



In other cases, market situations may paint a bleak outlook for the business. If the stakeholders decide the company will face insurmountable challenges, they may call for a resolution to wind up the business. A subsidiary also may be wound up, usually because of its diminishing prospects or its inadequate contribution to the parent company's bottom line or profit.


   Winding Up vs. Bankruptcy  

Winding up a business is not the same as bankruptcy, though it is usually an end result of bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is a legal proceeding that involves creditors attempting to gain access to a company's assets so that they can be liquidated to pay off debts.



Although there are various types of bankruptcy, the proceedings can help a company emerge as a new entity that is debt-free and usually smaller.



Conversely, once the winding-up process has begun, a company can no longer pursue business as usual. The only action they may attempt is to complete the liquidation and distribution of its assets. At the end of the process, the company will be dissolved and will cease to exist.


   Real-World Examples  

For example, Payless, the shoe retailer, filed for bankruptcy in April 2017, almost two years before the business finally ceased operations. Under court supervision, the company shut down about 700 stores and repaid about $435 million in debt. Four months later, the court allowed it to emerge from bankruptcy.



It continued to operate until February 2019, when it abruptly shut down its remaining 2,500 U.S. stores and filed again for bankruptcy, effectively beginning the winding-up process. It also wound down its e-commerce business at the time. The liquidation in 2019 did not have any effect on its Latin American operations, which, in 2020, when the company emerged from bankruptcy, was its new focus.



In 2020, the company also began expanding again in the U.S., opening more stores, as it felt there was an opportunity for its goods.



Some other examples of well-known American companies that were liquidated, or wound up, include



Circuit City
RadioShack
Blockbuster
Borders Group



All of the above retailers were in deep financial distress before filing for bankruptcy and agreeing to liquidate.




What Is the Difference Between Winding Up and Dissolution?
Winding up and dissolution are both steps in the closing of a business. Winding up comes before dissolution. Winding up refers to closing the operations of a business, selling off assets, paying off creditors, and distributing any remaining assets to the owners. Once the winding-up process is complete, the dissolution step comes into play. This is when the company formally under law ceases to exist. Documentation is prepared to officially end the business as a legal entity.




What Are the Legal Consequences of Not Dissolving a Business?
If you do not legally dissolve a business, you can incur taxes and penalty fees. These taxes and fees can be incurred even if your business is not operating or earning any revenue/income. When a business has determined it will no longer operate and it has wound up operations, it must legally dissolve.




How Long Does It Take to Wind Up a Business?
There are multiple steps in winding up a business. It takes approximately two to three months to enter the liquidation process. From there, the liquidation process can last a few months to a year, depending on how long it takes to sell off assets.
What Is Window Dressing?  

Window dressing is the term for a strategy used by retailers—dressing up a window display—to draw in customers. The financial industry adopted it to refer to the practice of altering financial data to appear more attract investors.



Businesses can time adjustments in their accounting procedures, and investment holdings can be changed at specific times to seem as if they are more profitable, have higher returns, or have been performing well the entire period.



Specific to investments, it is used to refer to how a fund or portfolio manager might buy or sell securities at a particular time to appear to be performing better.





Key Takeaways

Window dressing occurs when portfolio and fund managers try to boost reported performance before publishing required reports.It can be identified by carefully evaluating a fund's holdings and looking for suspicious trades coinciding with the end of a quarter or fiscal year.You can identify financial report window dressing by learning how businesses adjust their accounting procedures to appear to be performing better.Window dressing can give the appearance of better returns and performance, but these strategies often defer losses that will materialize later on.


   How Window Dressing Works  

Window dressing is a deceptive practice no matter what industry it is used in or what purpose it serves. It paints a false financial picture because information is changed to make a company seem to perform better than it did.



Mutual funds are companies that purchase stocks and sell portions of those stocks to investors. Fund managers might replace non-performing stocks near the end of a reporting period to make it seem as if a fund is performing better than it is.



Companies can alter reportable financial information through their accounting procedures. This changes the data that is reported on their quarterly and annual reports or letters to shareholders.



It is illegal for businesses to alter their accounting practices to change how their reports look. But unless there is a clear violation of securities laws or if the fund alters its accounting methods to window dress, investment managers are not doing anything illegal by replacing a fund's holdings at specific times. That said, it is an unethical practice because it attempts to deceive investors and regulators.


   Window Dressing in Mutual Funds  

Fund and portfolio managers get paid to ensure investing instruments are performing. If they don't perform, investors may become interested in other products or services that appear to be offering better returns. To prevent this from happening, managers might replace holdings near the end of the reporting period to keep investors from moving money to other investments.


  Methods for Window Dressing in Funds  

A hedge fund manager might sell stocks that have experienced significant losses and purchase high-flying stocks near the end of the quarter or year. These securities are then reported as part of the fund's holdings, making it seem like they had been there the entire time.



When performance has been lagging, fund managers may sell stocks that have reported substantial losses and replace them with stocks expected to produce short-term gains to improve the fund's overall performance for the reporting period.






Investors should pay close attention to holdings that appear outside of a fund’s strategy and the assets that have been replaced.



For example, imagine that a fund investing in stocks exclusively from the S&P 500 has underperformed the index. Stocks A and B outperformed the total index but were underweight in the fund, while stocks C and D were overweight in the fund but lagged the index.



To make it look like the fund was investing in stocks A and B all along, the portfolio manager could sell out of stocks C and D, replacing them with A and B. This would also give an overweight to stocks A and B.



Another way is for a manager to purchase stocks that do not meet the style or strategy of the mutual fund. For example, a precious metals fund might invest in stocks that were performing well and disguise them. This gives the fund the appearance of a short-term performance boost that is not aligned with the market or indexes it might mirror.


  How to Identify Window Dressing in Funds  

Though disclosure rules are intended to aid in increasing transparency for investors, window dressing can still obscure the practices of the fund manager. There are some techniques you can use to identify window dressing:



First, ensure holdings match the index the fund tracks if it is an index fund. If it isn't an index fund, make sure they meet the fund's published intent. Most funds have a description of what they are designed to invest in, usually called the fund's objective. For example, the Fidelity Value Fund's (FDVLX) objective is to seek capital appreciation, using a strategy of valuating companies with valuable fixed assets and purchasing the stocks of the ones it believes are undervalued.






If you found holdings in this fund you believed didn't fit the objective and strategy, it might be window dressing. But then, it might not because the fund's valuation methodology might allow it to change holdings.



Second, look over the fund's holdings and compare the returns of each one. For instance, FDVLX had more than 200 holdings on Jan. 31, 2023, with the top ten stocks making up slightly more than 10% of the fund. If you look at the fund's monthly holding report, you can find each stock's ticker and evaluate it. By comparing holdings from month to month, you might also see them changing and be able to investigate performance differences between the old and new ones.



Third, use these reports to identify past and current turnover and determine when it occurs. There might be a pattern of turnover, such as a majority of stocks remaining in the fund's holdings with several non-performers turning over at intervals that don't make sense. This could be regular fund management, but it pays to take a look.



Finally, look at the fund's management. Fund managers lacking trading acumen or who have experienced poor performance in the past are more likely to window dress. Good funds have experienced, ethical managers that do not need to window dress.


   Window Dressing in Accounting  

Publicly-owned companies must follow specific accounting guidelines that ensure investors and regulators have a transparent view of financial performance. Some hire accounting firms to ensure their books are kept up-to-date and that reports are generated.



There is always the chance that management or leadership will not like the results seen on these financial reports, so they may try to make changes to accounts or accounting methods to make it look like they performed better than they did.



The most significant reason a business would window dress its financial reports is to ensure they don't lose investor interest. Investors and lenders make up a large portion of a company's fund-raising efforts. Lenders use these reports to make lending decisions, and investors use them for investing decisions. Therefore, lower financial performance can mean less funding.


  Methods for Window Dressing in Accounting  

Not all accounting window dressing is so evident as changing some numbers. Here are a few examples of changes in accounting methods:



Cash window dressing: Paying suppliers after the period ends to boost cash balancesCapitalization window dressing: Increasing profits by capitalizing small expenses instead of charging them as an expenseFixed asset window dressing: Selling fixed assets with accumulated depreciation, so the fixed assets still owned appear to have less depreciationExpenses window dressing: Recording supplier invoices in the next period to reduce liabilities on the balance sheet






It's important to understand that many businesses are honest and trying to do the right thing. Looking out for window dressing should be part of your tool kit when you're evaluating investment opportunities, just in case you come across a company that is trying to cook the books or deceive you.


  How to Identify Window Dressing in Accounting  

While difficult to determine, you can identify window dressing by studying past financial reports and reading about a company's activities via their news releases and investor reports. You may be able to identify discrepancies between them. For instance, examine the cash flow statement to see where cash is coming from and where it is going, then compare it to cash flows from the last few periods.



If there are significant changes, you should be able to find a summary in the investor or financial reports with a description of why it has changed. If you don't see it, you may want to investigate further.



Look for a change in accounting procedures—a company should publish that they began accounting differently for something recently (in fact, publicly-traded companies are required to report accounting procedure changes). Look for increases in valuation, a dramatic increase in sales that doesn't correspond to past seasonal or cyclical sales, or another issue that might raise an eyebrow.




What Does It Mean If Something Is Window Dressing?
You may have heard that a stock is window dressing for a fund or that a business' reports are window dressed. This means that a stock has been replaced close to the end of a reporting period to boost performance falsely, or the reports are altered to be more financially attractive to investors and lenders.




Is Window Dressing Illegal in Accounting?
Window dressing in accounting is unethical and illegal. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has fined companies for window dressing.




How Do You Window Dress Financial Statements?
Financial statements are an aggregation of the results of the accounting process for an accounting period. There are several ways to window dress these statements. Some examples are recording certain expenses differently or capitalizing expenses rather than accounting for them as expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

Window dressing is used by some investment managers, financial departments, or executives to give the appearance that a particular investment or business is doing better than it is. It is an illegal practice regarding accounting procedures and financial reporting.



But when investment managers window dress by replacing holdings at the end of a period to make an investment instrument appear to perform better, it's more of a violation of ethical fund management practices. It is an attempt to fool you into investing in something you might not invest in otherwise. That's why it's essential to know what it is and how to identify it.
What Is a Window Guaranteed Investment Contract?  

Window guaranteed investment (WGIC) contracts are a type of investment plan in which the investor makes a series of payments to an insurance company and is guaranteed a return on investment. This type of guaranteed investment contract (GIC) differs from other GICs in that the investor makes principal payments in installments over time, rather than in one lump sum up front. Investors use window guaranteed investment contracts with 401(k) plans and other defined contribution pension plans.





Key Takeaways

A window guaranteed investment contract (WGIC) promises guaranteed returns from a series of installment payments paid in during the contribution window.After the window has closed, no further contributions can be made.The contract then matures for a period of several years before returning principal and interest to investors.Like all GICs, these products are considered low-risk and likewise carry lower average returns.


   Understanding Window Guaranteed Investment Contracts  

Window guaranteed investment contracts resemble certificates of deposit sold at banks, but may have either fixed or variable interest. Investors consider WGICs very safe investments. Because they involve little risk, they offer relatively small returns when compared with other investment strategies. However, window GICs often have better rates than those an investor would get through a bank, which is where some of their popularity comes from.



Smaller businesses find window GICs attractive, as do new plan start-ups or other companies that want a fixed and guaranteed rate throughout the year. The window describes the period of time during which the investor can make payments and receive the guaranteed interest rate. Often, the issuer sets the window at one calendar year.



Payments made by the investor go into the insurance company's general account. Investments in this account generally consist of conservative investments such as corporate bonds, commercial mortgages and treasury securities.


   From the Window to Maturity  

Once the window has closed and the investor may no longer make payments toward the GIC, the invested funds remain in the contract for a period of time during which the contract matures. This period generally lasts for between three and seven years. While the funds remain in the contract, they earn the predetermined rate of return so that the investor's money grows. Once the contract matures, the insurance company returns the investor's principal and interest to them, and they can opt to reinvest in another GIC. 



Even though the "G" in GIC stands for guaranteed, window GICs are ultimately backed only by the insurance company that sells them. They are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. In this way, they differ from certificates of deposit insured by the FDIC.﻿﻿ If the insurance company becomes insolvent, the investment could lose all of its value.
What Is a Window of Opportunity?  

A window of opportunity is a short, often fleeting period during which a rare and desired action can be taken. Once the window closes, the opportunity may never come again. In a competitive market with many participants seeking to maximize tangible or intangible value, shareholders, employees, and individuals often compete for investment options with a small window of opportunity.





Key Takeaways

Windows of opportunity are short periods within which a decision can be made that will produce a desired outcome.Windows of opportunity are often fleeting with an ending date.In investing, trading opportunities for hot IPOs, a real estate purchase, or a chance at an M&A deal all present themselves as windows of opportunity.


   Finding Opportunities  

In some cases, it is possible to plan for and anticipate a window of opportunity and then act accordingly when the window opens. Sometimes an opportunity arises that is unforeseen, and it is up to individuals to identify the opportunity and then act on it. In situations with very brief or unpredictable windows of opportunity, automation may be employed to take advantage of these windows, as in algorithmic trading. Marketing tactics are often used to offer individuals specific windows of opportunity and may include:



Offering a "limited-time" deal to customersMarketing a seasonal product and capitalizing on the yearly timeframeBringing new technology to market before competitors release similar items


   Examples of Windows of Opportunity  
  Hot IPOs  

Institutional investors and the best retail clients of the underwriters for Google's IPO in 2004 were given a chance to buy shares at the initial offering price. Those who took advantage of the window bought these oversubscribed shares at $85 per share.Financial investors often follow headlines to seek new IPO offerings. Arm, one of the world's largest semiconductor companies, and Navan, which operates a platform that provides travel and expense management for businesses, are just two companies with planned IPOs in 2023. 





$1,162,615.73

A 1984 $1,000 investment in AAPL shares would be worth approximately $1,162,615.73 in 2023.


  Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A)  

The biotechnology industry is active, with dozens of startups and firms in early-stage pipeline development of therapies with blockbuster potential. For the minority of companies that demonstrate efficacy and safety in their therapy, large-cap pharmaceutical and biotech companies will take notice, and opportunities to invest in a merger or acquisition begin.



In 2022, Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest, most diversified healthcare products company, acquired Abiomed, a leader in breakthrough heart, lung, and kidney support technologies.


  Real Estate  

Promising real estate investments often come within a window of opportunity. Individuals and companies can invest in foreclosures, unoccupied buildings, or open land. Blackrock, a fiduciary asset manager, invests and manages capital for clients in the public and private U.S. real estate markets.



As of 2023, Blackrock invested approximately $120 billion in the U.S. residential real estate market and capital for mortgages to American families. BlackRock invests in new construction, purpose-built for-rent housing developments to address the increasing demand. 




How Do Individuals Buy IPO Shares?
IPOs are usually discounted to ensure sales, which makes them even more attractive, especially when they generate a lot of buyers. All investors can participate, but individual investors must have trading access. The most common way for an investor to get shares is to have an account with a brokerage platform that has received an allocation of IPO shares to sell to clients.




What Is a Foreclosure?
When homeowners fail to meet their mortgage loan obligation, a property may fall into foreclosure. These properties may sell at a foreclosure auction, or banks may take ownership of the property and may add it to an accumulated portfolio of foreclosed properties, also called real estate owned (REO). Foreclosed properties are typically easily accessible on banks’ websites and available to real estate investors,




What Do Buyers in a Merger or Acquisition Look for?
The buying company in a merger or acquisition commonly looks for growth and value in the selling company along with opportunities for business model transformation, technological capabilities, and new talent resources.


   The Bottom Line  

In investing, trading opportunities for hot IPOs, a real estate purchase, or a chance at an M&A deal are considered to be windows of opportunity. A window of opportunity is a short period in which an investor or business must decide to capture a chance to advance a goal or financial trade.
What Is Windstorm Insurance?  

Windstorm insurance is a special type of property-casualty insurance that protects policyholders from property damage caused by gales, winds, hail, and other gusty hazards. A subset of storm insurance, windstorm insurance is usually offered in the form of a rider on a standard casualty insurance policy through the extended coverage endorsement.





Key Takeaways

Windstorm insurance is a special type of property-casualty insurance that protects policyholders from property damage caused by gusty events such as tornadoes, hurricanes and gales.Windstorm insurance will typically cover physical damages to the property and personal belongings.Windstorm coverage is typically affixed as a rider to a homeowners insurance policy.Many policies limit the time frame during which you can file a claim for windstorm damage.


   How Windstorm Insurance Works  

Windstorm insurance covers the types of excessively gusty events, such as hurricanes and cyclones, that are often considered vis major and so might be excluded from standard homeowners insurance policies. Those who live in areas susceptible to this type of peril must purchase this additional coverage to protect themselves. Residents of coastal states and midwestern states, where hurricanes and tornadoes are relatively common, fall into this category.



Windstorm insurance will typically cover physical damage to the property and personal belongings inside the home. Many policies also include coverage for detached structures such as garages and sheds. When big winds harm roofs and windows, rain and debris can cause additional damage. In such cases, most policies will cover repairs as long as the claim is filed soon after the event.



Sometimes, windstorms are followed by storm surges and flooding, but windstorm insurance will not typically cover damage caused by these rising waters. Flood insurance coverage provided by the federal government must be purchased separately, and it takes 30 days to go into effect.﻿﻿






Windstorm insurance will not cover the repair or replacement of a vehicle that is damaged by a wind-toppled tree or other blowing debris. A person must carry a comprehensive auto policy to cover a car.


   Filing a Windstorm Insurance Claim  

In order to file a windstorm insurance claim, a policyholder must take certain steps. The most important thing is to act quickly. Many policies limit the time frame during which you can file a claim for storm damage. Often, this is because failure to fix problems promptly can lead to more damage later.



Immediately after a windstorm, a windstorm insurance policyholder should:



Record the storm date and save news articles about the storm as proof.Assess and record all damage that they see from the ground with pictures and/or video.Have at least two reputable contractors inspect the property and provide written estimates for damages.Contact the claims department of their insurance carrier, provide all the information they have gathered, and request a visit from a claims adjuster.Ask one of the contractors to be present during the insurance adjuster's inspection to ensure a fair assessment.If a claim is denied, request another evaluation. Policyholders are entitled to meet with three different insurance adjusters.
What Is Windstorm Insurance?  

Windstorm insurance is a special type of property-casualty insurance that protects policyholders from property damage caused by gales, winds, hail, and other gusty hazards. A subset of storm insurance, windstorm insurance is usually offered in the form of a rider on a standard casualty insurance policy through the extended coverage endorsement.





Key Takeaways

Windstorm insurance is a special type of property-casualty insurance that protects policyholders from property damage caused by gusty events such as tornadoes, hurricanes and gales.Windstorm insurance will typically cover physical damages to the property and personal belongings.Windstorm coverage is typically affixed as a rider to a homeowners insurance policy.Many policies limit the time frame during which you can file a claim for windstorm damage.


   How Windstorm Insurance Works  

Windstorm insurance covers the types of excessively gusty events, such as hurricanes and cyclones, that are often considered vis major and so might be excluded from standard homeowners insurance policies. Those who live in areas susceptible to this type of peril must purchase this additional coverage to protect themselves. Residents of coastal states and midwestern states, where hurricanes and tornadoes are relatively common, fall into this category.



Windstorm insurance will typically cover physical damage to the property and personal belongings inside the home. Many policies also include coverage for detached structures such as garages and sheds. When big winds harm roofs and windows, rain and debris can cause additional damage. In such cases, most policies will cover repairs as long as the claim is filed soon after the event.



Sometimes, windstorms are followed by storm surges and flooding, but windstorm insurance will not typically cover damage caused by these rising waters. Flood insurance coverage provided by the federal government must be purchased separately, and it takes 30 days to go into effect.﻿﻿






Windstorm insurance will not cover the repair or replacement of a vehicle that is damaged by a wind-toppled tree or other blowing debris. A person must carry a comprehensive auto policy to cover a car.


   Filing a Windstorm Insurance Claim  

In order to file a windstorm insurance claim, a policyholder must take certain steps. The most important thing is to act quickly. Many policies limit the time frame during which you can file a claim for storm damage. Often, this is because failure to fix problems promptly can lead to more damage later.



Immediately after a windstorm, a windstorm insurance policyholder should:



Record the storm date and save news articles about the storm as proof.Assess and record all damage that they see from the ground with pictures and/or video.Have at least two reputable contractors inspect the property and provide written estimates for damages.Contact the claims department of their insurance carrier, provide all the information they have gathered, and request a visit from a claims adjuster.Ask one of the contractors to be present during the insurance adjuster's inspection to ensure a fair assessment.If a claim is denied, request another evaluation. Policyholders are entitled to meet with three different insurance adjusters.
What Is a Winner-Takes-All Market?  

A winner-takes-all market refers to an economy in which the best performers are able to capture a very large share of the available rewards, while the remaining competitors are left with very little. The prevalence of winner-takes-all markets widens wealth disparities because a select few are able to capture increasing amounts of income that would otherwise be more widely distributed throughout the population.





Key Takeaways

A winner-takes-all market refers to an economic system where competition allows the best performers to rise to the top at the expense of the losers.The ultimate end-result of a winner-takes-all market is an oligopoly, where only a small handful of large, powerful companies control a majority of market share.Stock markets and other potential zero-sum systems also lead to a winner-takes-all situation where the rich get richer and extends wealth inequality.


   Winner-Takes-All Market Definition  

Many commentators believe that the prevalence of winner-takes-all markets is expanding as technology lessens the barriers to competition within many fields of commerce. A good example of a winner-takes-all market can be seen in the rise of large multinational firms, such as Wal-Mart. In the past, a wide variety of local stores existed within different geographic regions. Today, however, better transportation, telecommunications, and information technology systems have lifted the constraints to competition. Large firms like Wal-Mart are able to effectively manage vast resources in order to gain an advantage over local competitors and capture a large market share in almost every segment they enter.



The logical outcome to a winner-takes-all market system is one of oligopoly. Oligopoly is a market structure with just a small number of large, powerful firms. In the most extreme case, a monopoly is where just a single firm exists controlling an entire market. These large firms either buy up smaller firms or put them out of business by out-competing them in the marketplace.


   Winner-Takes-All in the Stock Market  

The meteoric rise of the U.S. equity markets between 2009 and 2019 has led to what some believe is a winner-takes-all market. Wealthy people who have a large percentage of their overall wealth invested in the U.S. equity markets have taken advantage of large market gains during this period which have led to outsized increases in income and wealth when compared to the growth experienced by the rest of the U.S. population. Wealth and income disparity have increased significantly during this period with a large portion of the gains going to those already residing within the top 1% of earners.



This is an example of the "Matthew effect", first described by sociologists in the 1960s. The effect is that in a winner-takes-all situation, the rich get richer and leave the rest behind. That is because stock markets and other winner-takes-all systems can be examples of zero-sum games, where winners must get ahead at the expense of the losers. There are alternative systems where an increase in wealth "raises all ships" where there is mutual benefit to gains instead of being zero-sum. Examples include countries with robust social welfare systems such as the Scandinavian countries. The potential downside is that those systems provide less overall potential benefit to winners since wealth is more evenly re-distributed among all.
What Is the Winner's Curse?  

The winner's curse is a tendency for the winning bid in an auction to exceed the intrinsic value or true worth of an item. The gap in auctioned versus intrinsic value can typically be attributed to incomplete information, emotions, or a variety of other subjective factors that may influence bidders.



In general, subjective factors usually create a value gap because the bidder faces a difficult time determining and rationalizing an item's true intrinsic value. As a result, the largest overestimation of an item's value ends up winning the auction.





Key Takeaways

The winner's curse is a tendency for the winning bid in an auction to exceed the intrinsic value or true worth of an item.The gap in auctioned vs. intrinsic value can typically be attributed to incomplete information, types of bidders, emotions, or a variety of other subjective factors.Originally, the term winner's curse was coined as a result of companies bidding for offshore oil drilling rights in the Gulf of Mexico.﻿﻿In the investing world, the term often applies to initial public offerings (IPOs) but comprehensively a winner’s curse can happen in any market where auctions take place.The gap between intrinsic and auction value will generally be influenced by the bidders involved.


   Understanding the Winner's Curse  

The term winner's curse was coined by three Atlantic Richfield engineers, who observed the poor investment returns of companies bidding for offshore oil drilling rights in the Gulf of Mexico. In the investing world, the term often applies to initial public offerings (IPOs). Comprehensively, the winner's curse theory can be applied to any purchase done through auction.



As most investors know, intrinsic value is usually quantifiable but situations and subjective factors make value estimates more unclear in real-time and real life. Theoretically, if perfect information was available to everyone and all participants were completely rational in their decisions and skilled at valuation, a fully efficient market would exist and no overpayments or arbitrage opportunities would ever occur.



However, while efficient markets are helpful to understand in theory, historically they have proved to be unachievable 100% of the time. Thus, emotions, irrationalities, rumors, and other subjective factors can push prices far beyond their true values.



The winner's curse, at its core, is a combination of cognitive and emotional friction and is usually recognized after the fact. The buyer is victorious in owning whatever asset they are bidding on. However, the asset is likely worth far less in resale value after ownership due to different factors affecting the purchase and influencing its value in the future.






The winner's curse can lead to an example of buyer's remorse, wherein the buyer of something feels like they've overpaid in retrospect.



Overall, when an individual has to bid more than somebody else to get something, there is a good chance they end up paying more than they had wished. Unfortunately, it's often only after the transaction has taken place that they see this.


   An Example of the Winner's Curse  

Jim's Oil, Joe's Exploration, and Frank's Drilling are all courting drilling rights for a specific area. Let's suppose that, after accounting for all drilling-related costs and potential future revenues, the drilling rights have an intrinsic value of $4 million. Now let's imagine that Jim's Oil bids $2 million for the rights, Joe's Exploration $5 million, and Frank's Drilling $7 million.



While Frank's won the auction, it ended up overpaying by $3 million. Even if Joe's Exploration is 100% sure that this price is too high, it can do nothing about it, as the highest bid always wins the auction, no matter how overpriced the bid may be.
What Is the Winsorized Mean?  

Winsorized mean is a method of averaging that initially replaces the smallest and largest values with the observations closest to them. This is done to limit the effect of outliers or abnormal extreme values, or outliers, on the calculation.



After replacing the values, the arithmetic mean formula is then used to calculate the winsorized mean.





Key takeaways

The winsorized mean is an averaging method that involves replacing the smallest and largest values of a data set with the observations closest to them.It mitigates the effects of outliers by replacing them with less extreme values.The winsorized mean is not the same as the trimmed mean, which involves removing data points as opposed to replacing them—although the results of the two tend to be close.The winsorized mean is also not the same as the arithmetic mean which does not adjust for outliers.


   Formula for the Winsorized Mean  
















Winsorized Mean 


=


 





x


n



…



x



n


+


1




 


+


 



x



n


+


2




…



x


n




N

















where:





















n


 


=


 









The number of largest and smallest data
















points to be replaced by the observation
















closest to them





















N


 


=


 Total number of data points







\begin{aligned} &\text{Winsorized Mean}\ =\ \frac{x_{n}\dots x_{n+1}\ +\ x_{n+2}\dots x_{n}}{N}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\begin{aligned} n\ =\ &\text{The number of largest and smallest data}\\ &\text{points to be replaced by the observation}\\ &\text{closest to them}\end{aligned}\\ &N\ =\ \text{Total number of data points} \end{aligned}


​Winsorized Mean = Nxn​…xn+1​ + xn+2​…xn​​where:n = ​The number of largest and smallest datapoints to be replaced by the observationclosest to them​N = Total number of data points​



Winsorized means are expressed in two ways. A "kn" winsorized mean refers to the replacement of the "k" smallest and largest observations, where "k" is an integer. An "X%" winsorized mean involves replacing a given percentage of values from both ends of the data.






The winsorized mean is achieved by replacing the smallest and largest data points, then summing all the data points and dividing the sum by the total number of data points.


   What Does the Winsorized Mean Tell You?  

The winsorized mean is less sensitive to outliers because it can replace them with less extreme values. That is, it is less susceptible to outliers versus the arithmetic average. However, if a distribution has fat tails, the effect of removing the highest and lowest values in the distribution will have little influence because of the high degree of variability in the distribution figures.



One major downside for winsorized means is that they naturally introduce some bias into the data set. By reducing the influence of outliers, the analysis is modified for better analysis, but also removes information about the underlying data.


   Strengths of Winsorized Mean  

There are several situations in which using the winsorized mean is best. These vague situations are listed below, with more specific examples of where winsorized mean may be most useful in the next section. Times when it's sometimes best to use winsorized mean includes when there's:



Outliers in the Dataset. Using the conventional arithmetic mean might produce false results when your dataset contains outliers, or extreme values that are considerably different from the other data points. Winsorized mean offers a more accurate representation of central trend and reduces the influence of these outliers.Skewed Distributions. Winsorized mean can be useful for datasets with significantly skewed distributions. In skewed distributions, there may be extreme values and a lengthy tail on one side. In order to reduce the skewness and create a more reliable estimate of the central tendency, winsorizing is used.Data with Measurement Mistakes. Measurement mistakes might cause outliers when they are present in the data. These measurement errors can be lessened by using the winsorized mean.Temporarily Value Fluctuations. Winsorized mean can be helpful in circumstances where brief variations in data could lead to extreme numbers since it is resistant to these fluctuations. Over time, the winsorized mean becomes more reliable and stable by taking the place of these outliers.Limited Sample Size: When there are few data points and a small sample size, the influence of outliers on the conventional mean may be greater. In these circumstances, the winsorized mean can offer a more accurate estimation of the central tendency.


   Winsorized Mean Level  

The winsorization level is crucial for effectively using the winsorized mean. The winsorization level determines the percentage of extreme values to be replaced with less extreme ones. To determine the appropriate winsorization level, consider data exploration, relying on domain knowledge, conducting sensitivity analyses, and consulting with experts who may be more familiar on what extreme values may look like.



When assessing the winsorized level, understanding the nature of outliers and their reasons can help determine the appropriate level. Outliers can influence the statistical analysis, so a higher winsorization level may be beneficial if they unduly influence results. However, a lower level may be more appropriate if the goal is to preserve some of the data's original characteristics. When picking the level, gauge your interest in how important keeping the original data's composition is.



In many cases, data domain knowledge is essential in setting the winsorization level. Consider any data set and what the typical range of values would be. Without historical, implicit knowledge of the industry, it would be much more challenging to identify bad data. In some cases, experimentation is crucial in observing how the winsorized mean changes with varying levels.


   Winsorized Mean and Real World Situations  

More specifically, there's a handful of situations or industries where winsorized mean makes more sense than other forms of measurement. These real world situations may include but aren't limited to the categories below.


  Financial/Investments  

Market volatility can have a material impact on financial data. Stock prices, asset returns, and other financial indicators may display extreme levels in the world of finance and investing. The impact of severe price volatility and outliers can be lessened when financial data estimates are computed using the winsorized mean.


  Payroll/Salaries  

Distributions of salaries or payroll within businesses can occasionally be very skewed. This is especially true in sectors where there is a significant income gap or sectors that materially reward those who have been in the industry long or "penalize" those who are just starting their careers. By minimizing the impact of abnormally high or low incomes, the winsorized mean can assist in providing a more accurate measurement of the typical pay range.


  Health Care  

Because of uncommon medical illnesses or extreme measures, medical data may contain outliers. Health-related indicators like blood pressure, cholesterol levels, or patient recovery durations can be better understood should extremes be removed. For example, information may be more helpful to know regarding a collective average of patients should that data set not be skewed by any abnormally high or abnormally low medical readings.


  Education  

Due to a variety of variables, some children may have unusually high or low test results. It may not be as useful to incorporate these abnormal test scores when evaluating a specific cohort's performance; therefore, an assessment's average score can be calculated using the winsorized mean to remove any negative (or positive) implications that student may have when evaluating how a specific teacher or course was perceived.


  Customer Satisfaction  

On a very similar note, when assessing customer satisfaction ratings, outliers may appear because a tiny percentage of consumers provided extremely good or negative comments. In the example above regarding a class, perhaps a single disgruntled student brings down the course evaluation score. Winsorized mean can help reduce the influence of these extreme scores and produce a more realistic picture of overall happiness.


  Environmental Data  

With seemingly more uncommon occurrences or extreme weather conditions occurring, there may be situations where environmental data without these extremes are useful. For example, consider a measure of average air quality or the amount of water contamination. Abnormally high or low levels of contamination in either context may mislead decision-makers in understanding what the average daily situation may be; for example, environmental economic resources may be misallocated.


   Example of How to Use Winsorized Mean  

Let's calculate the winsorized mean for the following data set: 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 34. In this example, we assume the winsorized mean is in the first order, in which we replace the smallest and largest values with their nearest observations.



The data set now appears as follows: 5, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 10. Taking an arithmetic average of the new set produces a winsorized mean of 7.7, or (5 + 5 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 10) divided by 7. Note that the arithmetic mean would have been higher—10.6. The winsorized mean effectively reduces the influence of the 34 value as an outlier.



Or consider a 20% winsorized mean that takes the top 10% and bottom 10% and replaces them with their next closest value. We will winsorize the following data set: 2, 4, 7, 8, 11, 14, 18, 23, 23, 27, 35, 40, 49, 50, 55, 60, 61, 61, 62, 75. The two smallest and two largest data points—20% of the 20 data points—will be replaced with their next closest value. Thus, the new data set is as follows: 7, 7, 7, 8, 11, 14, 18, 23, 23, 27, 35, 40, 49, 50, 55, 60, 61, 61, 61, 61. The winsorized mean is 33.9, or the total of the data (678) divided by the total number of data points (20).


   Winsorized Mean vs. Other Measurements  

There are several other common forms of 'mean', each of which slightly vary from winsorized mean. Also, there are other measurement such as median that give comparable but different information. In general, the winsorized mean is designed to be more resistant to outliers compared to other types of means. Those other types of measurement may include:



Traditional/Arithmetic Mean: The traditional mean, also known as the arithmetic mean, is calculated by summing all the data points in a dataset and dividing by the number of data points. It is sensitive to extreme values and can be significantly affected by outliers.
Trimmed Mean: The trimmed mean is another type of robust mean that involves removing a certain percentage of extreme values from both ends. These ends may be referred to as the top and bottom of the data distribution. The trimmed mean retains a specific portion of the data's central values and discards the extreme values, making it more resistant to the influence of outliers compared to the arithmetic mean.
Median: The median isn't a mean calculation at all; instead, it represents the middle value of a dataset when arranged in ascending or descending order. Unlike the traditional mean, the median is not affected by extreme values because it only considers the central value(s) in the dataset.




Can Winsorized Mean Handle Multiple Outliers?
Yes, winsorized mean can handle multiple outliers within the dataset. It effectively replaces the specified percentage of extreme values, regardless of the number of outliers present. By replacing multiple outliers with less extreme values, the winsorized mean remains less sensitive to the influence of these outliers.




Can Winsorized Mean Be Used with Non-Numeric Data?
Not really. Winsorized mean is primarily designed for numeric data, as it involves replacing numerical outliers with other numerical values. For non-numeric data, such as categorical variables or text data, other robust statistical measures or preprocessing techniques may be more appropriate.




Does Winsorized Mean Preserve Data Variability?
Winsorized mean retains more data variability than the trimmed mean, as it only replaces the extreme values with values closer to the dataset's central part. Therefore, it preserves more of the original data range and variability, making it a desirable choice in cases where maintaining variability is essential.




How Does Winsorized Mean Impact Hypothesis Testing?
Winsorized mean can affect the results of hypothesis testing by reducing the impact of extreme values on statistical tests. In cases where outliers might lead to erroneous conclusions, winsorized mean can provide more reliable test outcomes, making it a useful tool in hypothesis testing with non-normal or skewed data.


   The Bottom Line  

Winsorized mean is a statistical measure used to calculate the average of a dataset by replacing a specified percentage of extreme values or outliers with less extreme ones. This approach reduces the impact of outliers, providing a more robust estimate of the central tendency that is less sensitive to extreme values compared to the traditional arithmetic mean.
What Is Wire Fraud?  

Wire fraud is a type of fraud that involves the use of some form of telecommunications or the internet. These can include a phone call, a fax, an email, a text, or social media messaging, among many other forms. Wire fraud is punishable by prison and/or fines.





Key Takeaways

Wire fraud is a type of fraud that involves the use of some form of telecommunications or the internet.This type of crime can make use of any and all forms of electronic media including telephone or fax machine, email or social media, or SMS and text messaging.Wire fraud often involves communications made between state or national borders, and is punishable by both hefty fines and jail sentences.


   Understanding Wire Fraud  

The U.S. Department of Justice Criminal Resource Manual Section 941.18 U.S.C. 1343 cites these as the key elements of wire fraud: “1) that the defendant voluntarily and intentionally devised or participated in a scheme to defraud another out of money; 2) that the defendant did so with the intent to defraud; 3) that it was reasonably foreseeable that interstate wire communications would be used; and 4) that interstate wire communications were in fact used.”﻿﻿



Wire fraud is a federal crime that carries a sentence of not more than 20 years’ imprisonment and fines of up to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for organizations. The statute of limitations to bring a charge is five years unless the wire fraud targeted a financial institution, in which case the statute of limitations is 10 years. If the wire fraud is related to special circumstances, such as a presidentially declared state of emergency or targets a financial institution, it can carry a prison sentence of up to 30 years and a fine of up to $1 million. A person need not have actually defrauded someone or personally sent a fraudulent communication to be convicted of wire fraud. It is sufficient to prove the intent to defraud or acting with knowledge of fraudulent communications being sent.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   A History of Wire Fraud  

Not long ago, in order to perpetrate a scheme, fraudsters had to rely on the telephone and make hundreds of calls to try to hook a hapless, gullible retiree or lonely heart. The old-fashioned phone call is still employed as a means to contact prey, but today, with the awesome power of the internet to find potential victims, a fraudster’s work can be done online with a few fake postings of pictures, a tale of woe, and a promise of untold riches or everlasting love—and all of this can be written with bad grammar and spelling. If you get such messages or solicitations to send $10,000 to a stranger, delete them right away. Don’t become a victim of wire fraud.


   Example of Wire Fraud  

A common example of wire fraud is the Nigerian prince scam. In this scam, the scammer sends an email claiming to be a Nigerian prince who is down on his luck in some way, usually exiled, and can’t access the fortune in his Nigerian bank account. He claims to need the target to hold his millions for him and promises to give the target a handsome sum in return. The goal of the scam is to obtain the target’s financial information, which the scammer will use to access the target’s money.



Although it’s one of the oldest internet scams in the book, there are still consumers who fall for this rip-off or some variation of it. No matter what the circumstances – whether you receive an email from a wealthy traveler who needs your help getting back to the U.S. or your long-lost cousin who claims to be in an emergency situation – NEVER wire money to a stranger. Once you wire cash (especially overseas), it’s virtually impossible to reverse the transaction or trace the money. If you’re worried about your cousin, check separately. They’ll probably be safe at home, and you can alert them that their email’s been hacked.



One of these "Nigerian Princes" was recently detained and charged on December 28, 2017, and to no one's surprise, he turned out to be a 67-year-old man from Louisiana. This particular brand of the scheme first popped up in the 1980s and Americans have lost millions of dollars to the scam.
What Is a Wire Room?  

Wire rooms are facilities used by financial institutions to process fund transfers and order requests on behalf of clients. Typical tasks performed by wire room staff include receiving trade orders from brokers and other registered representatives, transmitting those orders to the exchange floor or the firm's trading department, and relaying notices of executed trade orders back to the brokers involved.



As financial services become increasingly automated, many of these functions have now been replaced by computerized systems.





Key Takeaways

A wire room is a department dedicated to fulfilling client fund transfers and order requests.Common examples include processing new deposits and withdrawals or implementing purchase or sales orders conveyed through client brokers.Wire rooms have security measures in place to prevent fraud and ensure transactions are completed correctly as well as being required to maintain files and records of all business conducted.Historically, wire rooms involved a large amount of staff. However, advances in automation have meant that a growing percentage of these functions are now performed by computerized systems.


   Understanding a Wire Room  

Large firms can have entire teams of staff dedicated to the wire room, while smaller firms may have staff members rotate between the wire room and other responsibilities. Increasingly, though, these tasks are becoming less reliant on humans as companies continue to automate their workflows using computers and software solutions.



Nevertheless, wire rooms remain an important part of a firm's operations. Their main function consists of receiving orders from brokers on behalf of clients, which are then passed through to the firm's traders either inside the trading department or on the floor of the relevant stock exchange.



The traders will then make the relevant purchases on behalf of the client before relaying the completed order information to the wire room once the trades are finalized. The wire room staff will then inform the broker, who in turn notifies the client that their order has been filled.



Among banks, the wire room may have access to a FedLine PC, which is a computer used to access Federal Reserve banking services. For smaller banks, banking software may be used which allows the firm to create payment orders in the Fedwire Funds Service format so that they can then be uploaded to a FedLine PC located at another institution.






Today, wire rooms are more prevalent in smaller banks whereas large banks utilize complex, customized systems to facilitate traditional wire room functions.



Any institution with a wire room should have security procedures in place to make sure that all incoming and outgoing payment orders are legitimate and accurate. Security procedures can include having a second staff member review outgoing payment orders, using code words and callbacks, and authorizing only certain employees to send and receive payment orders.



Similarly, wire rooms are required to keep detailed records of all incoming and outgoing payment orders. Historically, this was accomplished using physical printouts of all messages sent and received. Staff members would need to review these records regularly throughout the day, reporting any missing messages immediately.


   Special Considerations  

Today, many financial firms operate using highly automated workflows. Accordingly, many of these processes can be effectively combined. 



For instance, discount brokerage services can allow clients to fund their accounts, execute trade orders, and generate account management reports all from within an online user interface. 



In this situation, there are often few, if any, human staff involved. Instead, all client requests are received and fulfilled electronically by advanced computer systems, often within seconds or less.




What Is a Wire Transfer?
A wire transfer is the electronic movement of money from one party to another without the exchange of cash. Wire transfers are conducted between financial institutions on behalf of clients and facilitate funds transfers across different regions.




What Is a Banking Room?
A banking room is a room in a financial institution, typically a bank, where banking clerks or tellers sit in order to facilitate banking services for clients in person. Types of services most often include deposits, withdrawals, and transfers.




Are Wire Transfers Immediate?
Most domestic wire transfers are completed within 24 hours. International wire transfers can take a few days. Certain wire transfers, such as those within the same financial institution can often be done immediately.
What Is a Wire Transfer?  

A wire transfer is an electronic transfer of funds via a network that is administered by banks and transfer service agencies around the world. Wire transfers involve a sending and receiving institution and require information from the party initiating the transfer, such as the receiver's name and account number.



Wire transfers don't actually involve the physical exchange of cash but are settled electronically. They can be sent between banks, or through a non-bank service such as Western Union.





Key Takeaways

A wire transfer facilitates money transfers electronically across a network of banks or transfer agencies around the world.Senders pay for the transaction at the remitting bank and provide the recipient's name, bank account number, and the amount transferred.Most wire transfers can take as long as two business days to process.International wire payments are monitored by the Office of Foreign Assets Control to ensure the money isn't being wired to terrorist groups or for money laundering purposes.All transfers go through a domestic automated clearing house before they are settled.


   Understanding Wire Transfers  

Wire transfers, which are also known as wire payments, allow money to be moved quickly and securely without the need to exchange cash. They allow two parties to transfer funds even if they're in different (geographic) locations safely. A transfer is usually initiated from one bank or financial institution to another. Rather than cash, the participating institutions share information about the recipient, the bank receiving account number, and the amount transferred.



The sender pays for the transaction upfront at their bank. This party must provide their bank with the following information:



The recipient's name, address, contact number, along with any other personal information required to facilitate the transaction
The recipient's banking information, including their account number and branch number
The receiving bank's information, which includes the institution's name, address, and bank identifier (routing number or SWIFT code)
The reason for the transfer



Once the information is documented, the wire transfer can begin. The initiating firm sends a message to the recipient's institution with payment instructions through a secure system, such as Fedwire or SWIFT. The recipient's bank receives the information from the initiating bank and deposits its own reserve funds into the correct account. The two banking institutions then settle the payment on the back end after the money has been deposited.



Wire transfers are important tools for anyone who needs to send money quickly and securely—especially when they aren't in the same location. They also allow entities to transfer a large amount of money. Firms do limit the amount that can be transferred, but these caps tend to be fairly high. For instance, one company may use a wire transfer to pay for a large purchase from an international supplier.






Non-bank wire transfers do not require bank account numbers. One popular non-bank wire transfer company is Western Union, whose international money transfer service is available in more than 200 countries.


   Types of Wire Transfers  

There are two types of wire transfers: domestic and international.


  Domestic Wire Transfers  

A domestic wire transfer is any type of wire payment that takes place between two different banks or institutions within the same country. Senders may require a code or the recipient's branch number if they want to execute a transaction.



These transactions are generally processed on the same day they are initiated and can be received within a few hours. That's because a domestic wire transfer only has to go through a domestic automated clearing house (ACH) and can be delivered within a day.


  International Wire Transfers  

International wire transfers are initiated in one country and settle in another. Senders must initiate international transfers even when they send money to someone in another country who has an account at the same bank. These payments require a routing or SWIFT code.



These wire transfers are normally delivered within two business days. This extra day is required because international wires must clear a domestic ACH and also its foreign equivalent.






Domestic wire transfers can cost up to $35 per transaction or more. International wire transfers often cost much more. Some receiving institutions also charge a fee, which is deducted from the total amount received by their customer.


   Risks Associated With Wire Transfers  

Wire transfers are generally safe and secure, provided you know the person who's receiving them. If you use a legitimate wire transfer service, each person involved in a wire transfer transaction should be required to prove their identity so that anonymous transfers are impossible.



International wire transfers that originate in the United States are monitored by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, an agency of the U.S. Treasury. The agency makes sure the money sent overseas is not being used to fund terrorist activities or for money laundering purposes. In addition, they are also tasked with preventing money from going to countries that are the subject of sanctions by the U.S. government.



If the agency suspects that any of these scenarios are true, the sending bank has the authority to freeze the funds and stop the wire transfer from going through.



Wire transfers may be flagged for several reasons, alerting officials to possible wrongdoing by either the recipient or the sender in the case of:



Transfers to safe-haven countriesTransfers to non-account holdersRegular transfers for no viable reasonIncoming and outgoing wires with the same dollar amountLarge amounts wired by cash businesses


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Wire Transfers  

Wire transfers offer a convenient way to send money and pay bills to a recipient who uses a different bank. International wire transfers now take only a few days to settle, and domestic wire transfers often settle on the same day. Unlike mailed checks, they are unlikely to be misplaced or lost in the mail. Moreover, they are also reliable: While checks can bounce, a wire transfer can only be initiated if the sender has sufficient funds in their account.



However, there are some drawbacks. Banks often charge a flat fee for wire transfers, which can range between $15 and $50. This can eat up a large percentage of the transferred amount, especially for smaller transactions. In addition, some banks place a limit on the amount that can be wired in a single day.



Moreover, evolutions in fintech have provided alternatives that may be even faster than wire transfers. Tools like PayPal and Venmo allow domestic transfers in extremely small amounts, even faster than a bank wire, and for lower (or no) fees.




Pros and Cons of Wire Transfers

Pros

Fast settlement, even across borders.
Cannot be bounced or held due to insufficient funds.



Cons

Bank fees make wires impractical for some amounts.
Banks may impose a limit on the maximum transfer.
Alternative payment methods can be even faster and cheaper than wires.





   Other Options to Wire Transfers  

Prior to the development of computer networks, the main alternative to wire transfers was to mail a physical check or money order. This had obvious disadvantages since mail could sometimes be lost or delayed in transit. While it is also possible to pay by credit and debit over the phone, this method was vulnerable to credit card theft.



If the money is not needed immediately, it is also possible to send payments through the Automatic Clearinghouse, or ACH, an electronic network run by the National Automatic Clearinghouse Association. Because they are often batched together, ACH transfers are frequently used for bill payments, payroll, or tax refunds, but they can also be used for one-time transactions.



Following the widespread use of the Internet, innovations in financial technology created new ways to send money. Peer-to-peer financial services such as Venmo, Zelle, Square, and PayPal provide a fast, convenient way to send money, with small or zero fees. Moreover, they do not require any banking information about the recipient in order to do so.




How Is a Wire Transfer Done?
A wire transfer is most often used to transfer funds from one bank or financial institution to another. No physical money is transferred between banks or financial institutions when conducting a wire transfer. Instead, information is passed between banking institutions about the recipient, the bank receiving account number, and the amount transferred.The sender first pays for the transaction upfront at their bank. The sending bank sends a message to the recipient's bank with payment instructions through a secure system, such as Fedwire or SWIFT. The recipient's bank receives all the necessary information from the initiating bank and deposits its own reserve funds into the correct account.The two banking institutions then settle the payment on the back end (after the money has already been deposited).




What Are the Advantages of Wire Transfers?
Wire transfers allow for the individualized transmission of funds from individuals or entities to others while still maintaining the efficiencies associated with the fast and secure movement of money. The sender can initiate a wire transfer quickly and the recipient can access the funds immediately as there are usually no bank holds on the money. Wire transfers also allow people in different locations to safely transfer money to locales and financial institutions around the globe.




How Safe Are Wire Transfers?
A wire transfer is generally safe and secure, provided you know the recipient. A legitimate service will vet the identity of each entity involved in a transaction so that anonymous transfers are impossible.International wire transfers that originate in the United States are monitored by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, an agency of the U.S. Treasury. This agency makes sure the money being sent overseas is not being used to fund terrorist activities or for money laundering purposes. They are also tasked with preventing money from going to countries that are the subject of sanctions by the U.S. government.




How Long Does a Wire Transfer Take?
Domestic bank wires may take up to three days in the United States, but they are usually much faster, especially if the sender and recipient use the same banking institution. International wires can take up to five business days. However, human error and other factors can sometimes cause delays, in extreme cases of up to three weeks.


   The Bottom Line  

Wire transfers allow money to be sent over an electronic network between different banks. Bank wires are a relatively painless way to send large transactions, whether domestic or international. However, there are fees involved and wires may take some time to clear.
What Is a Wirehouse?  

A wirehouse is a term used to describe a full-service broker-dealer. Modern-day wirehouses range from small regional brokerages to large institutions with global footprints.





Key Takeaways

A wirehouse is a full-service broker-dealer of any size.The term "wirehouse" recalls a period in which broker-dealer offices were connected by private telephone or telegraph lines so that all branches would have immediate access to the same market information as one another.Although virtually every financial institution has moved beyond these "wires" in daily practice, the term remains one used to describe these institutions today.


   Understanding Wirehouses  

The term "wirehouse" was coined when brokerage firms were connected to their branches primarily through private telephone and telegraph wires. This network connection enabled branches to have instantaneous access to the same market information as the head office, thereby allowing brokers to provide up-to-date stock quotes and market news to clients.



Although traditionally used to describe broker-dealers, the term also described some banks and insurance companies that connected to their head office by wired telecommunication networks. Today, the internet has made it possible for these institutions to communicate and transmit data wirelessly; however, many large brokerages are still referred to as wirehouses because of the substantial impact wire communication had on their operations.


   Wirehouses and the 2008 Financial Crisis  

The global financial crisis of 2008 led to unprecedented turmoil among wirehouses primarily because of their exposure to mortgage-backed securities (MBS). The failure to regulate mortgage-backed securities and mortgage brokers were some of the contributing factors to this crisis. A number of smaller brokerages were forced to close, and some of the most prominent players (e.g., Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns) were either acquired by banks or became insolvent (e.g., Lehman Brothers). After the 2008 financial crisis, the landscape was sparse and mainly populated by powerhouse broker-dealers.


   Wirehouses Today  

Most present-day wirehouses are full-service brokerages that provide a comprehensive range of services, such as investment banking, research, trading, and wealth management. Although the proliferation of discount brokerages and online quotes has eroded the edge in market information that the wirehouses formerly possessed, their diversified activities in capital markets continue to make them very profitable entities. Examples of notable wirehouses include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Wells Fargo, and Morgan Stanley. 




Do wire houses still use dedicated telephone and telegraph lines?
No. The internet and cloud computing have done away with any vestige of the past technology used by wirehouses. The use of wirehouse to refer to a full service broker-dealer is virtually non-existent, and is mostly supplanted by terminology such as broker-dealer, brokerage, or investment bank.




What are the leading wirehouses today?
The leading banks throughout the world are typically registered as broker-dealers to enable them to conduct all manner of securities transactions in various jurisdictions. In the US, some of the largest wirehouses are Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, and JP Morgan Chase, just to name a few.




Is it true that some hedge funds have direct links (e.g. fiber optic cable) to major financial exchanges?
Yes. The largest and most sophisticated hedge funds have direct fiber optic connections to the largest financial exchanges. Most High Frequency Trading (HFT) outfits rely on such connections to gain a nano-second advantage over their competitors and to satisfy the demands of their high-frequency algorithms.


   The Bottom Line  

Wirehouse is an anachronistic term used to describe large broker-dealers and securities houses. The term refers to a time when brokerage firms relied on dedicated telegraph (the wire) and telephone lines to make financial transactions and to monitor market prices.



Today, such firms are more aptly referred to as full service broker-dealers or securities houses, which rely on the internet and cloud computing to make securities transactions. This is especially true of High Frequency Trading firms, which go so far as to build their data centers as close as possible to the exchanges they're transacting on, shortening the physical distance between the exchange and the HFT firms' operations and perhaps gaining a nano-second advantage over other market players.
What Is a Wirehouse Broker?  

A wirehouse broker is a non-independent broker working for a wirehouse firm, or a firm with multiple branches such as a national brokerage house. The four largest and most well-known wirehouse full-service brokerage firms today are Morgan Stanley, Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch, UBS, and Wells Fargo. A wirehouse is an archaic term used to describe a broker-dealer. Modern-day wirehouses can range from small regional brokerages to giant institutions with offices around the world.



The term "wirehouse" owes its origins to the fact that, prior to the advent of modern wireless communications, brokerage firms were connected to their branches primarily through telephone and telegraph wires. This enabled branches to have access to the same market information as the head office, thus allowing their brokers to provide stock quotes and market news to their clients.



A wirehouse broker is typically a full-service broker, offering research, investment advice, and order execution. By being affiliated with the wirehouse, the broker gains access to the firm's proprietary investment products, research, and technology.


   Wirehouse Broker Explained  

It was once thought that in order to provide top service to their clients, brokers had to be affiliated with a wirehouse firm. Independent brokers were often assumed to be sellers of prepackaged products and were viewed as second-class citizens in the financial world. Things have changed in this regard. However, as many of the big wirehouses experienced major shocks in the financial crisis of 2008.


   Wirehouses and the Financial Crisis  

The global financial crisis led to unprecedented turmoil among wirehouses, primarily because of the very substantial exposure that many of them had to mortgage-backed securities. While a number of the smaller players were forced to close shop, some of the most prominent names in the industry (such as Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns) were either acquired by bigger banks or disappeared altogether into bankruptcy (Lehman Brothers). These events served to level the playing field as wirehouse brokers looked for new options upon leaving the failed firms.



Most present-day wirehouses are full-service brokerages that provide the complete range of services to clients, from investment banking and research, to trading and wealth management. Although the proliferation of discount brokerages and online quotes has eroded the edge in market information that the wirehouses formerly possessed, their diversified activities in capital markets continue to make them very profitable entities.



Nevertheless, in recent years, a number of wirehouse brokers have moved to independent broker-dealers. According to research by InvestmentNews, the three largest U.S. independent broker-dealers — LPL Financial, Ameriprise Financial Inc. and Raymond James Financial Inc. — recruited 118 teams from the wirehouses in 2017, up 42% from a year earlier, when those same three firms gained 83 teams, according to data.﻿﻿
What Is Wisconsin School of Business?  

Wisconsin School of Business is the business school of the University of Wisconsin at Madison. Founded in 1900, the school offers both undergraduate and graduate programs.﻿﻿



The Wisconsin School of Business is known for its emphasis on applied learning, with coursework often incorporating problems drawn directly from real business situations. Its Master of Business Administration (MBA) is regularly ranked among the top 40 in the United States.





Key Takeaways

Wisconsin School of Business is located at the University of Wisconsin at Madison.Tuition, fees and expenses for the MBA program cost $21,166 per year for in-state residents and $42,704 annually for non-residents.﻿﻿There were 96 students enrolled in the full-time MBA 2022 graduating class. Eighty percent of MBA candidates scored between 610 and 700 on the GMAT.﻿﻿Recent graduates reported a starting salary of nearly $108,000 per year, while the average signing bonus was $24,700.﻿﻿


   How Wisconsin School of Business Works  

Unlike schools that rely on naming gifts from wealthy donors, the Wisconsin School of Business has taken a different path. In 2007, a group of 13 alumni donated $85 million to their alma mater in exchange for a promise that the school could not be renamed for 20 years.﻿﻿﻿﻿ As such, the school remains the Wisconsin School of Business, whereas many other business schools are named after their wealthy donors.



In the Fall of 2020, the Wisconsin School of Business enrolled 3,300 undergrads. Top majors included finance and investment banking; marketing; real estate and urban land economics; and management and human resources.﻿﻿﻿﻿ There were 96 students enrolled in the full-time MBA 2022 graduating class. Eighty percent of MBA candidates scored between 610 and 700 on the GMAT.﻿﻿﻿﻿



In 2019, U.S. News & World Report ranked the school's undergraduate business program as No. 7 among public schools and No. 15 overall.﻿﻿﻿﻿ The school also is a top producer of chief executive officers at Fortune 500 companies.﻿﻿﻿﻿



The Wisconsin School of Business offers a number of MBA and postgraduate programs. The full-time MBA program (which includes a summer internship) takes 21 months to complete. The school offers virtual and weekend classes for working professionals, for an MBA that can be completed in two to five years. Its Executive MBA program is held on weekends every fortnight and includes a 10-day trip abroad.﻿﻿﻿﻿


   Real World Example of Wisconsin School of Business  

For 2019, Forbes ranked the full-time MBA program at the Wisconsin School of Business as No. 35 in the U.S.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ U.S. News & World Report and Businessweek ranked it No. 37, while The Economist gave it similar marks.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Tuition, fees and expenses cost $21,166 per year for in-state residents and $42,704 annually for non-residents.﻿﻿﻿﻿ The relatively lower tuition costs helped earn the school the No. 1 spot for MBA programs in terms of return on investment as ranked by U.S. News & World Report in 2018.﻿﻿﻿﻿



Recent graduates reported a starting salary of nearly $108,000 per year, while the average signing bonus was $24,700. Almost 90% of students had secured job offers within three months of graduation. Graduates have taken jobs in real estate, risk management and insurance, supply chain management, brand and product management, among other fields.﻿﻿﻿﻿
What Is Wisdom of Crowds?  

Wisdom of crowds is the idea that large groups of people are collectively smarter than individual experts when it comes to problem-solving, decision-making, innovating, and predicting. The idea is that the viewpoint of an individual can inherently be biased, whereas taking the average knowledge of a crowd can result in eliminating the bias or noise to produce a clearer and more coherent result.



The theory is often applied to financial markets to show why markets in some instances operate efficiently and other times, inefficiently. Market participants in the crowd need to be diverse and have an incentive for markets to function efficiently.





Key Takeaways

Wisdom of crowds refers to the idea that large groups of people are collectively smarter than individual experts.Wisdom of crowds was first popularized by New Yorker writer James Surowiecki in his 2004 book, The Wisdom of Crowds.The wisdom of crowds theory helps explain market movement and herd-like behavior among investors.For crowds to be wise, they must be characterized by a diversity of opinions and each person's opinion should be independent and free from the influence of others.The quality of the crowd matters, as an ill-informed crowd or one with little knowledge, can lead to adverse outcomes.


   Understanding Wisdom of Crowds  

The wisdom of crowds concept was popularized by James Surowiecki in his 2004 book, The Wisdom of Crowds, which examines how large groups have made superior decisions in pop culture, psychology, biology, behavioral economics, and other fields.



The idea of wisdom of crowds can be traced back to Aristotle’s theory of collective judgment as presented in his work Politics. He used a potluck dinner as an example, explaining that a group of individuals may come together to create a more satisfying feast for the group as a whole than what one individual might provide.



Crowds aren’t always wise. In fact, some can be the opposite. Take, for instance, frenzied investors who participate in a stock market bubble like the one that occurred in the 1990s with dotcom companies.



The group, or crowd, involved in this bubble invested based on speculation that Internet startups would become profitable at some point in the future.



Many of these companies’ stock prices soared, despite the fact that they had yet to generate any revenue. Unfortunately, a good portion of the companies went under as panic ensued in the markets following mass sell orders on the stocks of some of the major tech companies.


   Characteristics of a Wise Crowd  

According to Surowiecki, wise crowds have several key characteristics:



The crowd should be able to have a diversity of opinions.One person’s opinion should remain independent of those around them (and should not be influenced by anyone else).Anyone taking part in the crowd should be able to make their own opinion based on their individual knowledge.The crowd should be able to aggregate individual opinions into one collective decision.



A 2018 study updated the wisdom of crowds theory by suggesting that crowds within an existing group are wiser than the group itself. The researchers called their results an improvement over the existing wisdom of crowds theory.



They recorded responses to their questions privately, from individuals, and collectively, by having small groups that were subdivisions of larger ones discuss the same question before providing an answer. The researchers found that responses from the small groups, in which the question was discussed before an answer was agreed upon, were more accurate than individual responses.


   Wisdom of Crowds in Financial Markets  

The wisdom of crowds can also help explain what makes markets, which are a type of crowd, efficient at times and inefficient at others. If market participants are not diverse and if they lack incentives, then markets will be inefficient and an item’s price will be out of step with its value.



In a 2015 Bloomberg article, wealth manager and columnist Barry Ritholtz argued that prediction markets (for example, futures markets), unlike markets for goods and services, lack the wisdom of crowds because they do not have a large or diverse pool of participants.



He points out that prediction markets failed spectacularly in trying to guess the outcomes of events such as the Greek referendum, the Michael Jackson trial, and the 2004 Iowa primary. The individuals trying to predict the outcomes of these events were simply guessing based on public polling data and did not have any special individual or collective knowledge.



While there is merit to the idea that the many are smarter than the few, it is not always true, particularly when members of the crowd are aware of and are influenced by one another’s ideas. Consensus thinking among a group of people with poor judgment can, unsurprisingly, lead to poor group decision-making; this factor may have been one of the causes of the 2008 financial crisis.



It can also explain why democracies sometimes elect unqualified leaders. In other words, as explained by British science writer Philip Ball in a 2014 article for the BBC, it matters who is in the crowd.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Wisdom of Crowds  

Wisdom of crowds allows for diversity and a broad range of thinking. This provides more color and experience in problem-solving than that of an individual, which may often be biased. It also allows for the integration of information, whereby the vast knowledge of separate individuals creates a larger knowledge pool.



One of the main criticisms of wisdom of crowds is that humans tend to conform, leading to "groupthink," which defeats the purpose of the diversity needed in wisdom of crowds. In addition, if many individuals are aiming to reach a decision and consensus, it can lead to disagreements and in-fighting.





Pros

Diversity
Information integration
Large knowledge pool



Cons

Conformity
Disagreements and in-fighting





   Examples of Wisdom of Crowds  

Two examples that show how the concept works:



By averaging together the individual guesses of a large group about the weight of an object, the answer may be more accurate than the guesses of experts most familiar with that object.The collective judgment of a diverse group can compensate for the bias of a small group. In trying to guess the outcome of a World Series game, fans may be irrationally biased toward their preferred teams, but a large group that includes plenty of non-fans and individuals who dislike both World Series teams may be able to more accurately predict the winner.




What Is the Difference Between Wisdom of Crowds and Crowdsourcing?
Wisdom of the crowd is a theory that assumes large crowds are collectively smarter than individual experts. It believes that the collective knowledge and opinions of a group are better at decision-making, problem-solving, and innovating than an individual. Crowdsourcing is the process of gathering information, work, data, or opinions from a large group of individuals. Crowdsourcing can be voluntary or come from paid freelancers.




What Is the Crowd Within?
The crowd within theory states that the average of two estimates made by one individual is more accurate than a single estimate made from that same person. The theory seeks to prove that the overall idea of wisdom of crowds can be achieved through the crowd within.




What Are Wisdom of Crowds Criticisms?
One of the main criticisms of wisdom of crowds is that if the crowd itself is not particularly educated or diverse, then the outcome of the wisdom of the crowd will be no better and most often worse than that of an individual expert. The wisdom of crowds idea significantly depends on the quality of the crowd. In addition, humans tend to conform in groups, which leads to "groupthink," defeating the purpose of having a diversified group.


   The Bottom Line  

Wisdom of crowds is a theory that assumes that the knowledge of a crowd results in better decision-making, innovation, and problem-solving than that of an individual. A crowd needs to be large, diverse, and individuals within the crowd cannot be influenced by others for the theory to work. Wisdom of crowds can explain much of the efficiency and inefficiency of financial markets.
What Is the Witching Hour?  

The witching hour is the last hour of trading on the third Friday of each month when options and futures on stocks and stock indexes expire. This period is often characterized by heavy volumes as traders close out options and futures contracts before expiry. Positions are then often re-opened in contracts that expire at a later date.





Key Takeaways

The witching hour is the last trading hour before options or other derivatives contracts expire.This period is often characterized by heavy volumes as traders rush to close out or roll positions.Double and triple witching refer to the expiration of multiple types of derivatives contracts on the same day.


   Understanding Witching Hours  

The witching hour is the final hour of trading before the expiration of derivatives contracts. More often traders will use terms such as "triple witching," which refers to the expiration of stock options, index options, and index futures on the same day. This event occurs on the third Friday of March, June, September, and December.



When single stock futures were traded in the U.S. between 2002 and 2020 they expired on the same quarterly schedule, giving rise to the term "quadruple witching." Meanwhile, double witching occurs on the third Friday of the eight months that aren't triple witching. On double witching, the expiring contracts are options on stocks and stock indexes.



The activity that takes place during monthly witching hours can be broken down into two categories: rolling out or closing expiring contracts to avoid the expiration and purchases of the underlying asset. Due to the imbalances that can occur as these trades are being placed, arbitrageurs also seek opportunities resulting from pricing inefficiencies.


   Reasons to Offset Positions  

The primary reason for escalated activity on witching hour days is contracts that are not closed out may result in the purchase or sale of the underlying security. For example, futures contracts that are not closed require the seller to deliver the specified quantity of the underlying security or commodity to the buyer of the contract.



Options that are in-the-money (ITM) may result in the underlying asset being exercised and assigned to the contract owner. In both cases, if the contract owner or contract writer is not in a position to pay the full value of the security to be delivered, the contract has to be closed out prior to expiration.



Rolling out or rolling forward, on the other hand, is when a position in the expiring contract is closed and replaced with a contract expiring at a later date. The trader closes the expiring position, settling the gain or loss, and then opens a new position at the current market rate in a different contract. This process creates volume in the expiring contract and the contracts the traders are moving into.


   Opportunities for Arbitrage  

In addition to the increased volume related to the offsetting of contracts during witching hours, the last hour of trading can also result in price inefficiencies and, with it, potential arbitrage opportunities. Due to heavy volume coming in over a short time frame, opportunistic traders seek imbalances in supply and demand.



For example, contracts representing large short positions may be bid higher if traders expect the contracts to be purchased to close positions prior to expiration. Under these circumstances, traders may sell contracts at temporarily high prices and then close them out prior to the end of the witching hour. Alternatively, they might buy the contract to ride the up wave, then sell once the buying frenzy slows down.
What Is a With Approved Credit (WAC) Statement?  

A with approved credit statement, or WAC statement for short, is a qualifier used in advertisements. It is intended to clarify that the offer being promoted is conditional on the buyer having an adequate credit rating.



WAC statements are typically included in relation to offers of financing, such as hypothetical lease terms provided in an ad for a new car.





Key Takeaways

WAC statements are a type of disclaimer used by advertisers.They are intended to clarify that the promotional offer described in the ad is only available subject to a credit approval process.WAC statements are designed to protect the advertiser against accusations of false or misleading advertising.


   Understanding WAC Statements  

WAC statements are one of many types of qualifying statements that are commonly used in ads. These statements, colloquially known as the ad's "fine print" due to the small font in which they are usually written, are intended to protect the advertiser against allegations of false or misleading advertising.



To that end, qualifying statements generally provide additional details on the conditions associated with the particular offer being promoted in the ad. In the case of WAC statements, the offer typically relates to the financeability of the product, such as when a car or other big-ticket item can be purchased using credit provided by the seller or an affiliated lender. These advertisements often include incentives, such as interest-free periods or minimal down payments.



Including a WAC statement is an import risk minimization strategy for the advertiser. Without this disclaimer, the advertiser might be accused of using bait-and-switch practices. This practice consists of offering a product or service to a group of customers, where some or all of those customers will in fact not be able to purchase that product or service under the price or terms advertised. Bait-and-switch tactics are considered fraudulent and are a violation of consumer protection laws. Consequently, companies are careful to avoid this liability by disclosing the terms of their offerings through WAC statements and other disclaimers.



The WAC statements themselves typically clarify that in order to qualify for the advertised terms, the customer will need to qualify for credit approval based on considerations such as their credit rating, their current and historical income level, and their employment status. However, consumer protection legislation, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), prevents companies from considering personal identity factors, such as the customer's ethnicity, gender, age, religion, or sexual orientation.


   Example of a WAC Statement  

Laura is in the market to purchase a new car. One day, she encounters a TV ad for a new car that seems to meet the specifications she is looking for. Although the car would typically be more expensive than she can afford, the advertisement states that the manufacturer is currently offering an attractive financing package featuring a minimal down payment and very low interest rates for the first 12 months.



Upon further inspection, however, Laura realizes that she would not be able to participate in this offer. Written in fine print near the bottom of the ad, the company's WAC statement clarifies that these attractive financing terms are only available subject to a credit approval process in which the applicant's credit score, current income, and collateral will be taken into consideration. Because Laura currently has a poor credit score and limited collateral, she anticipates that her application would not be approved.
What Is With Benefit of Survivorship?  

"With benefit of survivorship" refers to a legal agreement where property co-owners automatically receive full ownership when another co-owner dies. This process avoids legal hassles involved with estate settlements.


   Understanding With Benefit of Survivorship  

With benefit of survivorship typically describes a form of joint tenancy ownership where, when one owner dies, the assets automatically pass to one or more surviving members of the agreement. Such agreements are often termed "joint tenants with right of survivorship," and they commonly occur when two or more people own big-ticket items such as real estate, business entities, or investment accounts.



Joint tenancy with benefit of survivorship bypasses the probate process that otherwise applies when conveying an estate’s assets to survivors.





Key Takeaways

With benefit of survivorship is a legal agreement between co-owners of a property, wherein one receives full ownership of the property if the other dies.It bypasses the probate process that is generally undertaken to convey an estate's assets to survivors.A key requirement of the agreement is that all co-owners must acquire the same title on the asset at the same time and control an equal share.


   Joint Tenancy and Tenancy in Common  

Survivorship benefits form the basis of most decisions to enter into joint tenancy. Common law requires distinct circumstances to recognize a joint tenancy agreement: all co-owners must acquire the same title on the asset at the same time, and all owners must control an equal share of the asset. All owners must also have equal rights to possess the asset. Agreements that lack any of these requirements would fail to qualify as joint tenancy.



Tenancy in common (TIC) agreements offer an option for co-ownership of assets without benefit of survivorship. Tenancy in common agreements cover all co-ownership situations that fail to meet the necessary criteria for joint tenancy as well as situations in which one or more of the co-owners desire to pass their ownership interest to another individual in the event of their death. Assets inherited from tenancy in common agreements do not avoid the probate process in the way that assets automatically passed to survivors in a joint tenancy do, however.


   Other Agreements With Survivor Beneficiaries  

Other elements of estate planning also involve the passage of survivor benefits. Specifically, life insurance plans, retirement plans, annuities, and Social Security benefits can automatically pass to another individual when the covered person dies. In addition to the basic passage of such assets through a named beneficiary, some insurance policies and annuities offer riders that allow the insurance policy or annuity itself to pass to a specified survivor after the primary insured or annuitant dies. Examples include variable survivorship life insurance and joint and survivor annuities.


   Example of With Benefit of Survivorship  

If a married couple jointly owned a home with right of survivorship, then ownership of the entire home would automatically pass to the surviving spouse upon their partner’s death. Without such an agreement and in the absence of other estate-planning options such as trusts, the home would go through the probate process, which takes time and may not always go according to the desires of all those expecting an inheritance.
What Is Discretionary Order?  

A discretionary order is an order condition that gives a broker some latitude for its execution in terms of timing, price, and so on. A discretionary order may also be called a not-held order.





Key Takeaways

Discretionary orders are those where a broker has some latitude in working the order on behalf of a client, without their express permission for each individual order decision or detail.Discretion most commonly accompanies conditional orders such as setting the limit price in response to changing market conditions.Discretionary orders are also a key component of discretionary investment management, whereby a broker or advisor trades on behalf of a client without getting their input on every action.Discretionary orders relieve the broker from responsibility for potential losses that their client may suffer, so long as they are using their discretion with the aim of best execution.


   Understanding Discretionary Order  

More broadly, a discretionary order is one where a broker or other financial markets professional can place and work an order without explicit acknowledgment from the customer. These orders can broaden the specification of standard types of conditional orders to give an order a higher likelihood of execution. Additionally, discretionary orders help to improve the chances of order execution while still also allowing the investor to place certain conditional constraints.



Standard types of conditional orders can include an additional discretionary component. The discretionary component is commonly added to limit orders and stop loss orders. This component is a basic order provision that allows the investor to include a discretionary amount with their order. Thus, if a broker is a given a limit order with discretion, the broker may choose to change the limit price in response to market activity and liquidity when the order is received.



Discretionary orders can be placed through electronic trading systems or with a broker. In either case, the investor specifies with a broker-dealer a conditional order with a discretionary amount. The discretionary amount is typically quoted in cents and gives the order some additional latitude for being executed beyond the standard conditions. These orders are viewed as special orders by broker-dealers who monitor them for submission. Broker-dealers will seek to submit orders based on the best price for the customer.



Discretionary orders are subject to broker-dealer allowances. If offered they can usually be added to all types of orders. In some cases, an investor may add a discretionary amount to a single-day order. Discretionary amounts can also be added to good 'til canceled (GTC) orders which remain open indefinitely unless canceled by the investor.


   Discretionary Order Examples  

Many investors choose to add a discretionary amount to standard buy and sell limit orders. Limit orders are the most basic type of conditional order allowing an investor to choose a specified price for which they seek to buy or sell a security. Buy limit order prices will be below the market price and sell limit orders are above the market price.



In a discretionary buy limit order, an investor would specify a below-market price for execution. This investor would also specify a discretionary amount either through their trading system or with their broker directly. If an investor placed a buy limit order of $20 on a stock currently priced at $22 with a 10 cent discretionary amount, then it means they seek to buy the security at $20 but would permit a buy order price of $20 to $20.10. If the price falls to $20.10, this order would be submitted and executed for the investor.



In a discretionary sell limit order, an investor would specify an above-market price for execution. This investor would also specify a discretionary amount with their order. If an investor places a sell order at $24 on a stock currently trading at $22 with a 10 cent discretionary amount, then the order could be submitted and executed at a selling price of $23.90 or higher.


   Discretionary Investment Management  

Discretionary investment management is a form of investment management in which buy and sell decisions are made by a portfolio manager or investment counselor for the client's account. The term "discretionary" refers to the fact that investment decisions are made at the portfolio manager's discretion. This means that the client must have the utmost trust in the investment manager's capabilities.



Discretionary investment management can only be offered by individuals who have extensive experience in the investment industry and advanced educational credentials. Discretionary investment management is generally only offered to high-net-worth clients who have a significant level of investable assets.



These clients must maintain a discretionary account—an investment account that allows an authorized broker to buy and sell securities without the client's consent for each trade. They must also sign a discretionary disclosure with the broker as documentation of the client's consent. A discretionary account is sometimes referred to as a managed account; many brokerage houses require client minimums (such as $250,000) to be eligible for this service, and usually charge between 1% and 2% a year of assets under management (AUM) in fees.
What Is a Withdrawal?  

A withdrawal involves removing funds from a bank account, savings plan, pension, or trust. In some cases, conditions must be met to withdraw funds without a penalty. A penalty for an early withdrawal usually arises when a clause in an investment contract is broken.





Key Takeaways

A withdrawal involves removing funds from a bank account, savings plan, pension, or trust.Some accounts don't function like simple bank accounts and carry fees for the early withdrawal of funds.Both certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts deal with withdrawal penalties if the accounts are withdrawn before the stipulated time.


   How a Withdrawal Works  

A withdrawal can be carried out over a period of time in fixed or variable amounts or in one lump sum and as a cash withdrawal or in-kind withdrawal. A cash withdrawal requires converting the holdings of an account, plan, pension, or trust into cash, usually through a sale, while an in-kind withdrawal simply involves taking possession of assets without converting them to cash.


   Retirement Account Withdrawals  

Some retirement accounts, known as IRAs, have special rules that govern the timing and amounts of withdrawals. As an example, beneficiaries must start taking the required minimum distribution (RMD), or withdrawal, from a traditional IRA by age 73 if they were born between 1951 and 1959 or 75 if they were born in 1960 or after. Otherwise, the person who owns the account incurs a penalty equal to 50% of the RMD.



On the other hand, with few exceptions, an account owner must refrain from withdrawing funds until at least age 59½ or the Internal Revenue Service takes 10% of the withdrawal amount in a penalty. Financial institutions calculate the RMD based on the owner's age, the account balance, and other factors.


   Certificates of Deposit Withdrawals  

In addition to an IRA withdrawal, banks typically offer certificates of deposit (CD) as a way for investors to earn interest. CDs draw higher interest rates than traditional savings accounts, but that's because the money stays in the bank's possession for a minimum amount of time. CDs mature after a set amount of time, and then someone can withdraw payments from the account, including any interest accrued during the time period.





A withdrawal can be carried out over a period of time in fixed or variable amounts or in one lump sum.



Penalties for early withdrawals from CDs are steep. If someone withdrew early from a one-year CD, the average penalty was six months of interest. For a five-year CD, the typical penalty was 12 months' interest. If someone withdrew money early from a three-month CD, the penalty included the entire three months of interest accrued in the account.



Some penalties from banks dipped into taking a small percentage, such as 1% or 2%, of the principal amount invested in a CD. Banks assess early withdrawal penalties proportional to the time an investor must leave the money in the account, which means a longer-term CD gets a higher penalty.




What Does a Cash Withdrawal Mean?
A cash withdrawal refers to taking money out of a bank account, usually a checking account, in the form of cash. This is typically done at an ATM machine or at a physical location of a bank.




When Can I Start Taking Money Out of My IRA?
You can start taking money out of a traditional IRA at the age of 59½ without any penalties. If you take out money before then, you will incur a 10% early withdrawal penalty. You can take money out of a Roth IRA at any time, but only the amount you have contributed, not any earnings. Earnings can be taken out at age 59½.




How Do I Withdraw Money From My Retirement Accounts?
When you are 59½ you may begin withdrawing money from your retirement accounts without penalty. Note that for tax-advantaged plans, such as traditional IRAs and 401(k)s, you will need to pay taxes on the amounts withdrawn. Aside from that fact, you just need your account information to be able to begin withdrawing and receiving your funds in the manner of your choosing.


   The Bottom Line  

Withdrawals are the removal of funds from a specific financial account, whether that be a bank account, pension account, or retirement account, to name but a few. Some withdrawals don't come with any stipulations, such as taking money out of your bank account, while others, such as some retirement accounts, have set rules on when money can be withdrawn. Before taking out money from any of your accounts, make sure you are following the rules to avoid any penalties or fees.
What Are Withdrawal Benefits?  

Withdrawal benefits refer to the rights of employees with pension or other retirement plans (e.g. 401(k) plans) to cash out any accumulated funds upon leaving an employer.



If the recipient is younger than age 59½, these funds must be rolled into a qualified retirement plan (either at a new employer or in an individual retirement account (IRA)), or else they would typically be subject to an early withdrawal penalty and any deferred tax liability may be owed.





Key Takeaways

Withdrawal benefits allow individuals with an employer-sponsored retirement account to claim those funds upon leaving that employer.If younger than the minimum retirement age, these funds must be rolled over to another qualified retirement plan, or else face penalties and taxes.If a company matches retirement contributions, vested amounts will be included in the withdrawal benefits.


   Understanding Withdrawal Benefits  

Withdrawal benefits apply most often to defined contribution (DC) plans, under which employers and employees each contribute either a fixed amount or a percentage of each employee’s paycheck, to a plan such as a 401(k). Many companies with defined contribution plans match what employees save for retirement at a fixed ratio, up to a certain salary percentage, such as when an employer matches 50 cents on the dollar, up to 6 percent of each individual’s salary.



Withdrawal benefits may also apply to a defined benefit (DB), or traditional pension plan. But in most cases, any earned benefits from these plans remain locked up until employees become eligible to receive them, typically at age 62.



The value of withdrawal benefits depends on an individual employee's salary or pay scale, years of service, and possibly other factors. It also varies based on whether the employee is vested. Some companies and unions use cliff vesting, where all benefits, including company matches, kick in after a certain number of years, while others offer graded vesting, under which benefits accrue over time.


   Who Are the Recipients of Withdrawal Benefits?  

Withdrawal benefits come into play most often for employees who are leaving the type of midsize-to-large employers that tend to offer 401(k)s. Vested employees often receive a check for any withdrawal benefits; for tenured employees, this may be the largest check they have ever received in their lives.



Under a set of specific circumstances, employees who are not of retirement age can roll over, or transfer, this check to a new employer's 401(k), or to an individual retirement account (IRA) for a set period without incurring tax liabilities or penalties.



Note that most employer- and union-sponsored retirement plans in private industry in the U.S. fall under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).


   Basic Rules Related to Withdrawal Benefits  

Reinvesting withdrawal benefits without a penalty is fairly straightforward, provided employees follow the rules. Any check needs to go into either a qualifying IRA or retirement plan within 60 days; otherwise, the employee must pay tax on it. This means employees much check with their new employers to be sure the new plan is qualifying.



Receiving withdrawal benefits either requires employees to fill out forms or answer a series of questions online or over the phone. Withdrawal benefits often take a week or more to process.



Employees age 55 or over receiving withdrawal benefits from a 401(k) may be allowed to take a lump-sum distribution from a defined-contribution plan without paying a penalty for early withdrawal. The same general idea applies to IRAs, although the minimum age is 59½. In either case, employees still owe ordinary income taxes.
What Are Withdrawal Credits: Pension Plan?  

A withdrawal credit in a pension plan refers to the portion of an individual’s retirement assets in a qualified pension plan that the employee is entitled to withdraw when they leave a job.





Key Takeaways

A withdrawal credit in a pension plan refers to the portion of an employee's retirement assets in a qualified pension plan that the employee is entitled to withdraw when they leave a job.Under most pension plans, both the employer and employee make periodic contributions to a fund shared by all eligible employees.Whether you have a government-sponsored plan or one in the private sector, it's important to know your options and obligations before you withdraw funds from your retirement account.


   Understanding Withdrawal Credits: Pension Plan  

In the context of pension plans, withdrawal credits describe the rights of an employee-participant in a qualified pension plan to withdraw their portion of assets, plus a share of employer contributions (if applicable) upon their departure from that job.



Under most pension plans, employers make periodic contributions (some may allow additional contributions by the employee) to a fund shared by all eligible employees,


  Withdrawal Credit Distributions  

Each individual has an account within that fund, and multiple employers may participate in a single pension fund. When an eligible employee reaches retirement age, they are entitled to periodic distributions that generally equal a percentage of their income in pre-retirement years.



An employee who leaves a firm before retirement age likely would be eligible for a partial distribution of their pension funds, depending on the vesting rules established by the employer and the plan.


   Withdrawal Credits: Pension Plan Prior to Retirement  

When an employee leaves a firm prior to retirement age, various factors determine the extent to which they are entitled to their pension's balance. Most important among these is their vesting status. Vesting refers to the extent to which the employee has control over their retirement assets.



In most cases, employees' contributions vest immediately, and employees with longer tenures will be entitled to a greater share of employers’ contributions.






Employees can roll over their pension into individual retirement accounts (IRAs) after leaving the company,


  Rules That Govern Withdrawal Credits  

For public-sector pensions, withdrawal rules are determined on a state-by-state basis. Private pensions are subject to rules set out in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974. ERISA and subsequent tax rules outline a complex system of policies regarding vesting and withdrawals from the many variations of defined benefit and contribution plans.



Beyond the ERISA guidelines, employers have the discretion to structure their plans to their own needs. When leaving a company, it's wise to consider your own needs by educating yourself about your options and obligations about withdrawals from qualified retirement plans.






In a pension plan (defined benefit plans), the responsibility for funding an employee's retirement rests on the employer, but in a defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k), the responsibility falls on the employee.


   Defined-Benefit vs. Defined-Contribution Plans  

The defined-benefit plan is the most common type of pension plan. A defined-benefit plan is an employer-sponsored retirement plan where employee benefits are computed using a formula that considers several factors, such as length of employment and salary history. 



Defined-benefit plans guarantee the retiree a set cash distribution upon retirement. Because the employer is responsible for making investment decisions and managing the plan's investments, the employer assumes all the investment and planning risks.



In a defined-contribution plan, like a 401(k) or a 403(b), employees contribute a fixed amount or a percentage of their paychecks to an account that is intended to fund their retirements. The IRS has set an annual contribution limit for 401(k)s and defined-contribution plans.



For 2022, the maximum contribution limit that an employee can make to a 401(k) is $20,500. For 2023, that number increases to $22,500. Those who are aged 50 or more can make an additional catch-up contribution of $6,500 for 2022, increasing to $7,500 for 2023.



Sometimes the sponsoring company will match a portion of employee contributions as an added benefit. However, the total contribution between the employee and employer cannot exceed the lesser of $61,000 in 2022 and $66,000 in 2023. For those aged 50 and over, there's a $6,500 catch-up contribution, bringing the total contribution up to $67,500 for 2022. For 2023, the catch-up contribution is $7,500, meaning that the total contribution limit is $73,500.



A defined-contribution plan is generally comprised of investments, which the employee selects from a curated list of options that often consists of mutual funds. There is no way of knowing how much a defined-contribution plan will ultimately give the employee upon retiring, as contribution levels can change, and the returns on the investments may go up and down.
What Is a Withdrawal Penalty?  

A withdrawal penalty refers to any penalty incurred by an individual for the early withdrawal of funds from an account that is either locked in for a stated period, as in a time deposit at a financial institution (e.g., a CD), or where such withdrawals are subject to penalties by law, such as from an individual retirement account (IRA) or 401(k) plan.





Key Takeaways

A withdrawal penalty refers to the charge given to an individual if they perform an early withdrawal from a locked or time-specific account.An example of one of these accounts would be a retirement account like an IRA.The amount of a withdrawal penalty depends on many factors, including the type of financial instrument involved.In the case of an IRA, there are specific allowances made for early withdrawal without incurring a penalty tax. The withdrawal penalty for taking funds from an IRA or other retirement accounts can be expensive.


   How a Withdrawal Penalty Works  

A withdrawal penalty can vary depending on the type of funds or financial instrument involved, along with other factors. The penalty can be either in the form of forfeiture of interest or an actual dollar amount. When you open an account or become a participant in a retirement plan, you will generally receive in-depth documentation that spells out all of the terms of the arrangement or contract. This typically includes details about what constitutes an early withdrawal, and what penalties, if any, you would incur should you decide to make an early withdrawal from that account.



For example, an early withdrawal from a certificate of deposit (CD) at most financial institutions would result in the customer forfeiting interest for a period ranging from one month to several months. Generally speaking, the longer the term of the initial certificate of deposit, the longer the interest forfeiture period.






An alternative option to taking an early withdrawal is taking a qualified retirement plan loan.


   Withdrawal Penalties for IRA Accounts  

In the case of IRAs, withdrawals before the age of 59½ are subject to a penalty of 10%. Of course, you'll also have to pay income taxes on the amount withdrawn—from a traditional IRA or 401(k)—since it'll be considered taxable income. The amount you'd pay would be dependent on your total annual income and the subsequent income tax bracket.﻿﻿



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does allow for some exceptions to the tax penalties for early withdrawal of IRA funds, under certain circumstances. For example, the penalties may be waived if the funds were withdrawn because the person lost their job and needs funds to make the premium payments on their medical insurance policy.﻿﻿



Also, an early withdrawal might be exempt from tax penalties if the funds are being used for tuition expenses for the account holder, their spouse, or a dependent. Certain restrictions and conditions apply, so it’s important to review the rules set by the IRS prior to taking any actions involving withdrawing funds early from an IRA account.﻿﻿


  Special Considerations  

It's important to note that a qualified plan, such as a 401(k), can have different rules and penalties for early distributions versus a traditional IRA. For example, the early-withdrawal exception for IRAs doesn't apply to qualified plans for those who are unemployed and wish to use IRA funds for health insurance premiums.



The withdrawal penalty for taking funds from an IRA or other accounts can be steep, so it is wise to consider other strategies for obtaining necessary funds that would not involve the possibility of a significant penalty.






An alternative option might be to take a qualified retirement plan loan. The proceeds of that type of loan are not taxable if the loan abides by certain rules, and repayment follows the required schedule and terms.


   Example of a Withdrawal Penalty: Annuity Surrender Charges  

Many deferred annuities have a withdrawal penalty in the early years of the contract known as a surrender charge. In such an annuity, an individual places either a lump sum of money or regular installment payments into an account (often with an insurance company).



Some years later, that accumulated money is converted into a regular cash flow stream, in many cases until the annuity holder dies. If the annuitant chooses to take out some of the contributed funds before the annuitization phase, there will be a withdrawal penalty.



The size of the surrender fee will vary among insurers and may be something like 10% if money is touched in the first year or two. Generally, this penalty decreases over time, so it may only be 5% in the fifth year and 1% in the tenth year, as an example.




What Is the 401(k) Early Withdrawal Penalty?
Early withdrawals from a 401(k) account (i.e., before age 59½) incur a 10% penalty. Furthermore, any deferred taxes due on that money will be owed at the time of withdrawal. The penalty is the same for an individual retirement account (IRA).




What Is the Early Withdrawal Penalty for a CD?
Generally, if a CD is not held to maturity there will be an early withdrawal penalty. This is often in the form of interest credited. For example, the penalty on a 24-month CD may be six months' interest. Note that some banks today offer CDs with more flexible terms, with some carrying no penalty for early withdrawals.




What Is a Hardship Withdrawal?
You are allowed to make early withdrawals from qualified retirement accounts under special circumstances. These so-called hardship withdrawals can be made to cover medical emergencies or disability expenses, certain education expenses, and to help purchase a first home. While these will not carry the 10% penalty, you will still owe the deferred taxes on that money.
What Is a Withdrawal Plan?  

A withdrawal plan is a financial plan that allows a shareholder to withdraw money from a mutual fund or other investment account at predetermined intervals. Often, this type of plan is used to fund expenses during retirement. However, it may be used for other purposes as well.





Key Takeaways

A withdrawal plan is a plan for withdrawing from mutual funds or other types of investment accounts.This is a payment structure allowing withdrawals on a periodic basis.A withdrawal plan provides an income stream during retirement years.


   How a Withdrawal Plan Works  

A withdrawal plan is sometimes called a “systematic withdrawal plan.” It is a payment structure arranged with a mutual fund in which the investor receives a set amount of funds from the fund on a periodic basis. It can also refer to any strategy in which an investor liquidates a portion of his or her portfolio and extracts cash periodically, such as an investor selling equity shares every year to help supplement their retirement.



Withdrawal plans are often employed as a means of setting up a consistent flow of revenue to an individual. The approach may be employed as part of a trust or family corporation setup, with each child receiving a monthly or quarterly payment from the mutual fund.


   Advantages of a Systematic Withdrawal Plan  

This type of arrangement with a mutual fund affords the investor an income stream during their retirement years while also maintaining exposure to further growth by keeping their remaining funds invested in the mutual fund for as long as possible.



By making periodic withdrawals, account holders are able to enjoy average return values that often exceed average sale prices. In this way, they can secure higher unit prices than those attainable by withdrawing everything at once.



There are also tax advantages to this type of plan. Withdrawals are made from capital, and as such, long-term gains are paid at a lower tax rate. Many individuals use these plans as part of their tax-planning strategies to make the most of this lower rate of taxation.



With a systematic withdrawal plan, an investor’s money will continue to grow as long as the investment is performing at a rate that is higher than the rate of withdrawal. Once an investor has finished the accumulation phase, most generally prefer to structure their spending so that their funds will last for an extended period of time. This can be done by managing a portfolio and periodically selling assets, investing in income-producing securities, purchasing an annuity, etc.


   Downside of a Systematic Withdrawal Plan  

The downside of a systematic withdrawal plan is that when your investments are down in value, more of your securities must be liquidated to meet your withdrawal needs.



In a market correction or bear market, this can have the reverse effect of a dollar-cost averaging strategy, actually lowering your overall internal rate of return when compared with other withdrawal strategies.
What Is Withholding?  

Withholding is the portion of an employee's wages that is not included in their paycheck but is instead remitted directly to the federal, state, or local tax authorities. Withholding reduces the amount of tax employees must pay when they submit their annual tax returns. The employee's income, marital status, number of dependents, and number of jobs all determine the amount withheld.





Key Takeaways

Withholding decreases the amount of taxes employees pay at the end of the year.Form W-4 requires information such as marital status and number of dependents so that employers can determine the amount to withhold.If employers do not withhold enough tax, the employee could end up owing at the end of the year.Social Security and Medicare taxes are automatically withheld from employees' wages.State withholding rates vary among states.


   Understanding Withholding  

In the United States, all income earners are obligated to pay income tax to the federal government and some state governments. The tax collected is used to improve the state of the country and the well-being of its residents.



Tax authorities require employers to withhold the tax from their employees' paychecks to ensure that all residents working in the U.S. are consistently paying their income taxes. Employers remit the tax collected to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on behalf of the wage earners.


  Form W-4  

An employee who starts a new job must fill out IRS Form W-4, which the employer typically provides. The form has questions that the employee is required to answer truthfully. For example, the employee must indicate whether they have one or multiple jobs. If they have multiple jobs, they must disclose how much is earned from the other job(s).



The employee is also expected to divulge their marital status. If married, whether the spouse is unemployed and how much the spouse makes has to be disclosed on Form W-4.



Form W-4 also includes questions about dependents and filing status, such as a head of household. The remaining section of the form is to be filled out by the employer.



Form W-4 provides the employee with information on how much the employer withheld as income tax. The employer uses the information provided by the employee as a guide on the amount of tax to withhold from the employee’s pay.



The employer figures out how much to withhold by factoring in the amount an employee earns and whether they want any additional amount withheld. Any new event that unfolds in the employee’s life, such as a change in marital status, an additional dependent, or a new job, would require the employee to fill out a new W-4. The employer uses the new information to re-evaluate the portion of income to withhold for tax purposes.


   Special Considerations  

If the tax withheld is inaccurate, the taxpayer may pay more in income taxes or less than mandated. If at the end of the tax year, it is found that the employee paid more, the IRS will refund the excess to the employee as a tax refund. Workers who end up not paying enough tax on income earned may be subject to penalties and interest.



Self-employed workers aren't subject to withholding but must pay their income taxes, usually as quarterly estimated tax payments. Taxpayers may also have to make estimated tax payments if they receive income in the form of dividends, capital gains, interest, or royalties.






The information provided on Form W-4 is important in determining how much to withhold from the employee's paycheck for taxes.


   Federal Withholding vs. State Withholding  

Withholding is generally classified as federal withholding or state withholding. What you are required to pay to the federal government differs from what you are required to pay to your state.



Federal withholding is the amount withheld from wages for taxes owed to the federal government. The amount of withholding is based on filing status, the number of dependents, certain adjustments to income, and other personal withholding preferences selected on form W-4.



Wage-earners can also elect to have a specific amount withheld in addition to what's calculated from elections. Alternatively, they can also elect to have nothing withheld by claiming an exemption.



Federal withholding also includes amounts automatically withheld for Social Security and Medicare. The employee and employer are responsible for paying an equal share of these taxes. From the employees' pay, 6.2% is withheld for Social Security and 1.45% for Medicare. The employer must also pay a total of 7.65% for these taxes.






Amounts withheld for taxes may not be sufficient to fulfill a tax obligation, requiring the taxpayer to pay the remaining tax due by the end of the tax year.



State withholding is the amount withheld from wages for taxes owed to the taxpayer's state of residence. In some cases, the taxpayer may owe taxes to multiple states. For instance, if a remote worker splits their time between two residences in different states, they may owe taxes to each state. It may be possible for an employer to withhold taxes for each state.



State taxes can only be withheld if federal taxes are withheld. Thirteen states and Washington D.C. require mandatory state withholding when federal taxes are withheld. Nine states have no state tax withholding, and the rest are elective.


   Other Types of Withholding  

Withholding is also carried out in retirement accounts. An individual who contributes to a retirement account has the option of either contributing after-tax dollars or before-tax dollars to the account. If taxes were not paid on the money that was contributed to the account, the individual would have taxes withheld when withdrawing funds from the account.



For example, a Traditional IRA account holder does not need to pay capital gains tax on any growth within the account. However, any amount withdrawn after retirement will have a portion withheld as income tax. Withdrawals made from a 401k plan will have taxes withheld on the original contribution and the earnings portion.



Taxpayers may also choose to have federal income tax withheld from their Social Security benefits. Form W-4V must be filled out and submitted to the Social Security Administrator (SSA) to authorize the withholding of a percentage of the benefits for income tax.




What Does It Mean to Withhold Taxes?
To withhold taxes is to deduct and remit to the taxing authority a portion of wages for taxes, whether it be federal, state, or local taxes.




How Much Withholding Should I Claim?
The amount you should withhold is based on your personal circumstances. It depends on your income, whether you have dependents to claim, if you have additional sources of income, and more. A single person with a single source of income and no dependents would generally select a single filing status with 1 allowance, whereas a married couple with dependents might select married filing jointly with several allowances.




Should I Claim 0 or 1 on My Withholding?
Electing 0 as an allowance on the W-4 for tax withholding will result in the largest amount being withheld for your filing status. Claiming one allowance will reduce what is withheld for taxes but may still be sufficient for what is owed. Claiming 0 is preferred by people who can be claimed as dependents by others and by people who have more than one source of income.




Is It Better to Have Taxes Withheld From Unemployment?
The IRS recommends withholding taxes from unemployment wages to avoid owing the full amount due on the tax deadline.




What Does Withholding Compliance Program Mean?
The Withholding Compliance Program, established by the IRS, identifies taxpayers with withholding issues so they can remedy the deficiency.


   The Bottom Line  

Withholding is the amount deducted from wages for taxes: federal, state, or local. Wage-earners in the U.S. are required to pay federal taxes and state taxes. If enough taxes are withheld, the taxpayer may receive a tax refund. If withholding is insufficient, the taxpayer is obligated to pay their remaining tax obligation.



Employees must complete a form W-4 to designate what should be withheld for taxes based on their personal situation. The IRS provides a tax withholding estimator taxpayers can use to estimate how much they should withhold or if what they are withholding is adequate.
What Is a Withholding Allowance?  

A withholding allowance refers to an exemption that reduces how much income tax an employer deducts from an employee’s paycheck. In practice, employees in the United States use Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-4: Employee’s Withholding Certificate to calculate and claim their withholding allowance.





Key Takeaways

A withholding allowance is an exemption that reduces how much income tax an employer deducts from an employee’s paycheck.Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-4 is used to calculate and claim withholding allowances.The amount of withholding is based on a taxpayer’s filing status—single or married but filing separately, married and filing jointly, or head of household—and the number of withholding allowances they claim.The more allowances you claim, the less income tax will be withheld from a paycheck, and vice versa.Individuals need to file a new Form W-4 whenever their personal or financial situation changes.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   How the Withholding Allowance Works  

When an individual is hired at a firm, they are required to fill out Form W-4, which includes personal information, such as their name and Social Security number. It also includes the number of allowances to be made.



Once the information is completed, the employer then uses the W-4 information to determine how much of an employee’s pay to subtract from their paycheck to remit to the tax authorities. The total number of allowances claimed is important—the more tax allowances claimed, the less income tax will be withheld from a paycheck; the fewer allowances claimed, the more tax will be withheld.



The amount of withholding is based on filing status—single or married but filing separately, married and filing jointly, or head of household—and the number of withholding allowances claimed on the W-4. It is important to determine the right number of allowances to claim. This is to avoid trouble when filing taxes or to keep from giving the government an interest-free loan by paying too much in taxes only to receive the amount back later.


   Calculating the Withholding Allowance  

The IRS provides a rough formula for how many allowances taxpayers should claim to have the correct amount withheld from each paycheck. The withholding allowances relate to whether the individual has multiple jobs or a spouse who works, if they can claim dependents, and any other adjustments.



A withholding allowance could be based, for example, on whether the taxpayer can claim the Child Tax Credit for a qualifying child (or a dependent who is not a qualifying child), whether they itemize personal deductions instead of claiming the standard deduction, whether they or their spouse has more than one job, and what their total income is. Personal exemptions, which have been eliminated by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for 2018 through 2025, are no longer taken into account in figuring withholding allowances.



If the employee is single with no children and takes the standard deduction, they can claim one withholding allowance for themselves and a second if they are single with only one job, for a total of two. If, on the other hand, the taxpayer is married filing jointly with no children and claims the standard deduction, they can claim one for themselves, one for their spouse, and a third if they have only one job, if that spouse doesn’t work, or if their second job or the spouse’s job brings in $1,500 or less.



With children or other dependents, it gets more complicated, and the number of allowances claimable is income-based. Fortunately, employees can check their withholding choice using the IRS Withholding Calculator. This enables them to see whether they’ve claimed the right number of withholding allowances.






The IRS Withholding Calculator can help employees determine how many withholding allowances they can claim.


   Exemption from the Withholding Allowance  

An individual can be exempt from a withholding allowance, but it’s not easy to receive that status. You can claim the withholding exemption only if you had a right to a refund of all federal income tax withheld in the prior year because you didn’t have any tax liability and you expect the same for the current year. You simply write “Exempt” on Form W-4.



This must be done annually; the exemption doesn’t automatically carry over. 


   When to Recalculate Withholding Allowances  

A new Form W-4 must be filed with the taxpayer’s employer whenever their personal or financial situation changes (e.g., they get married, have a baby, or their spouse enters or leaves the workplace). The new withholding allowances go into effect no later than the first payroll period ending 30 days after giving the revised form to the employer. The employer may implement it sooner but isn’t required to do so.






A new Form W-4 should be filed whenever personal or financial situations change and must go into effect within the first payroll period ending 30 days after the revised form is sent to the employer.



It’s also possible to request that a specific dollar amount be withheld, regardless of withholding allowances. This may be helpful for taxpayers receiving a year-end bonus or for those who simply want to boost withholding near the end of the year (perhaps to cover taxes on investment income, such as capital gain distributions made at the end of the year). Individuals can also request that an additional amount be withheld with Form W-4.


   What If You Claim Too Many Allowances?  

If you claim more allowances than you are entitled to, you are likely to owe money at tax time. If claiming too many allowances results in you significantly underpaying your taxes during the course of the year, you may have to pay a penalty when you file your annual tax return. If, after claiming zero allowances, you find that you do not have enough withheld from your paycheck, you can request that your employer withhold an additional dollar sum.



If, on the other hand, you have more income withheld than you should, you will receive a refund after you file your annual income tax return. Receiving a refund isn’t necessarily a good thing—it represents money you could have been using throughout the year to pay your bills or invest in the future.




Is it better to claim 1 or 0 allowances?
The higher the number of allowances, the less tax taken out of your pay each pay period. This means that opting for one rather than zero allowances results in less of your paycheck being sent to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Choosing what is suitable depends on your personal circumstances. To avoid underpaying or overpaying, it would be wise to seek guidance and use the IRS Withholding Calculator.




How much withholding allowance should I claim?
Lots of people think it’s better to opt for more allowances so that less money is withheld from their paychecks to pay taxes. Alternatively, there are others who prefer to play it safe and overpay, mindful that they will get a refund later on down the line. Both of these approaches aren’t smart. The best option is to determine when filing Form W-4 how many allowances you qualify for. Doing that will ensure that you don’t get hit with a nasty tax bill out of the blue or essentially give the IRS an interest-free loan.




How do you determine withholding allowances?
The number of allowances that a taxpayer can claim generally depends on their filing status, number of jobs, and whether they have dependents.




How do employers calculate how much to withhold from employee pay?
After an employee decides their number of withholding allowances, it is up to the employer to calculate how much to withhold from each paycheck for federal income taxes. Payroll software should have a built-in calculator to work all this out. Alternatively, employers can consult IRS Publication 15-T: Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods.


   The Bottom Line  

Ensuring the right amount of money is withheld from each paycheck to pay federal income taxes is important. Employees who make a mistake with the number of withholding allowances claimed can get hit with a nasty tax bill out of the blue or essentially end up lending the IRS money free of charge.
What Is Withholding Tax?  

The term withholding tax refers to the money that an employer deducts from an employee’s gross wages and pays directly to the government. The vast majority of people who are employed in the United States are subject to tax withholding. The amount withheld is a credit against the income taxes the employee must pay during the year. Nonresident aliens are also subject to withholding taxes on earned income as well as on other income such as interest and dividends from the securities of U.S. companies that they own.





Key Takeaways

Withholding tax is a set amount of income tax that an employer withholds from an employee’s paycheck. Employers remit withholding taxes directly to the IRS in the employee's name.The money taken is a credit against the employee’s annual income tax bill.If too much money is withheld, an employee receives a tax refund or may have to pay the IRS if not enough is withheld.Withholding tax is deducted from U.S. residents and nonresidents who earn money from American sources.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Withholding Tax  

Tax withholding is a way for the U.S. government to maintain its pay-as-you-go (or pay-as-you-earn) income tax system. This means taxing individuals at the source of income rather than trying to collect income tax after wages are earned. 



Here's how it works. Whenever an employee gets paid, their employer withholds a certain percentage of their paycheck as income tax. This is then paid by the employer to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The amount deducted appears on the employee's paystub and the total amount deducted annually can be found on Form W-2: Wage and Tax Statement. Employers send W-2s to their employees each year so they can file their annual income tax returns.



The amount deducted depends on a number of factors. These considerations include the amount an employee earns, filing status, any withholding allowances claimed by the employee, and whether an employee requests that additional income be withheld. If merited, any excess is paid back to the employee by the IRS as a tax refund.






The IRS suggests verifying your withholding tax early in the year and whenever any changes are made to the tax law. You should also check it whenever you have any changes in lifestyle (filing status, marriage, divorce), wages, or when tax credits and deductions are changed.


   Special Considerations  

The majority of U.S. states also have state income taxes and employ tax withholding systems to collect taxes from their residents. States use a combination of the IRS W-4 Form and their own worksheets.



Nine states do not impose income tax on residents. They include Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, and Wyoming. Withholding tax only applies to high-earners on capital gains for people living in Washington. New Hampshire residents pay income tax on interest and dividend income only. However, New Hampshire does tax dividends and income from investments, although it voted to gradually phase out this practice by 2027.


   History of Withholding Taxes  

Tax withholding first occurred in the United States in 1862 at the order of President Abraham Lincoln to help finance the Civil War. The federal government also implemented excise taxes for the same purpose. Tax withholding and income tax were abolished after the Civil War in 1872.



The current system was accompanied by a large tax hike when it was implemented in 1943. At the time, it was thought that it would be difficult to collect taxes without getting them from the source. Most employees are subject to withholding taxes when they are hired and fill out a W-4 Form. The form estimates the amount of taxes that will be due.



The withholding tax is one of two types of payroll taxes. The other type is paid to the government by the employer and is based on an individual employee’s wages. It contributes to funding for Social Security and federal unemployment programs (since the Social Security Act of 1935) as well as Medicare (since 1966).


   Types of Withholding Taxes  

There are two different types of withholding taxes employed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to ensure that proper tax is withheld in different situations: the U.S. resident and nonresident withholding tax. We outline more details about each below.


  U.S. Resident Withholding Tax  

The first and more commonly discussed withholding tax is the one on U.S. residents’ personal income, which every employer in the United States must collect. Under the current system, employers collect the withholding tax and remit it directly to the government, with employees paying the remainder when they file a tax return in April each year.



If too much tax is withheld, it results in a tax refund. However, if not enough tax has been held back, then the individual will owe money to the IRS.



Generally, you want about 90% of your estimated income taxes withheld and sent to the government. This ensures that you never fall behind on income taxes (something that can result in heavy penalties) and that you are not overtaxed throughout the year.



Investors and independent contractors are exempt from withholding taxes but not from income tax—they are required to pay quarterly estimated tax. If these classes of taxpayers fall behind, they can become liable to backup withholding, which is a higher rate of tax withholding set at 24%.



You can easily perform a paycheck checkup using the IRS’s tax withholding estimator. This tool helps identify the correct amount of tax withheld from each paycheck to make sure you don’t owe more in April. To use the estimator, you'll need your most recent pay stubs, your most recent income tax return, your estimated income during the current year, and other information.


  Nonresident Withholding tax  

The other form of withholding tax is levied against nonresident aliens to ensure that proper taxes are paid on income sources from within the United States. A nonresident alien is someone who is foreign-born and has not passed the green card test or a substantial presence test.



All nonresident aliens must file Form 1040NR if they are engaged in a trade or business in the United States during the year. If you are a nonresident alien, there are standard IRS deduction and exemption tables to help you figure out when you should be paying U.S. taxes and which deductions you may be able to claim. If there is a tax treaty between your country and the United States, that can also affect withholding tax.


   Calculating Your Withholding Tax  

The IRS publishes and updates marginal tax rates annually. 2022 taxes are due in 2023, with a deadline of April 18, 2023 for most people. The rates for the 2022 tax year are highlighted in the table below:










Marginal Tax Rates for 2022




Tax Rate
Income Range Single, Married Filing Separately 
Income Range Married Filing Jointly  


10%
$10,274 or less 
$20,549 or less


12%
$10,275 to $41,774
$20,550 to $83,549


22% 
$41,775 to $89,074
$83,550 to $178,149


24% 
$89,075 to $170,049
$178,150 to $340,099


32% 
$170,050 to $215,949
$340,100 to $431,899


35% 
$215,950 to $539,899
$431,900 to  $647,849


37% 
$539,900 and over 
$647,850 and over



Source: Internal Revenue Service



You can calculate your withholding tax by using the IRS Withholding Estimator. In order to get an accurate figure, you'll need some basic information. Be sure to have the following handy when you're filling out the online form:



Your filing status
Your income source
Any additional income sources
The end date of your most recent pay period
Your wages per period and the year-to-date (YTD) totals
The amount of federal income tax per pay period and the total paid year-to-date
Whether you take the standardize or itemize your deductions
The amount of any tax credits you take



The estimator tells you how much of a refund or tax bill you can expect. You can also choose an estimated withholding amount that's suitable for you.




What Is the Purpose of Withholding Tax?
The purpose of withholding tax is to ensure that employees comfortably pay whatever income tax they owe. It maintains the pay-as-you-go tax collection system in the United States. It fights tax evasion as well as the need to send taxpayers big, unaffordable tax bills at the end of the tax year.




How Much Tax Should You Have Withheld?
The amount of income tax you contribute from each paycheck depends on several factors, including total annual earnings and your filing status.




Why Did My Employer Withhold Too Much or Too Little Tax?
Federal tax withholding is based on the information you provide on your W-4 form, which you fill out and give to your employer when you start a job. If you are significantly overpaying or underpaying on income tax, you’ll probably need to fill out this form again with more up-to-date information.




Who Qualifies for Exemption From Withholding?
Employees with no tax liability for the previous year and who expect no tax liability for the current year can use Form W-4 to instruct their employer not to deduct any federal income tax from their wage. This exemption is valid for a calendar year.




How Do You Calculate Your Withholding Tax?
You can use the Withholding Tax Estimator on the IRS website to determine your withholding tax liability. This tool can help you determine whether you'll get a refund or have to pay taxes, and by how much.


   The Bottom Line  

Anyone who earns income is responsible for paying income tax. You may be one of the many who get a tax refund after filing your taxes. If not, you may end up owing money to the IRS come tax time. Part of your tax bill depends on your withholding tax. This is the amount of money that your employer holds back from your paycheck and pays to the government on your behalf. If you find that you end up paying more money on tax filing day, you can lower that amount by requesting additional money be held from your paycheck. Having a smaller amount deducted from every paycheck may make it easier to satisfy your tax bill at the end of the year.
What Is Without Evidence of Insurability?  

Without evidence of insurability means an insurance provider underwrote a policy, such as for life or health insurance, without verifying that the policyholder was eligible for that coverage. Some group plans may not require proof of insurability if the applicant applies during the open enrollment period. Also, providers of plans offering lower or limited benefits may not need evidence of a policyholder's insurability. Also, convertible life insurance will not require additional evidence on conversion. 



Another name for this provision may be without evidence of good health.


   Understanding Without Evidence of Insurability  

Without evidence of insurability, insurance providers take on additional risk. If a life insurance company issues a policy to someone in poor health, it’s more likely that the insurance company may need to pay that benefit sooner than expected.



For example, group health insurance plans sponsored by employers may not require an employee to take a medical exam before being covered under that policy. Also, some insurance providers may issue life or health insurance plans to individuals without evidence of insurability if the coverage amount is below a specific limit.



Convertible insurance is a type of life insurance that allows the policyholder to change a term policy into a whole or universal policy without going through the health qualification process again. Named beneficiaries may be transitioned from a limited term of eligibility to an indefinite term under the convertible policy without undergoing further insurability qualifications. Changes may happen each year on the policy renewal date until the policyholder reaches a cut-off age.



An insurer who insists on a medical exam or underwriting can create barriers to marketing. Therefore, insurance companies must balance the need to accurately assess risk with the need to make insurance more readily available. In many cases, without evidence coverage may have limits on benefits, while requiring proof of eligibility for higher levels of coverage.


   Adding to Policies Without Evidence of Insurability  

An insurance provider issuing a new life insurance policy may require proof of eligibility, but allow the beneficiary to purchase additional coverage later without the need to provide further evidence. This option may come as a rider within the policy. Policyholders may use a lower face value policy to begin and increase coverage with riders at a later date.



Additional benefits may be allowed without evidence at specific milestones, such as marriage or the birth of a child. In other cases, these increases may link to cost-of-living adjustments based on inflation indicators such as the Consumer Price Index.



Some insurance companies offer the ability for a policyholder to obtain coverage for a spouse without the need for them to provide proof of eligibility. The same situation may apply to children.
What Is Without Recourse?  

"Without recourse" means that one party cannot obtain a judgment against, or reimbursement from, a defaulting or opposing party in a financial transaction. When the buyer of a promissory note or other negotiable instrument enters into a "no recourse" agreement, they assume the risk of default.





Key Takeaways


Without recourse means that the buyer of a promissory note, or lender, assumes the risk of default.
When a financial instrument contains the words "without recourse," the endorser is released from future claims.
Sales agreements that are made without recourse create a caveat emptor situation. 



   Understanding Recourse  

Financing can be extended with or without recourse. Under financing "with recourse," if the lender cannot collect on their payment from the party ultimately responsible for payment of the financial obligation, the lender can go back to the borrower to seek payment on the amount due. Recourse may allow the lender to seize not only pledged collateral, but also deposit accounts, and sources of income.



Conversely, "without recourse" financing means that the lender takes the risk of non-payment by the obligor. The lender takes these risks directly and cannot seek payment or seize personal assets not specified in the debt contract.


   Sales Without Recourse  

"Without recourse" means without liability. All sales agreements entered into by a buyer and seller contain rights and responsibilities for both parties. A sale without recourse means the buyer accepts all risks associated with the purchase.



This often occurs when items are sold "as is" without any guarantees. The buyer has "no recourse" against the seller if the item does not work as expected and the seller is not obligated to compensate the buyer for any damages, defects, or performance issues.



A sale that is "with recourse" means that the seller bears responsibility for the sold asset if it turns out to be defective or does not perform as expected. The buyer has the right to seek recourse from the seller, who is often obligated to offer a replacement of equal value or provide a refund.


   Without Recourse in Banking  

When a financial instrument contains the words "without recourse," the endorser is released from future claims. If a signed check includes "without recourse" the endorser is not subject to liability should the check bounce due to insufficient funds.



For example, assume Alice makes out a check to Bob. The payee, Bob, decides to pay off his debt to Maggie by endorsing the check, which involves writing his name on the back exactly as it appears on the front of the check. Once the back of the check is signed, it becomes negotiable and allows for the transfer of money ordered by the check. In addition, Bob adds “without recourse” on the back of the check. The endorser, Bob, will not assume any responsibility for paying the check if it is returned for insufficient funds. If Alice’s bank refuses to pay Maggie’s bank the check amount due to insufficient funds in Alice’s account, Maggie cannot demand payment from Bob.



A promissory note is a debt instrument, like a mortgage loan, that contains a written promise by the buyer to pay the seller a definite sum of money. If the loan is secured "without recourse," the lender often uses the mortgaged property as collateral. The lender cannot hold the buyer liable, however, will instead recover the collateral.



Without recourse is evident in certificates of deposit (CDs) and securities where the seller is not required to indemnify the investor for any losses suffered, such as those caused by market fluctuations.




What Does It Mean to Assign Without Recourse?
Loans are often sold or transferred among lenders. When a loan is assigned to a new lender, neither the borrower nor the new loan holder can hold the first loan originator liable for any loan-related issues.




What Does Without Recourse Mean in Real Estate?
Without recourse, or non-recourse debt is a type of loan secured by collateral, such as real estate cited on a mortgage loan. If the borrower defaults, the issuer can seize the collateral but cannot seek further compensation from the borrower.




How Do I Endorse a Check Without Recourse?
Endorsing a check and adding "without recourse" to the signature means that the endorser assumes no responsibility if the check bounces for insufficient funds.
What are WM/Reuters Benchmark Rates  

WM/Reuters FX benchmark rates are spot and forward foreign exchange rates that are used as standard rates for portfolio valuation and performance measurement. The WM/Reuters Closing Spot Rate service was introduced in 1994 to provide standard forex rates that would enable portfolio valuations to be compared more accurately against each other and financial benchmarks, without having to account for currency differentials.﻿﻿



The WM/Reuters FX benchmark rates are provided by Thomson Reuters, which acquired the rate calculation business of the World Markets Company (WM) from State Street in 2016.﻿﻿ 


   Basics of WM/Reuters Benchmark Rates  

The original WM/Reuters service provided closing spot rates for 40 currencies daily. The service has since expanded to 155 closing spot currencies covered on an hourly basis. In addition, WM/Reuters also provides closing rates for currency forwards and non-deliverable forwards (NDF) hourly intraday for spot, forward and NDF rates, as well as historical data.﻿﻿



While most major equity and bond index compilers use the WM/Reuters benchmark rates in their calculations, the rates are also used for other purposes such as calculating benchmark rates for the settlement of financial derivatives. Some banks also provide a service to their clients by providing a guarantee to trade at the WM/Reuters rates.





Key Takeaway

The WM/Reuters Benchmark rates are spot and forward exchange rates used as standard rates for portfolio valuation and performance measurement.


   How Rates are Determined  

The WM/Reuters benchmark rates are determined over a five-minute fix period, from 2 minutes 30 seconds before to 2 minutes 30 seconds after the time of the fix, which is generally 4 p.m. in London. During this five-minute window, bid and offer rates from the order matching system and actual trades executed are captured. Since trades occur in milliseconds, only a sample is captured, rather than every trade. The median bid and offer are calculated using valid rates over the fix period, and the mid-rate is then calculated from them.﻿﻿



The importance of these rates lies in the fact that they are used to value trillions of dollars in investments held by money managers and pension funds. In 2013, the method of fixing the WM/Benchmark rates came under intense scrutiny, after widespread allegations of collusion and rate manipulation by traders surfaced.﻿﻿
What Is a Wolfe Wave?  

A Wolfe Wave is a chart pattern composed of five wave patterns in price that imply an underlying equilibrium price. Investors who use this system time their trades based upon the resistance and support lines indicated by the pattern.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Key Takeaways

In technical analysis, Wolfe Waves are price patterns consisting of five waves that indicate either bullish or bearish trends.To be properly identified as a Wolfe Wave a series of criteria must be met, such as wave cycles each being similar and distinct price action in the third and fourth waves.For a true Wolfe Wave, the fifth wave instance in the pattern will be followed by a breakout in price.


   Understanding Wolfe Waves  

Wolfe Wave patterns were first identified by Bill Wolfe and his son, Brian. According to Wolfe, they occur naturally in all markets. To recognize them, traders must identify a series of price oscillations that correspond to specific criteria:



The waves must cycle at a consistent time interval.
The third and fourth waves must stay within the channel created by the first and second waves.
The third and fourth waves must show symmetry with the first and second waves.



In a Wolfe Wave pattern, the fifth wave breaks out of the channel. According to the theory behind the pattern, a line drawn from the point at the beginning of the first wave and passing through the beginning of the fourth wave predicts a target price for the end of the fifth wave. If a trader properly identifies a Wolfe Wave as it forms, the beginning of the fifth wave represents an opportunity to take a long or short position. The target price predicts the end of the wave, and therefore the point at which the trader aims to profit off the position.


   Identifying Complex Patterns Using Technical Analysis  

Technical analysis makes use of chart patterns such as Wolfe Waves to predict market movements and time trades for maximum profit. Traders who use technical analysis look at charts depicting price movements for securities over a period of time. In general, technical analysis rests upon theories of supply and demand which imply certain price levels above or below which securities will struggle to trade. Levels of support correspond to prices low enough to attract enough demand to stabilize and raise share prices, while levels of resistance correspond to prices high enough to cause shareholders to sell shares and take profits, reducing demand levels and causing prices to level off or drop.



When technical analysts look for patterns such as Wolfe Waves, they attempt to profit off of a breakout, where share prices move outside of the channel formed by support and resistance levels. The same laws of supply and demand that generate levels of support and resistance also suggest prices will regain their equilibrium after a breakout. Traders seeking maximum profit must be able to identify the correct points at which to buy or sell in real time. While many techniques exist to do this, traders run significant risks if they misidentify patterns or trends. Those interested in using such techniques would generally do well to research patterns and the theories behind them carefully, engage in paper trading to test those theories without putting money on the line and make judicious use of hedges or stop loss positions to limit the potential down side of a mistimed trade.
What Is Word-of-Mouth Marketing?  

Word-of-mouth marketing (or WOM marketing) is when a consumer's interest in a company's product or service is reflected in their daily dialogues. Essentially, it is free advertising triggered by customer experiences—and usually, something that goes beyond what they expected.



Word-of-mouth marketing can be encouraged through different publicity activities set up by companies or by having opportunities to encourage consumer-to-consumer and consumer-to-marketer communications. Also referred to as "word-of-mouth advertising," WOM marketing includes buzz, viral, blog, emotional, and social media marketing.





Key Takeaways

Word-of-mouth marketing (WOM marketing) happens when consumers talk about a company's product or service to their friends, family, and to others with whom they have close relationships.WOM marketing is one of the most powerful forms of advertising as 88% of consumers trust their friends' recommendations over traditional media.Companies can encourage WOM marketing by exceeding expectations on a product, providing good customer service, and giving exclusive information to consumers.The Word of Mouth Marketing Association (WOMMA) cites the best word-of-mouth marketing strategies as being honest, credible, social, repeatable, measurable, and respectful.WOM marketing includes various marketing techniques, such as buzz, blogs, and social media marketing.


   Understanding Word-of-Mouth Marketing  

Word-of-mouth marketing differs from natural word-of-mouth references to a company's products and services in how it may come as the result of a promotion, encouragement, or other influence by a company, otherwise known as "seeding."



When a diner has a wonderful time at a restaurant because their expectations were exceeded and later tweets about it, or when someone had a great experience using a product in a new way and tells everyone they know about it, those are examples of word-of-mouth marketing. Also, word-of-mouth marketing does not stop at the first interaction; it tends to lead to a cascade of follow-on interactions.



The encouragement on the part of a company may take one of several forms. The best way is to give them a reason to talk, such as exceeding expectations or providing insider skills or information about a product.



Other strategies include offering consumers new ways to share information about a company's products and services, and engaging and interacting with the consumer, such as through exemplary customer service. This is especially valuable with social media-based customer service, which provides for seamless sharing and promotion.


   Benefits of Word-of-Mouth Marketing  

Eighty-eight percent of people around the world said they trust recommendations from friends and family (earned media) above all other forms of advertising. This shows just how effective word-of-mouth marketing can be.



Consumers are more emotionally bonded to a company when they feel they are listened to by the company. That is why many companies will have sales representatives discuss their products and services with consumers personally or through a feedback phone line. This kind of interaction, as well as promotional events, can stimulate conversations about a company's product.



There is a significant temptation to fabricate word-of-mouth marketing. Accordingly, the Word of Mouth Marketing Association (WOMMA) crafted a code of ethics checklist for the industry, advising that the best word-of-mouth marketing strategies are credible, social, repeatable, measurable, and respectful, and there is no excuse for dishonesty.



WOM marketing expert Andy Sernovitz has boiled down WOMMA's code of ethics into three key rules to avoid issues:



Say who you are representing (always disclose a relationship)Say only what you believe (be honest with an opinion)Never lie about who you are (be honest about your identity)




What Are Some Examples of Word-of-Mouth Marketing?
Word-of-mouth marketing includes the marketing tactics companies use to prompt their consumers to talk about their levels of satisfaction with the company's service or product. These strategies include brand loyalty programs, which reward customers for repeated business and provide them platforms to provide user feedback; giveaways, contests, and sponsored influencers.




What Is the Digital Version of Word-of-Mouth Marketing?
Digital word-of-mouth marketing employs technology, particularly the Internet, to facilitate word-of-mouth exchanges. Review boards, social media sites, and blogs are popular digital platforms consumers use to share their experiences, good and bad, and these shared testimonials significantly influence consumer purchase decisions.




Why Is Word-of-Mouth Marketing So Important?
Word-of-mouth marketing is important as it is an effective way to increase sales, promote products and services, increase brand recognition, and build customer loyalty. Many companies employ strategies that prompt customers to recommend their services and/or products and share positive experiences. Essentially, companies create the spark that causes the firestorm of chatter among consumers, and since studies show that most people trust the advice of family and friends, focusing on word-of-mouth marketing can be more beneficial and cost-effective than other forms of marketing.


   The Bottom Line  

Word-of-mouth (WOM) marketing is when a consumer shares a positive experience with their peers about a good or service. WOM marketing is great for businesses as it generates business without incurring additional marketing costs. Businesses can, however, purposely contribute to word-of-mouth marketing efforts.



WOM marketing is usually experienced over dinner parties, texts, and casual encounters between friends and family. It can also be set through buzz, viral media, blogs, and social media marketing.
What Is the Worden Stochastic?  

The Worden Stochastics indicator represents the percentile rank of the most recent closing price compared to all of the other closing values over a specified lookback period. Traders use the indicator to determine if a particular security is overbought or oversold, to provide trade signals, and spot divergences that could signal a price reversal.





Key Takeaways

The Worden Stochastic is different from other stochastics in that it ranks closing prices, assigning a value based on where the recent close ranks compared to prior closes.Like other stochastics, the Worden version provides overbought and oversold levels, as well as potential trade signals using signal line crossovers.A reading above 80 is considered overbought, while a reading below 20 is considered oversold. This isn't necessarily a reason to buy or sell. It just indicates the price is in the upper or lower portion of its recent closing price range.


   Understanding the Worden Stochastics  

The Worden Stochastics indicator was designed by Peter Worden to recognize a new trading range more quickly than traditional stochastics​. Unlike traditional stochastics that incorporate high, low, and closing prices, the Worden Stochastics indicator uses rankings to avoid over-weighting in outlier periods, providing a potentially more accurate indication of the trading range.



The Worden Stochastic is calculated using the equation: (100/n – 1) x Rank. "N" represents the number of closing values in the range, while "Rank" represents the position of the closing price on a list that's sorted in ascending order by value.



All stochastic indicators, including Worden Stochastics, measure the level of the close relative to the range over a period of time. Traders use these readings to determine if a particular security is potentially trading at overbought or oversold levels.


   Trading With the Worden Stochastics  

In general, stochastic readings above 80 are considered overbought, while readings below 20 are considered oversold. However, traders should try to confirm these sentiments with other technical indicators or chart patterns. Overbought doesn't necessarily mean it is time to sell, nor does oversold necessarily mean it is time to buy. In a strong price uptrend, the stochastics readings will often reach above 80. In a strong downtrend, the readings will often be below 20.



The stochastic typically includes a signal line. When the stochastic crosses above the signal line, some traders use that as a buy signal. When the stochastic crosses below the signal line, that is a potential sell signal. Combining that concept with the ones discussed above, a potential strategy would be to look for a stock (or another asset) in a rising trend. Then, wait for the Worden Stochastic to fall below 30 or 20. When the stochastic crosses back above the signal line, or moves up and out of the oversold territory, consider a purchase. This is not a strategy recommendation, just an example.



In addition, traders may look for bullish or bearish divergences between the security's price and stochastics trends. If the price is making higher peaks while the stochastic is making lower peaks, that could signal a potential downside reversal in the price. If the stochastic is making higher lows while the stock is making lower lows, that is bullish divergence and indicates a potential turnaround in the price. Divergence is not a reliable timing signal. It should only be used in conjunction with other analyses and trade signals.


   The Worden Stochastics vs. the Stochastic Oscillator  

The Worden variant differs from other stochastics, whether the fast or slow versions, via the way it is calculated. Most other stochastic indicators are comparing the recent closing price to high and low values over a specified period. Worden ranks the close relative to other closing values and then uses that rank in the calculation.


   Limitations of the Worden Stochastics  

The indicator is prone to providing numerous faulty signals. For example, the indicator will stay in oversold or overbought territory for extended periods of time during a downtrend or uptrend, respectively.



There are also multiple crossovers with the signal line that don't result in significant price moves. Additionally, price divergence with the indicator is not a reliable timing signal.


   Real-World Example of How to Use the Worden Stochastics  

This Worden Stochastics example utilizes 1 through 5 as default settings (signal line in blue), carving three complete Disney buy and sell cycles over a four-month period.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The indicator reverses higher at the oversold level in April, but the price continues to chop sideways to lower in quiet price action. The indicator dips lower in early May, posting a double bottom reversal that translates into a rally wave lasting nearly three weeks.



A mid-May crossover initiates a new sell cycle as the price pulls back to test new price support near 100. The indicator turns higher in early June as the price moves toward a new high. As the price transitions back down, there is a bearish crossover and the stochastics slips back into the oversold territory in late June. The overall trend is up at this point, so the next bullish crossover above the signal line could have been used to initiate a long trade near the start of July.



The price and indicator ascend. The indicator remains in overbought territory for much of July and early August. Any of the bearish crossovers could be used as sell signals. A drop below 80 by the stochastics could also be used as a sell signal.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is WordPress?  

WordPress is a popular open-source content management system (CMS). Although it was originally associated mainly with personal blogs, it has since become used for a wide variety of websites, including professional publications and e-commerce platforms.



Since its launch in 2003, WordPress has grown to power roughly one-third of websites worldwide. Today, it is home to a large developer community that has produced over 50,000 plugins.





Key Takeaways


WordPress is a leading open-source CMS platform.
It is known for its highly customizable nature, boasting a large community of plugin developers.
Due to its large user-base, WordPress is frequently the target of hackers. To reduce this risk, users should ensure that their WordPress software is kept up-to-date at all times.



   How WordPress Works  

Users of WordPress can select from two basic versions of the service. The first of these is the “hosted” version of WordPress, which is accessible at WordPress.com. This version allows users to launch a website that is hosted on WordPress’s own servers. As such, it is often favored by non-technical users, who may wish to avoid the complexity of hosting a website on their own private server. As an additional benefit, the hosted version of WordPress is automatically updated to the latest version of the WordPress software, which can help mitigate against potential security breaches.



For more advanced users, it is also possible to simply download the latest version of WordPress from WordPress.org. By selecting this option, the user must make their own arrangements to host the software either on their own private server or from a third-party hosting provider. The user is then free to customize the software as they see fit, but must also be responsible for manually uploading any subsequent updates.



Because of its large user-base, WordPress websites are a popular target among hackers, who often seek to exploit outdated versions of the software which might possess known security vulnerabilities. For this reason, it is likely prudent to avoid self-hosting the service unless you are confident in your ability to secure and update the service alongside any additional plugins you may have installed.





WordPress Customizations

WordPress is designed from the ground up to be highly customizable. Its application programming interface (API) covers everything from its database to theme modifications and customizations. By keeping everything standardized, developers can focus on building functionality on top of WordPress, knowing that it will work on all installations that are kept up-to-date.


   Real World Example of WordPress  

There are many different companies that provide WordPress plugins and themes designed to extend its functionality. For example, WooCommerce has become one of the most popular ecommerce tools for WordPress, enabling users to accept orders, track shipments, and add other ecommerce functionality to their existing WordPress website.﻿﻿



Among the many other examples of plugins for WordPress are those concerned with search engine optimization (SEO), contact forms, newsletter marketing, on-site social media and commenting features, and various design features designed to make sites more visually appealing.
What Is a Work Cell?  

A work cell is a logical and strategic arrangement of resources in a business environment. These arrangements are put into place to organize and improve process flow, increase efficiency, reduce costs, and eliminate wastage.



The concept of work cells is based on the platform of lean manufacturing, which focuses on value creation for the end customer and reduction of wastage. Work cells, which are also referred to as workcells, are typically found in manufacturing and office environments.





Key Takeaways

A work cell is a term used to describe the logical and strategic arrangement of resources in a business environment including people, machinery, and other equipment.Work cells are based on the platform of lean manufacturing, which focuses on value creation for the end customer and reduction of wastage.In the office or administrative context, work cells may facilitate a better flow of communication and more efficient use of shared resources.


   Understanding Work Cells  

A work cell is generally set up in order to complete a specific activity, most often in the manufacturing industry. It is the grouping of machines, people, and other equipment companies use in their manufacturing production process. These cells are often implemented to reduce the costs associated with production and ramp up productivity. Many companies also significantly reduce the rate of error by putting work cells into place.



In a manufacturing facility, the machines involved in the production process would be arranged so the goods being produced move smoothly and seamlessly from one stage to the next. This would only be possible if the machines are grouped in work cells that facilitate the logical progression of the goods being produced—from raw materials at one end to finished product at the other.



Work cells may also be found in the office or administrative departments. In this context, work cells may facilitate a better flow of communication and more efficient use of shared resources.






Work cells are a product of the lean manufacturing process.


   Cellular Manufacturing  

Cellular manufacturing is a manufacturing process which is a subsection of just-in-time manufacturing and lean manufacturing encompassing group technology. The goal of cellular manufacturing is to move as quickly as possible, making a wide variety of similar products, while producing as little waste as possible.



Cellular manufacturing involves the use of multiple cells in an assembly line fashion. A cell is created by consolidating the processes required to create a specific output, such as a part or a set of instructions. These cells allow for the reduction of extraneous steps in the process of creating the specific output, facilitate quick identification of problems, and encourage communication of employees within the cell in order to resolve issues that arise quickly.


   Example of a Work Cell  

Let's say a firm that assembles air-handling products faces high inventories and erratic delivery. It originally assembled units on a traditional production line. Long setups and logistics required long production runs. It often found that it had to pull products from finished goods and rebuild them for custom orders.



Using a lean methodology, the company assembles cells to include twelve small (one to three-person) assembly work cells that were always set up and ready. People now work in different cells each day and assemble products per customer orders. Finished goods inventory dropped by 96%, lead-time was 24 hours, and productivity improved by as much as 30%.
What Is a Work Ticket?  

A work ticket is a form that shows the time spent by an employee working on a particular job. It is used as a basis for billing the costs of direct labor to customers, and may also be used for calculating wages of employees who are paid by the hour. In the context of accounting for the hours an employee works, a work ticket is also known as "time card" or a "timesheet," which are more commonly used. In the context of recording how many hours a worker has put into a specific task, the term "work order" may be used as well.


   Understanding Work Ticket  

Work tickets are used not only to ensure that hourly or temporary workers are paid for their labor. They may also be used to ensure that clients are billed for work performed on their behalf but supervised by the employer. Work tickets may also be used to calculate labor costs, track productivity, create budgets, forecast future labor needs, keep an eye on projects, and determine profit (and loss). 


   Work Ticket vs. Timesheet  

Work tickets used for tracking the hours of an hourly or temporary employee may be on paper or exist digitally. Hours worked, leave time, accruals, and adjustments may be made on such work tickets. They tend to be filled out weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, or bi-monthly depending on the employer's pay period. Such work tickets are submitted to a supervisor who then approves or amends them, at which point they are sent to payroll so that payment may be made. Work tickets used as timesheets (or "timesheets") that are digital, such as with punch clocks or electronic timecard readers, may assist in the automation of the billing or payroll process. Such devices may even use biometrics for added security.


   Work Ticket vs. Work Order  

A timesheet used to track work performed for a customer, otherwise known as a work order, tends to be for services. A work ticket in this context may contain instructions for a given task or some description of a problem, cost estimates, any applicable forms to authorize work, the date and estimated labor time and costs, who has made the request and who will be billed, and the name of the person requesting the work.   



For example, a person who has given his car to an automobile shop for several repairs or maintenance items will receive a bill that shows the amount of time spent by different mechanics on various parts of the car, as well as their billing rates. The time spent by each mechanic on the car is derived from the work ticket.
What Is Workable Indication?  

Workable indication is a pricing technique, stated as a range, which allows a dealer or broker flexibility when offering to buy or sell a particular debt instrument. It primarily applies to the municipal bond market.





Key Takeaways

A workable indication is a pricing technique used in buying or selling municipal bonds.A workable indication is a nominal quote, stated as a range, that's similar to an estimate or initial bid—it isn't binding on the dealer offering it. A workable indication differs from a firm quote, which does commit the dealer if it is accepted.A dealer may offer a workable indication as a starting point for negotiations—to gauge investor interest—or because they can't locate a particular bond just yet.Workable indications occur in the muni bond secondary market, which tends to be slower and more relaxed than stock markets.


   Understanding Workable Indication  

Simply put, a workable indication is a nominal quote showing the price at which a dealer is willing to either buy or sell an individual bond issue. This offer differs from a firm quote, aka a bona fide quote, which is binding on the dealer: They must follow through with the deal at a price cited if the offer is accepted. Municipal bond dealers can also give out "firm-with-recall" (or out-firm) quotes that can be good for roughly the next hour, and then recalled.



A workable indication usually a one-sided quote; that is, either a bid price or an asked price.






Municipal bonds typically are priced on a yield-to-maturity basis rather than a dollar price. If a dealer gives a workable indication like "I last saw this issue being offered at around 3.50," they're saying they might sell the bond at a price that would result in its yield to maturity being 3.5%.


   Why Issue a Workable Indication?  

In a sense, a nominal quote expressed in the form of workable indication might be seen as an estimate or initial offer, or perhaps a starting point, from which they can come to a mutually agreeable deal. The dealer or broker is under no obligation to honor the workable indication and can revise it if market conditions (or investor interest) change.



Workable indication allows both parties flexibility to negotiate until reaching specific figures. Flexible ranges work well when the dealer is in the initial stage of trying to make a deal and perhaps still gauging the interest of the potential buyers. 



The workable indication also gives the seller the ability to assess the impact of various price levels on investors. It may often be delivered in non-committal terms, using relatively vague language, such as “It’s somewhere in the neighborhood of…” or “I think it would probably be roughly around…”



A workable indication may be offered as a starting point for negotiation, or it may indicate that the bond is not being actively traded at the current time; since the dealer can't immediately locate it, they can't estimate the price and supply of the issue and give a firm quote on it.


   Special Considerations  

To fully appreciate how a workable indication tactic might be used in a bond-trading scenario, it is helpful to understand the atmosphere in which the buying and selling of munis typically takes place. Trading for municipal bonds is usually within a secondary or inter-dealer market. This is the marketplace where institutional investors—banks, bond funds, insurance companies—retail (individual) investors, and small businesses go to purchase bonds, and where bond dealers are offering issued munis for sale.



In contrast to the stock market, where the action tends to be a bit more fast-paced with frantic bursts of activity and the pressure to make quick decisions, the municipal bond market is generally more relaxed. Participants don't have to move fast. Instead, they can haggle and mull over the offer while trying to negotiate the best possible deal. In such an arena, a workable indication is often the starting point of the transaction process.



However, even in the muni bond market, there is always the possibility that another potential buyer will swoop in and express interest in a particular issue. Then the scenario may get more competitive, and buyers may need to think fast, deciding whether to increase their offers or to drop out of the bidding.
What Is Workers’ Compensation?  

Workers’ compensation, commonly referred to as “workers’ comp,” is a government-mandated program that provides benefits to workers who become injured or ill on the job or as a result of the job. It is effectively a disability insurance program for workers, providing cash benefits, healthcare benefits, or both to workers who suffer injury or illness as a direct result of their jobs.



In the United States, workers’ compensation is handled primarily by the individual states. The required benefits vary greatly state by state.



Texas is the only state that does not require employers to maintain workers’ compensation insurance.





Key Takeaways

Workers’ compensation is a form of employer insurance coverage that pays benefits to workers who are injured or become disabled as a result of their job. By accepting workers’ compensation benefits, the employee waives the right to sue their employer for damages.The compensation may include partial salary repayment and coverage of medical costs.Workers’ comp is not the same as unemployment benefits or disability insurance.


   Understanding Workers’ Compensation  

Workers’ compensation benefits may include partial wage replacement for the period during which the employee cannot work. The benefits may also include reimbursement for healthcare services and occupational therapy.



Most workers’ compensation programs are paid for by private insurers, from premiums paid by the individual employers. Each state has a Workers’ Compensation Board, a state agency that oversees the program and intervenes in disputes.



There are federal workers’ compensation programs that cover federal employees, longshore and harbor workers, and energy employees. Another federal program, the Black Lung Program, handles death and disability benefits for coal miners and their dependents.


  Workers’ Compensation Benefits  

Requirements for workers’ compensation vary from state to state, and not all employees are covered in some states. Some states, for example, exclude small businesses from the mandate for coverage. Others have different requirements for various industries. The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) maintains a summary of each state’s worker compensation requirements.



Salary Replacement



The salary replacement paid to an employee under workers’ compensation is typically less than the person’s full salary. The most generous programs pay about two-thirds of the person’s gross salary.



Workers’ compensation benefits are not usually taxable at the state or federal level, compensating for much of the lost income. Taxes may be due to recipients who also have income from the Social Security Disability or Supplemental Security Income programs.



Healthcare Cost Reimbursement and Survivor Benefits



Most compensation plans offer coverage of medical expenses only related to injuries incurred as a direct result of employment. For example, a construction worker could claim compensation for an injury suffered in a fall from scaffolding, but not for an injury incurred while driving to the job site. 



In other situations, workers can receive the equivalent of sick pay while they are on medical leave. If an employee dies as a result of a work-related incident, workers’ compensation makes payments to the worker’s dependents. 


  Recipients Waive the Right to Sue  

By agreeing to receive workers’ compensation, workers give up their right to sue their employer for negligence.



This compensation bargain is intended to protect both workers and employers. Workers are giving up further recourse in exchange for guaranteed compensation, while employers consent to a degree of liability while avoiding the potentially greater cost of a negligence lawsuit.






Workers’ compensation is available only to employees who are injured on the job. It is not the same as disability insurance or unemployment benefits.


   Special Considerations  

A claim for workers’ compensation may be disputed by an employer. In that case, the Workers’ Compensation Board may be asked to resolve the dispute.



Disputes can arise over whether the employer is actually liable for an injury or illness.



Workers’ compensation payments are also susceptible to insurance fraud. An employee may falsely report that an injury was sustained on the job, exaggerate the severity of an injury, or invent an injury.



In fact, the National Insurance Crime Board asserts that there are “organized criminal conspiracies of crooked physicians, attorneys, and patients” who submit false claims to medical insurance companies for workers’ compensation and other benefits.


  Independent Contractor Exception  

In most states, only regular employees are eligible for workers’ compensation; independent contractors are not. That was one of the main points of contention in the debate over a California ballot measure that sought to extend employee benefits to drivers for ride-sharing apps like Uber and Lyft.



Like the so-called gig economy, the issue of workers’ compensation and other benefits for contract workers isn’t going away. In 2020, about 17 million Americans were working full time as contractors and more than 34 million worked part time or occasionally as contractors.






Access to workers’ compensation benefits is a key issue for participants in the gig economy. Contractors and freelancers are rarely eligible.


   Types of Workers’ Compensation  

In the U.S., workers’ compensation rules are handled by the individual states. The U.S. Department of Labor houses an Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs, but it is responsible only for coverage of federal employees, longshoremen and harbor workers, energy employees, and coal miners.



The lack of federal standards for workers’ compensation has resulted in extremely varied policies for the same kinds of injuries from state to state.



Identical injuries can receive radically different kinds of compensation depending on where a worker resides. A paper by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) flatly calls workers’ compensation a “broken system,” and estimates that 50% of the costs of workplace injury and illness are borne by the individuals who suffer them. Low-wage and immigrant workers often don’t even apply for benefits.


   Workers’ Compensation: Coverage A vs. Coverage B  

There are two types of workers’ compensation coverage: Coverage A and Coverage B.



Coverage A includes all of the state-mandated benefits that an injured or ill employee is entitled to receive from the employer’s insurance. It covers salary replacement payments as well as medical care, rehabilitation, and death benefits as necessary. All states except Texas have such benefits, although they vary widely from state to state and many states exclude some employees from eligibility.
Coverage B pays benefits that exceed the minimums required by Coverage A. They usually are paid only as the result of a successful lawsuit brought by the employee for negligence or other misconduct by the employer.



Workers who accept workers’ compensation generally waive the right to sue their employers, agreeing to a no-fault contract in doing so. However, state legislation and court rulings in a number of states have restored the employees’ right to sue in various strictly defined circumstances. Thus, an employer may opt to purchase a policy that combines Coverage A and Coverage B.




Who pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums?
The employer pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums.There is no payroll deduction, as for Social Security benefits. The employer is required by law to pay workers’ compensation benefits as established by individual state laws.




How much does workers’ compensation cost?
The cost of workers’ compensation insurance varies by state, as do the mandated benefits. There also are different rates depending on whether the employees covered are performing low-risk or high-risk jobs.The fees for the insurance are based on the company’s payroll numbers. Just as examples:In California, workers’ comp costs an average of 40 cents for every $100 in payroll for low-risk workers and $33.57 for high-risk jobs.In Florida, the average is 26 cents per $100 for low-risk jobs and $19.40 for high-risk jobs.In New York, the average is 7 cents per $100 for low-risk jobs and $29.93 per $100 for high-risk jobs.




How do you apply for workers’ compensation?
The rules for applying for workers’ compensation vary by state. In general, a worker with a job-related injury or illness should:Write down the details of the injury or illness in detail, with photos and the names of witnesses when possible.Report the injury or illness to your employer. The employer should take it from there, filing your claim with the insurer.You can follow through with the employer’s insurance company to make sure that a claim was filed.If your claim is denied, you can appeal the decision with your state’s Workers’ Compensation Board.




Who is exempt from workers’ compensation?
Generally, only salaried employees are eligible for workers’ compensation; contractors and freelancers are not.Beyond that, every state writes its own rules. For example, Arkansas specifically excludes farm laborers and real estate agents from eligibility. Idaho excludes domestic workers. Louisiana excludes musicians and crop-dusting airplane crew members.


   The Bottom Line  

Every state (except Texas) requires employers to provide workers’ compensation coverage to at least some of their employees. The states write the rules, so there are many exceptions and exemptions. Contractors and freelancers are rarely covered, and many states exclude certain professions from the mandate or otherwise limit the scope of the benefits.



Most states have online sites that can help you determine if you’re covered by workers’ compensation insurance. For example, Florida’s Division of Workers’ Compensation has information on its program, links to the necessary forms, and a database that can tell you whether your employer has coverage.
What Is Workers' Compensation Coverage A?  

Workers' compensation coverage A refers to an insurance policy that protects employees under state laws and provides medical care, death, disability, and rehabilitation benefits for workers who are injured or killed while on the job. The insurer agrees to pay all compensation and benefits related to the insured employer's state's workers' compensation laws without any regard to liability. Workers' compensation coverage premiums are based on the employer's payroll and the type of duties its employees perform.





Key Takeaways

Workers' compensation coverage A protects employees under state laws.It provides medical care, death, disability, and rehabilitation benefits for workers who are injured or killed while on the job.The benefits of workers' compensation are generally awarded on a no-fault basis.Premiums are based on the employer's payroll and the type of duties its employees perform.Workers' compensation B includes workers' compensation A coverage but covers employees when the employer is liable through negligence or otherwise, paying out additional damages.


   Understanding Workers' Compensation Coverage A  

When an employee is injured, disabled, or dies while on the job, the employee or their survivors are entitled to workers' compensation coverage A benefits. Under this type of insurance, the employer pays certain benefits such as medical care, lost wages, and rehabilitation costs.



The benefits of workers' compensation are generally awarded on a no-fault basis, as long as the employee is not under the influence of drugs, including alcohol. Employees are usually required to submit to a drug test following an on-the-job accident. Many workers' compensation incidents provide partial reimbursement of lost wages, and survivor benefits in the event the worker is killed while on the job.



Workers' compensation Part A satisfies state insurance requirements. It funds employees’ medical bills, related expenses, and lost wages in the case of a covered workers’ compensation loss. Payments made are normally based on predetermined schedules in the case of defined injuries. Expenses are paid accordingly as the adjuster calculates them.






If a company fails to carry workers' compensation coverage, it can result in fines ranging from $1,000 to $10,000 or more, and even jail time, depending on the state or jurisidction.


  Employer Responsibilities  

Workers' compensation Part A has no policy limits, and the insurer instead pays all benefits required by the workers’ compensation law of any state listed in the declarations. However, the employer can be held responsible for payments made by the insurer that exceed regular workers’ compensation benefits. Under such circumstances, an employer would be responsible for such payments due to the following:



Serious and willful misconductKnowingly employing workers in violation of the lawFailure to comply with health or safety regulationsDischarge, coercion, or discrimination against any employee in violation of the workers’ compensation law



Under this misconduct, the employer is responsible for reimbursing the insurer for any payments that exceed regular workers’ compensation benefits.


   Special Considerations  

Workers' compensation Part A is legally mandated in nearly every state in the United States and is a significant expense for employers. Employers may pay more if the company has had a certain number of previous claims, or if its employees have certain occupations that are deemed dangerous.



Workers' compensation coverage continued to grow in every state. Per the National Academy of Social Insurance, the most recent data (for 2018), shows a 7.2% increase from 2014 to 2018 in covered jobs. This puts the number of covered jobs to just over 142.6 million for 2018. Meanwhile, covered wages rose 8.7% over the same period. However, employer costs rose 3.5% and benefits paid fell 1.7%.


   Workers' Compensation Part A vs. Part B  

Workers' compensation Part B also covers medical care, lost wages, and rehab costs for employees who are injured on the job. But unlike Part A, Part B coverage covers employees when the employer is liable through negligence or otherwise, which is also why it's called employers' liability coverage.



While Part A covers state requirements, Part B pays additional damages up to certain limits, meaning that Part B includes Part A but goes beyond Part A's coverage. Payments for Part B are determined based on the type of injury, policy terms, and the insurer. Example Part B limits may look something like:



Bodily injury by accident: $100,000 each accident.Bodily injury by disease: $500,000 policy limit.Bodily injury by disease: $100,000 for each employee.



Part B is not commonly used but there can be circumstances in which having this policy benefits the company. Most commonly these occur when the company is sued by a family member of the injured party or by a third party. Part B can also be needed if the damages owed go above and beyond Part A coverage.


   Example of Workers' Compensation Coverage A  

John works at Factory ABC, a company that makes steel pipes. The company is serious about safety and has implemented many safety standards that employees should follow. These include gloves when working with hot steel, boots that cover the entire foot and that also come with grips to prevent slipping.



One day, John is moving steel pipes down a ramp when he slips on a puddle of water that has accumulated from a leaky pipe. Despite wearing boots with grips, he still fell. He breaks his leg and damages nerves in the process. He requires surgery and needs to be out of work for six months.



John's health insurance pays for his broken leg and a portion of the surgery, but not all of the surgery. Factory ABC has workers' compensation coverage A as mandated by the state and the compensation coverage can pay for the remainder of John's medical bill as well as his salary while he is recovering for six months. The coverage also includes rehabilitation costs.




What Does Workers’ Comp Cover?
Workers' comp covers employees that get sick or injured while on the job. It includes death benefits, disability benefits, compensation for lost wages, medical expenses, and lawsuits.




Who Is Covered by Workers’ Comp Coverage?
Generally, all employees are covered by workers' compensation. All non-military, federal employees are covered by the Federal Employment Compensation Act (FECA). Employees working for private companies are generally covered as most states require coverage. It is important to check with your employer and state to determine what kind of coverage you have.




How Is Workers’ Comp Calculated?
Compensation is commonly based on the average weekly wage. The calculation involves multiplying the daily wage of the employee by the number of days worked in a full calendar year. The resulting number is then divided by 52 (weeks) to arrive at the average weekly wage.




How Much Does Workers’ Comp Cost?
The cost of workers' compensation varies based on factors such as the state of employment, a company's annual total payroll, the industry, the type of work done, the insurer, and the company's claims history. The average cost across the nation is $936 per employee per year, or $78 a month.




Is Workers’ Comp Taxable?
No, the benefits that employees receive as part of workers' compensation are not taxable. The only time that workers' compensation benefits might be taxable is if you are also receiving Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and a portion of those benefits have been offset by the benefits from workers' compensation coverage.


   The Bottom Line  

Workers' compensation coverage A protects employees under state law and provides medical care, death, disability, and rehabilitation benefits for workers who are injured or killed while on the job. Companies are required to carry workers' compensation coverage A and claims are paid without any regard to liability. Workers' compensation coverage protects employees, but it also protects employers from incurring significant legal and medical costs if they were sued by an injured employee.
What Is Workers' Compensation Coverage B?  

Workers' Compensation Coverage B is an insurance policy that covers medical care, lost income, and rehabilitation costs for employees who are injured on the job. It provides coverage to employees when the employer is liable.





Key Takeaways

Workers' Compensation Coverage B is an insurance policy that covers costs related to medical care and lost income for injured workers.Part B workers’ compensation is for additional damages that go beyond what Part A (which satisfies state insurance requirements) covers. This coverage is generally required by states if an employer has three or more employees (including the owners of uninsured subcontractors and their employees). Injured workers can be provided 100% coverage of all medical expenses, a percentage of lost wages (which varies by state and policy), a lump sum for disability and disfigurement, and a death benefit under Part B. 


   How Workers' Compensation Coverage B Works  

Workers' Compensation Coverage B is also called employers' liability coverage. Employers are required by state and federal statutes to provide coverage for their employees. Corporate insurance buyers get workers’ compensation insurance to protect their workers and meet state insurance requirements. Part B includes the two distinct parts of most standard Workers’ Compensation contracts: parts A and B.



Part A satisfies state insurance requirements, and Part B will respond to pay additional damages. The policy will fund employees’ medical bills, related expenses and lost wages in the case of a covered workers’ compensation loss. Payments are made normally based on predetermined schedules in the case of defined injuries. Expenses are paid accordingly as the adjuster calculates them. It covers:



Bodily injury by accident: $100,000 each accident.Bodily injury by disease: $500,000 policy limit.Bodily injury by disease: $100,000 for each employee.



Under Workers' Compensation Coverage B, workers who are injured on the job can be provided with 100% coverage of all medical expenses, a percentage of lost wages (which varies by state and policy), a lump sum for disability and disfigurement, and a death benefit. This coverage is required in most states if a company has three or more employees, including the owners of uninsured subcontractors, plus their employees for one year.


   Special Considerations  

There are important things to remember when reviewing Workers’ Compensation coverage. It's important to make sure that Part B employers’ liability is appropriately scheduled on your corporate umbrella. As mentioned earlier, employer negligence claims can be large, thus the umbrella policy can sit on top of a normal $1,000,000 primary limit. Additionally, if a business resides in a monopolistic state like Ohio (WC provided by the state), you will need to buy the employers’ liability normally from your general liability provider as an endorsement.


   Example of Workers’ Compensation Coverage B  

In the case of an employee injury and potential employer negligence, Part B will respond to pay additional damages. These payments are normally litigated and triggered by a serious injury proven to be caused by employer negligence. For Instance, an employee notices a faulty or exposed wire on a production machine and notifies their employer. The employer (for whatever reason) does not fix the wire and the employee is electrocuted. Employers’ liability would respond in the case of the employee (or their family) to pay a claim above and beyond the normal Part A statutory amount. It is normally enacted by a lawsuit.
What is Workflow?  

Workflow describes the steps in a business work process, through which a piece of work passes from initiation to completion; and how these steps can be executed and automated according to a set of procedural rules. Organizations use workflow to coordinate tasks, improve organizational efficiency, add responsiveness, and drive profitability. Workflow may be sequential, with each step contingent upon completion of the previous one, or parallel, with multiple steps occurring simultaneously.





Key Takeaways


Workflow describes the steps in a business work process, through which a piece of work passes from initiation to completion.
Six Sigma and Total quality management (TQM) are two popular process improvement philosophies that companies embrace.
Big data has helped to automate workflows through the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning systems.
Workflow software and apps help businesses manage projects across different teams, locations, and time zones.



   Understanding Workflow  

The concept of workflow was important to the study of the rational organization of work processes. These processes optimize manufacturing or informational processes to avoid bottlenecks—known as triage. After WW2, the quality movement developed several workflow improvement theories, which embraced more qualitative notions of business process re-engineering. These philosophies could be applied to car assembly lines, a loan application by a bank, or the production of a newspaper.



Six Sigma and Total quality management (TQM) are two process improvement philosophies that have been embraced by organizations around the world. TQM is a structured approach to overall organizational management, where internal guidelines and process standards reduce errors. The goal of Six Sigma is to reduce defects through quality control.






Six Sigma emphasizes cycle-time improvement while at the same time reducing manufacturing defects to a level of no more than 3.4 occurrences per million units or events. In other words, the system is a method to work faster with fewer mistakes.


   Workflow Technologies and Big Data  

Workflow technologies and management systems are being used today in industries as wide-ranging as finance, healthcare, marketing, and higher education. They have been fundamental to the development of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning systems that are having a significant impact on corporate workflows in every industry, thanks to their ability to process and extract value from big data.



By gathering and sharing data across an organization, and embedding analytics, enterprise data management systems are used to eliminate information silos and optimize business processes and automate data processing. This has helped to connect previously disconnected sectors and industries.



Finance is being transformed by big data, using it for both trading and compliance workflows. Investors are tapping into the flood of real-time data produced by global digitalization and social media, and experimenting with enhanced data analytics and AI to generate investment ideas – free of cognitive bias — and manage risk.


   Workflow in the Digital Era  

The need to manage projects across different teams, locations, and time zones has seen a huge rise in the popularity of workflow apps and software. This trend has only accelerated in 2021 as more companies connect with their employees remotely during the coronavirus pandemic. Some of the more popular workflow management software out there includes Easynote, Trello, Monday.com, and Accelo. These platforms make it easy to create tasks and assign them to different people while managing the entire workflow through a dashboard that acts as a central hub. Best of all, many of these platforms provide free access to key features, keeping costs low for startups and small businesses.
What Is Working-Age Population?  

The working-age population is the total population in an area that is considered able and likely to work based on the number of people in a predetermined age range. The working-age population measure is used to give an estimate of the total number of potential workers within an economy.


   Understanding the Concept of Working-Age Population  

The number of people in a specific age range will determine the working-age population. This number is the number of capable employees available in an economy, a country, or other specified regions. 



This measurement does not distinguish between those who are gainfully employed and those who are seeking employment within the range. The working-age population measurement is designed to analyze how many people are likely ready and capable to work.



There are outliers in the working-age population group that the number also does not consider. Outliers include those who are actively employed but are outside of the designated age range. As an example, some people will continue to work past the standard retirement age. Other outliers are individuals within the age range who cannot work due to disability or illness.





Key Takeaways

Local employment laws and other considerations may impact the specific parameters of a given region's working-age population.The working-age population is different from the working population, which is the number of people who are employed regardless of age.Some workers will fall outside of the measured range of working-age but may still be employed.Those who are disabled or ill may fall within the range group but not be employed.


   Regional Demographic Impact  

As the demographics of a region change, the working-age population of an economy will shift. Significant changes have the potential to impact the economy significantly. An area with more people at the extreme older range of its working-age population and few teenagers about to enter the workforce eventually could have trouble filling jobs. On the flip side, a region with many young adults and teenagers entering the working-age population and fewer people in their 50s and 60s could soon see fierce competition for jobs. Additionally, an area with a disproportionate number of people outside the working-age population will rely on a smaller population to generate revenues for the entire region.



Ideally, a local economy should have a steady flow of people both entering and exiting the working-age population each year, as well as a healthy balance between those in the determined age range and those outside of it.


   Real-World Example of a Working-Age Population  

If a region has a working-age population that is declining or otherwise insufficient to meet employment demands in the area, the region will have difficulty attracting new industries or convincing existing industries to expand. Companies are less likely to open a new branch or a new factory in an area where it might have difficulty filling jobs. On the other hand, areas with larger or growing working-age populations may be more attractive to companies seeking to expand or relocate.



According to Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, when Foxconn reached a deal with the state of Wisconsin in 2017 to open a plant in Racine County, it promised it would add 13,000 jobs by as early as 2022. By January 2019, Foxconn had backed away from that number, which had been one of many sources of criticism for the deal. Critics argued that the area did not have a large enough working-age population to fill 13,000 jobs in such a short period.﻿﻿﻿
What Is Working Capital?  

Working capital, also known as net working capital (NWC), is the difference between a company’s current assets—such as cash, accounts receivable/customers’ unpaid bills, and inventories of raw materials and finished goods—and its current liabilities, such as accounts payable and debts. It's a commonly used measurement to gauge the short-term health of an organization.





Key Takeaways

Working capital, also called net working capital, represents the difference between a company’s current assets and current liabilities.Working capital is a measure of a company’s liquidity and short-term financial health.A company has negative working capital if its ratio of current assets to liabilities is less than one (or if it has more current liabilities than current assets).Positive working capital indicates that a company can fund its current operations and invest in future activities and growth.High working capital isn’t always a good thing. It might indicate that the business has too much inventory, not investing its excess cash, or not capitalizing on low-expense debt opportunities.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Working Capital  

Working capital estimates are derived from the array of assets and liabilities on a corporate balance sheet. By only looking at immediate debts and offsetting them with the most liquid of assets, a company can better understand what sort of liquidity it has in the near future.



Working capital is also a measure of a company’s operational efficiency and short-term financial health. If a company has substantial positive NWC, then it could have the potential to invest in expansion and grow the company. If a company’s current assets do not exceed its current liabilities, then it may have trouble growing or paying back creditors. It might even go bankrupt.






In the corporate finance world, “current” refers to a time period of one year or less. Current assets are available within 12 months; current liabilities are due within 12 months.



The amount of working capital a company has will typically depend on its industry. Some sectors that have longer production cycles may require higher working capital needs as they don't have the quick inventory turnover to generate cash on demand. Alternatively, retail companies that interact with thousands of customers a day can often raise short-term funds much faster and require lower working capital requirements.


   Working Capital Formula  

To calculate working capital, subtract a company's current liabilities from its current assets. Both figures can be found in the publicly disclosed financial statements for public companies, though this information may not be readily available for private companies.



Working Capital = Current Assets - Current Liabilities



Working capital is often stated as a dollar figure. For example, say a company has $100,000 of current assets and $30,000 of current liabilities. The company is therefore said to have $70,000 of working capital. This means the company has $70,000 at its disposal in the short term if it needs to raise money for a specific reason.



When a working capital calculation is positive, this means the company's current assets are greater than its current liabilities. The company has more than enough resources to cover its short-term debt, and there is residual cash should all current assets be liquidated to pay this debt.



When a working capital calculation is negative, this means the company's current assets are not enough to pay for all of its current liabilities. The company has more short-term debt than it has short-term resources. Negative working capital is an indicator of poor short-term health, low liquidity, and potential problems paying its debt obligations as they become due.



It is worth noting that negative working capital is not always a bad thing; it can be good or bad, depending on the specific business and its stage in its lifecycle; however, prolonged negative working capital can be problematic.


   Components of Working Capital  

All components of working capital can be found on a company's balance sheet, though a company may not have use for all elements of working capital discussed below. For example, a service company that does not carry inventory will simply not factor inventory into its working capital calculation.



Current assets listed include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and other assets that are expected to be liquidated or turned into cash in less than one year. Current liabilities include accounts payable, wages, taxes payable, and the current portion of long-term debt that’s due within one year.


  Current Assets  

Current assets are economic benefits that the company expects to receive within the next 12 months. The company has a claim or right to receive the financial benefit, and calculating working capital poses the hypothetical situation of the company liquidating all items below into cash.



Cash and Cash Equivalents: All of the money the company has on hand. This includes foreign currency and certain types of investments such as money market accounts with very low risk and very low investment term periods.
Inventory: All of the unsold goods being stored. This includes raw materials purchased to manufacture, partially assembled inventory that is in process, and finished goods that have not yet been sold.
Accounts Receivable: All of the claims to cash for inventory items sold on credit. This should be included net of any allowance for doubtful payments.
Notes Receivable: All of the claims to cash for other agreements, often agreed to through a physically signed agreement.
Prepaid Expenses: All of the value for expenses paid in advance. Though it may be difficult to liquidate these in the event of needing cash, they still carry short-term value and are included.
Others: Any other short-term asset. An example is some companies may recognize a short-term deferred tax asset that reduces a future liability.


  Current Liabilities  

Current liabilities are simply all debts a company owes or will owe within the next twelve months. The overarching goal of working capital is to understand whether a company will be able to cover all of these debts with the short-term assets it already has on hand.



Accounts Payable: All unpaid invoices to vendors for supplies, raw materials, utilities, property taxes, rent, or any other operating expense owed to an outside third party. Credit terms on invoices are often net 30 days, so essentially all invoices are captured here.
Wages Payable: All unpaid accrued salary and wages for staff members. Depending on the timing of the company's payroll, this may only accrue up to one month's worth of wages (if the company only issues one paycheck per month). Otherwise, these liabilities are very short-term in nature.
Current Portion of Long-Term Debt: All short-term payments related to long-term debt. Imagine a company finances its warehouse and owes monthly debt payments on the 10-year debt. The next 12 months of payments are considered short-term debt, while the remaining 9 years of payments are long-term debt. Only 12 months are included when calculating working capital.
Accrued Tax Payable: All obligations to government bodies. These may be accruals for tax obligations for filings not due for months; however, these accruals are usually always short-term (due within the next 12 months) in nature.
Dividend Payable: All authorized payments to shareholders. A company may decide to decline future dividend payments but must fulfill obligations on already authorized dividends.
Unearned Revenue: All capital received in advance of having completed work. Should the company fail to complete the job, it may be forced to return capital back to the client.












Theresa Chiechi Â© Investopedia, 2019


   Limitations of Working Capital  

Working capital can be very insightful to determine a company's short-term health. However, there are some downsides to the calculation that make the metric sometimes misleading.



First, working capital is always changing. If a company is fully operating, it's likely that several—if not most—current asset and current liability accounts will change. Therefore, by the time financial information is accumulated, it's likely that the working capital position of the company has already changed.



Working capital fails to consider the specific types of underlying accounts. For example, imagine a company whose current assets are 100% in accounts receivable. Though the company may have positive working capital, its financial health depends on whether its customers will pay and whether the business can come up with short-term cash.



On a similar note, assets can quickly become devalued. Accounts receivable balances may lose value if a top customer files for bankruptcy. Inventory is at-risk of obsolescence or theft. Physical cash is also at risk of theft. Therefore, a company's working capital may change simply based on forces outside of its control.



Last, working capital assumes all debt obligations are known. In mergers or very fast-paced companies, agreements can be missed or invoices can be processed incorrectly. Working capital relies heavily on correct accounting practices, especially surrounding internal control and safeguarding of assets.


   Special Considerations  

Most major new projects, such as an expansion in production or into new markets, require an upfront investment. This reduces immediate cash flow. Therefore, companies that are using working capital inefficiently or need extra capital upfront can boost cash flow by squeezing suppliers and customers.






Companies can forecast what their working capital will look like in the future. By forecasting sales, manufacturing, and operations, a company can guess how each of those three elements will impact current assets and liabilities.



On the other hand, high working capital isn’t always a good thing. It might indicate that the business has too much inventory or is not investing its excess cash. Alternatively, it could mean a company is failing to take advantage of low-interest or no-interest loans; instead of borrowing money at a low cost of capital, the company is burning its own resources.



A similar financial metric called the quick ratio measures the ratio of current assets to current liabilities. In addition to using different accounts in its formula, it reports the relationship as a percentage as opposed to a dollar amount.


   Example of Working Capital  

At the end of 2021, Microsoft (MSFT) reported $174.2 billion of current assets. This included cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventory, and other current assets.



The company also reported $77.5 billion of current liabilities comprised of accounts payable, current portions of long-term debts, accrued compensation, short-term income taxes, short-term unearned revenue, and other current liabilities.



Therefore, at the end of 2021, Microsoft's working capital metric was $96.7 billion. If Microsoft were to liquidate all short-term assets and extinguish all short-term debts, it would have almost $100 billion of cash remaining on hand.



Another way to review this example is by comparing working capital to current assets or current liabilities. For example, Microsoft's working capital of $96.7 billion is greater than its current liabilities. Therefore, the company would be able to pay every single current debt twice and still have money left over.




How Do You Calculate Working Capital?
Working capital is calculated by taking a company’s current assets and deducting current liabilities. For instance, if a company has current assets of $100,000 and current liabilities of $80,000, then its working capital would be $20,000. Common examples of current assets include cash, accounts receivable, and inventory. Examples of current liabilities include accounts payable, short-term debt payments, or the current portion of deferred revenue.




Why Is Working Capital Important?
Working capital is important because it is necessary for businesses to remain solvent. In theory, a business could become bankrupt even if it is profitable. After all, a business cannot rely on paper profits to pay its bills—those bills need to be paid in cash readily in hand. Say a company has accumulated $1 million in cash due to its previous years’ retained earnings. If the company were to invest all $1 million at once, it could find itself with insufficient current assets to pay for its current liabilities.




Is Negative Working Capital Bad?
It depends. Generally, it is bad if a company's current liabilities balance exceeds its current asset balance. This means the company does not have enough resources in the short-term to pay off its debts, and it must get creative in finding a way to make sure it can pay its short-term bills on time. A short-period of negative working capital may not be an issue depending on a company's place in its business life cycle and if it is able to generate cash quickly to pay off debts.




How Can a Company Improve Its Working Capital?
A company can improve its working capital by increasing its current assets. This includes saving cash, building higher inventory reserves, prepaying expenses especially if it results in a cash discount, or closely considering which customers to extend credit to (in an attempt to reduce its bad debt write-offs).A company can also improve working capital by reducing its short-term debts. The company can avoid taking on debt when unnecessary or expensive, and the company can strive to get the best credit terms available. The company can be mindful of spending both externally to vendors and internally with what staff they have on hand.


   The Bottom Line  

Working capital is used to gauge the short-term health of a company by measuring its current assets to its current liabilities, reflecting how well it can pay off debts and fund its current operations without taking on external funding.
What Is a Working Capital Loan?  

A working capital loan is a loan that is taken to finance a company's everyday operations. These loans are not used to buy long-term assets or investments and are, instead, used to provide the working capital that covers a company's short-term operational needs.



Those needs can include costs such as payroll, rent, and debt payments. In this way, working capital loans are simply corporate debt borrowings that are used by a company to finance its daily operations.





Key Takeaways

A working capital loan is a loan taken to finance a company's everyday operations.Working capital loans are not used to buy long-term assets or investments; they are used to provide working capital to covers a company's short-term operational needs.Companies with high seasonality or cyclical sales may rely on working capital loans to help with periods of reduced business activity.Working capital loans are often tied to a business owner's personal credit, so missed payments or defaults may hurt their credit score.


   Understanding Working Capital Loans  

Sometimes a company does not have adequate cash on hand or asset liquidity to cover day-to-day operational expenses and, thus, will secure a loan for this purpose. Companies with high seasonality or cyclical sales may rely on working capital loans to help with periods of reduced business activity.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz



Many companies do not have stable or predictable revenue throughout the year. Manufacturing companies, for example, may have cyclical sales that correspond with the needs of retailers. Most retailers sell more products during the fourth quarter—that is, during the holiday season—than at any other time of the year.



To supply retailers with the proper amount of goods, manufacturers typically conduct most of their production activity during the summer months, readying inventories for the fourth quarter push. Then, when the end of the year hits, retailers reduce manufacturing purchases as they focus on selling through their inventory, which subsequently reduces manufacturing sales.



Manufacturers with this type of seasonality often require a working capital loan to pay wages and other operating expenses during the quiet period of the fourth quarter. The loan is usually repaid by the time the company hits its busy season and no longer needs the financing. Businesses can also pledge their inventory to secure funds with warehouse financing.






Missed payments on a working capital loan may hurt the business owner's credit score if the loan is tied to their personal credit.



Types of financing include a term loan, a business line of credit, or invoice financing, a form of short-term borrowing extended by a lender to its business customers based on unpaid invoices. Business credit cards, which allow you to earn rewards, can also provide access to working capital.


   Pros and Cons of Working Capital Loans  

The immediate benefit of a working capital loan is that it's easy to obtain and lets business owners efficiently cover any gaps in working capital expenditures. The other noticeable benefit is that it is a form of debt financing and does not require an equity transaction, meaning that a business owner maintains full control of their company, even if the financing need is dire.



Some working capital loans are unsecured. If this is the case, a company is not required to put down any collateral to secure the loan. However, only companies or business owners with a high credit rating are eligible for an unsecured loan. Businesses with little to no credit have to securitize the loan.



A collateralized working capital loan that needs asset collateral can be a drawback to the loan process. However, there are other potential drawbacks to this type of working capital loan. Interest rates are high in order to compensate the lending institution for risk. Furthermore, working capital loans are often tied to a business owner's personal credit, and any missed payments or defaults may hurt their credit score.
What Is Working Capital Management?  

Working capital management is a business strategy designed to ensure that a company operates efficiently by monitoring and using its current assets and liabilities to their most effective use.



The efficiency of working capital management can be quantified using ratio analysis.





Key Takeaways

Working capital management requires monitoring a company's assets and liabilities to maintain sufficient cash flow to meet its short-term operating costs and short-term debt obligations.Managing working capital primarily revolves around managing accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and cash.Working capital management involves tracking various ratios, including the working capital ratio, the collection ratio, and the inventory ratio.Working capital management can improve a company's cash flow management and earnings quality by using its resources efficiently.Working capital management strategies may not materialize due to market fluctuations or may sacrifice long-term successes for short-term benefits.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Working Capital Management  

The primary purpose of working capital management is to enable the company to maintain sufficient cash flow to meet its short-term operating costs and short-term debt obligations. A company's working capital is made up of its current assets minus its current liabilities.



Current assets include anything that can be easily converted into cash within 12 months. These are the company's highly liquid assets. Some current assets include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and short-term investments. Current liabilities are any obligations due within the following 12 months. These include accruals for operating expenses and current portions of long-term debt payments.






Working capital management monitors cash flow, current assets, and current liabilities using ratio analysis, such as working capital ratio, collection ratio, and inventory turnover ratio.


   Main Components of Working Capital Management  

Certain balance sheet accounts are more important when considering working capital management. Though working capital often entails comparing all current assets to current liabilities, there are a few accounts more critical to track.


  Cash  

The core of working capital management is tracking cash and cash needs. This involves managing the company's cash flow by forecasting needs, monitoring cash balances, and optimizing cash inflows and outflows to ensure that the company has enough cash to meet its obligations. Because cash is always considered a current asset, all accounts should be considered. However, companies should be mindful of restricted or time-bound deposits.


  Receivables  

To manage capital, companies must be mindful of their receives. This is especially important in the short-term as they wait for credit sales to be completed. This involves managing the company's credit policies, monitoring customer payments, and improving collection practices. At the end of the day, having completed a sale does not matter if the company is unable to collect payment on the sale.


  Payables  

Payables in one aspect of working capital management that companies can take advantage of that they often have greater control over. While other aspects of working capital management may be out of the company's hands (i.e. selling goods or collecting receivables), companies often have a say in how they pay suppliers, what the credit terms are, and when cash outlays are made.


  Inventory  

Companies primary consider inventory during working capital management as it may be most risky aspect of managing capital. When inventory is sold, a company must go to the market and rely on consumer preferences to convert inventory to cash. If this cannot be completed in a timely manner, the company may be forced to have short-term resource stuck in an illiquid position. Alternatively, the company may be able to quickly sell the inventory but only with a steep price discount.


   Types of Working Capital  

In its simplest form, working capital is just the difference between current assets and current liabilities. However, there are many different types of working capital that each may be important to a company to best understand its short-term needs.



Permanent Working Capital: Permanent working capital is the amount of resources the company will always need to operate its business without interruption. This is the minimum amount of short-term resources vital to operations. 
Regular Working Capital: Regular working capital is a component of permanent working capital. It is the part of the permanent working capital that is actually required for day-to-day operations and makes up the "most important" part of permanent working capital. 
Reserve Working Capital: Reserve working capital is the other component of permanent working capital. Companies may require an additional amount of working capital on hand for emergencies, seasonality, or unpredictable events. 
Fluctuating Working Capital: Companies may be interested in only knowing what their variable working capital is. For example, companies may opt into paying for inventory as it is a variable cost. However, the company may have a monthly liability relating to insurance it does not have the option to decline. Fluctuating working capital only considers the variable liabilities the company has complete control over.
Gross Working Capital: Gross working capital is simply the total amount of current assets of a business before considering any short-term liabilities.
Net Working Capital: Net working capital is the difference between current assets and current liabilities. 


   Why Manage Working Capital?  

Working capital management can improve a company's cash flow management and earnings quality through the efficient use of its resources. Management of working capital includes inventory management as well as management of accounts receivable and accounts payable. 



Working capital management also involves the timing of accounts payable (i.e., paying suppliers). A company can conserve cash by choosing to stretch the payment of suppliers and to make the most of available credit or may spend cash by purchasing using cash—these choices also affect working capital management.






The objectives of working capital management, in addition to ensuring that the company has enough cash to cover its expenses and debt, are minimizing the cost of money spent on working capital, and maximizing the return on asset investments.


   Working Capital Management Ratios  

Three ratios that are important in working capital management are the working capital ratio (or current ratio), the collection ratio, and the inventory turnover ratio.


  Current Ratio (Working Capital Ratio)  

The working capital ratio or current ratio is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities. The current ratio is a key indicator of a company's financial health as it demonstrates its ability to meet its short-term financial obligations.



A working capital ratio below 1.0 often means a company may have trouble meeting its short-term obligations. That is because the company has more short-term debt than short-term assets. In order to pay all of its bill as they come due, the company may need to sell long-term assets or secure external financing.



Working capital ratios of 1.2 to 2.0 are considered desirable as this means the company has more current assets compared to current liabilities. However, a ratio higher than 2.0 may suggest that the company is not effectively using its assets to increase revenues. For example, a high ratio may indicate that the company has too much cash on hand and could be more efficiently utilizing that capital to invest in growth opportunities.


  Collection Ratio (Days Sales Outstanding)  

The collection ratio, also known as days sales outstanding (DSO), is a measure of how efficiently a company manages its accounts receivable. The collection ratio is calculated by multiplying the number of days in the period by the average amount of outstanding accounts receivable. Then, this product is divided by the total amount of net credit sales during the accounting period. To find the average amount of average receivables, companies most often simply take the average between the beginning and ending balances.



The collection ratio calculation provides the average number of days it takes a company to receive payment after a sales transaction on credit. Note that the days sales outstanding ratio does not consider cash sales. If a company's billing department is effective at collecting accounts receivable, the company will have quicker access to cash which is can deploy for growth. Meanwhile, if the company has a long outstanding period, this effectively means the company is awarding creditors with interest-free, short-term loans.


  Inventory Turnover Ratio  

Another important metric of working capital management is the inventory turnover ratio. To operate with maximum efficiency, a company must keep sufficient inventory on hand to meet customers' needs. However, the company also needs to strive to minimize costs and risk while avoiding unnecessary inventory stockpiles.



The inventory turnover ratio is calculated as cost of goods sold divided by the average balance in inventory. Again, the average balance in inventory is usually determined by taking the average of the starting and ending balances.



The ratio reveals how rapidly a company's inventory is being used in sales and replaced. A relatively low ratio compared to industry peers indicates a risk that inventory levels are excessively high, meaning a company may want to consider slowing production to ease the cost of insurance, storage, security, or theft. Alternatively, a relatively high ratio may indicate inadequate inventory levels and risk to customer satisfaction.


   Working Capital Cycle  

In addition to the ratios discussed above, companies may rely on the working capital cycle when managing working capital. Working capital management helps maintain the smooth operation of the net operating cycle, also known as the cash conversion cycle (CCC)—the minimum amount of time required to convert net current assets and liabilities into cash. The working capital cycle is a measure of the time it takes for a company to convert its current assets into cash, or:



Working Capital Cycle in Days = Inventory Cycle + Receivable Cycle - Payable Cycle  



The working capital cycle represents the period measured in days from the time when the company pays for raw materials or inventory to the time when it receives payment for the products or services it sells. During this period, the company's resources may be tied up in obligations or pending liquidation to cash.


  Inventory Cycle  

The inventory cycle represents the time it takes for a company to acquire raw materials or inventory, convert them into finished goods, and store them until they are sold. During this stage, the company's cash is tied up in inventory. Though it starts the cycle with cash on hand, the company agrees to part ways with working capital with the expectation that it will receive more working capital in the future by selling the product at a profit.


  Accounts Receivable Cycle  

The accounts receivable cycle represents the time it takes for a company to collect payment from its customers after it has sold goods or services. During this stage, the company's cash is tied up in accounts receivable. Though the company was able to part ways with its inventory, it's working capital is now tied up in accounts receivable and still does not give the company access to capital until these credit sales are received.


  Accounts Payable Cycle  

The accounts payable cycle represents the time it takes for a company to pay its suppliers for goods or services received. During this stage, the company's cash is tied up in accounts payable. On the positive side, this represents a short-term loan from a supplier meaning the company is able to hold onto cash even though they have received a good. On the negative side, this creates a liability that needs to be managed.


   Limitations of Working Capital Management  

With strong working capital management, a company should be able to ensure it has enough capital on hands to operate and grow. However, there are downsides to the approach. Working capital management only focuses on short-term assets and liabilities. It does not address the long-term financial health of the company and may sacrifice the best long-term solution in favor for short-term benefits.



Even with the best practices in place, working capital management cannot guarantee success. The future is uncertain, and it's challenging to predict how market conditions will affect a company's working capital. Whether its changes in macroeconomic conditions, customer behavior, and supply chain disruptions, a company's forecast of working capital may simply not materialize as they expected.



Last, while effective working capital management can help a company avoid financial difficulties, it may not necessarily lead to increased profitability. Working capital management does not inherently increase profitability, make products more desirable, or increase a company's market position. Companies still need to focus on sales growth, cost control, and other measures to improve their bottom line. As that bottom line improves, working capital management can simply enhance the company's position.




What Is Working Capital Management?
Working capital management aims at more efficient use of a company's resources by monitoring and optimizing the use of current assets and liabilities. The goal is to maintain sufficient cash flow to meet its short-term operating costs and short-term debt obligations and maximize profitability. Working capital management is key to the cash conversion cycle (CCC), or the amount of time a firm uses to convert working capital into usable cash.




Why Is the Current Ratio Important?
The current ratio (also known as the working capital ratio) indicates how well a firm is able to meet its short-term obligations, and it's a measure of liquidity. If a company has a current ratio of less than 1.00, this means that short-term debts and bills exceed current assets, a signal that the company's finances may be in danger in the short run.




Why Is the Collection Ratio Important?
The collection ratio, or days sales outstanding (DSO), is a measure of how efficiently a company can collect on its accounts receivable. If it takes a long time to collect, it can be a signal that there will not be enough cash on hand to meet near-term obligations. Working capital management tries to improve the collection speed of receivables.




Why Is the Inventory Ratio Important?
The inventory turnover ratio shows how efficiently a company sells its stock of inventory. A relatively low ratio compared to industry peers indicates a risk that inventory levels are excessively high, while a relatively high ratio may indicate inadequate inventory levels.


   The Bottom Line  

Working capital management is at the core of operating a business. Without sufficient capital on hand, a company is unable to pay its bill, process payroll, or invest in growth. Companies can better understanding their working capital structure by analyzing liquidity ratios and ensuring its short-term cash needs are always met.
What Is Working Capital Turnover?  

Working capital turnover is a ratio that measures how efficiently a company is using its working capital to support sales and growth. Also known as net sales to working capital, working capital turnover measures the relationship between the funds used to finance a company's operations and the revenues a company generates to continue operations and turn a profit.





Key Takeaways

Working capital turnover measures how effective a business is at generating sales for every dollar of working capital put to use.A higher working capital turnover ratio is better, and indicates that a company is able to generate a larger amount of sales.However, if working capital turnover rises too high, it could suggest that a company needs to raise additional capital to support future growth.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Working Capital Turnover Formula  
















Working Capital Turnover


=



Net Annual Sales


Average Working Capital








\begin{aligned} &\text{Working Capital Turnover}=\frac{\text{Net Annual Sales}}{\text{Average Working Capital}}\\ \end{aligned}


​Working Capital Turnover=Average Working CapitalNet Annual Sales​​



where:



Net annual sales is the sum of a company's gross sales minus its returns, allowances, and discounts over the course of a year
Average working capital is average current assets less average current liabilities


   What Does Working Capital Turnover Tell You?  

A high turnover ratio shows that management is being very efficient in using a company’s short-term assets and liabilities for supporting sales. In other words, it is generating a higher dollar amount of sales for every dollar of working capital used.



In contrast, a low ratio may indicate that a business is investing in too many accounts receivable and inventory to support its sales, which could lead to an excessive amount of bad debts or obsolete inventory.



To gauge just how efficient a company is at using its working capital, analysts also compare working capital ratios to those of other companies in the same industry and look at how the ratio has been changing over time. However, such comparisons are meaningless when working capital turns negative because the working capital turnover ratio then also turns negative.


   Working Capital Management  

Working capital management commonly involves monitoring cash flow, current assets, and current liabilities through ratio analysis of the key elements of operating expenses, including working capital turnover, the collection ratio, and inventory turnover ratio.



Working capital management helps maintain the smooth operation of the net operating cycle, also known as the cash conversion cycle (CCC)—the minimum amount of time required to convert net current assets and liabilities into cash. When a company does not have enough working capital to cover its obligations, financial insolvency can result and lead to legal troubles, liquidation of assets, and potential bankruptcy.



To manage how efficiently they use their working capital, companies use inventory management and keep close tabs on accounts receivables and accounts payable. Inventory turnover shows how many times a company has sold and replaced inventory during a period, and the receivable turnover ratio shows how effectively it extends credit and collects debts on that credit.


   Special Considerations  

A high working capital turnover ratio shows a company is running smoothly and has limited need for additional funding. Money is coming in and flowing out regularly, giving the business flexibility to spend capital on expansion or inventory. A high ratio may also give the business a competitive edge over similar companies as a measure of profitability.



However, an extremely high ratio might indicate that a business does not have enough capital to support its sales growth. Therefore, the company could become insolvent in the near future unless it raises additional capital to support that growth.



The working capital turnover indicator may also be misleading when a firm's accounts payable are very high, which could indicate that the company is having difficulty paying its bills as they come due.


   Example of Working Capital Turnover  

Say that Company A has $12 million in net sales over the previous 12 months. The average working capital during that period was $2 million. The working capital turnover ratio is thus $12,000,000 / $2,000,000 = 6.0. This means that every dollar of working capital produces $6 in revenue.
What Is the Working Class?  

"Working class" is a socioeconomic term used to describe persons in a social class marked by jobs that provide low pay, require limited skill, or physical labor. Typically, working-class jobs have reduced education requirements. Unemployed persons or those supported by a social welfare program are often included in the working class.





Key Takeaways

Working class is a socioeconomic term describing persons in a social class marked by jobs that provide low pay and require limited skill.Typically, working-class jobs have reduced education requirements.Today, most working-class jobs are found in the services sector and include clerical, retail sales, and low-skill manual labor vocations.


   Understanding the Working Class  

While "working class" is typically associated with manual labor and limited education, blue collar workers are vital to every economy. Economists in the United States generally define "working class" as adults without a college degree. Many members of the working class are also defined as middle-class. 



Sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert and Joseph Kahl, who was a sociology professor at Cornell University and the author of the 1957 textbook The American Class Structure,﻿﻿ identified the working class as the most populous class in America.



Other sociologists such as William Thompson, Joseph Hickey and James Henslin say the lower middle class is largest. In the class models devised by these sociologists, the working class comprises between 30% to 35% of the population, roughly the same number in the lower middle class. According to Dennis Gilbert, the working class comprises those between the 25th and 55th percentile of society.



Karl Marx described the working class as the "proletariat", and that it was the working class who ultimately created the goods and provided the services that created a society's wealth. Marxists and socialists define the working class as those who have nothing to sell but their labor-power and skills. In that sense, the working class includes both white and blue-collar workers, manual and menial workers of all types, excluding only individuals who derive their income from business ownership and the labor of others.


   Types of Working Class Jobs  

Working-class jobs today are quite different than the working-class jobs in the 1950s and 1960s. Americans working in factories and industrial jobs have been on the decline for many years. Today, most working-class jobs are found in the services sector and typically include: 



Clerical jobsFood industry positionsRetail salesLow-skill manual labor vocationsLow-level white-collar workers



Oftentimes working-class jobs pay less than $15 per hour, and some of those jobs do not include health benefits. In America, the demographics surrounding the working-class population is becoming more diverse. Approximately 59% of the working-class population is comprised of white Americans, down from 88% in the 1940s. African-Americans account for 14% while Hispanics currently represent 21% of the working class in the U.S.﻿﻿ 


   History of the Working Class in Europe  

In feudal Europe, most were part of the laboring class; a group made up of different professions, trades, and occupations. A lawyer, craftsman, and peasant, for example, were all members–neither members of the aristocracy or religious elite. Similar hierarchies existed outside Europe in other pre-industrial societies.



The social position of these laboring classes was viewed as ordained by natural law and common religious belief. Peasants challenged this perception during the German Peasants' War. In the late 18th century, under the influence of the Enlightenment, a changing Europe could not be reconciled with the idea of a changeless god-created social order. Wealthy members of societies at that time tried to keep the working class subdued, claiming moral and ethical superiority.
What Is Working Control?  

Working control occurs when a minority shareholder, or group of them, has enough voting power to influence or determine corporate policy. Working control exists in corporations with widely dispersed share ownership where no single individual has a majority interest, meaning ownership of 51% or more of the voting shares.



In such cases, an individual shareholder with a 20% stake in a company often controls a large enough position to acquire working control. Other times, it requires a group of shareholders working in concert to exert power and wield influence over a company’s direction.





Key Takeaways

Working control occurs when a minority shareholder, or group of them, has enough voting power to influence or determine corporate policy.It exists in corporations with widely dispersed share ownership where no single individual has a majority interest—51% or more of the voting shares.While there are no official benchmarks for defining working control, holding 20% of all outstanding shares is often considered enough.Multiple minority shareholders could also unite to obtain working control in a corporation.


   Understanding Working Control  

When you buy stock in a company you become a minority shareholder. This gives you a percentage of ownership and a share of the spoils, but very little say or influence in the direction of the company. Generally, only when owning more than half of a company’s outstanding shares do stakeholders get to set policy and procedures.



Minority shareholders can occasionally gain some form of control and help call the shots, however, with a much smaller stake. If there is no dominant majority (greater than 50 percent) shareholder on the register, owning less stock might be enough to engineer changes within a company. Usually, this can be achieved by buying up at least one-fifth of shares or joining forces with multiple minority shareholders.



Working control isn’t always easy to acquire. In some industries, such as technology, founders will sit at the helm of companies since day one and make sure they maintain control of a majority of the voting shares. Meta (META), formerly Facebook, and Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) offer two examples of companies structured to keep power and decision making among original owners.



Still, there are some exceptions. Working control situations can emerge in companies operating in legacy industries that experience some turnover at the C-level or board of directors (B of D). These types of companies can become easy prey to activist investors. Wealthy hedge funds and private equity firms will stealthily buy up enough shares to obtain working control and win a place on the board. Doing so enables them to effect significant change within a company without having to go through the trouble of purchasing it outright.






Hedge funds, mutual funds, and private equity firms often obtain working control of a stock before launching a proxy fight with the current management team. 


   Working Control Requirements  

Once investors cross the necessary threshold, companies must disclose that they have working control on their financial statements. While there are no official benchmarks for defining working control, holding 20% of all outstanding shares is often considered large enough to exhibit this level of influence.



Not all shares are the same, though. Some types of units of ownership interest, such as preferred stock, do not carry a vote in shareholder meetings, making them much less powerful chips for wielding influence and obtaining control than others.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Working Control   

Having working control of voting shares gives the person or group massive influence over the operational and strategic decision-making process. If that individual believes the company should pursue a project or withdraw from an existing one, he or she has the power to jumpstart those efforts alone. A leadership position on the B of D and the ability to make key operational hires in the C-suite means holding considerable sway over a company’s direction.



The addition of fresh voices and visions could potentially be viewed as a positive for companies that are stale and in need of a shake-up. Working control can often be used to wake-up underperforming executives and engineer positive change, resulting in a more efficient allocation of capital.



A lot depends on who has working control, though. The arrival of disruptive figures to the board who are constantly at loggerheads with existing majority shareholders can create a toxic working environment, bad publicity, and maybe even the wrong decisions getting signed off.



Some parties with working control want to exert their influence to better the company, and its shareholders' wallets, over the long haul. Others are only interested in lining their own pockets, engaging in asset stripping and questionable share repurchase programs to make themselves a quick buck, despite being aware that such measures risk eventually bleeding the company dry and eroding long-term value.
What Is Working Interest?  

Working interest is a term for a type of investment in oil and gas drilling operations in which the investor is directly liable for a portion of the ongoing costs associated with exploration, drilling, and production. As part of the investment, working interest owners also fully participate in the profits of any successful wells. This stands in contrast to royalty interests, in which an investor's cost is usually limited to the initial investment, also resulting in a lower potential for large profits.





Key Takeaways

A working interest is a type of investment in oil and gas operations.In a working interest, investors are liable for ongoing costs associated with the project but also share in any profits of production.Both the costs and risks of a working interest are extremely high.There are certain tax benefits related to costs and losses in a working interest.


   Understanding Working Interest  

Working interest, also referred to as operating interest, provides investors with a percentage ownership of the drilling operation, functioning as a lease, providing the investor a right to participate in drilling activities and a right to the resources produced from that activity. Along with deriving an income from the production of the resource, the investors are also responsible for a percentage of the expenses related to its acquisition.



There are two types of working interest: operated and non-operated. Operated working interest has a designated operator that makes all operational decisions. The operator selects wells, determines drilling, and handles all the day to day operations.



A non-operated working interest member is not involved in daily operations but is consulted on production decisions. The well operator, after operating expenses have been covered, divides any additional funds between those holding a working interest, creating the source of income. Those holding a working interest may deduct certain costs, such as those associated with the depreciation of equipment.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Working Interest  

With all types of investments, there are going to be advantages and disadvantages. Investing in a working interest related to oil and gas, the advantages and disadvantages are as follows:


  Advantages  

The upside for financial gain is large. If wells prove successful, profits are sizable and can last for years.Tax benefits exist as losses are seen as active income and can be offset against other income.Tax incentives where certain costs are tax-deductible. Sometimes 65%-80% of the costs of a well's funding.An active investment where decision making is in your hands.


  Disadvantages  

The upfront investment is extremely high as one is paying for the costs of production.There is a greater risk of loss as the costs of investing are high.Investors may be liable for on the job calamities, such as employee injuries or damage to the environment.


   Tax Implications of Working Interest Income  

Since most working interest income is treated as self-employment income because the investor is part of a partnership, it will generally be taxed as such, meaning that an investor will not be held to net investment income surtax but to Social Security and Medicare. Since regular income tax payments are not automatically withheld from these funds, investors are responsible for making estimated tax payments based on the current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) standards and rates. As of 2020, the self-employment tax rate is 15.3% in the United States.



Additionally, if the investor receives free resources, such as natural gas service to his property from the company with the associated leasing rights, these amounts may also qualify as income and may be taxed as such.



Investors with working interests are eligible for certain tax deductions based on the operating costs associated with the business. This can include business expenses of a tangible or intangible nature, such as equipment costs or utility payments.


   Risks of Working Interest  

As there is a potential downside for financial loss and other liabilities due to investing in a working interest, an individual should take steps to reduce that risk. It is recommended that when entering into a working interest investment, an individual sets up a limited liability company (LLC) or other tax partnerships. The main reason to do so is to be protected from any liability. An LLC can protect investors from risks incurred in the working interest. Conversely, it can protect the working interest from liabilities incurred by the investor.



On the other hand, individuals can look to investing in royalty interests that may provide an opportunity to participate in oil and gas investments with a lower level of risk than a working interest. While working interest investments require continuous input from investors in regards to expenses, risking larger losses if expenses outweigh income, royalty interests generally require no additional funding from those investors, making additional losses beyond the initial investment less likely.
What Is the Working Ratio?  

The working ratio measures a company's ability to recover operating costs from annual revenue. It is calculated by taking total annual expenses, excluding depreciation and debt-related expenses, and dividing it by the annual gross income.



This is the formula for calculating working ratio:



﻿















Working Ratio


=




TAE


−


(


Depreciation


+


Debt Expenses


)




Annual Gross Income


















where:
















TAE


=


total annual expenses








\begin{aligned} &\text{Working Ratio} = \frac{ \text{TAE} - ( \text{Depreciation} + \text{Debt Expenses} ) }{ \text{Annual Gross Income} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{TAE} = \text{total annual expenses} \\ \end{aligned}


​Working Ratio=Annual Gross IncomeTAE−(Depreciation+Debt Expenses)​where:TAE=total annual expenses​﻿





Key Takeaways

The working ratio measures a company's ability to recover operating costs from annual revenue.It is calculated by taking total annual expenses, excluding depreciation and debt-related expenses, and dividing it by the annual gross income.The lower the ratio, the more profitable a company is.A working ratio below one implies the company is able to recover operating expenses, whereas a ratio above one reflects its inability to do so. 


   Understanding the Working Ratio  

The working ratio is tasked with gauging a company's financial sustainability. All businesses will incur costs to operate and generate sales. These costs range from rent, equipment, and inventory charges, to marketing, staff wages, and insurance. Those who are unable to consistently clear these expenses and pay their bills aren’t running a viable business and probably won’t be in business for long.



The threshold for this ratio is one. Any number below that indicates that the company is able to recover operating costs—lower figures are synonymous with expenses eating up a small chunk of gross income. Conversely, a ratio above one implies that the company isn’t breaking even and generating enough money to cover its costs.






A ratio of one means a company’s annual gross income is equal to its total expenditure, so anything below that implies the company is able to recover operating costs, whereas anything above reflects its inability to do so.


   Example of the Working Ratio  

XYZ Inc. has been making widgets since the 1900s and is seen in the industry as a somewhat antiquated brand. XYZ hasn't spent very much money overhauling its machinery over the years and is still using old technology to manufacture its end product.



Management argues that not upgrading to the latest model has saved it money that can be better spent elsewhere. The problem is the equipment it uses is power-intensive and expensive to run and maintain relative to newer versions. This means that continuing to use the old technology actually works out to be more expensive in the long-run.



To make matters worse, XYZ is also losing market share every year to its more modern competitors. Sales are falling and costs are rising, leading to a progressively higher working ratio. Recently it rose above one, the tipping point, and analysts fear it will continue to climb—putting the business in danger of reneging on payments—unless drastic changes are soon made to slash costs and catch up with the competition.


   Limitations of the Working Ratio  

The working ratio is not perfect and cannot be fully relied on to determine a company’s financial health and ability to cover expenses with the money it brings in.



One issue is that it does not take financing costs into consideration. This oversight can lead to misleading results, particularly as most companies borrow money to fund growth and are required to pay back these loans, together with interest, punctually.



The ratio also does not account for projected changes in operating expenses. In some industries, operating costs have a tendency to fluctuate from year to year and in certain periods can be uncharacteristically low or high for a good reason.



If the company has cash tucked away to bankroll extra costs, and is poised to generate extra revenues off them in the future, its current high working ratio shouldn’t necessarily be a cause for alarm.


   Special Considerations  

When applying ratios, investors are advised to not always take the number that is generated at face value. Context is important and further digging to see if there is a reasonable explanation behind unusual results is a must.



In general, every ratio tends to overlook something important. That ultimately means that it’s usually necessary to consult several at the same time to get an accurate, more complete picture of how the subject is faring. The more information that is taken into consideration the better chance investors have at making more informed decisions about where to allocate their money.
What Is the Working Tax Credit (WTC)?  

The Working Tax Credit (WTC) is a state benefit offered to individuals living in the United Kingdom who work and have a low income. It was introduced in April 2003 as a means-tested benefit, a central part of the welfare state in the United Kingdom. A means-tested benefit is a payment available to people who demonstrate that their income and capital are below specified limits.





Key Takeaways

The Working Tax Credit (WTC) is a state benefit offered to individuals living in the United Kingdom who work and have a low income.You must already be receiving the Child Tax Credit to qualify for the WTC.The Working Tax Credit (WTC) is available for individuals aged 25 and above or with a qualifying disability.Applicants must be gainfully employed and working a minimum number of hours required each week, as determined by the applicant’s age.


   How the Working Tax Credit (WTC) Works  

You are only eligible for the WTC if you already receive the Child Tax Credit. The Working Tax Credit (WTC) is available for individuals aged 25 and above or with a qualifying disability. Applicants must be gainfully employed and working a minimum number of hours required each week, as determined by the applicant’s age.


   WTC Qualifications  

To qualify, you must work a certain number of hours depending on your age and fulfill other requirements, as seen here.









Working Tax Credit Eligibility: Circumstance & Hours a Week Worked




Circumstance
Hours a Week


Aged 25 to 59
At least 30 hours


Aged 60 or over
At least 16 hours


Disabled
At least 16 hours


Single with 1 or more children
At least 16 hours


Couple with 1 or more children
Usually, at least 24 hours between you (with 1 of you working at least 16 hours)






What counts as work is broad. It includes work for someone else as an employee or worker, someone who is self-employed, or a combination of both. If you are self-employed, the work must have the goal of making a profit, and be commercial, regular, and organized.


   WTC Payments  

The WTC base can pay out £2,280 annually, with additional qualifications bringing that figure up or down. Here is what you can receive based on specific circumstances.









Working Tax Credit Elements & Amounts




Element
 Amount


You’re a couple applying together
Up to £2,340 a year


You’re a single parent
Up to £2,340 a year


You work at least 30 hours a week
Up to £950 a year


You have a disability
Up to £3,685 a year


You have a severe disability
Up to £1,595 a year (usually on top of the disability payment)


You pay for approved childcare that takes place in-person (not online)
Up to £122.50 (1 child) or £210 (2 or more children) a week 






Eligible individuals will receive payments directly into their bank account or building society account every week or every four weeks. Typically, you will be paid from the point you made your first claim to the end of the tax year.






If citizens are not eligible to claim the WTC, they need to pursue the Universal Credit instead. The Universal Credit has been set up to replace several of the existing credits in the United Kingdom.


   Welfare Programs in the U.S.  

Public Welfare is a common term for public assistance in the United States. People are said to be receiving welfare or assistance when they are in receipt of a variety of government subsidies or benefits.



These payments can range from federally-funded initiatives like Social Security payments and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to state-sponsored programs. While only the Public Welfare program goes by that name, most of these programs are considered types of assistance programs because they are put in place to assist those who need them either temporarily or on a long-term basis.



Many of these programs are paid for by a combination of taxes that are withheld from taxpayer paychecks. Programs like Social Security are directly paid into by each individual taxpayer, while some other programs receive funding from other broader taxes.



These subsidies aren’t entirely without cost to the recipient. Some require applicants to attend classes or apply to a certain number of jobs a week. In the case of Social Security and Disability benefits, a portion of the payment may be taxable, depending on income limitations.



Each assistance program has its own guidelines and qualifications. Anyone looking for additional information on whether they qualify for state or federal aid should consult the federal website for that specific program.




Who Gets the Working Tax Credit in the U.K.?
The Working Tax Credit (WTC) in the U.K. seeks to provide monetary support to low-income individuals. To receive the credit, one must meet different qualifications, such as already receiving the Child Tax Credit, being of a certain age and correspondingly working a certain number of hours, or if you are disabled, also working a certain number of hours. Your type of employment must also meet the required qualifications.




What Is the Income Limit for the Working Tax Credit in the U.K.?
There is no income limit for the Working Tax Credit in the U.K. To be eligible and what you receive depends on a variety of qualifications, but there is no income limit to determine if and what you will receive as a credit.




How Often Is the Working Tax Credit Paid in the U.K.?
The working tax credit in the U.K. is paid either every week or every four weeks. You will be paid from the time you file your first claim to the end of the tax year.


   The Bottom Line  

The Working Tax Credit (WTC) in the U.K. seeks to assist individuals working with low income and who already receive the Child Tax Credit. For those who do not qualify, the U.K. does provide the Universal Credit. The programs are welfare programs that seek to improve the quality of living for a certain segment of the population.
What Is a Workout Agreement?  

A workout agreement is a contract mutually agreed to between a lender and borrower to renegotiate the terms on a loan that is in default, often in the case of a mortgage that is in arrears. Generally, the workout includes waiving any existing defaults and restructuring the loan’s terms and covenants.



A workout agreement is only possible if it serves the interests of both the borrower and the lender.





Key Takeaways

A workout agreement allows a borrower in default and their lender to renegotiate the terms of a loan.The purpose is to accommodate the default borrower so that the lender has a more likely chance of recovering the loan principal and interest without foreclosure, making it mutually beneficial.Not all lenders are willing to make a workout agreement, and terms will vary on a case-by-case basis.


   Understanding Workout Agreements  

A mortgage workout agreement is intended to help a borrower avoid foreclosure, the process by which the lender assumes control of a property from the homeowner due to a lack of payment as stipulated in the mortgage agreement. At the same time, it helps the lender recoup some of their funds that would otherwise be lost in the process.



The renegotiated terms will generally provide some measure of relief to the borrower by reducing the debt-servicing burden through accommodative measures provided by the lender. Examples of relief can include extending the term of the loan or rescheduling payments. While the benefits to the borrower of a workout agreement are obvious, the advantage to the lender is that it avoids the expense and trouble of payment recovery efforts, such as foreclosure for workouts in real estate or a collection lawsuit.



Other types of workout agreements can involve different kinds of loans and even involve liquidation scenarios. A business that becomes insolvent and cannot meet its debt obligations may seek an arrangement to appease creditors and shareholders.


   Special Considerations with Workout Agreements  

For borrowers, general best practices to consider when negotiating, or thinking about negotiating, a workout agreement with a lender include the following:



Providing ample notification. Giving the lender advance notice of an inability to meet any and all debt obligations is a good courtesy to extend. Most lenders will likely be more accommodating when borrowers seek a workout agreement if they are aware that default could be an issue. Providing notice engenders confidence that the borrower is on top of their loan management and interested in being a reliable business partner whom the lender can trust.
Being honest and flexible. A lender is not under any obligation to restructure the terms of a loan, so it is incumbent on the borrower to be honest, direct, and flexible. However, the lender will likely want to limit its losses and maximize recovery of the loan, so it is likely in the lender’s best interest to help the borrower to the extent that it can.
Considering the credit score and tax implications. Any type of adjustment to the terms of a loan in a workout scenario could negatively affect the borrower’s credit score, though likely not as badly as a foreclosure would. With regard to taxes, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) typically treats any loan reduction or cancellation as taxable income, which means the borrower could end up owing a larger tax amount in the year that the workout agreement goes into effect.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
What Is a Workout Market?  

The workout market is an estimation of what trading prices will adjust to within the foreseeable future, known as a market maker prediction.





Key Takeaways

The workout market is an estimation of what trading prices will adjust to within the foreseeable future, known as a market maker prediction.The estimation does not guarantee the prices will come to fruition, as external factors still influence the fiscal health of the market, but these predictions are considered a fair estimation.A market maker can be either an individual or firm that frequently trades in securities from their own accounts. Workout market characteristics are most commonly found within thin markets, times when there are low numbers of buyers and sellers in the market.


   Understanding Workout Markets  

The workout market characteristics are most commonly found within thin markets. Prices determined by the workout market can be subject to mark-ups on the securities that are being traded due to the sometimes-volatile nature of thin markets.



These prices are also limited by the availability of the security being traded. The estimation does not guarantee that the prices predicted will come to fruition. External factors can still influence the fiscal health of the market, but these predictions are considered a fair estimation.



A market maker can be either an individual or firm that frequently trades in securities from their own accounts. This allows for easier trading for other investors, but it also allows the maker to profit from the rapid rise and fall of prices. Some markets appoint a market maker for each security to facilitate easier trades in that individual sector.



Market makers are particularly influential during thin markets, as there is a reduced volume of buyers and sellers across the board. This results in less liquidity among assets, and larger pricing gaps between market quotes. A market maker who is still trading in their own inventory will have more influence on the price of these assets as there will be fewer external investors bidding on them, potentially driving prices up or down.


   Limit Orders in a Workout Market  

A limit order is a pre-established price point at which an investor wishes to execute transactions. This limit could reference either a minimum or maximum trading point and apply to both purchasing and selling.



As an example, an investor may tell their broker that their limit for purchasing a new share is $50. At the same time, they may also inform their broker that they will only entertain sales of assets that will net them at least $100 per transaction. This allows the broker the freedom to make trades quickly while still acting on the investor's interests.



The broker can execute these individual transactions without having to wait for express communication on specific trades so long as they meet the limit order criteria. In a workout market, this can allow brokers to act fast on quickly changing prices.



For example, if a market maker has predicted that shares of XYZ Company will be selling at $45 a share by the end of the day, and the broker is aware of her investor’s desire to purchase these shares, they can keep an eye on this market and secure as many shares as the limit order states. This allows the broker, investor, and the market maker each to take advantage of quickly fluctuating prices in a thin market.
What Is a Workout Period?  

A workout period is the period of time when temporary yield discrepancies occur between fixed income securities and are subsequently adjusted. A workout period can be viewed as a sort of reset period, in which bond issuers and credit rating agencies review outstanding fixed income issues and adjust or disseminate any information that the public can use to rectify discrepancies in price or yield; or, to correct any inefficiencies in the market and best reflect the risk/reward profile of the bond compared with similar bonds in the market.





Key Takeaways

A workout period occurs when the price or yield on a bond adjusts so that it is more in line with similar bonds in the market.During the workout period, which can last from days to months or even years in some cases, new information provided by the issuer and underwriter is disseminated to the public to facilitate price discovery.Traders may view the workout period as an opportunity for arbitrage, although there is no guarantee that their timing will be spot on.


   Understanding Workout Periods  

Sometimes, the yield relationship among similar bonds is misaligned in the fixed income market. For instance, the yield on two otherwise identical bonds with exactly the same coupon and maturity may vary considerably. This apparent mis-pricing is expected to be corrected during a period known as the workout period. The workout period could last a short amount time, say a few days, or it could extend for a period equal to the entire duration of the bond's life, which would be the worst case scenario in terms of market efficiency.



During the workout period, the value of a bond held in a portfolio may drop as trading continues, as the price is likely to be discounted as new information comes to light. Investors may take advantage of the workout period by participating in a bond swap to profit from re-alignment of any inefficiencies.



For example, if an investor believes that the yield spread between two bonds is fundamentally too wide, they could buy the relatively lower yielding bond in order to sell the higher yielding bond in an attempt to capitalize on the price or yield discrepancy as the spread converges. If the investor has evaluated the expected workout period correctly, the investor will enjoy a quick gain from the yield adjustment as they come back into line. Generally, the larger the yield differentials and the shorter the workout period, the greater the potential return from the bond swap.


   Workout Periods and Lending  

The workout period can also be observed on the lending side of the debt market. When a borrower defaults on a loan, the term of the loan may be extended by the lender to allow more time for the lender to recover its outstanding debt. During this recovery process, the borrower makes efforts to repay as much as they possibly can on the loan. When no further payments can be paid by the borrower or obtained by the lender, the default is deemed to be resolved and the recovery process ends. The time elapsed from the default date to the resolved date is the workout period.
What Is a Work-in-Progress (WIP)?  

The term work-in-progress (WIP) is a production and supply-chain management term describing partially finished goods awaiting completion. WIP refers to the raw materials, labor, and overhead costs incurred for products that are at various stages of the production process. WIP is a component of the inventory asset account on the balance sheet. These costs are subsequently transferred to the finished goods account and eventually to the cost of sales.



WIPs are one of the components of a company's balance sheet. The WIP figure reflects only the value of those products in some intermediate production stages. This excludes the value of raw materials not yet incorporated into an item for sale. The WIP figure also excludes the value of finished products being held as inventory in anticipation of future sales.





Key Takeaways

A work-in-progress (WIP) is the cost of unfinished goods in the manufacturing process including labor, raw materials, and overhead.WIPs are considered to be a current asset on the balance sheet.Minimizing WIP inventory before reporting it is both standard and necessary since it is difficult to estimate the percentage of completion for an inventory asset.A WIP is different from a finished good which refers to a product that is ready to be sold to the consumer.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Works-in-Progress (WIP)  

WIP is a concept used to describe the flow of manufacturing costs from one area of production to the next, and the balance in WIP represents all production costs incurred for partially completed goods. Production costs include raw materials, labor used in making goods, and allocated overhead.



When combs are manufactured, plastic is moved into production as a raw material. Then, labor costs are incurred to operate molding equipment. Since the combs are only partially completed, all costs are posted to WIP. When the combs are completed, the costs are moved from WIP to finished goods, with both accounts being part of the inventory account. Costs are moved from inventory to cost of goods sold (COGS) when the combs are eventually sold.



A piece of inventory is classified as a WIP whenever it has been mixed with human labor but has not reached final goods status. Only some, but not all, necessary labor has been performed with it. WIP, along with other inventory accounts, can be determined by various accounting methods across different companies.



Thus, it is important for investors to discern how a company is measuring its WIP and other inventory accounts. One company's WIP may not be comparable to another's. Allocations of overhead can be based on labor hours or machine hours, for example. WIP is also an asset on the balance sheet. It is standard practice to minimize the amount of WIP inventory before reporting is necessary since it is difficult and time-consuming to estimate the percentage of completion for an inventory asset.






Works in progress may also be called in-process inventory.


   Special Considerations  

Accountants use several methods to determine the number of partially completed units in WIP. In most cases, accountants consider the percentage of total raw material, labor, and overhead costs that have been incurred to determine the number of partially completed units in WIP. The cost of raw materials is the first cost incurred in this process because materials are required before any labor costs can be incurred.



For accounting purposes, process costing differs from job costing, which is a method used when each customer's job is different. Job costing tracks the costs (e.g., cost of materials, labor, and overhead) and profits for a specific job, and it allows accountants to trace expenses for each job for tax purposes and for analysis (scrutinizing costs to see how they can be reduced). 



For example, suppose XYZ Roofing Company provides its residential clients' bids for roof repair or replacement. Each roof is a different size and will require specific roofing equipment and a varying number of labor hours. Each bid lists the labor, material, and overhead costs for the work.



On the other hand, a process costing system tracks accumulates and assigns costs associated with the manufacturing of homogeneous products. Consider a company that manufactures plastic combs. The plastic is put into a mold in the molding department and is then painted before being packaged. As the combs move from one department (molding to painting to packaging) to another, more costs are added to production.






Raw material costs appear on the balance sheet as a current asset, though sometimes a single line item is used that also includes WIP and finished goods inventory.


   Work-in-Progress vs. Work-in-Process  

Work-in-process represents partially completed goods. These goods are also referred to as goods-in-process. For some, work-in-process refers to products that move from raw materials to finished products in a short period. An example of a work-in-process may include manufactured goods.



Work-in-progress, as mentioned above, is sometimes used to refer to assets that require a considerable amount of time to complete, such as consulting or construction projects. This differentiation may not necessarily be the norm, so either term can be used to refer to unfinished products in most situations. This inventory is found on a manufacturing company's balance sheet. This account of inventory, like the work-in-progress, may include direct labor, material, and manufacturing overhead.


   Works-in-Progress vs. Finished Goods  

The difference between WIP and finished goods is based on the inventory's stage of relative completion, which, in this instance, means saleability. WIP refers to the intermediary stage of inventory in which inventory has started its progress from the beginning as raw materials and is currently undergoing development or assembly into the final product. Finished goods refer to the final stage of inventory, in which the product has reached a level of completion where the subsequent stage is the sale to a customer.



The terms work-in-progress and finished goods are relative terms made in reference to the specific company accounting for its inventory. They are not absolute definitions of actual materials or products. It's incorrect to assume that finished goods for one company would also be classified as finished goods for another company. For example, sheet plywood may be a finished good for a lumber mill because it's ready for sale, but that same plywood is considered raw material for an industrial cabinet manufacturer.



As such, the difference between WIP and finished goods is based on an inventory's stage of completion relative to its total inventory. WIP and finished goods refer to the intermediary and final stages of an inventory life cycle, respectively.




What Does Work-in-Progress Mean in Accounting?
In supply-chain management, work-in-progress (WIP) refers to goods that are partially completed. They may also be referred to as in-process inventory. This covers everything from the overhead costs to the raw materials that come together to form the end product at a given stage in the production cycle. In accounting, WIP is considered a current asset and is categorized as a type of inventory.




Is Work-in-Progress a Form of Inventory?
A piece of inventory becomes labeled as work-in-progress when raw material combines with human labor. When the product is finalized, it switches from WIP to being categorized as a finished product. Finally, when the product is sold, it moves from a form of inventor to cost of goods sold (COGS) on the balance sheet.




How Is Work-in-Progress Calculated?
In accounting, inventory that is work-in-progress is calculated in a number of different ways. Typically, to calculate the amount of partially completed products in WIP, they are calculated as the percentage of the total overhead, labor, and material costs incurred by the company. A construction company, for example, may bill a company based on various stages of the project, where it may bill when it is 25% or 50% completed, and so forth.
What Is the World Bank?  

The World Bank is an international organization dedicated to providing financing, advice, and research to developing nations to aid their economic advancement. The bank predominantly acts as an organization that attempts to fight poverty by offering developmental assistance to middle- and low-income countries.



As of 2022, the World Bank identified 17 goals that it aims to achieve by 2030. The top two are stated in their mission statement. The first is to end extreme poverty by decreasing the number of people living on less than $1.90 a day to below 3% of the world population. The second is to increase overall prosperity by increasing income growth in the bottom 40% of every country in the world.





Key Takeaways

The World Bank is an international organization that provides financing, advice, and research to developing nations to help advance their economies.The World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF)—founded simultaneously under the Bretton Woods Agreement—both seek to serve international governments.The World Bank has expanded to become known as the World Bank Group with five cooperative organizations, sometimes known as the World Banks.The World Bank Group offers a multitude of proprietary financial assistance, products, and solutions for international governments, as well as a range of research-based thought leadership for the global economy at large.The World Bank's Human Capital Project seeks to help nations invest in and develop their human capital to produce a better society and economy.


   Understanding the World Bank  

The World Bank is a provider of financial and technical assistance to individual countries around the globe. The bank considers itself a unique financial institution that sets up partnerships to reduce poverty and support economic development.



The World Bank supplies qualifying governments with low-interest loans, zero-interest credits, and grants, all to support the development of individual economies. Debt borrowings and cash infusions help with global education, healthcare, public administration, infrastructure, and private-sector development. The World Bank also shares information with various entities through policy advice, research and analysis, and technical assistance. It offers advice and training for both the public and private sectors.


   Examples of What the World Bank Does  

The World Bank provides financing, advice, and other resources to developing countries in the areas of education, public safety, health, and other areas of need. Often, nations, organizations, and other institutions partner with the World Bank to sponsor development projects.


  Human Capital Project  

In 2017, the World Bank created the Human Capital Project, which seeks to help countries invest in and develop their people to be productive citizens and active contributors to their economy. World leaders are urged to prioritize investments in education, healthcare, and social protections, and, in return, they will realize a stronger economy full of healthy, thriving adults.



The Human Capital project outlines how governments should invest in providing quality, affordable childcare to support and improve child development, increase women's access to better employment opportunities, and increase economic growth, to name a few.



To build human capital globally, the World Bank has identified several areas of focus: the Human Capital Index (HCI), measurement and research, and country engagement.



Created in October 2018, the Human Capital Index summarizes a nation's investments in its human capital, specifically concerning health and education. The index is used to identify what is lost from the lack of investments in human capital; it also prompts leaders to think of how to remedy these deficiencies.



Beyond analyzing human capital, the World Bank measures the effectiveness of a nation's educational and healthcare systems. Doing so helps them identify what should be continued and what should be changed. It can also give insight on where to allocate resources.



Country engagement requires a country to take a "whole government" approach to addressing factors that compromise human capital. The nation, its leaders, and influencers band together to champion reducing poverty and increasing shared prosperity.


  National Immunization Support Project  

In April 2016, the World Bank approved the National Immunization Support Project for Pakistan. This project, costing an estimated $377.41 million, aims to increase the equitable distribution of vaccines to children ages 0 to 23 months.



The project consists of five components that are designed to enhance the country's vaccine distribution to the most vulnerable. The first component creates a governance structure and addresses logistics, monitoring, and evaluation systems. The second component involves performance planning and the alignment of skilled human resources.



The third component increases the awareness of and promotes the program among Pakistan's citizens, as well as addresses how their schools' curriculum aligns with this initiative. The fourth component makes it possible to obtain the necessary equipment to widely distribute vaccines and increase the supply chain for vaccines. Lastly, the fifth component includes being able to expand the program's reach and enhance research and development in this field.


  Learning for the Future  

The Learning for the Future project was created to enhance children's readiness for school and the effectiveness of secondary instruction in specific Kyrgyz Republic communities. The project consists of two components: increasing the equitable access of early childhood education and improving the effectiveness of instruction in secondary education.



To meet these objectives, the program establishes 500 community-based kindergarten programs, which will allow for the enrollment of 20,000 children. To increase the effectiveness of instruction, the project finances a training program for 500 new teachers and provides digital resources to complement existing learning resources (e.g., textbooks). The project also assesses how well students learn, cognitively and non-cognitively.


   World Bank Financials  

The World Bank is an organization, rather than a bank. Therefore, its financials are not comparable to traditional financial institutions.



Within the organization operates different sectors: the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA).






As of 2020, the World Bank has loaned the most money, $39.58 billion, to India.



The IBRD, the original World Bank, loans money to creditworthy low-income or middle-income countries. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, the IBRD recorded net interest revenues of $2,444 million and allocable income of $1,248 million. Its equity-to-loans ratio was 22.6%.



The IDA issues credits, or interest-free loans, to the poorest nations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. the World Bank recorded an adjusted net income of $394 million and a deployable strategic capital (DSC) ratio of 30.4%, which is the available capital divided by the capital needed to support the portfolio.



IFC provides funds and guidance to the private sector for the purpose of helping developing nations stay on a growth trajectory. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, the World Bank recorded net income gain of $4,209 million and a total comprehensive income gain of $5,075 million. Its Capital Utilization Ratio (CUR) ratio was 67%.



Lastly, MIGA insures investments to the poorest countries to help reduce poverty and improve the welfare of a nation's citizens. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, MIGA recorded net interest revenues of $81 million.



For the fiscal year 2021, the World Bank has distributed $30,522.65 million in IBRD loans, $23,931.96 in interest-free loans or credits, and $12,048.95 million in grants.


   History of the World Bank  

The World Bank was created in 1944 out of the Bretton Woods Agreement, which was secured under the auspices of the United Nations in the latter days of World War II. The Bretton Woods Agreement included several components: a collective international monetary system, the formation of the World Bank, and the creation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).



Since their founding, both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have worked toward many of the same goals. The original goals of both the World Bank and IMF were to support European and Asian countries needing financing to fund post-war reconstruction efforts.



Both the World Bank and IMF outlasted the collective international monetary system which was central to the Bretton Woods Agreement. President Nixon halted the Bretton Woods international monetary system in the 1970s. However, the World Bank and IMF remained open and continued to thrive on providing worldwide aid.



The World Bank and IMF are headquartered in Washington, D.C. The World Bank has staff in more than 170 offices worldwide.



Though titled as a bank, the World Bank, is not necessarily a bank in the traditional, chartered meanings of the word. The World Bank and its subsidiary groups operate within their own provisions and develop their own proprietary financial assistance products, all with the same goal of serving countries' capital needs internationally.



The World Bank’s counterpart, the IMF, is structured more like a credit fund. The differing in the structuring of the two entities and their product offerings allows them to provide different types of financial lending and financing support. Each entity also has several of its own distinct responsibilities for serving the global economy.


   World Banks  

Through the years, the World Bank has expanded from a single institution to a group of five unique and cooperative institutional organizations, known as the World Banks or collectively as the World Bank Group. The first organization is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), an institution that provides debt financing to governments that are considered middle income. The second organization within the World Bank Group is the International Development Association (IDA), a group that gives interest-free loans to the governments of poor countries.



The International Finance Corporation (IFC), the third organization, focuses on the private sector and provides developing countries with investment financing and financial advisory services. The fourth part of the World Bank Group is the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), an organization that promotes foreign direct investments in developing countries. The fifth organization is the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), an entity that provides arbitration on international investment disputes.


   World Bank FAQs   
  What Is the Purpose of the World Bank?  

The World Bank is an organization that provides funds, advice, and research to developing nations to help advance their economy and combat poverty.


  Who Owns the World Bank?  

No person, organization, government, or nation owns the World Bank. It is an organization made up of member countries, represented by a Board of Governors. This Board governs the organization, creates policies, and appoints executive directors. The executive directors govern the Bank's business and budget, and grant loan approvals. The president and managers manage the day-to-day operations.


  Where Does the World Bank Get Its Money?  

The World Bank receives funding from wealthy nations and from the issuance of debt securities, such as bonds.


  Which Country Is the World Bank In?  

The World Bank is headquartered in Washington D.C.; however, it has locations in more than 170 countries, including Benin, Argentina, and China.


  Who Is the CEO of the World Bank?  

The World Bank is led by President David Malpass. The organization's Board of Directors is comprised of four separate Boards, one for each division of the World Bank. Each Board oversees the operations of their respective sector. For example, the Board for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) oversees the operations for that segment, and the Board for the International Development Agency (IDA) oversees the operations for that segment.
What Is the World Bank Group?  

The World Bank Group is the world's most prominent development bank, with a stated mandate and mission to reduce world poverty. It has 189 member countries and is headquartered in Washington, D.C. The CEO of the World Bank Group as of June 2021 is David Malpass.





Key Takeaways

The World Bank Group is the world's most prominent development bank, with a stated mandate and mission to reduce world poverty.As part of the Bretton Woods agreement, The World Bank Group was created on December 27, 1945.  Five organizations comprise The World Bank Group: The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), The International Development Association (IDA), The International Finance Corporation (IFC), The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID).The World Bank Group provides advice and financial assistance in the form of discounted loans and grants to countries struggling with poverty, with a focus on areas such as wellness, education, and agriculture. The World Bank Group has 189 member states, with the U.S. as the bank's largest shareholder.


   Understanding the World Bank Group  

The World Bank Group provides advice and financial assistance in the form of discounted loans and grants to countries struggling with poverty, with a focus on areas such as wellness, education, and agriculture. It was created on December 27, 1945, as part of the Bretton Woods agreement and consists of five organizations:



• The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)• The International Development Association (IDA)• The International Finance Corporation (IFC)• The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)• The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)



The first two institutions, the IBRD and the IDA, comprise the World Bank, a subgroup within the World Bank Group.



The World Bank Group has 189 member states, with the U.S. as the bank's largest shareholder. The U.S. president nominates the bank's president, all of whom have so far been U.S. citizens. The bank's headquarters is in Washington, D.C.



According to the World Bank Group's website, it has two goals it aims to accomplish by 2030: to end extreme poverty, defined as reducing the share of the world population living on less than $1.90 per day to 3%, and to increase the incomes of the lowest-earning 40% of every country.



In 2021, the World Bank Group has committed over $125 billion in funds to over 100 countries "to fight the health, economic, and social impacts of the pandemic, the fastest and largest crisis response in our history."
What Is the World Economic Forum? (WEF)  

The World Economic Forum (WEF) is an international organization headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, that brings together individuals and political and business leaders each year to discuss significant issues that impact the global economy. These include but are not limited to political, economic, social, and environmental concerns.



The WEF is best known for its annual World Economic Forum Meeting at Davos, the Swiss ski resort. The event regularly draws business and political leaders from around the world for a series of discussions about global issues. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted a half-century routine for this event, which was restored in 2022.





Key Takeaways

The World Economic Forum (WEF) is a Geneva-based international organization that works toward global cooperation on the day's major economic and social issues.It is best known for its annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, which brings together business and political leaders and thinkers to discuss global issues and solutions.The environment and related issues such as biodiversity destruction and human-made disasters dominate the WEF's current list of most pressing global concerns.The WEF has no independent decision-making power but seeks to influence people to make decisions that benefit the global community.The organization is funded through its membership, which includes many prominent business and political figures.


   Understanding the World Economic Forum (WEF)  

The World Economic Forum’s (WEF) membership is a cross-section of the global elite from the private and public sectors and includes some of the most prominent CEOs, diplomats, celebrities, media personalities, government officials, religious leaders, and union representatives from around the world.


  History  

Founded in 1971 in Geneva, the WEF has a mission based on what is known as stakeholder theory. Stakeholder theory proposes that while a private sector entity’s aim is to increase profits for its shareholders, it is incumbent upon the organization to view the rest of society as having a stake in the company’s actions. Stakeholders such as employees, customers the company serves, and the local and global community must be considered when making critical decisions.






Headquartered in Switzerland, the WEF has offices in New York, Beijing, Tokyo, San Francisco, and Mumbai. 



The WEF is funded by its own membership, which includes industry leaders and individuals from all walks of life. In addition, many celebrities, journalists, and interested individuals are willing to pay steep annual dues and meeting fees to attend.



Regional meetings are held in developing nations in Africa, East Asia, and Latin America, but the annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, is the central meeting event for all members.


  What the WEF Does  

WEF meetings introduce new issues, trends, and organizations to members and the public for discussion and are commonly believed to influence corporate and public sector decision-making. The WEF organization has several ongoing projects aimed at addressing specific global concerns, including climate change, the fourth industrial revolution, and global security. It works with its international partners to bring about positive change in these areas.



The WEF also produces research into its members' areas of interest and helps guide public-private sector collaboration and communication among its members.



The World Economic Forum has no power to make decisions, but it may have considerable ability to influence political and business policy decisions. The purpose of its annual meeting is to bring the world's decision-makers together regularly to discuss the pressing problems of the day and consider how best to address them.


   World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting  

The WEF annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, usually attracts about 2,500 people from more than 100 nations. The Davos meeting is covered by media outlets globally. Past Davos meetings have allowed government leaders to address issues of political conflict with one another, raising the stature of the yearly meeting to that of a political and economic forum.






The 2019 World Economic Forum Annual Meeting featured teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg, who declared, "I don't want your hope. I want you to panic… and act."



The idea that the Forum could assist with global conflict resolution in addition to promoting its own best practices in business management was an early vision of WEF founder Klaus Schwab. Schwab, a German engineer and economist, now serves as the executive chair of the WEF.


  Recent Meetings  

A January 2021 meeting occurred virtually. Not surprisingly, much of the year's discussion centered on the pandemic, focusing on the fragility of the global supply chain that the pandemic revealed. The annual in-person meeting planned for August 2021 in Singapore under the theme of "The Great Reset" was canceled. In May 2022, the conference once again was held in person in Davos.



Topics discussed by leaders at the 2022 forum were the war in Ukraine, impacts on the global economy from the war and the COVID-19 pandemic, and the future of globalization. Also in the discussions were climate change, health, technology, entreprenuer and business roles, and what work will look like in the future.




What Is the Biggest Risk Facing the World According to the World Economic Forum?
Failure to act on cost of living crisis, extreme weather, geoeconomic confrontations, climate change, social cohesion erosion, and large-scale environmental damage are the top six short-term risks identified by the World Economic Forum Global Risks Report.




Who Are the Members of WEF?
The World Economic Forum does not publish a members list but does list meeting delegates. For example, there were about 2,000 delegates at the 2022 meeting in Davos.




What Is the World Economic Forum Agenda?
The World Economic Forum has three focus areas that drive its agenda and activities: mastering the fourth industrial revolution, solving the problems of the global commons, and addressing global security issues.
What Is the World Economic Outlook (WEO)?  

The World Economic Outlook (WEO) is a comprehensive report published twice a year by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).



It includes the IMF's estimates and forecasts for global output growth and inflation as well as for real gross domestic product (GDP) growth, consumer prices, current account balances and unemployment in the fund's 190 member countries, grouped by region and development status. The WEO also includes several chapters on selected pressing economic issues.



The data is drawn from IMF representatives' consultations with member countries, and is included in the WEO database. The WEO is usually published in April and October, followed by the less comprehensive WEO updates in July and January.





Key Takeaways

The World Economic Outlook (WEO) is an International Monetary Fund report providing output, inflation, employment, fiscal balances, and debt statistics for member countries.The report, best known for its global growth forecasts, summarizes the state of the global economy and highlights the most important recent developments.The IMF publishes the WEO report twice a year based on data obtained from its consultations with member countries' governments.The IMF also publishes two additional and less comprehensive WEO Updates a year, each three months after the main WEO report.


   Understanding the World Economic Outlook  

The World Economic Outlook is the product of the IMF's systemic survey of macroeconomic conditions and prospects in member countries, as well as an analysis and forecast of global economic and financial developments.



Because the IMF is a leading global financial organization heavily involved in macroeconomic analysis as a result of its international lending programs, its data are widely cited. For the same reason, the WEO's semiannual forecasts garner prominent headlines and close scrutiny from financial markets analysts.



While IMF has drawn criticism over the consequences of its structural adjustment programs for the poor in the debtor countries, among others, the WEO has been less controversial. It is prepared by the Fund's professional staff and incorporates input from the organization's executive directors before publication.


   Example of World Economic Outlook  

The World Economic Outlook published in April 2022, titled "War Sets Back the Global Recovery," lowered the IMF's global growth forecasts for 2022 and 2023 from an estimated 6.1% gain in 2021 amid a rebound from the downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.



As a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the related rise in energy and commodity prices, the IMF lowered its annual global growth forecast to 3.6% for 2022 as well as 2023, from 4.4% and 3.8% respectively in the WEO update issued three months earlier.



The April 2022 World Economic Outlook included chapters on "Global Prospects and Policies," "Private Sector Debt and the Global Recovery," "A Greener Labor Market: Employment, Policies, and Economic Transformation," and "Global Trade and Value Chains During the Pandemic."



The first chapter included charts illustrating the surge in grain prices in Q1 2022 and the exposure of European banks to Russia as a percentage of total assets by country.



An extensive statistical appendix offered a discussion of the fiscal policy assumptions used in the WEO's economic projections for selected countries as well as tables for past and projected output growth, consumer prices, fiscal and debt balances by country.
What Was the World Equity Benchmark Series (WEBS)?  

The World Equity Benchmark Series (WEBS) was an international fund traded on the American Stock Exchange. It was introduced in 1996 by Morgan Stanley and was a type of hybrid security that possesses qualities of both open-end and closed-end funds.



In 2000, WEBS was renamed to iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Exchange Traded Fund (ETF). The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF seeks to track the investment results of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, an index composed of large- and mid-capitalization emerging market equities.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

In 2000, the World Equity Benchmark Series (WEBS) was renamed to iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Exchange Traded Fund (ETF).The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF seeks to track the investment results of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, an index composed of large- and mid-capitalization emerging market equities.The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF is similar to the SPDR S&P 500 Trust, an exchange-traded fund (ETF) managed by State Street Global Advisors that tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500).


   Understanding the World Equity Benchmark Series (WEBS)  

A closed-end fund is a fund formed as a publicly traded investment. These funds can raise a designated amount of capital with an initial public offering. The money collected goes into a fund that is then listed as a stock and traded on a public exchange. It is a specialized stock portfolio with a one-time fixed number of shares. An open-end fund is a conventional mutual fund, made up of a pool of money from many investors for investing in stocks and bonds. Investors share gains and losses in proportion to their investment in the fund.



An organization that used a WEBS owned each of the securities traded on the MSCI country indexes. Ownership was in an approximate ratio to the initial capitalization or investment. A WEBS could be bought, sold, and traded like stocks.



Investors could use the WEBS to achieve international diversification. The World Equity Benchmark Series was available for many different countries, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.



The name change of the World Equity Benchmark Series (WEBS) to iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF was intended to reflect the consistent brand name for all exchange-traded funds managed by Barclays Global Investors (now BlackRock).



At the time, the indexes included iShares MSCI Australia, iShares MSCI Austria, iShares MSCI Belgium, iShares MSCI Canada, iShares MSCI France, iShares MSCI Germany, iShares MSCI Hong Kong, iShares MSCI Italy, iShares MSCI Japan, iShares MSCI Malaysia, iShares MSCI Mexico, iShares MSCI Netherlands, iShares MSCI Singapore, iShares MSCI South Korea, iShares MSCI Spain, iShares MSCI Sweden, iShares MSCI Switzerland, and iShares MSCI United Kingdom.


   iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF and the SPDR S&P 500 Trust  

The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF is similar to the SPDR S&P 500 Trust, an exchange-traded fund (ETF) managed by State Street Global Advisors that tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500). Formerly, the SPDR S&P 500 Trust was simply called the Standard & Poor's depository receipt. More often, it was shortened to SPDR and referred to as a "spider."



Each share of an SPDR S&P 500 Trust contains one-tenth of the S&P 500 index and trades at roughly one-tenth the dollar-value level of the S&P 500. Investors can use the SPDR S&P 500 Trust to realize broad diversification to specific portions of the market.



For example, the SPDR S&P Dividend ETF is an investment vehicle that seeks to provide investment results that track the total return performance of the S&P High Yield Dividend Aristocrats Index. This means that the SPDR S&P Dividend ETF indexes dividend-paying stocks that are a part of the S&P 500. The ETF is made up of a total of 112 companies and tracks performance through its net asset value, which is communicated as a price per share.
What Is the World Federation of Stock Exchanges (WFE)?  

The World Federation of Stock Exchanges, more commonly known as the World Federation of Exchanges, is an international trade group that supports the interests of regulated securities exchanges around the world and promotes widespread access to financial markets and the safety and soundness of the global financial system.





Key Takeaways

The World Federation of Exchanges, located in London, represents more than 250 different exchanges and clearinghouses.The WEF also plays a role in facilitating the spread of ideas and best practices throughout the financial services industry.WFE exchanges are home to 59,400 listed companies, and as of 2021, WFE members had a total annual trading volume of $162.04 trillion.


   Understanding the World Federation of Stock Exchanges (WFE)  

The World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) is located in London, the United Kingdom. The WFE is an industry group and private company that was established in 1961, and today represents more than 250 different exchanges and clearinghouses.



The WFE's members are represented in the following regions of the world:



Asia-Pacific: 37% Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA): 43% Americas: 20%



WFE exchanges are home to nearly 59,400 listed companies, while the annual trading volume that passes through WFE members equals $162.04 trillion as of 2021.



Member exchanges include the following:



Australian Securities ExchangeB3: Brasil Bolsa BalcãoBME Spanish ExchangesBolsa Mexicana de ValoresCME GroupCboe Global MarketsChina Financial Futures ExchangeChina Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Ltd.Deutsche Börse AGHochiminh Stock ExchangeHong Kong Exchanges and ClearingKorea ExchangeLondon Stock Exchange GroupNasdaqNational Stock Exchange of India LimitedShanghai Futures ExchangeShanghai Stock ExchangeShenzhen Stock ExchangeSingapore Exchange


   Goals of the World Federation of Exchanges  

The World Federation of Exchanges aims to be the most important global advocacy group for companies around the world that facilitate the trading of financial assets. Because the financial services industry is heavily regulated, and because those regulations can differ greatly from country to country, the primary goal of the group is to advocate for smart regulation that is harmonized across borders.



The WFE also seeks to provide value to its members through the dissemination of vital information to the industry, and by convening meetings where members of the industry can share information and network. To this end, the World Federation of Exchanges stages several events each year, including The WFE General Assembly and Annual Meeting, which is held each year by one of its member organizations.


   Benefits of the World Federation of Exchanges  

The World Federation of Exchanges provides a number of different services for financial market participants. It publishes a wide array of statistics on securities markets, as well as more than 350 market indicators.



The WFE also plays a role in facilitating the spread of ideas and best practices throughout the financial services industry. It often convenes forums, debates, and conferences where industry participants can discuss important issues in financial market structure, like cross-border regulation or high-frequency trading, which is a high-powered, computerized system of trading.



The WFE also publishes numerous statistics, many of which are contained in its Annual Statistics Guide. Market participants can find in the guide such valuable information as the total market capitalization of companies listed on various stock exchanges, the total value of bonds issued across the globe, or the total notional value of derivatives being traded in specific markets.



Derivatives typically derive their value from the underlying asset or security such as a stock. It also maintains a database on initial public offerings (IPOs)—which a new equity issuance—made on member exchanges. The WFE is governed by a board of directors, which meets regularly to oversee the management of the organization.
What Is a World Fund?  

A world fund is a type of mutual fund or other investment company that invests in securities that are traded in several different countries, including the United States. This type of fund is sometimes also referred to as a global fund. However, that name should not be confused with the Global Fund, which is a specific international organization dedicated to fighting the spread of infectious diseases, such as AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis.





Key Takeaways

A world fund is a type of mutual fund or other investment company that invests in securities that are traded in several different countries, including the United States.The structure of world funds offers several valuable advantages, chief among those advantages is that it limits exposure to any specific country.By diversifying their portfolio, these funds and their investors can help minimize their risk of a major loss, since even large fluctuations in one region can often be offset and balanced out by gains in other regions.


   How a World Fund Works  

World funds typically have a significant portion of their capital invested in U.S.-listed securities, but they also spread their investment capital among securities from several other countries. This structure offers several valuable advantages. Chief among those advantages is that it limits exposure to any specific country. By diversifying their portfolio, these funds and their investors can help minimize their risk of a major loss, since even large fluctuations in one region can often be offset and balanced out by gains in other regions. This means more stability overall, and less volatility and risk. The returns are not relying solely on the performance of one particular economy or market.



At the same time, this structure also limits exchange rate risks. That refers to the risks involved in fluctuations in specific economies that can impact the exchange rate between currencies from one country to another. Some analysts argue that country diversification is no longer very effective, due to globalization, while others dispute this.


   World Funds vs. International Funds vs. Country Funds  

In the realm of investment funds, several different geographically-related terms can seem very similar, but they have different and specific meanings.



Along with world funds, investments can also fall under the umbrella of international funds or country funds.



There are some critical differences between international funds and world funds, and investors mustn’t confuse the two. International funds can invest in countries outside of the investors’ nation of residence. For U.S. investors, international funds invest exclusively in securities from countries outside of the United States, while world funds can have up to 75% of their capital invested in U.S. securities.



In contrast, country funds are mutual funds that limit their investments to securities from one particular country. A country fund holds a portfolio of investments that are located exclusively in that given nation. That type of fund is sometimes also referred to as a single country fund.



The common argument for the benefits of world funds is that, while still based on the U.S. market, world funds allow their managers to select the best securities out of the global marketplace, instead of being limited to selecting only from a given country and missing out on potentially better investments.
What is the World Gold Council?  

The World Gold Council or the WGC is a nonprofit association of the world's leading gold producers. A market development organization for the gold industry, the World Gold Council includes 33 members and many members are gold mining companies. The WGC was established to promote the use of and demand for gold through marketing, research, and lobbying. Headquartered in London, the WGC covers the markets which comprise about three-quarters of the world's annual gold consumption.


   Understanding the World Gold Council (WGC)  

The WGC is an advocate for gold consumption. The WGC aims to maximize the industry's potential growth by monitoring and defending existing gold consumption. It also co-sponsors research in the development of new uses of gold, or of new products containing gold. For example, successful projects supported by the gold industry have led to the development of jewelry containing 99% gold. The organization's specific purpose is to stimulate and sustain the demand for gold.


   The Story of Gold  

Gold traces its origins to Ancient Egypt, where they first smelted gold around 3600 B.C.E. Today, gold is sought after for investment purposes and is also used in the manufacturing of numerous electronic and medical devices. Much of the world's gold was mined in the modern, postwar era and gold-mining operations take place on every continent except Antarctica. In recent decades, more countries have emerged as gold producers. As a result, gold mining has become less geographically concentrated and more stable. Today, the top producing countries are China, Russia, Australia, the U.S., Canada, Peru, and Ghana.            


   The WGC and Investing in Gold  

Gold is attractive as a commodity and an investment. Because gold has non-monetary uses, such as jewelry, electronics, and dentistry, it retains a minimum level of real demand. It is also impossible to perfectly counterfeit and has a fixed stock; there is only so much gold on Earth, and inflation is limited to the speed of mining.



The WGC was the creator of the first gold exchange-traded fund. An exchange-traded fund or ETF is a marketable security that tracks an index, a commodity, bonds, or a basket of assets like an index fund. Unlike a mutual fund, an ETF trades like a common stock on a stock exchange. Considered an attractive alternative investment for individual investors, ETFs typically have higher daily liquidity and lower fees than mutual fund shares. In fact, ETFs experience price changes throughout the day as they are bought and sold. Gold experts manage the GLD ETFs, increasing the likelihood of a positive investment.
What Is World Insurance?  

World insurance is a type of commercial liability policy with extended global coverage. World insurance provides coverage in the event the policyholder is sued anywhere in the world. In general, however, commercial liability policies have a geographic limit for coverage.



Multinational firms, corporations with a global footprint, or domestic companies that have contracts with international partners/associates often obtain this type of insurance.





Key Takeaways

World insurance provides commercial liability coverage in the event the policyholder is sued anywhere in the world, subject to some restrictions.It is common for companies with global operations or who have contracts with international partners or associates to purchase world coverage.Some common types of world insurance include foreign commercial general liability, foreign business auto, foreign voluntary workers’ compensation, and foreign travel accident and sickness insurance.


   Understanding World Insurance  

World insurance requires the policyholder to pay an additional premium. In addition to property and workers' compensation insurance, commercial liability insurance (also referred to as general liability insurance) is essential to businesses.



This insurance protects the assets of a business in the event it is sued for alleged bodily injury or property damages. The insurer may also cover damages and legal expenses associated with covered claims involving actual or alleged product liability, contractual liability, personal injury, advertising injury, and other commercial risks as indicated in the policy.



It's important for organizations to understand the scope of their insurance needs for their international business operations. It's critical to protect corporate assets, and most insurance policies placed in the U.S. provide limited, if any, coverage for losses occurring abroad. There are numerous specialized world insurance policies available to companies for conducting international business that are designed to provide global protection.


   Types of World Insurance  

Depending on the extent of the foreign business being conducted, there are several types of insurance to consider. Many of these and other foreign liability coverages can be packaged and purchased together and added to as business needs change.


  Foreign Commercial General Liability  

This type of coverage is similar to domestic liability coverage, but it's for foreign occurrences and includes protection for U.S. occurrences when a suit is brought outside the U.S. or Canada. This type of coverage becomes necessary if manufacturers and distributors that sell products outside of the U.S. are sued in foreign jurisdictions. A U.S.-based policy would only cover lawsuits that are filed in the U.S. or Canada.


  Foreign Business Auto  

Companies buy this to protect against physical damage and liability for hired and non-owned vehicles operated overseas. Coverage is typically needed for limits over and above the minimum or statutory limits that are required to be purchased from the rental company in the foreign country.


  Foreign Voluntary Workers’ Compensation/Employers Liability  

The purpose of this coverage is to extend benefits for U.S. employees while traveling overseas or when assigned to work outside the U.S. and Canada. Coverage can include medical assistance programs and repatriation expenses.


  Foreign Commercial Property and Business Income  

This type of insurance affords protection at unscheduled locations while in transit for laptop computers, sales samples, and personal property at trade shows overseas. A more extensive policy may be required for owned or leased facilities.


  Foreign Crime  

A kind of coverage that protects against losses from dishonest acts perpetrated by employees overseas, including forgery, theft, or robbery.


  Foreign Travel Accident and Sickness  

When companies, or individuals, buy this type of insurance, they are looking for additional protection in the event of an emergency while traveling overseas.
What Is the World Trade Organization (WTO)?  

Created in 1995, the World Trade Organization (WTO) is an international institution that oversees the rules for global trade among nations. It superseded the 1947 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) created in the wake of World War II.



The WTO is based on agreements signed by a majority of the world’s trading nations. The main function of the organization is to help producers of goods and services, as well as exporters and importers, protect and manage their businesses.



As of 2021, the WTO has 164 member countries, with Liberia and Afghanistan the most recent members, having joined in July 2016, and 25 “observer” countries and governments.





Key Takeaways

The World Trade Organization (WTO) oversees global trade rules among nations and mediates disputes.The WTO has been a force for globalization, with both positive and negative effects.Big businesses tend to support the WTO for its positive impact on international economic growth.Skeptics see it as increasing the wealth gap and hurting local workers and communities.


   Understanding the World Trade Organization (WTO)  

The WTO is essentially an alternative dispute or mediation entity that upholds the international rules of trade among nations. The organization provides a platform that allows member governments to negotiate and resolve trade issues with other members. The WTO’s main focus is to provide open lines of communication concerning trade among its members.



The WTO has lowered trade barriers and increased trade among member countries. It also has also maintained trade barriers when it makes sense to do so in the global context. The WTO attempts to mediate between nations in order to benefit the global economy.



Once negotiations are complete and an agreement is in place, the WTO offers to interpret the agreement in case of a future dispute. All WTO agreements include a settlement process that allows it to conduct neutral conflict resolution.


  WTO Leadership  

On Feb. 15, 2021, the WTO’s General Council selected two-time Nigerian finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as its director-general. She is the first woman and the first African to be selected for the position. She took office on March 1, 2021, for a four-year term.



No negotiation, mediation, or resolution would be possible without the foundational WTO agreements. These agreements set the legal ground-rules for international commerce that the WTO oversees. They bind a country’s government to a set of constraints that must be observed when setting future trade policies.



The agreements protect producers, importers, and exporters while encouraging world governments to meet specific social and environmental standards.






In recent years, the U.S. relationship with the WTO has been cool. The feeling is that the WTO is not doing enough to counteract China's unfair trade practices.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the WTO  

The history of international trade has been a battle between protectionism and free trade, and the WTO has fueled globalization, with both positive and adverse effects. The organization’s efforts have increased global trade expansion. There are side effects to globalization, including a negative impact on local communities and human rights.



Proponents of the WTO, particularly multinational corporations, believe that the organization is beneficial to business, seeing the stimulation of free trade and a decline in trade disputes as beneficial to the global economy.



Skeptics believe that the WTO undermines the principles of organic democracy and widens the international wealth gap. They point to the decline in domestic industries and increasing foreign influence as negative impacts on the world economy.



As part of his broader attempts to renegotiate U.S. international trade deals, when he was in office, then-President Donald Trump threatened to withdraw from the WTO, calling it a “disaster.” A U.S. withdrawal from the WTO could have disrupted trillions of dollars in global trade. However, he didn’t withdraw the U.S. from the WTO during his time in office.




Why Is the World Trade Organization Important?
The World Trade Organization (WTO) is the body that keeps global trade running smoothly. It oversees the rules and mediates disputes among its member nations. It now has 164 member nations and 25 observer nations (out of a total 195 nations in the world).




What Are the Main Functions of the World Trade Organization?
The World Trade Organization (WTO) administers the trade agreements made among its member nations. It also mediates any trade disputes that arise.




Is the U.S. a Member of the World Trade Organization (WTO)
The U.S. has been a member of the WTO since 1995 and signed its General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1948.In 1999, then-President Bill Clinton facilitated the acceptance of China into the WTO. The impact on China and on the world continues to be debated to this day.
What Was WorldCom?  

WorldCom was an American telecom company. At its height, WorldCom was one of the largest long-distance providers in the United States. The company is best known for being embroiled in one of the largest accounting scandals in the country, which came on the heels of the Enron and Tyco frauds. This came after it was revealed the company cooked its books. WorldCom was also involved in one of the largest bankruptcies of all time. The company came out of bankruptcy, rebranded itself, and its network assets were sold to Verizon.





Key Takeaways

WorldCom was a telecommunications company that was established in 1983 by Murray Waldron, William Rector, and early investor Bernard Ebbers among others.The company provided discount long-distance services to its customers and pursued an aggressive acquisition strategy that propelled it to the largest company of its kind in the United States.WorldCom was in financial trouble and used questionable accounting techniques to hide its losses from investors and others. The company filed for bankruptcy because of the scandal, and several key figures were punished, including its CEO and CFO. WorldCom emerged from bankruptcy, restructured, and was purchased by Verizon.


   Understanding WorldCom  

WorldCom is now a byword for accounting fraud and a warning to investors that when things seem too good to be true, they just might be. The company was founded in 1983 as Long Distance Discount Service. It was established after the breakup of AT&T by Murray Waldron, William Rector, early investor Bernard Ebbers, and their business partners. The group secured a $650,000 loan, which allowed them to buy the technology to route long-distance calls.



Since courts ordered AT&T to lease its phone lines to new companies at cheap rates, Ebbers, who was the company's chief executive officer (CEO), could offer his customers very low rates. This allowed him to build the company into one of America’s leading long-distance phone companies by acquiring as many as 30 competing telecom companies. At the peak of the dotcom bubble, WorldCom's market capitalization grew to $175 billion.



When the tech boom turned to bust, and companies slashed spending on telecom services and equipment, WorldCom resorted to accounting tricks to maintain the appearance of ever-growing profitability. By then, many investors became suspicious of Ebbers’ story—especially after the Enron scandal broke in the summer of 2001.



Shortly after Ebbers was forced to step down as CEO in April 2002, it was revealed that he borrowed $408 million from Bank of America to cover margin calls in 2000, using his WorldCom shares as collateral. As a result, Ebbers lost his fortune. In 2005 he was convicted of securities fraud and sentenced to 25 years in prison.






Ebbers was a larger-than-life figure whose trademark was a 10-gallon hat and cowboy boots.


   Cooking the Books  

There were several factors that pushed WorldCom into a loss. The company pursued acquisitions aggressively, buying up rival companies in an attempt to gain market share. This, coupled with a major drop in revenue and rates, pushed the company into further into the red. Executives needed a way to prove WorldCom was still financially viable to its board and shareholders.



WorldCom used a series of questionable accounting techniques to hide its financial position, which inflated its profits. This amounted to billions in capital expenditures being improperly recorded on the books. But this was hardly a sophisticated fraud.



In order to hide its falling profitability, WorldCom inflated net income and cash flow by recording expenses as investments. By capitalizing expenses, it exaggerated profits by $3.8 billion in 2001 and $797 million in the first quarter of 2002, reporting a profit of $1.4 billion instead of a net loss.






To hide its falling profitability, WorldCom inflated its net income and cash flow by recording expenses as investments, reporting a profit of $1.4 billion—instead of a net loss—in Q1 2002.


   The WhistleBlowers  

Several individuals played a key role in exposing the fraud at WorldCom. These people included Cynthia Cooper, who was vice president of WorldCom's internal audit department, and Gene Morse, another auditor. They became concerned about several inconsistencies in the company's financial records, including:



The use of reserves to boost the company's income
The company's capital expenditures, which another employee questioned and was fired over
Complicated accounting terms (such as prepaid capacity), which were used to hide the movement of capital
The lack of evidence to substantiate certain financial transactions, including a $500 million capital expenditure



Cooper and Morse conducted investigations on their own as well as an audit. They were challenged by the company's chief financial officer (CFO), Scott Sullivan, who requested that the process be delayed. They contacted KPMG, the external auditor that replaced Arthur Andersen, as well as WorldCom's audit committee.



As a result of her diligence, Cooper was named a Person of the Year by Time and was featured on the magazine's cover in 2002. She is now an author, consultant, and internationally-recognized speaker.


   WorldCom Bankruptcy  

The company could no longer keep up once things started to unravel. In fact, WorldCom had to adjust its earnings for the 10-year period from 1992 to 2002 by $11 billion dollars and the fraud was estimated to be in the neighborhood of $79.5 billion.



Bankruptcy was the only option. WorldCom filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on July 21, 2002, only a month after its auditor Arthur Andersen. By this time, the company was indebted to its creditors by as much as $7.7 billion. In its filing, the company noted $107 billion in assets and $41 billion worth of debt.



The filing allowed WorldCom to provide some restitution. Doing so allowed existing customers to continue receiving services. WorldCom was also able to pay its employees and keep its assets. It also provided some much-needed time to restructure even though it lost its luster within the corporate marketplace.


   Fallout and Aftermath  

Some of the key personnel involved in the firm's accounting scandal received harsh punishment for their roles, including:



Bernard Ebbers, who was convicted on nine counts of securities fraud and sentenced to 25 years in prison in 2005. Ebbers was granted early release from prison on Dec. 18, 2019, for health reasons after serving 14 years of his sentence.Former CFO Scott Sullivan received a five-year jail sentence after pleading guilty and testifying against Ebbers.



Debtor-in-possession financing from Citigroup, J.P. Morgan, and G.E. Capital allowed the company to survive. It emerged from bankruptcy in 2004 and rebranded itself as MCI—a telecom company WorldCom acquired in 1997. Verizon purchased MCI and its assets in 2006. Worldcom's former banks settled lawsuits with creditors for $6 billion without admitting liability. Around $5 billion went to the bondholders, with the balance going to former shareholders.



In a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the newly formed MCI agreed to pay shareholders and bondholders $500 million in cash and $250 million in MCI shares. MCI and all of its network assets were acquired by Verizon Communications in January 2006.



This spate of corporate crime led to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in July 2002, which strengthened disclosure requirements and the penalties for fraudulent accounting. In the aftermath, WorldCom left a stain on the reputation of accounting firms, investment banks, and credit rating agencies that had never quite been removed.


   Who Was to Blame?  

Although no one actually admitted their part in the scandal, there were several players who were at fault—some within the company and others who weren't even employed by WorldCom.



Arthur Andersen, an accounting firm that audited WorldCom's 2001 financial statements and reviewed WorldCom’s books for Q1-2002, was found to have ignored memos from WorldCom executives informing them that the company was inflating profits by improperly accounting for expenses.



Key management personnel, including WorldCom CEO Bernie Ebbers and CFO Scott Sullivan, the company's board of directors, and its internal audit team were also singled out for their lack of oversight and adherence to accounting principles. Ebbers and his lawyer initially denied any involvement or knowledge of the fraud. These claims were refuted by a Wall Street Journal report, which cited internal communications to the contrary.



Wall Street analyst Jack Grubman gave the company consistently high ratings even though the company (along with other telecoms) performed poorly. Grubman was fired from his job at Salomon Smith Barney and was fined $15 million by the SEC. He was also banned from any activity in securities exchanges.




What Happened to WorldCom?
WorldCom was a telecommunications company that provided discount long-distance services to its customers. The company was embroiled in one of the largest accounting scandals in the United States, which led to an equally large bankruptcy filing. The company used questionable accounting practices to cover up its losses by making itself look more profitable than it was. Several individuals were concerned about fraudulent financial transactions and reported the inconsistencies to authorities. Its bankruptcy helped the company restructure, rebranding itself as MCI. This new entity was sold to Verizon in 2006.




Who Was Involved in the WorldCom Scandal?
Several key individuals and entities were involved in the WorldCom scandal. Some of the most notable names include its CEO Bernie Ebbers, CFO Scott Sullivan, and the company's auditing firm, Arthur Andersen. Wall Street analyst Jack Grubman also played a role in providing the telecom company with positive ratings.Cynthia Cooper was a key player in bringing attention to the company's financial inconsistencies. Together with auditor Gene Morse, Cooper investigated and reported WorldCom's questionable accounting practices. She was named a Person of the Year by Time in 2002.




What Happened to Cynthia Cooper?
Cynthia Cooper was largely responsible for bringing attention to WorldCom's questionable accounting practices. She discovered several inconsistencies in the company's financial statements and reported them to auditors and the company's board. In her book. Extraordinary Circumstances: The Journey of a Corporate Whistle-Blower, Cooper said it was a difficult time in her career. But she was awarded by Time by being named a Person of the Year in 2002. She is now a speaker and consultant.


   The Bottom Line  

WorldCom was a telecommunications company that prided itself on providing its customers with affordable long-distance services. But an aggressive acquisition strategy and falling revenues led the company to a downward spiral that would ultimately open the door to one of the largest accounting frauds and bankruptcies in the United States. The company used questionable accounting techniques to hide its losses while making itself look more profitable than it was, which helped it retain its place as a darling among investors. Although it managed to restructure and emerge from bankruptcy, WorldCom's example helped corporate management teams and investors learn a valuable lesson: If something looks too good to be true, it probably is.
What Is Worldwide Coverage?  

Worldwide coverage is a characteristic of some insurance policies provided by insurance companies that globally covers the insured business or individual against loss or damage. Worldwide coverage ensures that no matter where an individual's personal property is lost, stolen, or damaged, they will be covered for any associated losses. It also covers certain aspects of financial loss to a business.





Key Takeaways

Worldwide coverage is a global policy provided by insurance companies that covers the insured business or individual against loss or damage, globally.Worldwide coverage may only be valid for a certain period of time and may need to be renewed periodically.The documentation and premiums required for worldwide coverage depend on the type and value of coverage.Worldwide coverage usually applies only to personal property, obtrusion of business, and crime.In the U.S., most workers' compensation insurance, commercial auto insurance, and general liability insurance only cover the U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿When a policy doesn't specify the coverage territory it usually implies that it is worldwide coverage.


   Understanding Worldwide Coverage  

Certain insurance policies, such as personal property insurance, allow policyholders to add worldwide coverage to their existing policy, usually for an additional premium. The worldwide coverage can be requested in the amount needed for valuable possessions. Some limits apply to certain types of property, and some properties might be excluded from coverage depending on the insurance company.



Typically, because of the different laws in different countries, worldwide coverage only applies to property, issues related to the obtrusion of business, and crime. It's critical to understand where your insurance applies before finalizing your business or personal insurance.



Some insurance companies distinguish between blanket coverage, which involves coverage of items between certain prices, and scheduled coverage for individual items that may fall outside of blanket coverage values. The latter requires detailed documentation and a bill of purchase attesting to the cost price. In some cases, worldwide coverage may only be valid for a certain period of time.



Examples of covered items include jewelry, furs, cameras, musical instruments, silverware/goldware, golf equipment, fine art (such as paintings, vases, antique furniture, oriental rugs, rare glass, and china), collectibles, sports equipment, and computer equipment.


   Coverage Territories  

Insurance is a location-based business. Nearly every type of policy assumes it will be in force in a stated geographic area, known as the coverage territory. Most liability policies, for example, only cover incidents that occur in the coverage territory.﻿﻿ 



Most policies issued in the U.S. include the U.S. (with its territories and possessions), Puerto Rico, and Canada. They would also cover international waters or airspace if the injury or damage occurs while a person or property is traveling between the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada.﻿﻿ 



For an additional cost, policies can include anywhere in the world other than the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada. For a business, this might include liability for products used or sold outside the U.S. or even claims arising from something a business put on the Internet that was accessed in another country. The limitation for many of these policies is that any suit must be brought in the U.S., Puerto Rico, or Canada.﻿﻿


   Types of Insurance and Their Coverage Territory  

Standard commercial auto policies include the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada.﻿﻿ Insurance for driving in Mexico, for example, must be bought in that country or as a rider to a standard U.S. policy. Auto policies for private vehicles are worldwide with certain stipulations.﻿﻿



Workers' compensation insurance applies to the state it's purchased in and the laws that that state created. Some workers' compensation insurance does extend to employees who are traveling in other states and overseas on a temporary basis.﻿﻿



Homeowners insurance is tied to the property insured but certain theft and liability coverage can extend to the location of the policyholder in another state or country, but only under certain, limited circumstances.﻿﻿



Most health insurance policies cover any health issues that occur worldwide. For example, if you have a health insurance policy from a U.S. insurer but break your leg skiing in France and have to go to the hospital, your health insurance policy will most likely cover that.﻿﻿



When a policy doesn't specify the coverage territory it usually implies that it is worldwide coverage.
What Is Worldwide Income?  

In the United States, worldwide income describes an aggregation of a taxpayer's domestic and foreign income. Worldwide income is income earned anywhere in the world and is used to determine taxable income. In the U.S., citizens and resident aliens are subject to tax on worldwide income.﻿﻿


   Understanding Worldwide Income  

The IRS demands to know about all of a taxpayer's worldwide income, taxable or otherwise. ﻿﻿ Money that is paid to U.S. citizens or resident aliens as wages, independent contractor payments or unearned income from pensions, rents, royalties, and investments may all be subject to tax by the IRS.﻿﻿ There are some exceptions for U.S. taxpayers who live abroad.﻿﻿


   Measuring Worldwide Income  

The most comprehensive measure of worldwide income includes a total aggregation of revenue generated by a tax-paying entity from all sources that includes foreign, domestic, passive, and active income from operations and investments. Each source of revenue must be reported to the IRS for tax purposes.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ The IRS can allow an exclusion or tax credit for a certain portion of earnings generated by U.S. citizens who've worked abroad. This exclusion or credit may take effect to avoid the problem of double taxation—which would arise if a taxpayer has already paid taxes to another jurisdiction (not the U.S.).﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



Multinational corporations and wealthy individuals usually take advantage of international tax specialists, a specialty among both lawyers and accountants, to decrease or otherwise shelter their worldwide tax liabilities. These tax strategies can delay tax payments, which can lead to compound growth and material increases in capital bases.



With any system of taxation, creative tax advisors can shift or recharacterize income in a manner that reduces taxation. In turn, many jurisdictions often impose rules relating to shifting income among commonly controlled parties, often referred to as transfer pricing rules. Residency-based systems are subject to taxpayer attempts to defer recognition of income through the use of related parties. A few jurisdictions impose rules limiting such deferral. Agreements among governments (treaties) often attempt to reconcile who should be entitled to tax what. Most of these tax treaties offer at minimum a base mechanism for resolution of disputes between parties.
Worthless securities have a market value of zero and, along with any securities that an investor has abandoned, result in a capital loss for the owner. They can be claimed as such when filing taxes.





Key Takeaways

Worthless securities are stocks, bonds, or other holdings that have no market value; they can be publicly traded or held privately.The IRS recommends investors account for worthless securities as if they were capital assets that had been dumped or exchanged on the last day of the tax year.As such, these securities can be claimed as a capital loss when the investor files their taxes; the holding period determines whether the loss is short-term or long-term.Penny stocks have comparatively little market value but are not considered worthless, though they have the potential to become just that.


   What Are Worthless Securities?  

Worthless securities can include stocks or bonds that are either publicly traded or privately held. To declare a capital loss from worthless securities, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) suggests investors treat them as if they were capital assets sold or exchanged on the final day of the tax year. As with other securities, investors must first figure out the holding period to determine if the capital loss is short-term (one year or less) or long-term (greater than one year).



In the case of a short-term loss, investors must report this on Part I of Schedule D. Investors can net short-term gains and losses against one other to determine a net short-term gain or loss.



For long-term losses, investors report these in Part II of Schedule D. Again, investors can net long-term gains and losses against each other to determine the net long-term gain or loss. After the investor completes these calculations separately in Parts I and II of Schedule D, they can net them together for an overall result.






You may be able to use a worthless security in a tax strategy called tax selling, where an investor sells an asset with a capital loss in order to lower or eliminate the capital gain that they realize via other investments.


   Understanding Worthless Securities  

Public company market value, also known as market capitalization, is the number of outstanding shares of a publicly-traded company, multiplied by the current share price. For a private company, valuation methods include comparable company analysis or an estimation of discounted cash flows. Worthless securities will have a market value of zero as noted above.



For a security to become worthless, it not only needs to have no value, but it needs to have no potential to regain value. For example, a company's stock might reduce in value to zero if the market fluctuates enough. If the company has a chance to regain ground in the market, it would not be worthless stock. However, if the company closed its doors after bankruptcy, its stock would likely be worthless.


   Worthless Stocks vs. Penny Stocks  

Worthless stocks have a market value of zero, while penny stocks generally have market values of less than $5. However, penny stocks have the potential to become worthless securities. Because of their small market value, penny stocks typically trade outside the major market exchanges (through the OTC Markets Group and pink sheets) at a relatively low price ($5 or less). These stocks are considered highly speculative and high risk due to their lack of liquidity, large bid-ask spreads, small capitalizations, and limited followings and disclosures.



Some examples of penny stocks are:



Wrap Technologies, Inc. (WRAP)
LiqTech International, Inc. (LIQT)
Smith Micro Software, Inc. (SMSI)
Red Cat Holdings, Inc. (RCAT)
VIA optronics AG (VIAO)
National CineMedia, Inc. (NCMI)




How Do I Report Worthless Securities?
If you have a worthless security, you'll need to file IRS Form 8949. Make sure you have the dates you purchased it, the date you sold it, and the amount you paid and received available.




When Can You Claim a Worthless Stock?
You can claim a worthless stock in the tax year in which it becomes worthless.




How Are Worthless Securities Taxed?
They are taxed as a capital loss and can be claimed in the year the security becomes worthless.
What Is the W.P. Carey School of Business?  

The W.P. Carey School of Business is a business school that is part of the Arizona State University System. Previously known as the Arizona State University Department of Commerce, it received its current name following a $50 million donation by the W.P. Carey Foundation.



The school ranks highly in domestic and international university rankings, often scoring in the top 50 among business schools and in the top 100 among schools overall.





Key Takeaways

The W.P. Carey School of Business is the business school of Arizona State University.W.P. Carey School of Business is named after one of its significant benefactors, William Polk Carey.The school’s alumni network consists of over 120,000 individuals in 2022 and includes several prominent people.


   Understanding the W.P. Carey School of Business  

Today, the W.P. Carey School of Business is home to an academic staff of over 300, and is attended by about 20,000 students. Its namesake benefactor, William Polk Carey, was a prominent businessman and philanthropist who founded the New York-based real estate firm, W.P. Carey & Co. Prior to his donation to the W.P. Carey School of Business, he also donated funds to the Carey School of Law at the University of Maryland, and the Carey Business School at Johns Hopkins University.



Originally founded in 1961, the W.P Carey School of Business is located in Tempe, Arizona. It offers a well known Master of Business Administration (MBA) program in different formats, including an online degree. Other Master’s degrees are also offered, in areas such as accounting, data science, finance, logistics, and real estate development.



One unique attribute of the W.P. Carey School of Business is its emphasis on the personal development of its students and alumni. In their first term, students are required to write an “Individual Development Plan”, outlining their approach for developing desired leadership qualities.


   Real World Example of the W.P. Carey School of Business  

The W.P. Carey School of Business received widespread acclaim in 2015 when it announced a new program to provide tuition-free MBA program for its incoming class of students. The move was part of the university’s efforts to increase diversity in its student body by decreasing the financial barriers faced by incoming students.



The university is also notable for its large alumni community, which is over 120,000 individuals as of 2023. Among them are many prominent figures in a diverse range of industries, such as Michael Ahearn, CEO of First Solar (FSLR); Bill Post , CEO of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (PNW); and Eric Crown, co-founder of Insight Enterprises (NSIT).
What Is a Wrap Account?  

A wrap account is an investment portfolio that is professionally managed by a brokerage firm for a flat fee that is charged quarterly or annually. The fee is based on total assets under management (AUM). It is comprehensive, covering all administrative, commission, and management expenses for the account.



Wrap fees range from about 1% to 3% of AUM.



For many investors, a wrap account proves to be less expensive over time than a brokerage account that charges commissions for trading activity. However, the buy-and-hold investor who rarely sells holdings might be better off with a commission-based fee structure.


   Understanding the Wrap Account  

A wrap account has the advantage of protecting the investor from overtrading, which can occur if a broker buys and sells assets in the account excessively in order to generate more commission income. This is known as "churning."



In a wrap account, the broker is paid a percentage fee based on the total assets in the account and thus is incentivized to get the highest possible return on the amount invested.





Key Takeaways

A wrap account is a flat fee for brokerage services based on total assets under management.For active investors, a wrap account may be less expensive than one that charges a commission for every trade.In a wrap account, the broker's incentive is to maximize gains rather than generate trading fees.


   Wrap Accounts Vs. Traditional Accounts  

A wrap account offers an individual investor access to professional money managers who work primarily with institutions and high-net-worth individuals. Mutual fund companies also offer wrap accounts with access to a large selection of mutual funds.



A wrap account may require a $25,000 to $50,000 minimum investment. A mutual fund account with a wrap fee generally has a much lower initial investment requirement.






Investors who buy and hold stocks long-term may be better off with a traditional fee structure.



The fees pay for marketing and distribution costs as well as the payments to brokers who sell the funds and work with clients. This fee is an additional charge to a mutual fund wrap account investor.


   Special Considerations  

A wrap account works best for the investor who wants a degree of hands-on management and advice. Investors who use a buy and hold strategy for a stock portfolio may be better off paying the occasional trading fees that the account incurs.



For example, an income-oriented investor may hold a portfolio of dividend-paying stocks and bonds, and make few if any changes for years. If the investor then sells the stocks, substantial capital gains taxes could be owed because the cost basis of each stock may be far below the current market price.



The investor may be better off holding the portfolio to earn the dividend income. No capital gain taxes are incurred, and there are no commissions or wrap fees to pay.



In this case, moving the assets into a wrap account would have generated more costs and reduced the investor’s total return.
What Is a Wrap-Around Insurance Program?  

A wrap-around insurance program is a policy that provides punitive damages coverage for employment practices liability claims. Should a legal recompense in excess of compensatory damages be awarded to a plaintiff to punish a defendant and deter them from committing future punitive actions, this form of insurance will help to cover those costs.





Key Takeaways

A wrap-around insurance program is a policy that provides punitive damages coverage for employment practices liability claims.It is also referred to as a wrap-around policy because it "wraps around" an admitted Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI) policy.EPLI protects employers from financial loss not protected by workers' compensation. The term wrap-around insurance can also appear in secondary or ancillary policies for health and life insurance and political risk insurance.


   Understanding a Wrap-Around Insurance Program  

A wrap-around insurance program is also referred to as a wrap-around policy because it is set up in conjunction with an Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI) policy. EPLI insures against claims from employees that employers have violated their rights. Eligible claims for such lawsuits can range from any form of discrimination to wrongful termination.



The most common award from these types of lawsuits is punitive or monetary damages. These are usually issued to cover a range of needs, including medical costs, loss of income, and pain and suffering.



Employers carry EPLI policies to cover the costs they could incur if legal action is pursued. If an employee feels that workers' compensation does not adequately cover their loss—perhaps because they feel their employer’s negligence caused their injury—they may decide to sue their employer for punitive damages such as pain and suffering.



EPLI addresses this risk and is designed to cover expenses not protected by workers' compensation or general liability insurance: a mainly mandatory form of insurance that provides some level of coverage for medical expenses and lost wages for employees or their beneficiaries when injured, falling sick, or killed as a result of their job.






Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI) places limits on the amounts paid out per employee, per injury, or per illness.


   Types of Wrap-Around Insurance Programs  

There are other instances of the term wrap-around insurance being used that do not include employee versus employer interactions. These include secondary or ancillary insurance policies for health and life insurance coverages, when a singular policy does not meet current needs or is not estimated to meet future needs.



Another form of a wrap-around insurance program is also employed to protect against political risk. Companies may take out this type of policy to shield themselves in the event that a foreign government engages in activities that cause it a financial loss. Under this category of wrap-around insurance, protection is provided for deprivation, acts of government, embargo, sanction, partial loss, and forced abandonment.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Punitive cases fall under the civil court’s jurisdiction.﻿﻿ And while there is still a defendant, there is no prosecutor, as there is during a criminal case. 



The plaintiff is usually seeking restitution for a financial loss of some sort and must hire an attorney to act on their behalf and provide counsel. Defendants in criminal cases, on the other hand, can request an attorney at a cost to the state if they cannot reasonably afford one.



Furthermore, with a civil case, there is no threat of jail time or a criminal conviction. There’s usually no jury, either—most civil cases are tried and decided solely in front of a judge.
What Is a Wrap-Around Loan?  

A wrap-around loan is a type of mortgage loan that can be used in owner-financing deals. This type of loan involves the seller’s mortgage on the home and adds an additional incremental value to arrive at the total purchase price that must be paid to the seller over time.





Key Takeaways

A wrap-around loan is a form of owner-financing where the seller of a property maintains an outstanding first mortgage that is then repaid in part by the new buyer.Instead of applying for a conventional bank mortgage, the buyer signs a mortgage with the seller, and the new loan is now used to pay off the seller's existing loan.Wrap-around loans can be risky due to the fact that the seller-financier takes on the full default risk associated with both loans.


   Understanding Wrap-Around Loans  

The form of financing that a wrap-around loan relies on is commonly used in seller-financed deals. A wrap-around loan takes on the same characteristics as a seller-financed loan, but it factors a seller’s current mortgage into the financing terms.



Seller financing is a type of financing that allows the buyer to pay a principal amount directly to the seller. Seller financing deals have high risks for the seller and usually require higher-than-average down payments. In a seller-financed deal, the agreement is based upon a promissory note that details the terms of the financing. In addition, a seller-financed deal doesn't require that principal be exchanged upfront, and the buyer makes installment payments directly to the seller, which include principal and interest.



Wrap-around loans can be risky for sellers since they take on the full default risk on the loan. Sellers must also be sure that their existing mortgage does not include an alienation clause, which requires them to repay the mortgage lending institution in full if collateral ownership is transferred or if the collateral is sold. Alienation clauses are common in most mortgage loans, which often prevent wrap-around loan deals from occurring.


   How a Wrap-Around Loan Works  

Wrap-around loans build on the owner-financing concept and deploy the same basic structuring. A wrap-around loan structure is used in an owner-financed deal when a seller has a remaining balance to pay on the property’s first mortgage loan. A wrap-around loan takes into account the remaining balance on the seller’s existing mortgage at its contracted mortgage rate and adds an incremental balance to arrive at the total purchase price.



In a wrap-around loan, the seller’s base rate of interest is based on the terms of the existing mortgage loan. To break even, the seller must at least earn interest that matches the rate on the loan, which still must be repaid. Thus, a seller has the flexibility to negotiate the buyer’s interest rate based on their current terms. Generally, the seller will want to negotiate the highest possible interest rate in order to make payments on the first mortgage and also earn a spread on the deal.


   Example of a Wrap-Around Loan  

Let's say that Joyce has an $80,000 mortgage outstanding on her home with a fixed interest rate of 4%.



She agrees to sell her home to Brian for $120,000, who puts 10% down and borrows the remainder, or $108,000, at a rate of 7%.



Joyce earns 7% on $28,000 (the difference between $108,000 and the $80,000 she still owes), plus the difference between 7% and 4% (i.e. 3%) on the balance of $80,000 mortgage.
What Is a Wrap Fee?  

A wrap fee is an all-inclusive charge for the services of an investment manager or investment advisor. The wrap fee generally covers investment advice, investment research, brokerage services, and administrative fees.



The fee is based on the assets in the account and generally ranges from 1% to 3% per year of the assets under management.



The wrap fee simplifies investing costs and makes them more predictable. It may be a good option for an actively-engaged investor who regularly demands the full services of an investment manager or advisor. It could be less beneficial to an investor who is holding onto a portfolio of investments for the long term and does not intend to frequently alter it.



When given the choice, the wise investor finds out exactly what is included and not included in the wrap fee. Every firm creates its own wrap fee program, and some are less comprehensive than others.





Key Takeaways

A wrap fee is a comprehensive charge for services provided by an investment manager or advisor.The fee generally covers investment advice, account management, commissions, trading fees, and related expenses. It may not cover all possible fees.Wrap fees usually are 1% to 3% per year of the assets managed.






An investment advisor must provide clients with a wrap fee brochure listing the services that are included in the fee.


   Understanding Wrap Fees  

The benefit of a wrap fee is its predictability. The investor knows up front what the cost will be for the year, no matter how little or how much of the advisor's services are used.



There may be services or fees that are not included in the wrap fee. Investment firms are required to provide a wrap fee brochure detailing the services and costs that are included in the fee.



Choosing a wrap fee can be a good option for investors who intend to use their broker's full line of services since it covers all the direct services the customer receives.



The wrap fee includes charges like commissions, trading fees, advising fees, and other investment expenses. The fee also may cover the administrative costs of the investment firm.



Investors must decide whether the services they routinely demand from their advisors make paying a 1% to 3% charge worth it. The investor who builds a solid portfolio and leaves it alone through market ups and downs may find it cheaper to pay the individual one-time fees charged for occasional adjustments.


   Special Considerations  

Wrap fee programs can have a variety of names, such as asset allocation programs, investment management programs, asset management programs, separately managed accounts, and mini-accounts.



Whatever the name, this type of account can be subject to additional disclosure under Rule 204-3(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This rule defines a wrap fee as a “program under which any client is charged a specified fee or fees not based directly on transactions in a client’s account for investment advisory services (which may include portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other advisers) and execution of client transactions.”



In December 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released an investor bulletin that provides basic information about wrap fee programs and some questions to consider asking an investment advisor before choosing to open an account in a wrap fee program.  


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Wrap Fees  

Wrap fees provide investors with some sense of predictability. They know in advance what the costs of their accounts will be, no matter how much or how little they demand from their advisors.



One common complaint against some brokers is that they make excessive trades in order to earn more trading commissions. The wrap fee removes any incentive to trade frequently.



The downside of the wrap fee is that some investors may be paying for a level of service that they don't use. Passive investors could be over-paying for advice and research that they have no intention of using. Conservative investors might find that the wrap fee, at 1% to 3%, eats most of their annual investment returns. Investors who have most or all of their assets in exchange-traded funds aren't looking for word of the next big breakout stock.



The pay-as-you-go plan might be a better choice in those cases.



Either way, investment fees can erode returns. As mentioned above, wrap accounts may charge anywhere between 1% to 3% of the total assets under management—a pretty hefty price tag, especially for investors with a small nest egg. People who can't afford wrap fees and those who prefer a passive buy and hold strategy may be better off with individual investments. Furthermore, investors with wrap accounts may be on the hook for additional fees, such as a mutual fund with an expense ratio.




What Is a Reasonable Wrap Fee?
The normal wrap fee is 1% to 3% per year of the assets under management. Whether that's reasonable depends on what it covers. The wrap fee may not include certain charges.Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations require that investment advisors give their clients a wrap fee program brochure stating what services and charges are included in the fee.The investor may still have to pay some fees, such as those charged by a mutual fund provider or charges related to third-party providers. Even some uncommon brokerage fees may not be covered in a wrap fee.




Is a Wrap Fee Worth It?
Whether it's worth it to pay a wrap fee depends on how much service you demand from your investment advisor and how often. If you are confident that your money is in good hands and you don't need to revisit your investment decisions regularly, you may not need a wrap fee.The wrap fee generally covers professional advice and research services, trading fees, and related administrative costs. If you aren't using all of those services frequently, you may be better off with the standard pay-as-you-go plan.




How Is a Wrap Fee Calculated?
Every investment advisory firm creates its own wrap fee program so the precise terms vary.Luckily, the firm is required to give you a wrap fee brochure detailing exactly what services are covered.You might ask the advisor whether a wrap fee or per-use fees is better for you and why.
What Is Wrap-Up Insurance?  

Wrap-up insurance is a liability policy that serves as an all-encompassing insurance that protects all contractors and subcontractors working on large projects costing over $10 million. The two types of wrap-up insurance are owner-controlled and contractor-controlled.



Owner-controlled insurance is set up by the owner of a project for the benefit of the builder or contractor to cover all listed contractors. The general contractor, meanwhile, may use a contractor-controlled insurance program to extend coverage to all the contractors and subcontractors signed up on the project.





Key Takeaways

Wrap-up insurance is a liability policy that acts as all-encompassing insurance protecting contractors and subcontractors.Owner-controlled insurance is set up by the owner of a project for the benefit of the builder or contractor to cover all listed contractors. A contractor-controlled insurance program extends coverage to all the contractors and subcontractors signed up on the project.Be aware that wrap-up insurance policies may have explicit exclusions.Upon completion of the development project, the site owner will want to transition to more individual coverage as needed.


   Understanding Wrap-Up Insurance  

The intent of a wrap-up insurance policy is to provide peace of mind that everyone involved in a project is insured properly. Wrap-up insurance is sweeping blanket coverage that protects the owner, contractors, and subcontractors. Wrap-up insurance is important because it avoids the need for every contractor and subcontractor to obtain their own liability insurance. If there were several policies, there might be gaps in the coverage or insufficient limits. Instead, wrap-up insurance is more effective at making sure that all of the liability risks are covered adequately.



For example, consider an owner-controlled insurance program purchased by the owner on behalf of the builder or contractor. Counting add-ons, the insurance includes workers' compensation, general liability, excess liability, pollution liability, professional liability, builder's risk, and railroad protective liability. While the cost of wrap-up insurance can be expensive, the cost can be divided among the general contractors and sub-contractors.


   Types of Wrap-Up Insurance Coverage  

Wrap insurance covers a number of risks for you, your project, and your workers. Policies can vary, but may include:


  General Liability with a Broad Form Endorsement  

This covers all liabilities for a project, including bodily injury coverage against third-party injuries that occur on the site or if those injuries are the result of work-related activities by the contractor, subcontractor, or owner. Also, it protects third-party property against damage caused by anyone covered under the policy.


  Builders Risk   

Builders risk covers for any water, weather, and fire damages to a building under construction. In other words, builders risk is essentially the same as property insurance except this covers buildings under construction.


  Umbrella Liability   

Umbrella insurance provides coverage beyond the coverage limit for a general liability policy. For example, let's say a general liability policy covers up to $2 million in damages and the umbrella liability policy provides $10 million in coverage. If there was a $8 million dollar claim, the general policy would cover first $2 million while the remaining $6 million from the claim would be covered by the umbrella policy.


  Workers' Compensation  

Workers' compensation provides coverage for workers' compensation insurance to all of the enrolled contractors or subcontractors on the project.


  Commercial Vehicle  

Commercial vehicle insurance covers cars, vans, trucks, or specialty vehicles used on the construction project against liability claims and property damage.


  Property Damage  

This covers property damage of all the parties named on your policy. Also, equipment floaters for specialized equipment and tools can be added as well as inland marine insurance for tools and equipment that have been transported to and from the job site.






Wrap-up insurance policies may have specific exclusions; be aware that any of the items mentioned above may be explicitly disallowed from coverage.


   How to Secure Wrap-Up Insurance Coverage  

There are specific steps that often must be taken in sequential order for wrap-up insurance coverage to be secured. First, the development team must examine the project's scope, size, and length to determine whether wrap-up insurance is appropriate. Think about things like the project's type, projected costs, schedule for completion, and any potential risks.



To discuss the project and the potential inclusion of a wrap-up insurance program, hold pre-bid meetings with prospective contractors, subcontractors, and insurance providers. This enables stakeholders to know what to expect and what is expected of them right away. This will also flag limitations early in the construction schedule process.



The project owner often chooses whether to undertake a wrap-up insurance program based on the advice and evaluation given by insurance experts. It is up to the project owner to select an insurance provider or underwriter. The choice is made based on the provider's qualifications, standing, financial stability, scope of coverage, and cost.



The terms and conditions of wrap-up insurance may be negotiated, though be mindful that underwritten calculations have often been substantiated and approved by the issuing company. You must also be mindful of specific terms such as coverage limits, the length of the insurance, the precise coverages included, the deductibles, the exclusions, and any further endorsements necessary.



After acquiring the wrap-up insurance policy, inform all contractors and subcontractors participating in the project of the coverage. Make sure they are aware of the policy's roles, obligations, and responsibilities. Establish processes for reporting, documenting, and addressing claims as well as ongoing oversight and policy compliance with each impacted party.






When development ends, your wrap-up insurance coverage will need to transition to coverage for operations. At this time, coverage will likely move to an individual, as-need basis.


   Limitations of Wrap-Up Insurance  

Wrap-up insurance has some restrictions. Wrap-up insurance policies are intricate and call for careful planning and coordinating. They require input from the project owner, general contractors, subcontractors, and insurance firms; therefore, coverage requires substantial collaboration as it can be difficult to coordinate coverage, secure suitable restrictions, and manage the different stakeholders.



Given the size and high value of the projects it covers, wrap-up insurance can be pricey. The premiums, deductibles, and other expenses related to obtaining and managing the insurance, as well as any administrative fees, may be substantial. Due due to complexity and uncertainty with long-term projects, the project budget may need to account for these higher expenses.



Wrap-up insurance frequently offers protection for particular projects or construction phases but may not cover all facets of a project. A wrap-up policy may not cover some risks such as professional responsibility, design flaws, or pollution liabilities. Project leads must be mindful of these gaps that may call for additional insurance coverage.



On a related note, wrap-up insurance contracts frequently contain a number of exclusions, limitations, and conditions even in the realms they do cover. For instance, these might restrict coverage for particular types of claims or losses. For example, the Office of General Counsel for New York has set forth restrictions for wrap-up insurance for public development projects.



Last, wrap-up insurance may not always be easily accessible or reasonably priced, depending on the location and nature of the project. Insurance companies may have special requirements or limits before selling them. In addition, the inherent risk of a specific build may be so large that it is cost prohibit or administratively not feasible for any third-party insurer to agree to take on the risk.




What Is the Difference Between an OCIP and Wrap-Up Insurance?
OCIP (Owner Controlled Insurance Program) and wrap-up Insurance are both types of insurance policies used in construction projects. The main difference lies in who obtains and controls the insurance coverage. In an OCIP, the project owner purchases and manages the insurance, while with wrap-up coverage, the general contractor or project sponsor obtains and oversees the policy.The coverage provided and the parties covered may vary in each type of insurance.




What Is the Primary Benefit of Wrap-Up Insurance Coverage?
The primary benefit of wrap-up insurance coverage is that it consolidates insurance coverage for all contractors and subcontractors involved in a construction project under a single policy. This streamlines the insurance process, reduces administrative burdens, and can lead to cost savings for project stakeholders.




What Is a Wrap-Up Exclusion?
A wrap-up insurance exclusion refers to specific risks or coverages that are explicitly excluded from the coverage provided by a wrap-up insurance policy. These exclusions outline the risks or situations that are not protected under the policy and may require separate insurance arrangements or endorsements to address those excluded risks.


   The Bottom Line  

Wrap-up insurance is a comprehensive insurance policy used in construction projects. It provides coverage for all contractors and subcontractors involved in the project under a single policy. It simplifies the insurance process, reduces administrative costs, and offers potentially significant cost savings. The policy typically includes general liability, workers' compensation, and excess liability coverage for the duration of the project.
What Is a Wraparound Mortgage?  

A wraparound mortgage is a type of junior loan which wraps or includes, the current note due on the property. The wraparound loan will consist of the balance of the original loan plus an amount to cover the new purchase price for the property. These mortgages are a form of secondary financing. The seller of the property receives a secured promissory note, which is a legal IOU detailing the amount due. A wraparound mortgage is also known as a wrap loan, overriding mortgage, agreement for sale, or all-inclusive mortgage.





Key Takeaways


Wraparound mortgages are used to refinance a property and are junior loans that include the current note on the property, plus a new loan to cover the purchase price of the property. 
Wraparounds are a form of secondary and seller financing where the seller holds a secured promissory note. 
A wraparound tends to arise when an existing mortgage cannot be paid off.
With a wraparound mortgage, a lender collects a mortgage payment from the borrower to pay the original note and provide themselves with a profit margin.



   How a Wraparound Mortgage Works  

Frequently, a wraparound mortgage is a method of refinancing a property or financing the purchase of another property when an existing mortgage cannot be paid off. The total amount of a wraparound mortgage includes the previous mortgage's unpaid amount plus the additional funds required by the lender. The borrower makes the larger payments on the new wraparound loan, which the lender will use to pay the original note plus provide themselves a profit margin. Depending on the wording in the loan documents, the title may immediately transfer to the new owner or it may remain with the seller until the satisfaction of the loan.






A wraparound mortgage is a form of seller financing that does not involve a conventional bank mortgage, with the seller taking the place of the bank.



Since the wraparound is a junior mortgage, any superior, or senior, claims will have priority. In the event of default, the original mortgage would receive all proceeds from the liquidation of the property until it is all paid off.



Wraparound mortgages are a form of seller financing where instead of applying for a conventional bank mortgage, a buyer will sign a mortgage with the seller. The seller then takes the place of the bank and accepts payments from the new owner of the property. Most seller-financed loans will include a spread on the interest rate charged, giving the seller additional profit.


   Wraparound Mortgage vs. Second Mortgage  

Both wraparound mortgages and second mortgages are forms of seller financing. A second mortgage is a type of subordinate mortgage made while an original mortgage is still in effect. The interest rate charged for the second mortgage tends to be higher and the amount borrowed will be lower than that of the first mortgage.



A notable difference between wraparound and second mortgages is in what happens to the balance due from the original loan. A wraparound mortgage includes the original note rolled into the new mortgage payment. With a second mortgage, the original mortgage balance and the new price combine to form a new mortgage.


   Example of a Wraparound Mortgage  

For example, Mr. Smith owns a house that has a mortgage balance of $50,000 at 4% interest. Mr. Smith sells the home for $80,000 to Mrs. Jones who obtains a mortgage from either Mr. Smith or another lender at 6% interest. Mrs. Jones makes payments to Mr. Smith who uses those payments to pay his original 4% mortgage. 



Mr. Smith makes a profit on both the difference between the purchase price and the original owed mortgage and on the spread between the two interest rates. Depending on the loan paperwork, the home's ownership may transfer to Mrs. Jones. However, if she defaults on the mortgage, the lender or a senior claimant may foreclose and reclaim the property.
What Is a Writ?  

The term writ refers to a formal, legal document that orders a person or entity to perform or to cease performing a specific action or deed. Writs are drafted by judges, courts, or other entities that have administrative or judicial jurisdiction. These documents are part of common law and are often issued after a judgment is made, giving those involved in a suit the ability to carry out the judgment.



Writs can take many forms including summonses, writs of execution, writs of habeas corpus, warrants, and orders.





Key Takeaways

A writ is a formal, legal document that orders a person or entity to perform or to cease performing a specific action or deed.Writs are drafted by courts or other entities with jurisdictional or legal power.Warrants and subpoenas are two common types of writs. 


   How Writs Work  

A document or order that directs any form of action from a court is generally known as a writ. Writs provide directions from an entity that holds jurisdictional or administrative power to another party.



Writs were developed as part of the English common law system and were primarily issued by Anglo-Saxon monarchs. These writs were written decrees that consisted of administrative commands written in layman's terms, largely authenticated by a royal seal at the bottom of the document. Upon issue, writs advised courts of land-granting conveyances. In some cases, they were also used to carry out judicial orders. While many writs were deemed open and read aloud in public, others were meant merely for the party or parties named.



Writs were developed over time as a way for authorities—legal and otherwise—to direct others to perform specific actions. This means that a modern-day writ provides an order from a higher to a lower court, from a court to an individual or other entity, or from a government agency to another party. The writ may command the named party to take some form of action or it may prevent that party from continuing to act or operate in a certain way. Present-day courts also use writs as a way to give extraordinary relief or to provide rights to appeal court decisions. In other cases, they give authorities such as sheriffs the right to make property seizures. This can even occur in anticipation of a judgment.


   Types of Writs  

Any direct order that is issued under authority is a writ. Warrants and subpoenas are two common types of writs. A warrant is a writ issued by a judge or magistrate that allows a sheriff, constable, or police officer to search a person or property—commonly known as a search warrant. Other warrants include an arrest warrant for an individual or individuals and an execution warrant allowing the execution of an individual who has been sentenced to death in a trial court.



A subpoena is a writ that compels a witness to testify or compels an individual or organization to produce evidence. Certain writs were eliminated because the relief that used to be available only through a writ is now accessible through a lawsuit or a motion in a civil action.






You may find relief by filing a lawsuit or a motion in civil court when getting a writ in your favor isn't an option.


   Example of a Writ  

A writ of execution is a court order that allows a piece of property to be transferred from one party to another. The plaintiff or injured party must commence legal action against the defendant in order to get this court order. Once the writ is drafted, the property is seized by a court official or member of law enforcement. The property is then transferred or sold, with the proceeds going to the plaintiff in cash.



Another example of a writ is the writ of seizure and sale is one example of a writ. When this writ is drafted by a court, it gives the petitioning party the right to take over ownership of a piece of property from someone else. In most cases, the petitioner is normally a creditor who is allowed to seize property from a borrower when the latter defaults on their financial obligation. Once seized, the property can be sold in order to recoup any losses by the creditor.



Writs of habeas corpus and certiorari are both used by courts for legal purposes, usually in favor of a defendant. A writ of habeas corpus can be used to evaluate the constitutionality of criminal convictions delivered by state courts. When the writ is issued, a public official is ordered to produce an imprisoned individual before the court to determine whether their confinement is legal. These writs are useful when people are imprisoned for long periods of time before they're actually convicted or charged with a crime. The writ of certiorari, on the other hand, is used by the U.S. federal courts. This writ is issued by the Supreme Court of the United States to a lower court to review that court's judgment for legal error or when no other avenue for appeal is available.




Where Does the Word "Writ" Come From?
The etymology of the word writ comes from Old English, as a general term denoting written matter, which is itself from the Old Germanic base of "write" (gewrit).




Where Did Writs Originate?
Writs developed in the middle ages in England, originally for the King's court to settle land ownership and title disputes or lodge complaints against landowners.




How Are Writs Used in American Law?
Initially, the American government adopted the writ system it inherited from the British. In 1798, the Congress passed the All Writs Act, which authorized the United States federal courts to "issue all writs necessary or appropriate in aid of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law." A 1938 Supreme Court ruling greatly curtailed the widespread use of writs in civil cases, though courts today may still use writs to issue injunctions. Note also that the writ of habeas corpus, usually used to test the legality of a prisoner's detention, continues to exist.
What Is a Writ of Attachment?  

A writ of attachment is a form of prejudgment process in which a court orders the attachment or seizure of property described in the writ. The property is seized and held in the custody of an appointed official, such as a U.S. Marshal or law enforcement officer, under court supervision.



A writ of attachment demands the creditor's property prior to the outcome of a trial or judgment, whereas a writ of execution directs law enforcement to begin the transfer of property as the result of the conclusion of a legal judgment.





Key Takeaways

A writ of attachment is a court order demanding a debtor's property be seized prior to a judgment in the creditor's favor.A writ of attachment may be used in bankruptcy cases and in eviction cases (when a tenant will not leave on their own and will not pay rent).In the event that the judge rules in favor of the debtor, the property will be returned unto them.If the creditor instead prevails, the seized property may be sold at auction to satisfy the unpaid debts.


   How a Writ of Attachment Works  

A writ of attachment is generally used to freeze a defendant's assets pending the outcome of legal action. That is, the plaintiff—who is the party bringing the legal action against the defendant—obtains a contingent lien on the defendant's assets. The lien is a legal charge to take ownership of the defendant's property to satisfy a debt. The writ of attachment allows the lien to be exercised should the plaintiff successfully obtain a judgment against the defendant.



There are several different types of attachment.



A garnishment is a court order directing a third party to seize assets, such as wages or money, from a person's paycheck or bank account to settle an unpaid debt.
A writ of replevin is usually put in place to take property held by a person wrongfully, while sequestration preserves the property pending litigation. 



In debt collection outside of bankruptcy action, a writ of attachment from the civil court system is one tool available to creditors. It allows plaintiffs to place a legal claim on a defendant's assets early on in the judicial process before a judgment is even entered.



This form of judicial lien provides a two-fold benefit as it protects the plaintiff's right and ability to collect on any future judgment. It also provides leverage to negotiate a settlement with the defendant earlier in the process.


   Requirements for a Writ of Attachment  

Most jurisdictions at the state and federal level allow plaintiffs to obtain writs of attachment, although the agencies and procedures involved may differ. Typical courts require a claim be:



One for money, based on a contractOf a fixed amount or a readily ascertainable amountUnsecured or not fully securedOf a commercial nature



To obtain a writ of attachment—as with any form of judicial relief—you must first file a civil lawsuit before a court has any authority to take action on your behalf. This requires filing and serving a complaint for recovery of the debts owed to you or your business. After that, or simultaneous with these actions, you can initiate a proceeding to obtain a writ of attachment, usually requiring a hearing before the court.
What Is a Writ of Execution?  

A writ of execution is a court order that puts in force a judgment of possession and directs law enforcement personnel to begin the transfer of property as the result of a legal judgment. Property may include assets, money, or real property.





Key Takeaways

A writ of execution is a court order that puts in force a judgment of possession and directs law enforcement personnel to begin the transfer of assets, money, or property as the result of a legal judgment.The judgment for possession states the plaintiff has a right to the property; the writ of execution actually begins the transfer process from a judgment debtor to a plaintiff.A writ of execution may be used in bankruptcy cases and in eviction cases (when a tenant will not leave on their own and will not pay rent).


   Understanding Writs of Execution  

A judgment of possession is a type of court order that determines who is entitled to property. After a judgment of possession is rendered by the court, the judge may then issue a writ of execution to begin the transfer of property. The judgment for possession states the plaintiff has a right to the property; the writ of execution actually begins the transfer process from a judgment debtor to a plaintiff.



When a court issues a writ of execution, a sheriff, deputy sheriff, or a court official is usually charged with taking possession of any property that is owed to the plaintiff. If the property is money, the debtor's bank account may be frozen or the funds may be moved into a holding account. If real property is to be transferred, the items can be transferred in-kind or can be sold in a sheriff's sale. Funds from the sale may be given to the plaintiff to satisfy the terms of the court's judgment.






A nulla bona is the legal term used when a writ of execution results in an effort to collect, but no available assets were available to be seized.


   When Are Writs of Execution Used?  

After a judgment of possession, a writ of execution is typically only granted if the defendant is required by law to make a payment to a plaintiff, but will not do so voluntarily. A writ of execution can also be used to evict a tenant who will not leave on their own and who will not pay rent. In the event of a tenant's eviction, the issuance of a writ of execution allows the tenant and their belongings to be removed from the residence.



A writ of execution also allows for property to be collected that can then be sold to produce funds for repayment. In certain cases, the debtor's bank account may be accessed. However, certain funds may be off-limits even with a writ of execution, including Social Security income. Many states also exempt unemployment insurance (UI) benefits and money held in an IRA.



A writ of execution may also be issued in a bankruptcy case. In bankruptcy cases, judges usually direct a writ of execution to a U.S. Marshal rather than a state official, such as a sheriff or a court officer. Bankruptcy cases can only be heard in federal courts; at the federal level, the U.S. Marshals Service is generally the agent for executing writs of execution. The U.S. Marshal is then tasked with enforcing and satisfying the judgment for payment of money.




What Is a Writ?
A writ is a legal document issued by a court that compels a person to do some specific act or deed, or else prevents them from doing some act.




What Is a Writ of Execution Used for in the United States Today?
A writ of execution is a legal document issued by a court directing a Sherriff's office or the U.S. Marshal Service to enforce and satisfy a judgment for payment of money. This may include the seizure of assets.




What Assets Are Excluded From Writs of Execution?
A few assets are protected from seizure by a writ of execution, but which will vary by state law. These may include social security payments, qualified retirement account assets, and unemployment payments. Other exemptions may include personal apparel, home furnishings, farm equipment, and pets.
What Is a Writ of Seizure and Sale?  

A writ of seizure and sale is an order issued by a court that allows the petitioner (usually a creditor) to take ownership of a property from a borrower. Once the property has been seized by the creditor, it can be sold, usually at auction.



Writs of seizure and sale are used to take possession of a property when a borrower has failed to make payments on the debt or loan for an extended period of time.





Key Takeaways

A writ of seizure and sale is a court order that allows a creditor or bank to take ownership of a property from a borrower.Writs of seizure and sale are issued when a borrower has failed to make payments on the loan for an extended period of time.Once the creditor has seized the property, it's usually sold at auction to help the creditor recoup some of the losses from the defaulted loan.


   How Does a Writ of Seizure and Sale Work?  

A writ of seizure and sale is a drastic step taken by a lender or creditor to recoup some of the money that was lent to the borrower for the property.



A writ of seizure and sale can occur when a borrower defaults on a mortgage, and as a result, the loan goes into foreclosure. Foreclosure is a legal process by which a bank, creditor, or lender assumes control of a property and sells the home. The assistance of law enforcement is usually employed in seizing the property.



There are laws governing the foreclosure process, and each state's laws might be slightly different. In some states, a notice is made publicly of the foreclosure and impending sale. However, banks often try to work with borrowers during a process called pre-foreclosure to help bring the loan payments to the current status and explore alternatives to prevent foreclosure and the writ of seizure and sale of the property.


   When Do Lenders Issue a Writ of Seizure and Sale?  

A writ of seizure and sale can't be obtained by a creditor if the borrower has only a few missed payments. Instead, it's an aggressive move that is made when a borrower has ignored all other attempts at collection, and the debt is in default. Default is the failure to pay back a loan or debt. Usually, a loan is in default when a borrower misses payments or stops making payments.






If a property is seized and auctioned off to another buyer, the borrower no longer owns the property and is evicted from the house following the sale.



If a creditor can't work out a payment plan with a borrower, a writ of seizure is obtained. A judgment creditor is entitled, as a right, without the leave of the court and without notice to the judgment debtor, to issue execution. However, the court has power in certain circumstances to stay such execution.



If the property is seized and auctioned off to another buyer, the borrower no longer owns the property and is evicted from the house following the sale. Seized properties are often sold at a low price to quickly recoup some of the losses incurred by the lender. It's quite possible the bank or lender could take a loss on the property when considering the difference between the original mortgage loan amount and the sale price after foreclosure. Therefore, it's best for both parties if borrowers work out a deal with their lender to avoid foreclosure and a writ of seizure and sale.
What Is a Write-Down?  

A write-down is an accounting term for the reduction in the book value of an asset when its fair market value (FMV) has fallen below the carrying book value, and thus becomes an impaired asset. The amount to be written down is the difference between the book value of the asset and the amount of cash that the business can obtain by disposing of it in the most optimal manner.



A write-down is the opposite of a write-up, and it will become a write-off if the entire value of the asset becomes worthless and is eliminated from the account altogether.





Key Takeaways

A write down is necessary if the fair market value (FMV) of an asset is less than the carrying value currently on the books.The income statement will include an impairment loss, reducing net income.On the balance sheet, the value of the asset is reduced by the difference between the book value and the amount of cash the business could obtain by disposing of it in the most optimal manner.An impairment can not be deducted on taxes until the asset is sold or disposed.If an asset is being "held for sale," the write down will also need to include the expected costs of the sale.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Write-Downs  

Write-downs can have a huge impact on a company’s net income and balance sheet. During the 2007-2008 financial crisis, the drop in the market value of assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions forced them to raise capital to meet minimum capital obligations.



Accounts that are most likely to be written down are a company's goodwill, accounts receivable, inventory, and long-term assets like property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). PP&E may become impaired because it has become obsolete, damaged beyond repair, or property prices have fallen below the historical cost. In the service sector, a business may write down the value of its stores if they no longer serve their purpose and need to be revamped.



Write-downs are common in businesses that produce or sell goods, which require a stock of inventory that can become damaged or obsolete. For example, technology and automobile inventories can lose value rapidly, if they go unsold or new updated models replace them. In some cases, a full inventory write-off may be necessary.



Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. has specific standards regarding the fair value measurement of intangible assets. It requires that goodwill be written down immediately at any time if its value declines. For example, in November 2012, Hewlett-Packard announced a massive $8.8 billion impairment charge to write down a botched acquisition of U.K.-based Autonomy Corporation PLC—which represented a huge loss in shareholder value since the company was worth only a fraction of its earlier estimated value.﻿﻿


  Effect of Write-Downs on Financial Statements and Ratios  

A write-down impacts both the income statement and the balance sheet. A loss is reported on the income statement. If the write-down is related to inventory, it may be recorded as a cost of goods sold (COGS). Otherwise, it is listed as a separate impairment loss line item on the income statement so lenders and investors can assess the impact of devalued assets.



The asset's carrying value on the balance sheet is written down to fair value. Shareholders' equity on the balance sheet is reduced as a result of the impairment loss on the income statement. An impairment may also create a deferred tax asset or reduce a deferred tax liability because the write-down is not tax deductible until the affected assets are physically sold or disposed.



In terms of financial statement ratios, a write down to a fixed asset will cause the current and future fixed-asset turnover to improve, as net sales will now be divided by a smaller fixed asset base. Because shareholders' equity falls, debt-to-equity rises. Debt-to-assets will be higher as well, with the lower asset base. Future net income potential rises because the lower asset value reduces future depreciation expenses.


   Special Considerations  
  Assets Held for Sale  

Assets are said to be impaired when their net carrying value is greater than the future un-discounted cash flow that these assets can provide or be sold for. Under GAAP, impaired assets must be recognized once it is evident this book value cannot be recovered. Once impaired, the asset can be written down if it remains in use, or classified as an asset "held for sale" which will be disposed of or abandoned.﻿﻿



The disposition decision differs from a typical write-down because once a company classifies impaired assets as "held for sale" or abandonment, they are no longer expected to contribute to ongoing operations. The book value would need to be written down to the fair market value less any costs to sell the item. For more on impairment recognition and measurement, read How do businesses determine if an asset may be impaired?


  Big Bath Accounting  

Companies often write down assets in quarters or years in which earnings are already disappointing, to get all the bad news out at once – which is known as “taking a bath." A big bath is a way of manipulating a company's income statement to make poor results look even worse, to make future results look better.



For example, banks often write down or write off loans when the economy goes into recession and they face rising delinquency and default rates on loans. By writing off the loans in advance of any losses—and creating a loan loss reserve—they can report enhanced earnings if the loan loss provisions turn out to be overly pessimistic when the economy recovers.
What Is a Write-Off?  

A write-off is an accounting action that reduces the value of an asset while simultaneously debiting a liabilities account. It is primarily used in its most literal sense by businesses seeking to account for unpaid loan obligations, unpaid receivables, or losses on stored inventory. Generally, it can also be referred to broadly as something that helps to lower an annual tax bill.





Key Takeaways

A write-off primarily refers to a business accounting expense reported to account for unreceived payments or losses on assets.Three common scenarios requiring a business write-off include unpaid bank loans, unpaid receivables, and losses on stored inventory.A write-off is a business expense that reduces taxable income on the income statement.A write-off is different from a write-down, which partially reduces (but doesn't totally eliminate) an asset's book value.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Write-Offs  

Businesses regularly use accounting write-offs to account for losses on assets related to various circumstances. As such, on the balance sheet, write-offs usually involve a debit to an expense account and a credit to the associated asset account. Each write-off scenario will differ, but usually, expenses will also be reported on the income statement, deducting from any revenues already reported.



Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) detail the accounting entries required for a write-off. The two most common business accounting methods for write-offs include the direct write-off method and the allowance method. The entries will usually vary depending on each individual scenario. Three of the most common scenarios for business write-offs include unpaid bank loans, unpaid receivables, and losses on stored inventory.


  Bank loans  

Financial institutions use write-off accounts when they have exhausted all methods of collection action. Write-offs may be tracked closely with an institution’s loan loss reserves, which is another type of non-cash account that manages expectations for losses on unpaid debts. Loan loss reserves work as a projection for unpaid debts, while write-offs are a final action.


  Receivables  

A business may need to take a write-off after determining a customer is not going to pay their bill. Generally, on the balance sheet, this will involve a debit to an unpaid receivables account as a liability and a credit to accounts receivable.


  Inventory  

There can be several reasons why a company may need to write off some of its inventory. Inventory can be lost, stolen, spoiled, or obsolete. On the balance sheet, writing off inventory generally involves an expense debit for the value of unusable inventory and a credit to inventory. 


   Tax Write-Offs  

The term write-off may also be used loosely to explain something that reduces taxable income. As such, deductions, credits, and expenses overall may be referred to as write-offs.



Businesses and individuals have the opportunity to claim certain deductions that reduce their taxable income. The Internal Revenue Service allows individuals to claim a standard deduction on their income tax returns. Individuals can also itemize deductions if they exceed the standard deduction level. Deductions reduce the adjusted gross income applied to a corresponding tax rate.



Tax credits may also be referred to as a type of write-off. Tax credits are applied to taxes owed, lowering the overall tax bill directly.



Corporations and small businesses have a broad range of expenses that comprehensively reduce the profits required to be taxed. An expense write-off will usually increase expenses on an income statement which leads to a lower profit and lower taxable income.





Write-Downs

Do not confuse a write-off with a write-down. In a write-down, an asset's value may be impaired, but it is not totally eliminated from one's accounting books.


   Write-Offs vs. Write-Downs  

A write-off is an extreme version of a write-down, where the book value of an asset is reduced below its fair market value. For example, damaged equipment may be written down to a lower value if it is still partially usable, and debt may be written down if the borrower is only able to repay a portion of the loan value.



The difference between a write-off and a write-down is a matter of degree. Where a write-down is a partial reduction of an asset's book value, a write-off indicates that an asset is no longer expected to produce any income. This is usually the case if an asset is so impaired that it is no longer productive or useful to the owners.




What Is a Tax Write-Off?
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows individuals to claim a standard deduction on their income tax return and also itemize deductions if they exceed that level. Deductions reduce the adjusted gross income applied to a corresponding tax rate. Tax credits may also be referred to as a type of write-off because they are applied to taxes owed, lowering the overall tax bill directly. The IRS allows businesses to write off a broad range of expenses that comprehensively reduce taxable profits.




How Is a Business Write-Off Done?
Businesses regularly use accounting write-offs to account for losses on assets related to various circumstances. As such, on the balance sheet, write-offs usually involve a debit to an expense account and a credit to the associated asset account. Each write-off scenario will differ, but usually, expenses will also be reported on the income statement, deducting from any revenues already reported. This leads to a lower profit and lower taxable income.




How Is a Business Write-Off Accounted for Under GAAP?
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) detail the accounting entries required for a write-off. The two most common business accounting methods for write-offs include the direct write-off method and the allowance method. The entries used will usually vary depending on each individual scenario. Three of the most common scenarios for business write-offs include unpaid bank loans, unpaid receivables, and losses on stored inventory.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding write-offs—and the difference between a tax write-off and a write-down can help you reduce taxable income and increase the accuracy of how you record a business' financial situation. Learn about the write-offs that apply to your situation and don't miss the chance to take advantage of them when they apply.
What Is a Write-Up?  

A write-up is an increase made to the book value of an asset because its carrying value is less than fair market value. A write-up generally occurs if a company is being acquired and its assets and liabilities are restated to fair market value, under the purchase method of M&A accounting. It may also occur if the initial value of the asset was not recorded properly, or if an earlier write-down in its value was too large. An asset write-up is the opposite of a write-down, and both are non-cash items.


   Understanding Write-Ups  

Because a write-up impacts the balance sheet, the financial press does not report on more mundane instances of businesses initiating a write-up of asset values. In contrast, sizable write-downs do spark investor interest and make for better news cycles.



Whereas a write-down is generally considered a red flag; a write-up is not considered a positive harbinger of future business prospects — since they're generally a one-time event.



During an asset write-up, special treatment for intangible assets and tax effects are considered. With an asset write-up, the deferred tax liability is generated from additional (future) depreciation expense.


   Example of a Write-Up  

For example, assume Company A is acquiring Company B for $100 million, at which point the book value of Company B's net assets was $60 million. Before the acquisition can be completed, Company B's assets and liabilities have to be marked-to-market to determine their fair market value (FMV).



If the FMV of Company B's assets is determined to be $85 million, the increase in their book value of $25 million represents a write-up. The difference of $15 million between the FMV of Company B's assets and the purchase price of $100 million, is booked as goodwill on Company A's balance sheet.
What Is an Option Writer?  

A writer (sometimes referred to as a grantor) is the seller of an option who opens a position to collect a premium payment from the buyer. Writers can sell call or put options that are covered or uncovered. An uncovered position is also referred to as a naked option. For example, the owner of 100 shares of stock can sell a call option on those shares to collect a premium from the buyer of the option; the position is covered because the writer owns the stock that underlies the option and has agreed to sell those shares at the strike price of the contract. A covered put option would involve being short the shares and writing a put on them. If an option is not covered the option writer theoretically faces the risk of very large losses if the underlying moves against them.





Key Takeaways

Option writers collect a premium in exchange for giving the buyer the right to buy or sell the underlying at an agreed price within an agreed period of time.A put or call can be covered or uncovered, with uncovered positions carrying much greater risk.Option writers prefer if options expire worthless and out-of-the-money, so they get to keep the entire premium. Option buyers want the options to expire in-the-money.


   Understanding the Writer  

Option buyers are given the right to buy or sell an underlying security, within a certain time frame, at a specified price by the option seller or writer. For this right, the option has a cost, called the premium. The premium is what option writers are after. They get paid upfront, but face high risk (if uncovered) if the option becomes very valuable to the buyer. For example, a put writer is hoping an underlying stock won't drop below the strike price, the buyer is hoping it will.The further below the put's strike price the underlying falls, the larger the loss for the writer, and the bigger the profit for the put buyer.



An option is uncovered when the writer does not have an offsetting position in the account. For example, the writer of a put option, who agrees to buy shares at the contract’s strike price, is uncovered if there is not a corresponding short position in their account to offset the risk of buying shares.



The writer faces potentially large losses if the options they write are uncovered. That means they don't own shares they write calls on, or don't hold short shares in the options they write puts on. The large losses can result from an adverse move in the underlying's price. With a call, for example, the writer is agreeing to sell shares to the buyer at the strike price, say $50. But assume that the stock, currently trading at $45, is offered a buyout by another company for $70 per share. The underlying instantly launch to $65 and oscillates there. It doesn't go to $70 because there is a chance the deal won't go through. The writer of the option now needs to buy shares at $65 to sell them at $50 to the option buyer, if the buyer exercises the option. Even if the option hasn't expired yet, the option writer is still facing a large loss, since they will need to buy the option back for roughly $15 more ($65 - $50) than they wrote it for to close out the position.



The primary objective for option writers is to generate income by collecting premiums when contracts are sold to open a position. The largest gains occur when contracts that have been sold expire out-of-the-money. For call writers, options expire out-of-the-money when the share price closes below the strike price of the contract. Out-of-the-money puts expire when the price of the underlying shares closes above the strike price. In both situations, the writer keeps the entire premium received for the sale of the contracts.



When the option moves in-the-money, the write faces a potential loss because they need to buy the option back for more than they received.



Covered writing is considered to be a conservative strategy for generating income. Uncovered or naked option writing is highly speculative because of the potential for unlimited losses.


   Call Writing  

Covered call writing generally results in one of three outcomes. When the options expire worthless, the writer keeps the entire premium they received for writing the option. If the options are going to expire in the money, the writer can either let the underlying shares be called away at the strike price or buy the option to close the position.



Called away means they need to sell their actual shares to the option buyer at the strike price, and the buyer will purchase the shares from them. Closing the option position, on the other hand, means buying the same option to offset the prior sold option. This closes the position and the profit or loss is the difference between the premium received and the price paid to buy the option back.



The outcomes of writing uncovered calls are generally the same with one key difference. If the share price closes in-the-money, the writer must either buy stock on the open market to deliver shares to the option buyer or close the position. The loss is the difference between the strike price and the open market price of the underlying (negative number), plus the premium initially received.


   Put Writing  

When a put writer is short the underlying stock, the position is covered if there is a corresponding number of shares sold short in the account. In the event that the short option closes in-the-money, the short position offsets the loss of the written put.



In an uncovered position, the writer must either buy shares at the strike price or buy the same option to close the position. If the writer buys the shares, the loss is the difference between the strike price and open market price, minus the premium received. If the writer closes the position by buying a put option to offset the sold option, the loss is the premium paid to buy minus the premium received.


   Premium Time Value  

Option writers pay especially close attention to time value. The longer an option has until the expiration, the greater its time value, because there is a greater chance it could move into-the-money. This possibility is of value to option buyers, and so they will pay a higher premium for a similar option with a longer expiry than a shorter expiry.



Time value decays as time passes, which favors the option writer. An out-of-the-money option that trades for $5 has time value because the option has no intrinsic value and yet it still trades for $5. If an option writer sells this option, they receive the $5. As time passes, as long as that option stays out-of-the-money, the value of that option will deteriorate to $0 at expiration. This allows the writer to keep the premium because they already received $5 and the option is now worth $0 and worthless once it expires out-of-the-money.



As an option gets near to expiry the main determinant of its value is the underlying's price relative to the strike price. If the option is in-the-money, the option value will reflect the difference between the two prices. If the option does expire in-the-money, but the difference between the strike price and the underlying's price is only $3, the option seller still actually makes money, because they received $5 and can buy back the position for $3, which is what the option will likely trade at near expiration.


   Example of Writing a Call Option on a Stock  

Assume that Apple Inc. (AAPL) shares are trading at $210. A trader doesn't believe that the shares will rise above $220 within the next two months, so they write a $220 strike price call option for $3.50. This means they receive $350 ($3.50 x 100 shares). They will get to keep that $350 as long as the option expires, in two months, when the price of Apple is below $220.



The writer may already own shares of Apple, or they could buy 100 shares at $210 to create a covered call. This protects them in case the stock shoots higher, say to $230. If the writer sells the option uncovered, and the price rises to $230, then the writer would have to buy shares at $230 to sell to the option buyer at $220, losing the writer $650 (($10 - $3.50) x 100 shares). But if they owned the shares already they could just give them to the buyer at $220, make $1,000 on the share purchase ($10 x 100 shares) and still keep the $350 from the option sale.



The downside of the covered call is that if the share price drops, they get to keep the $350 option premium but they now own shares which are falling in value. If the shares fall to $190, the writer gets to keep the $3.50 per share from the option, but loses $20 per share ($2,000) on the shares they purchased at $210. Losing $16.50 ($20 - $3.50) per share is better than losing the full $20, though, which is what they would have lost if they bought the shares but didn't sell the option.
What Is Writing an Option?  

Writing an option refers to selling an options contract in which a fee, or premium, is collected by the writer in exchange for the right to buy or sell shares at a future price and date.





Key Takeaways

Traders who write an option receive a fee, or premium, in exchange for giving the option buyer the right to buy or sell shares at a specific price and date.Put and call options for stocks are typically written in lots, with each lot representing 100 shares.The fee, or premium, received when writing an option depends upon several factors, such as the current price of the stock and when the option expires.Benefits of writing an option include receiving an immediate premium, keeping the premium if the option expires worthless, time decay, and flexibility.Writing an option can involve losing more than the premium received.


   Understanding Writing an Option  

Traders write an option by creating a new option contract that sells someone the right to buy or sell a stock at a specific price (strike price) on a specific date (expiration date). In other words, the writer of the option can be forced to buy or sell a stock at the strike price.



However, for that risk, the option writer receives a premium that the buyer of the option pays. The premium received when writing an option depends upon several factors, including the current price of the stock, when the option expires, and other factors such as the underlying asset’s volatility.


   Benefits of Writing an Option  

Some of the main benefits of writing an option include:



Premium received immediately: Options writers receive a premium as soon as they sell an option contract.



Keep full premium for expired out of the money options: If the written option expires out of the money—meaning that the stock price closes below the strike price for a call option, or above the strike price for a put option—the writer keeps the entire premium.



Time decay: Options decline in value due to time decay, which reduces the option writer's risk and liability. Because the writer sold the option for a higher price and has already received a premium, they can buy it back for a lower price.



Flexibility: An options writer has the flexibility to close out their open contracts at any time. The writer removes their obligation by simply buying back their written option in the open market.


   Risk of Writing an Option  

Even though an option writer receives a fee, or premium for selling their option contract, there’s the potential to incur a loss. For example, let’s say David thinks Apple Inc. (AAPL) shares will stay flat until the end of the year due to a lackluster launch of the tech company's iPhone 11, so he decides to write a call option with a strike price of $200 that expires on Dec. 20.



Unexpectedly, Apple announces that it plans on delivering a 5G capability iPhone sooner than expected, and its stock price closes at $275 on the day the option expires. David still has to deliver the stock to the option buyer for $200. That means he will lose $75 per share as he has to buy the stock on the open market for $275 to deliver to his options buyer for $200.



Note that the losses on writing an option are potentially unlimited if the option is written "naked"; that is, if there are no other related positions. If, however, somebody writes a covered call (where they are already long the stock), the losses in the call that are sold will be offset by increases in the value of the shares owned.


   Practical Example of Writing an Option  

Let’s assume The Boeing Company (BA) stock is trading at $375 and Sarah owns 100 shares. She believes the stock will trade flat to slightly lower over the next several months as investors wait for news about a possible new order from a major airline.



Tom, on the other hand, believes the airline will in fact make the purchase quite a bit sooner than expected, causing the stock to spike in the near term.



Because of these opinions, Sarah decides to write a $375 November call option (equal to 100 shares) earning a premium of $17.00. At the same time, Tom places an order to buy a $375 November call for $17.00. Consequently, Sarah and Tom’s orders transact which results in a $1,700 credit into Sarah’s bank account, and gives Tom the right to buy her 100 shares of Boeing at $375 at any time before the November expiry date.



Suppose no news is released about when the possible order may occur and so the stock continues to hover around $375 for several weeks. As a result, the option expires worthless, meaning Sarah keeps the $1,700 premium paid by Tom.



Alternatively, assume the airline announces their purchase in the next few days and Boeing’s stock jumps to $450. In this case, Tom exercises his option to buy 100 shares of Boeing from Sarah at $375. Although Sarah received a $1,700 premium for writing the call option, she also lost $7,500 because she had to sell her stock that is worth $450 for $375.
What Is Written-Down Value?  

Written-down value is the value of an asset after accounting for depreciation or amortization. In short, it reflects the present worth of a resource owned by a company from an accounting perspective. This value is included on the company's balance sheet in its financial statements.



Written-down value is also called book value or net book value.





Key Takeaways

Written-down value is the value of an asset after accounting for depreciation or amortization.Depreciation is used for physical assets while amortization is used for intangible assets.The present worth of a previously purchased asset is represented through its written-down value.Written down value appears on the balance sheet and is calculated by subtracting accumulated depreciation or amortization from the asset's original value.Written-down value is used to monitor the value of an asset and arrive at its price when selling.


   How Written-Down Value Works  

In accounting, there are various conventions designed to better match sales and expenses to the period in which they are incurred. One approach that companies often embrace is referred to as depreciation or amortization.



Companies generally use depreciation for physical assets, such as machinery, and amortization for intangible assets, such as patents and software. Both methods permit firms to expense resources of economic value over a longer timeframe. In other words, rather than deduct the full purchase price from net income (NI) right away, companies can stretch the cost of assets over many different periods.



For example, if a company bought a piece of machinery, it wouldn't have to expense it in the year that it was bought but can stretch out the cost of the machinery over a number of years until it is sold or disused; a period known as its useful life.



Written-down value is a method used to determine a previously purchased asset's current worth and is calculated by subtracting accumulated depreciation or amortization from the asset's original value. The resulting figure will appear on the company's balance sheet.


   Amortization Methods  

Amortization can be used to write-down the value of debt or intangible assets and is slightly more complicated than depreciation methods. The asset’s book value is reduced on the company’s books according to a set schedule.



Various methods can be used for amortizing different types of assets. Intangible assets, such as patents, are typically written-down annually. Bonds, on the other hand, often use an effective interest method of amortization.



Meanwhile, amortization schedules for outstanding loans normally follow the repayment schedule of the loan with differentiation for interest and principal. Some additional amortization methods are also available including diminishing balance and ballooning.



The written-down value of an amortized asset is important because it helps the company to keep tabs on them. When an asset is amortized to zero, it can be taken off the books or may need to be renewed.


   Depreciation Methods  

Written-down value can be calculated by a method of depreciation that is sometimes called the diminishing balance method. This accounting technique reduces the value of an asset by a set percentage each year. Various other depreciation techniques also exist in accounting and are used to capitalize the expenses of different types of assets.



One example is straight line depreciation, which deducts the same cost every year based on dividing the difference between the asset's cost and its expected salvage value by the number of years it is expected to be used.



The written-down value of a depreciated asset is important because it is included in the comprehensive value of a company’s total assets. Depreciated assets typically start on the books at their purchased price and are often sold before they are depreciated to zero.



The depreciated value of an asset is also important in helping to determine the selling price of the asset. When selling the asset, the book value is used to help determine the minimum value for which it will be sold.



Real assets typically sell for a price range within their book value and the highest fair market value. If a gain occurs from the sale of an asset, it will be taxable in most cases. The taxable gain on a sale is often determined by comparing the sales from the item to its written-down value.
What Is Written Premium?  

Written premium is an accounting term in the insurance industry used to describe the total amount that customers are required to pay for insurance coverage on policies issued by a company during a specific period of time. Written premiums factor in the amount of premium charged for a policy that has already become effective, regardless of what portions have been earned. Written premiums are the principal source of an insurance company's revenues.





Key Takeaways

Written premium is an accounting term in the insurance industry used to describe the total amount that customers are required to pay for insurance coverage on policies issued by a company during a specific period of time. They may be measured as a gross or net figure, which shows how much of the premiums the company gets to keep for assuming risk.Written premiums stand in contrast to earned premiums, which is what an insurance company actually books as earnings.Written premiums are the principal source of an insurance company's revenues and appear on the top line of the income statement.


   How Written Premium Works  

People pay for insurance coverage to protect themselves against financial loss. For example, if a policyholder has a car accident and is insured for it, the insurance company is obligated to foot the bill. In exchange for taking on this risk, the company charges its customers premiums.



Premiums for insurance companies are like sales for retailers. Insurance companies sell as many premiums as possible and then use the money they generate to cover losses and expenses, hopefully with enough left to turn a profit.



Written premiums calculate the total amount customers agree to pay for insurance policies sold during the accounting period. For example, if an insurance company over the course of its fiscal year (FY) sells 1,000 new contracts that require each customer to pay $1,000 in premiums, its written premiums for that period would be $1 million.


   Written Premium vs. Earned Premium  

Written premiums are different from premiums earned, which are the amount of premiums that a company books as earnings for providing insurance against various risks during the year. Insured policyholders pay premiums in advance, so insurers do not immediately consider premiums paid for an insurance contract as profit. The insurer can change the status of the premium from unearned to earned only when its full obligation is fulfilled. 


   Gross Premiums vs. Net Premiums  

Written premiums may be measured as a gross or net number.



The gross figure does not factor in deductions from the commission paid to agents who sell the policies, legal expenses associated with settlements, salaries, taxes, clerical expenses, and reinsurance, which is when insurance companies opt to transfer some of their risk to another insurer.



Alternatively, written premiums can be measured as net, a figure that takes into account associated costs linked to a policy. Net premiums written represents how much of the premiums the company gets to keep for assuming risk. As such, looking at changes to net premiums written from year to year is a useful way to gauge the health of insurance companies.


   Special Considerations  

Written premiums are the principal source of an insurance company's revenues and thus appear on the top line of the income statement. The insurance industry is cyclical (along with the business cycle) and competitive, with numerous participants fighting for market share primarily on the basis of price.



When there is excess underwriting capacity in the industry, prices are pressured downwards. Meanwhile, when there is a shortage of capacity, insurers can exercise a measure of pricing power in premiums.
What Is Wrongful Dishonor?  

The term wrongful dishonor refers to a bank's failure to honor a valid negotiable instrument such as a check or draft that has been presented to it for payment. If the instrument is valid and there are enough funds to cover it, a bank's failure to honor the instrument within the time period stipulated by the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) would constitute wrongful dishonor.


   Understanding Wrongful Dishonor  

The Uniform Commercial Code is a set of laws and regulations that outline how to conduct business. The code was created and adopted to help make it easier for companies to do business across state lines. The code contains nine articles that cover things like general provisions, letters of credit, the sale of goods and services, and investment securities. The fourth article covers checks, drafts, and other negotiable instruments.



Under Article 4, Section 402 of the code, a bank wrongfully dishonors a negotiable instrument such as a check or a draft if it refuses payment even though the instrument is properly payable, meaning that it has been authorized by the customer and is in accordance with the bank’s agreement with that customer.



A bank may choose to dishonor an instrument due to insufficient funds at any time between the receipt of that instrument and the time that the payer bank returns the instrument or when it gives notice of dishonor. Only one such determination is necessary. However, if the bank later decides to reevaluate that decision to dishonor, it should use the customer’s account balance as it stands at that later time in its reevaluation.






It’s up to the courts to decide whether consequential damages are, in fact, the result of the wrongful dishonor.



A payer bank is liable to its customer for damages caused by the wrongful dishonor of an instrument. The bank's liability is limited to actual, provable damages including any potential consequential damages. The damages can include those for actions such as arrest or prosecution of the customer caused by the wrongful dishonor of the instrument in question.





Key Takeaways

Wrongful dishonor occurs when a bank or credit union fails to honor a valid check or draft sent to it. A bank is liable for its mistake if it is proved that wrongful dishonor has occurred on its watch. Dishonor refers to a check or draft presented to a bank by a party with insufficient funds.


   Special Considerations  

There are cases when a bank may dishonor a negotiable instrument without violating the terms of the UCC. Under the rules of the code, a bank may dishonor an instrument if honoring it would create an overdraft of the customer’s account. That is, of course, unless the bank has a preexisting agreement to honor that customer’s overdrafts. So, if a customer has overdraft protection on their account, the bank will generally honor the check or draft.


   Example of Wrongful Dishonor  

A widely studied case of wrongful dishonor is that of Loucks v. Albuquerque National Bank. The plaintiff, Loucks, owned L & M Paint and Body Shop with a partner, Martinez. As a partnership, they held a checking account with the defendant bank, Albuquerque National Bank. Loucks owed the bank an individual debt of $402, but the bank charged that debt to the partnership’s checking account, even though it knew that it was not a partnership debt.



The bank began dishonoring multiple checks drafted against the partnership’s account because the debit of $402 left the account with insufficient funds. The two plaintiffs sued the bank for the $402 plus several thousand in damages. They were ultimately awarded only the $402, as the court found that there was no basis for wanton conduct on the part of the defendant bank.
What Is a Wrongful Termination Claim?  

A wrongful termination claim is filed in a court of law by someone who believes they were unjustly or illegally fired from their job. Wrongful termination claims involve an alleged violation of federal or state antidiscrimination laws, oral and written employment agreements/contracts, or labor laws, including collective bargaining laws or whistleblower laws. Employees who feel their termination was a form of sexual harassment or in retaliation for having filed a complaint against the employer may also file a wrongful termination claim.





Key Takeaways

A wrongful termination claim is a lawsuit-like action that an employee files against an employer whom they feel has fired them illegally.Most wrongful termination claims are based on a violation of state or federal laws, but they can also represent a breach of an employment contract.Types of wrongful termination claims can include dismissal due to discrimination, medical history, retaliation for whistleblowing/complaint filing, organizing a union, or without contractual cause.Compensation for wrongful termination can include monetary damages and/or restoration of employment.


   Understanding a Wrongful Termination Claim  

In the United States, employment in most states is considered “at will,” meaning that employers neither need to have a reason to fire a worker nor give advance notice of termination (though many do issue formal notices, to allow workers to obtain Consolidated Omnibus Benefits Reconciliation Act [COBRA] health benefits and unemployment insurance benefits). Still, employment-at-will doesn’t mean that businesses can discharge employees completely at their discretion. Firing people for certain reasons or motives is not permitted, especially if it’s in violation of state or federal laws or is a breach of contract of some sort.



Individuals who feel their involuntary dismissal represents such a violation can file a wrongful termination claim against their employer. A wrongful termination claim is like a lawsuit—the employee is bringing an action against their former company and seeking compensation for being unfairly fired.



If the employee prevails, then the compensation for wrongful termination can include monetary damages based on lost wages, job hunting costs, and other expenses. An employee could also ask to have their job restored or be given a comparable position. Depending on the grounds of the claim (see below), the employer might also face statutory penalties.


   Types of Wrongful Termination Claims  

Employees can file wrongful termination claims on several grounds. Some of the most common include:


  Discrimination  

Someone fired because of their "race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, or gender identity), national origin, age (40 or older), disability and genetic information (including family medical history)" may file a wrongful termination claim. These laws fall under the purview of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). On its website, the EEOC outlines how to file a charge of employment discrimination.






The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) requires you to file a charge of discrimination with the agency before you can file a job discrimination lawsuit against your employer.


  Retaliation  

Employers cannot legally punish workers for reporting wrongful activities, such as criminal activity, at work. This is known as whistleblower protection. Also, it is not lawful to terminate a worker simply for filing a workers compensation claim, although anyone asserting that this has happened will have to prove that the measure was retaliatory and not based on work performance or another permitted reason.


  Medical history  

Under the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), employers may not use genetic information in dealing with employees, or when making employment decisions, including hiring and firing. “Using genetic information” includes testing for whether a candidate or employee is at greater risk than average of developing certain diseases or inquiring about family medical history.


  Organizing  

While an employer may have grounds to fire an individual for complaining or venting about an employer or boss, under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), workers are permitted to engage in “concerted activity” to improve wages or working conditions, such as organizing a labor union or conducting a campaign to bring an existing union into their workplace. Workers need not already be in a union to be covered by this protection.


  Lack of cause  

Individuals engaged under a contract that requires a cause for their termination but do not receive one may be eligible to file a wrongful termination claim. Unlike other types of claims, this is a contractual breach rather than a violation of a law or statute. The contract must stipulate that the person can be fired only “for cause,” meaning a reason for the dismissal must be noted, and it must fall under certain sorts of behavior or action, such as willful misconduct, deliberate neglect of job duties, deliberate sabotage or destruction of company property, or divulging company secrets.


   How to File a Wrongful Termination Claim   

First, it’s essential for an employee to read their original agreement letter or employment contract to find out what rights and resources they have available (and to check if all conditions and promises were met surrounding their term of employment and their dismissal).



Also, they may want to hold off on signing any sort of severance agreement with their employer, especially if it specifically demands that they waive any rights to filing a claim or seeking legal redress.



Workers who believe that they have been dismissed unlawfully should consult with an attorney—a labor lawyer, or an employment law/employees’ rights lawyer—for advice on whether they have a claim and for possible representation. The sooner, the better: There are different deadlines for filing claims under state and federal laws.



If possible, individuals should try to obtain a copy of their personnel file, to discover who was responsible for their firing; who approved it; and any documents, such as warning letters, status reports, or performance reviews, referring or relating to it. Such information will be helpful to an attorney reviewing a potential case.
