What Is Y?  

Y is a letter that appears on a stock symbol specifying that a particular stock is an American depositary receipt (ADR). A stock symbol (also known as a ticker symbol) is a unique series of letters that are a shorthand way of identifying a company's specific stock. A stock symbol can include a letter at the end of the symbol that conveys information about that stock's trading status. These symbols help investors differentiate one type of investment from another.



For example, Class A shares of a stock will have the letter "A" at the end of the stock symbol, while Class B shares will have the letter "B." All mutual fund tickers have an "X" at the end of their symbol to differentiate them from other security types. Stock symbols that end in the letter "Y" are American depositary receipts (ADRs), which are negotiable certificates that represent shares of a foreign stock.





Key Takeaways

The letter "Y" appears at the end of a stock symbol indicating that the stock is an American depositary receipt (ADR).ADRs, which are negotiable certificates representing shares of foreign stock, are a popular way for U.S. investors to buy stocks of companies based outside of the U.S.A depositary bank issues the depositary receipts on behalf of the foreign corporation; these receipts can then trade on a U.S. exchange or over-the-counter just like any other share of stock.ADR prices are quoted in U.S. dollars and dividends are also paid in U.S. dollars.Y stock listings are most common on ADRs trading in over-the-counter markets, while ADRs trading on large U.S. exchanges may or may not include the letter.


   Understanding Y  

Y stock is a type of foreign security traded on U.S. stock exchanges. Investors can identify that these shares are American depositary receipts by the "Y" code appearing at the end of the stock symbol. Y stock offers investors one way to invest in foreign companies. Other ways to invest in companies with foreign domiciles include international funds, U.S. foreign stock initial public offerings (IPOs), and direct investments in foreign markets.






Investment firms that want to issue ADRs must register them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) using SEC Form F-6.﻿﻿


   American Depositary Receipts (ADR)  

American depositary receipts are traded on a U.S. exchange. These shares are uniquely offered through a process that involves a partnership between the foreign company and a U.S. depositary bank. Foreign companies deposit their shares at a U.S. bank and the bank issues depositary receipts (DR) on their behalf. These depositary receipts are negotiable certificates that represent the foreign company's shares traded on a local stock exchange.



A U.S. bank issued the first ADR in 1927 to enable investors to purchase shares of a British department store.﻿﻿ ADRs were introduced in response to the difficulties involved with buying shares in foreign corporations on foreign exchanges. They help to alleviate some of the challenges involved with foreign exchange trading, such as currency fluctuations and market price changes. ADRs offer a convenient way to invest in a foreign company and are also cost-efficient.



U.S. banks and brokerages can purchase bulk lots of shares from a foreign corporation and reissue them as ADRs on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, or over-the-counter markets, also known as off-exchange trading. In some cases, the shares may not have a 1:1 ratio with share issuance representing groups of shares. Prices for ADRs are quoted in U.S. dollars and dividends are paid in U.S. dollars. The trading and settlement process is the same as shares that are directly listed on the U.S. exchanges. ADR distributions are managed by the depositing bank. ADRs may also have special tax treatment.






ADR risks include inflation risk, which refers to the risk that the value of the issuing country's currency will erode over time, thus impacting the value of the ADR.


   Stock Exchange Symbols  

U.S.-listed ADR securities will usually have a two-to-five character ticker symbol with the last character being the letter Y. The Y identifies the stock as an American depositary receipt. When investors buy or sell ADRs, they are trading in the U.S. market and the trade will clear in U.S. dollars. Y stock listings are typically most common on over-the-counter markets, while ADRs trading large U.S. exchanges may or may not include the letter.


   Examples of Y Stock Listings  

Two examples of Y stock listings include Adidas AG and BNP Paribas S.A. Both stocks trade on the over-the-counter market. Adidas AG, a German sportswear company, trades with the symbol ADDYY. Financial services firm BNP Paribas S.A. trades with the symbol BNPQY.
What Is a Y-Share?  

Y-shares are an institutional share class offered in open-end mutual funds. Targeting institutional investors, the share class often has a high minimum investment, beginning at approximately $25,000. This share class also offers the benefit of waived or limited load charges and lower comparative total annual fees.





Key Takeaways

A Y-share is an institutional share class offered in open-end mutual funds—having a high minimum investment—generally $25,000 or more.These shares offer a limited or waived load charge or lower comparative total annual fee.Y-shares are not associated with intermediary sales charges and usually do not pay any distribution fees or 12b-1 fees from the fund’s expenses, allowing their expense ratios to be lower overall than other share classes.While Y-shares are typically reserved for institutional investors, they may allow investment from retirement plan investors in some cases.Funds without retirement share classes may allow pooled fund investments in Y-shares from retirement plans that collectively seek investment in the fund.


   How Y-Shares Work  

Y-shares are an alternative to I-shares which are in the most commonly offered mutual fund share class for institutional investors. Y-shares have features and characteristics that are tailored to institutions.



High minimum investments are one of the most distinguishable characteristics of Y-shares and other institutional shares classes. Minimum investments typically begin at $25,000 and can be as high as $5 million. Sales loads are usually not required for Y-shares, which allows institutional investors to buy and sell shares with no added commission charges.



Since Y-shares are not associated with intermediary sales charges, they also usually do not pay any distribution fees or 12b-1 fees from the fund’s expenses. Without 12b-1 fees, the total expense ratios are lower overall than other share classes in the fund, which is another benefit for institutional investors.


   Special Considerations  

While Y-shares are typically reserved for institutional investors, they may allow investment from retirement plan investors in some cases. Most mutual funds will have designated retirement share classes with similar benefits to institutional shares.



Funds without retirement share classes may allow pooled fund investments in Y-shares from retirement plans that collectively seek investment in the fund. This can provide a significant benefit to retirement shareholders, who would take part in the savings from the share class’s lower fees.


   Example of Y-Shares  

Putnam Investments is one investment manager that offers Y-shares across many of its funds as the primary share class for institutional investors. The Putnam Global Equity Fund provides one example. The Fund offers A-shares, B-shares, C-shares, M-shares, R-shares, R6-shares, T-shares, and Y-shares.



The Putnam Global Equity Fund’s Y-share class charges no front-end or back-end sales commissions. The share class also charges no 12b-1 fees, which helps it to have one of the lowest annual expense ratios in the fund. Performance for the Y-shares as of March 31, 2022, was also one of the highest in the Fund for the last five years at 8.92%.




How Much Does It Cost to Buy Y-Shares?
Many Y-share classes have no fees for purchasing the shares, but charge a management fee. Y-share classes do tend to have a high minimum investment threshold—$25,000 or more, however.




Why Would My Advisor Change My Shares to Y-Shares?
Advisors may upgrade to Y-shares if there is a cost savings benefit. Mutual funds, meanwhile, may change the share class of an issued fund—called a reclassification—if certain requirements are met.




What Is the Difference Between F and Y-Shares?
Y-shares are an institutional share class issued by mutual funds, not to be confused with Y stocks. Y-stocks, which are sometimes called Y-shares, are American depositary receipts (ADRs) trading in the U.S. market but represent a foreign stock. F-stocks are foreign stocks trading in the local foreign market.
What Is Y2K?  

Y2K is the shorthand term for "the year 2000." Y2K was commonly used to refer to a widespread computer programming shortcut that was expected to cause extensive havoc as the year changed from 1999 to 2000. Instead of allowing four digits for the year, many computer programs only allowed two digits (e.g., 99 instead of 1999). As a result, there was immense panic that computers would be unable to operate at the turn of the millennium when the date descended from "99" to "00".





Key Takeaways

Y2K was commonly used to refer to a widespread computer programming shortcut that was expected to cause extensive havoc as the year changed from 1999 to 2000.The change was expected to bring down computer systems infrastructures, such as those for banking and power plants.While there was a widespread outcry about the potential implications of this change, not much happened.


   Understanding Y2K  

In the years and months leading up to the turn of the millennium, computer experts and financial analysts feared that the switch from the two-digit year '99 to '00 would wreak havoc on computer systems ranging from airline reservations to financial databases to government systems. Millions of dollars were spent in the lead-up to Y2K in IT and software development to create patches and workarounds to squash the bug.



While there were a few minor issues once Jan. 1, 2000, arrived, there were no massive malfunctions. Some people attribute the smooth transition to major efforts undertaken by businesses and government organizations to correct the Y2K bug in advance. Others say that the problem was overstated and wouldn't have caused significant problems regardless.


   Special Considerations  

At the time, which was the early days of the internet, the Y2K scare—or the Millennium bug as it was also called—had many plausible reasons for concern. For instance, for much of financial history, financial institutions have not generally been considered cutting edge technology-wise.



Knowing most big banks ran on dated computers and technologies, it wasn't irrational for depositors to worry the Y2K issue would seize the banking system up, thereby preventing people from withdrawing money or engaging in important transactions. Extended to a global scale, these worries of an epidemic-like panic had international markets holding their breath heading into the turn of the century.



The research firm Gartner estimated that the global costs to fix the bug were expected to be between $300 billion to $600 billion. Individual companies also offered their estimates of the bug's economic impact on their top-line figures. For example, General Motors stated that it would cost $565 million to fix problems arising from the bug. Citicorp estimated that it would cost $600 million, while MCI stated that it would take $400 million.



In response, the United States government passed the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act to prepare for the event and formed a President's Council that consisted of senior officials from the administration and officials from agencies like the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The council monitored efforts made by private companies to prepare their systems for the event.



In actuality, the episode came and went with little fanfare.




What Led to Y2K?
Y2K came about largely due to economics. At the dawn of the computer age, the programs being written required the type of data storage that was extremely costly. Since not many anticipated the success of this new technology or the speed with which it would take over, firms were judicious in their budgets. This lack of foresight, especially given that the millennium was just about 40 years away, led to programmers being forced to using a 2-digit code instead of a 4-digit code to designate the year.




Why Was Y2K Scary?
Experts feared that the switch from the two-digit year '99 to '00 would wreak havoc on computer systems ranging from airline reservations to financial databases to government systems. For instance, the banking system relied on dated computers and technologies and it wasn't irrational for depositors to worry about being able to withdraw funds or engage in important transactions. Bankers were worried that interest might be calculated for a thousand years (1000 to 1999) instead of a single day.




How Was Y2K Avoided?
The U.S. government passed the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act to prepare for the event and formed a President's Council, that consisted of senior officials from the administration and officials from agencies like the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to monitor efforts of private companies to prepare their systems for the event. The research firm Gartner estimated that the global costs to avoid Y2K could have been as much as $600 billion.
What Is Yacht Insurance?  

Yacht insurance is an insurance policy that provides indemnity liability coverage for a sailing vessel. It includes liability coverage for bodily injury or damage to the property of others and damage to personal property on the vessel. Depending on the insurance provider, this insurance could also include gas delivery, towing, and assistance if your yacht gets stranded.





Key Takeaways

Yacht insurance provides indemnity liability coverage for a sailing vessel.It has two principal parts: hull insurance and protection and indemnity (P&I) insurance.While there is no legal agreed upon length that separates a yacht from a pleasure boat, generally it is considered to be somewhere between 27 and 30 feet.


   Understanding Yacht Insurance  

Some companies specialize in providing coverage for antique and classic boats. You can choose between an actual cash value or agreed value policy. The former is cheaper but factors in depreciation and market value, so your payout will be less. Some policies include discounts based on your boating education, safety features, and whether you have a hybrid or electric boat. Some companies also offer a package deal that decreases the rate on a yacht insurance policy if you purchase additional policies, such as for your home or car.



Boats are defined as vessels under 197 feet long, while ships are 197 feet long or longer. There is no agreed upon length for a yacht, but they are generally considered to be at least 30 feet long. A vessel under 27 feet is considered a pleasure boat. 



Although there isn't a standard definition of what the size of a yacht is, we can see that there is a general agreement within a range. With that being said, this general range falls within class 2 and class 3 of the Federal boat classification system.



For its own purposes, the National Boat Owners Association marks the dividing line at 27 feet. Most yacht coverage is broader and more specialized than pleasure boat coverage, because larger vessels travel farther and are exposed to greater risks.






Yacht insurance is broader and more specialized than pleasure boat coverage, due to the fact that a yacht can sail farther and thus runs greater risks.



A yacht insurance deductible, the amount of money you must pay out of your own pocket before your insurance kicks in, is usually a percentage of the insured value. A 1% deductible, for example, means that a boat insured for $100,000 would have a $1,000 deductible. Most lenders allow a maximum deductible of 2% of the insured value.



Generally, yacht insurance coverage does not include wear and tear, gradual deterioration, marine life, marring, denting, scratching, animal damage, osmosis, blistering, electrolysis, manufacturer’s defects, defects in design, and ice and freezing.


   Two Parts of Yacht Insurance  

There are two principal sections of a yacht insurance policy.


  Hull insurance  

Hull insurance is an all-risk, direct damage coverage that includes an agreed amount of hull coverage. That amount is settled on when the policy is written, and in the case of a total loss it will be paid out in full. In addition, there is replacement cost coverage on partial losses, though sails, canvas, batteries, outboards, and sometimes outdrives are not include and instead are subject to depreciation.


  Protection and indemnity (P&I)  

Protection and indemnity (P&I) insurance is the broadest of all liability coverages, and because maritime law is particular, you will need coverages that are designed for those exposures. Longshore and harbor workers’ coverage and Jones Act coverage (for the yacht’s crew) are included and important, because your losses in these areas could run into six figures. P&I will cover any judgements against you and also pays for your defense in admiralty courts.
What Is the Yale School of Management?  

Yale School of Management (Yale SOM) is Yale University's graduate business school. Yale School of Management offers both MBA and Ph.D. level programs and is known for, among other things, its focus on finance and ethics. The school introduced a new kind of integrated curriculum that combines a brief period of foreign study with organizational and employee analysis.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Yale School of Management (Yale SOM) is Yale University's business school, located in New Haven, CT.The stated mission of the Yale School of Management is to educate leaders for business and society.Yale SOM offers full-time and executive MBA degrees, one year master’s degree in systemic risk, global business and society, asset management, and advanced management. It also offers Ph.D.-level study in management fields.For the academic year 2021-2022, the total tuition and fees are $76,770. (Tuition at Yale School of Management is $74,500. There is an additional program fee of $2,270.)Yale School of Management is one of the smaller business schools in America, with nearly 100 faculty and roughly 350 slots in its MBA program.


   Understanding the Yale School of Management  

Yale School of Management is located in New Haven, Conn. The first class to attend the school arrived in 1976, after receiving a donation to establish the program in 1971. The school’s mission is shaped by three main objectives:﻿﻿



Be the business school that is most integrated with its home universityBe the most distinctively global U.S. business schoolBe recognized as the best source of elevated leaders for all sectors and regions


   Yale School of Management Programs  

Yale School of Management offers several different programs for graduate studies. In addition to the standard two-year master of business administration (MBA), the school also offers an executive MBA program for working students; a master of advanced management for graduates of business schools that are members of the Global Network for Advanced Management; master's degree in asset management; master’s degree for systemic risk; a master’s degree for global business and society; a Ph.D. program; and executive education programs.



The doctoral program at Yale School of Management is a full-time, in-residence program intended for students who plan scholarly careers involving research and teaching in management.


   Yale School of Management Admission Standards  

Yale School of Management is one of the smaller business schools in America, with nearly 100 faculty and roughly 350 slots in its MBA program.﻿﻿ Admission is competitive; around 25% of applicants are accepted for its MBA class for the 2021 in-coming class, a figure which varies somewhat year-to-year.﻿﻿






Notable Yale School of Management alumni include Jane Mendillo, D. Ellen Shuman, and Sandra Urie.


   Yale School of Management Tuition and Fees  

For the academic year 2021–2022, the total tuition and fees are $76,770. (Tuition at Yale School of Management is $74,500; there is an additional program fee of $2,270.) Other expenses are budgeted based on a single student assuming a modest lifestyle and shared housing:



Room, board, and personal expenses: $24,284Textbooks and photocopies: $1,000Health insurance: $2,698Total estimated living expenses: $27,982Total Single Student Budget: $104,752



Tuition at Yale School of Management is slightly higher than at other highly-ranked business schools. The annual MBA tuition at Harvard Business School is $73,440 (excluding fees and living expenses); At The University of Chicago Booth School of Business, the annual MBA tuition is $72,000 (also excluding fees and living expenses).


   Connection to Yale University  

Yale School of Management strives to be the graduate business school most connected to its home university. The two schools offer ten joint degree programs:﻿﻿



Asset ManagementLawEnvironmentGlobal AffairsMedicinePublic HealthArchitectureDramaDivinityMBA/PhD



Nearly 15% of the Yale School of Management students pursue joint degrees.﻿﻿ Students are also required to fulfill a global studies requirement to graduate. This requirement can be filled by taking an international experience course, a week-long global networks course, utilizing a global virtual team, a global social entrepreneur course, a global social enterprise course, or an international exchange with a partner school.


   Yale School of Management FAQs  
  What GPA Is Required to Get Into Yale Business School?  

The median undergraduate GPA for Yale School of Management's Class of 2022 is 3.65 (based on a 4.0 grading scale, where GPA appears on the transcript).﻿﻿


  What Is Yale Business School’s Ranking?  

According to U.S. News and World Report's 2022 List of Best Business Schools, Yale's business school is ranked number nine in the U.S.



Stanford's University business school is the top-ranked business school in the U.S., followed by the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and The Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.﻿﻿


  Does Yale Have an Online MBA Program?  

While the school has different online learning programs for students, there is no online-only MBA degree. Here's a link to the online programs the school offers.



Yale School of Management Executive Education’s collection of online executive programs ranges from courses on Corporate Sustainability Management, Decision Making, Digital Marketing.﻿﻿


  Who Is the Dean of Yale’s School of Management?  

Kerwin Charles is the Indra K. Nooyi Dean of the Yale School of Management, as of July 1, 2021.﻿﻿


   The Bottom Line  

Yale University's Yale School of Management offers an MBA degree, in both full-time and executive formats, as well as one-year master’s degree programs in systemic risk, global business and society, asset management, and advanced management. The school also offers advanced PhD-level study in management fields.



The school is located in New Haven, Conn.; the program was established in 1971 and the first class to attend the school arrived in 1976. For the academic year 2021-2022, the total tuition and fees are $76,770. (Tuition at Yale School of Management is $74,500. There is an additional program fee of $2,270.) Kerwin K. Charles is the Indra K. Nooyi Dean of the Yale School of Management and the Frederic D. Wolfe Professor of Economics, Policy, and Management.
What Is a Yankee Bond?  

A Yankee bond is a debt obligation issued by a foreign entity, such as a government or company, which is traded in the United States and denominated in U.S. dollars.





key takeaways

A Yankee bond is a debt obligation denominated in U.S. dollars that is publicly issued in the U.S. by foreign banks and corporation, and sometimes even governments.Yankee bonds are subject to U.S. securities laws, as they trade on U.S. exchanges.Yankee bonds offer the issuer to chance to get cheaper financing and reach a broader investment audience; they offer investors the chance for better yields.On the downside, Yankee bonds can take a long time to come to market, subjecting them to interest rate risk; they are also vulnerable to currency risk and other problems in their home country's economy.


   Understanding a Yankee Bond  

Yankee bonds are governed by the Securities Act of 1933, which requires the bonds to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before being offered for sale. Yankee bonds are frequently issued in tranches, individual portions of a larger debt offering or structured financing arrangement that have differing risk levels, interest rates and maturities, and offerings may be extremely large, as much as $1 billion.



There are also Yankee certificate of deposits, CDs that are issued in the United States by a branch or agency of a foreign bank.


   Advantages of Yankee Bonds  

Yankee bonds can represent a win-win opportunity for both issuers and investors. One of the primary potential advantages for a Yankee bond issuer is the opportunity to obtain cheaper financing capital at a lower cost if comparable bond rates in the United States are significantly lower than the current rates in a foreign company’s own country. The size of the U.S. bond market and the fact U.S. investors very actively trade it also confers an advantage for the issuer, especially if the bond offering is a large one. Although U.S. regulatory requirements may initially hamper a foreign issuer in regard to obtaining approval to offer bonds, conditions for lending in the United States may still be less stringent overall than those in the issuer’s own country, allowing the issuer greater flexibility in terms of the offering.



A major advantage for U.S. investors in Yankee bonds is such bonds frequently offer higher yields than the yields available on comparable, or even lower-rated, bond issues from U.S. issuers. Another potential advantage is the fact that Yankee bonds offer investors a means of obtaining international diversification in a portfolio of bond investments. Yankee bonds also offer U.S. investors an advantage over investing in foreign corporation bond issues made in the foreign company’s home country. Since Yankee bonds are denominated in U.S. dollars, the currency risk commonly associated with foreign bond investments is virtually eliminated.


   Disadvantages of Yankee Bonds  

One of the drawbacks of Yankee bonds for issuers is the time involved. Because of strict U.S. regulations for the issuing of such bonds, it can take more than three months for a Yankee bond issue to be approved for sale. The approval process includes an evaluation of the issuer’s creditworthiness by a debt-rating agency such as Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s.



Another consideration is the interest rate environment. Foreign issuers usually favor issuing Yankee bonds when there is a low-interest-rate environment in the United States, since that means the issuer can offer the bond with lower interest payments. But should something send interest rates soaring or plummeting in three months, it could mess up the carefully calibrated pricing of the Yankee bond, affecting how well it sells.



Finally, a Yankee bond can be affected by the economy of its home country. So if that country has a shaky economy, its price could topple, or the issuer could run into problems—which could affect its coupon payments. And while the Yankee bond is issued in dollars, it could be vulnerable to some currency risk as well, as a nation's economic woes often affect its money's performance in the foreign exchange markets.
What Is a Yankee Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A Yankee certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of CD that is issued in the United States by a branch of a foreign bank. Yankee CDs are denominated in U.S. dollars and are used by foreign banks to raise capital from U.S. investors.





Key Takeaways

Yankee CDs are a savings vehicle marketed to larger investors.They are issued by foreign banks seeking to raise capital from U.S. depositors.Yankee CDs contain shorter maturity periods than regular CDs, often for less than one year. During that timeframe, customers may be unable to withdraw their funds without facing steep early withdrawal penalties.


   How Yankee CDs Work  

Foreign banks operating in the United States often need to access dollars for purposes such as extending credit to U.S. customers, or satisfying U.S. dollar (USD)-denominated obligations. To help raise this USD capital, foreign banks sometimes accept deposits from American customers through special CDs called Yankee bonds.



Like traditional CDs, Yankee CDs are savings accounts that pay interest before returning their initial investment at the end of a specified investment period. Although it is often possible for investors to withdraw their funds before this date, doing so would risk incurring an early withdrawal penalty. Generally speaking, CDs come with terms ranging between one month and five years, with higher interest paid on the accounts with longer maturities.



Aside from the fact that they are offered by foreign banks, the other major difference between Yankee CDs and regular CDs is their minimum investment size. Typically, Yankee CDs have a minimum face value of $100,000, making them appropriate for larger investors. Moreover, Yankee CDs are only offered for short maturity periods of less than one year. Because they are not issued by U.S.-based institutions, Yankee CDs are not subject to the protections of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and generally require investors to “lock in” their funds for the entire maturity period.


   Real World Example of a Yankee CD  

Yankee CDs are usually issued in New York by foreign banks who have branch offices in the U.S. They are sold either directly by the foreign banks themselves, or indirectly through one or more registered broker-dealers. The most common countries of origin for foreign banks offering Yankee CDs are Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom, and countries in Western Europe. These banks typically use the funds raised through Yankee CDs to extend credit to their U.S.-based corporate customers.



According to the Richmond Fed, Yankee CDs were first issued in the early 1970s and initially paid a higher yield than domestic CDs. Foreign banks at the time were not well known, so their credit quality was difficult to assess due to different accounting rules and scant financial information.



As investor perception and familiarity with foreign banks improved, the premium paid by foreign banks on their Yankee CDs declined. This cost of funds difference was partially offset by the exemption of foreign banks from Federal Reserve reserve requirements, in effect until the International Banking Act of 1978.



The exemption also aided the establishment of the Yankee CD market, which grew steadily in the early 1980s. In the early 1990s, there was rapid growth in Yankee CDs because reserve requirements on nonpersonal time deposits with maturities of less than 18 months were eliminated in Dec. 1990. Previously, there was a 3% Federal Reserve reserve requirement for foreign banks funding dollar loans to U.S. borrowers with Yankee CDs.
What Is a Yankee Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A Yankee certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of CD that is issued in the United States by a branch of a foreign bank. Yankee CDs are denominated in U.S. dollars and are used by foreign banks to raise capital from U.S. investors.





Key Takeaways

Yankee CDs are a savings vehicle marketed to larger investors.They are issued by foreign banks seeking to raise capital from U.S. depositors.Yankee CDs contain shorter maturity periods than regular CDs, often for less than one year. During that timeframe, customers may be unable to withdraw their funds without facing steep early withdrawal penalties.


   How Yankee CDs Work  

Foreign banks operating in the United States often need to access dollars for purposes such as extending credit to U.S. customers, or satisfying U.S. dollar (USD)-denominated obligations. To help raise this USD capital, foreign banks sometimes accept deposits from American customers through special CDs called Yankee bonds.



Like traditional CDs, Yankee CDs are savings accounts that pay interest before returning their initial investment at the end of a specified investment period. Although it is often possible for investors to withdraw their funds before this date, doing so would risk incurring an early withdrawal penalty. Generally speaking, CDs come with terms ranging between one month and five years, with higher interest paid on the accounts with longer maturities.



Aside from the fact that they are offered by foreign banks, the other major difference between Yankee CDs and regular CDs is their minimum investment size. Typically, Yankee CDs have a minimum face value of $100,000, making them appropriate for larger investors. Moreover, Yankee CDs are only offered for short maturity periods of less than one year. Because they are not issued by U.S.-based institutions, Yankee CDs are not subject to the protections of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and generally require investors to “lock in” their funds for the entire maturity period.


   Real World Example of a Yankee CD  

Yankee CDs are usually issued in New York by foreign banks who have branch offices in the U.S. They are sold either directly by the foreign banks themselves, or indirectly through one or more registered broker-dealers. The most common countries of origin for foreign banks offering Yankee CDs are Japan, Canada, the United Kingdom, and countries in Western Europe. These banks typically use the funds raised through Yankee CDs to extend credit to their U.S.-based corporate customers.



According to the Richmond Fed, Yankee CDs were first issued in the early 1970s and initially paid a higher yield than domestic CDs. Foreign banks at the time were not well known, so their credit quality was difficult to assess due to different accounting rules and scant financial information.



As investor perception and familiarity with foreign banks improved, the premium paid by foreign banks on their Yankee CDs declined. This cost of funds difference was partially offset by the exemption of foreign banks from Federal Reserve reserve requirements, in effect until the International Banking Act of 1978.



The exemption also aided the establishment of the Yankee CD market, which grew steadily in the early 1980s. In the early 1990s, there was rapid growth in Yankee CDs because reserve requirements on nonpersonal time deposits with maturities of less than 18 months were eliminated in Dec. 1990. Previously, there was a 3% Federal Reserve reserve requirement for foreign banks funding dollar loans to U.S. borrowers with Yankee CDs.
What Is the Yankee Market?  

"Yankee market" is a slang term for the stock market in the United States.



Yankee market is usually used by non-U.S. residents and refers to the slang term for an American, a Yankee (or Yank), which itself is sometimes used as a playful, though sometimes derogatory, reference to U.S. citizens.






"Yankee market" is a slang term for the stock market in the United States.Relatedly, a Yankee bond is one issued by a foreign bank or company but traded in the United States and priced in U.S. dollars.A reverse Yankee market and reverse Yankee bond refer to U.S. companies participating in the Euro bond market. 


   Understanding the Term Yankee Market  

The term Yankee market was used in business slang but has become widely accepted, much like the "bulldog market" refers to the U.K. market and "samurai market" refers to the market in Japan. 



Relatedly, a Yankee bond is one issued by a foreign bank or company but traded in the United States and priced in U.S. dollars.


   Special Circumstances  

Yankee bonds are frequently issued in tranches, defined as individual portions of a larger debt offering or financing arrangement. Tranches can vary with respect to risk levels, interest rates, and maturities.



Offerings can be quite large, rising up to $1 billion. There are strict U.S. regulations for the issuing of these bonds, resulting in a slow-selling process: It can take more than three months for a Yankee bond issue to be approved, during which time a debt-rating agency evaluates the issuer's creditworthiness.


   Reverse Yankee Market and Reverse Yankee Bonds  

A reverse Yankee market and reverse Yankee bond refer to U.S. companies participating in the Euro bond market. It’s increasingly common to see American companies issuing debt in Europe.



The reverse Yankee market is reported to have reached €380 billion.



In 2017, The Financial Times reported on the reverse Yankee market as it detailed General Electric (GE) selling an €8 billion bond and gathering €22 billion of orders, a deal the Financial Times calls “one of the largest ever deals in the single currency, showing the depth of demand for long-dated issuance from U.S. borrowers.”



The article describes so-called reverse Yankee deals becoming increasingly popular, illustrated by large American issuers like Pfizer and Coca-Cola raising multibillion-euro deals. In 2015, Coca-Cola raised €8.5 billion across five tranches, which at the time was the largest reverse Yankee deal. The GE sale beat that as “the fourth-largest euro corporate bond sale ever,” and arguably worked to strengthen future interest in reverse Yankee deals by major U.S. businesses.



Allergan and Baxter International, the Financial Times reported, were examples of two companies that announced investor meetings in Europe ahead of planned bond sales in 2017.



Bloomberg reported that U.S. companies in 2017 borrowed 57 billion euros in Europe, compared with 42 billion euros in that same period of 2016.



Companies involved in these reverse Yankee deals included heavy-hitters such as Kimberly Clark, GM Financial, Nestle, AT&T, Apple, IBM, Kellogg, Procter & Gamble, Netflix, Aramark, AMC Entertainment, Levi Strauss, and American Honda.
What Is a Financial Yard?  

The term "yard" is a financial term meaning one billion. The term is derived from the term "milliard," which is used in some European languages and is equivalent to the number one billion used in American English.



A yard is equal to 10y—10 to the ninth power—or the number one followed by nine zeros, which is written out as 1,000,000,000. If someone were to purchase one billion U.S. dollars, they could refer to the purchase as a yard of U.S. dollars.





Key Takeaways

A "yard" is a financial slang term meaning one billion.It is used to avoid confusion with the words million or trillion when making a trade.The term is often used in currency trading.A yard is equal to 10y-10 to the ninth power. The financial world uses slang in the workplace. Someone who buys a yard of U.S. dollars is purchasing one billion dollars.


   Understanding Yard  

The financial world, just like any other industry, has its own slang terms including the word yard. The term refers to one billion and may offer a concise method of naming the figure. It is most often used to avoid any confusion with the words million or trillion when making a trade. The term is often used in currency trading.



Different terminology is used throughout the world for identifying large numbers. For example, one billion can be called one yard, one milliard, or one thousand million, depending on the country.



The financial world is full of slang that is commonplace in the industry including cable, which is used to refer to the currency pairing between the pound and U.S. dollar, and the loonie—another name for the Canadian dollar—which bears a loon on the front.






The term yard, which means one billion, is used in the financial world to avoid confusion with similar sounding words such as million or trillion.


   Special Considerations  

Traders have had to develop their own terminology, or financial slang, in order to make trading easier. As mentioned above, the term yard has been used to mean one billion in order to avoid confusion with other words such as million or trillion that sound similar. Traders, at that time, communicated through the open outcry system, shouting to one another or using hand signals to transmit information about their buy and sell orders.



With the advent of technology, the trading world began to make the conversion from the open outcry system to electronic trading. In fact, many of the world's largest exchanges eliminated outcry and adopted a fully integrated electronic trading system including the London Stock Exchange (LSE), India's Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX).



According to Reuters, terms like yard and cable may continue to survive, but electronic and over-the-phone trading is leading to the slow death of a lot of financial slang in general. Because the new roster of traders is educated using modern technology, they are not as familiar with the financial lingo that was once popular on trading floors around the world. This means the likelihood that they would use this terminology in the industry is remote.
What Is a Year-End Bonus?  

The term year-end bonus refers to a form of compensation paid by employers to their employees in addition to their wages or salaries. Put simply, a year-end bonus is a reward that companies pay their workers. The amount paid can vary but is usually based on an employee's position and salary. It is commonly tied to performance metrics, which means it can depend on whether certain milestones are met. Year-end bonuses may be made in different forms, including lump-sum payments in cash, to reward individuals for their hard work and dedication.





Key Takeaways

A year-end bonus is a form of compensation that employers pay to their employees in addition to their regular earnings.This type of bonus is often tied to performance metrics.Bonuses can be made in cash as lump-sum payments or in other forms, such as stocks or paid time off.Employers and employees may arrange to have year-end bonuses paid in the following year for tax planning purposes. Use your bonus spend, pay off debt, or save.


   Understanding Year-End Bonuses  

Compensation comes in many forms. Depending on the nature of the work and the type of company, employers may offer their employees salaries, wages, commissions, retirement plans, health benefits, stock options, and tips. Another type of compensation is the year-end bonus, which may also be called an annual or Christmas bonus.



Year-end bonuses are offered by companies of different sizes, from small businesses to large multinational corporations. As noted above, it is normally tied to an employee's performance over the calendar or fiscal year. So employees who meet their sales quotas or other metrics may qualify for one. In some cases, anyone who exceeds their goals may be entitled to higher bonuses. It isn't uncommon for top executives and employees of financial firms on Wall Street to receive large bonuses at the end of the year.



Year-end bonuses are often paid in cash as lump sums. Some companies, though, may choose to compensate their employees in other ways. This may include supplemental vacation days, gifts, or in-kind transfers of stock. Bonuses fluctuate depending on the economy and the year's performance, but in most years the amount is substantial.



Some companies may include these bonuses in their employees' contracts to encourage consistent results. Contractual year-end bonuses are more often offered to executive management when they are hired or promoted, and might not be tied to the company’s performance at all. In this capacity, the bonus can serve as a hiring and retention tool to keep key personnel on board with a company when job openings at rival companies offer higher base salaries.






If a company misses its targets or otherwise underperforms, it is possible that a company will withhold year-end bonuses for some, if not all, individuals on the payroll.


   Special Considerations  

Companies and employees may choose to defer payment of a year-end bonus until the next year. So rather than receiving it in December, an employee may receive their bonus in January or February. This option allows workers to push any additional tax burden to the next year. So although the employee qualifies for the bonus this year, the tax consequences don't apply until they receive the bonus the following year. This allows an employee to plan for the windfall at the end of the next year.






Employers remain cautious because of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a survey, 27% of employers didn't give their employees a year-end bonus. Of those surveyed, 81% of the companies paying a bonus said they would keep the amount the same.


   How to Use a Year-End Bonus  

There are several ways you can choose to use your year-end bonuses. But before you do, it's always a good idea to weigh out the options so you make the right choice.



Spend it. This is the first inclination that people have when it comes to their bonuses. Because it's a reward for good performance, you may be tempted to go shopping and make big purchases, whether the payout is big or small. Maybe you want a new TV or need a new laptop. Or you could use it to make those much-needed repairs on your car.
Pay down debt. This is extra cash that may not have had, so it's always a good idea to clear your debt. You can pay down your credit cards, and student loans. You may even choose to make a prepayment toward your mortgage to cut down your principal balance.
Put it into savings. If you have little to no debt, consider setting your bonus aside into a savings account, a certificate of deposit (CD), or another investment vehicle. If you have room, you may choose to put it into and top off your retirement account.
What Is Year-Over-Year (YOY)?  

Year-over-year (YOY)—sometimes referred to as year-on-year—is a frequently used financial comparison for looking at two or more measurable events on an annualized basis. Observing YOY performance allows for gauging if a company’s financial performance is improving, static, or worsening. For example, you may read in financial reports that a particular business reported its revenues increased for the third quarter, on a YOY basis, for the last three years.





Key Takeaways

Year-over-year (YOY) is a method of evaluating two or more measured events to compare the results at one period with those of a comparable period on an annualized basis.YOY comparisons are a popular and effective way to evaluate the financial performance of a company.Investors seeking to gauge a company’s financial performance use YOY reporting.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding Year-Over-Year Growth  

Year-over-year growth compares a company's recent financial performance with its numbers for the same month one year earlier. This is considered more informative than a month-to-month comparison, which often reflects seasonal trends..



Common YOY comparisons include annual and quarterly as well as monthly performance.


   Benefits of YOY  

YOY measurements facilitate the cross comparison of sets of data. For a company’s first-quarter revenue using YOY data, a financial analyst or an investor can compare years of first-quarter revenue data and quickly ascertain whether a company’s revenue is increasing or decreasing.



For example, in the first quarter of 2021, the Coca-Cola corporation reported a 5% increase in net revenues over the first quarter of the previous year. By comparing the same months in different years, it is possible to draw accurate comparisons despite the seasonal nature of consumer behavior. This YOY comparison is also valuable for investment portfolios. Investors like to examine YOY performance to see how performance changes across time.


   Reasoning Behind YOY  

YOY comparisons are popular when analyzing a company’s performance because they help mitigate seasonality, a factor that can influence most businesses. Sales, profits, and other financial metrics change during different periods of the year because most lines of business have a peak season and a low demand season.



For example, retailers have a peak demand season during the holiday shopping season, which falls in the fourth quarter of the year. To properly quantify a company’s performance, it makes sense to compare revenue and profits YOY.



It’s important to compare the fourth-quarter performance in one year to the fourth-quarter performance in other years. If an investor looks at a retailer’s results in the fourth quarter versus the prior third quarter, it might appear that a company is undergoing unprecedented growth when it is seasonality that is influencing the difference in the results.



Similarly, in a comparison of the fourth quarter with the following first quarter, there might appear a dramatic decline, when this could also be a result of seasonality.



YOY also differs from the term sequential, which measures one quarter or month to the previous one and allows investors to see linear growth. For instance, the number of cell phones a tech company sold in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter or the number of seats an airline filled in January compared with December.


   Real-World Example  

In a 2019 NASDAQ report, Kellogg Company released mixed results for the fourth quarter of 2018, revealing that its YOY earnings continued to decline, even when sales increased following corporate acquisitions. Kellogg predicted that adjusted earnings would drop by a further 5% to 7% in 2019 as it continued to invest in alternate channels and pack formats.



The company also revealed plans to reorganize its North America and Asia-Pacific segments, removing several divisions from the former and reorganizing the latter into Kellogg Asia, Middle East, and Africa. Despite decreasing YOY earnings, the company’s solid presence and responsiveness to consumer consumption trends meant that Kellogg’s overall outlook remained favorable.




What Is YOY Used For?
YOY is used to make comparisons between one time period and another that is one year earlier. This allows for an annualized comparison, say between third-quarter earnings this year vs. third-quarter earnings the year before. It is commonly used to compare a company’s growth in profits or revenue, and it can also be used to describe yearly changes in an economy’s money supply, gross domestic product (GDP), and other economic measurements.




How Is YOY Calculated?
YOY calculations are straightforward and usually expressed in percentage terms. This would involve taking the current year’s value and dividing it by the prior year’s value and subtracting one: (this year) ÷ (last year) - 1.




What’s the Difference Between YOY and YTD?
YOY looks at a 12-month change. Year-to-date (YTD) looks at a change relative to the beginning of the year (usually Jan. 1). YTD can provide a running total, while YOY can provide a point of comparison.




What If I Am Interested in Comparisons for Less Than a Year?
You can compute month-over-month or quarter-over-quarter (Q/Q) in much the same way as YOY. Indeed, you can choose any time frame you desire.
What Is Year to Date?  

Year to date (YTD) refers to the period of time beginning the first day of the current calendar year or fiscal year up to the current date. YTD information is useful for analyzing business trends over time or comparing performance data to competitors or peers in the same industry. The acronym is often seen in references to investment returns, earnings, and net pay.





Key Takeaways

YTD refers to a period of time beginning the first day of the current calendar year or fiscal year up to the current date.Some governmental agencies and organizations have fiscal years that begin on a date other than the first of January.YTD analysis is useful for managers when reviewing interim financial statements in comparison to historical YTD financial statements.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Year to Date  

If someone uses YTD for a calendar year reference, they mean the period of time from Jan. 1 of the current year through the current date. If they use YTD for a fiscal year reference, they mean the period of time between the first day of the fiscal year in question and the current date.



A fiscal year is a period of time lasting one year but not necessarily beginning on the first of January. It is used by governments, corporations, and other organizations for accounting and external audit purposes.



For example, the federal government observes its fiscal year from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30, and Microsoft's fiscal year is from July 1 to June 30. It is common for nonprofit organizations to have a fiscal year of July 1 to June 30.



Current YTD financial statements are routinely analyzed against historical YTD financial statements for the equivalent time period. For example, if a company's fiscal year begins on July 1, a three-month YTD financial statement would run through Sept. 30 and would be compared to previous years' July through September statements.



This comparison can help to identify seasonal trends or abnormalities.






YTD financial information is useful for management as it is a good way to check in on the financial health of a company on an interim basis rather than waiting until the end of the fiscal year.


   Types of Year to Date  
  Year to Date Return  

YTD return refers to the amount of profit made by an investment since the first day of the current year. Investors and analysts use YTD return information to assess the performance of investments and portfolios.



To calculate a YTD return on investment, subtract its value on the first day of the current year from its current value. Then, divide the difference by the value on the first day, and multiply the product by 100 to convert it to a percentage. For example, if a portfolio was worth $100,000 on Jan. 1, and it is worth $150,000 today, its YTD return is 50%.


  Year to Date Earnings  

YTD earnings refer to the amount of money an individual has earned from Jan. 1 to the current date. This amount typically appears on an employee's pay stub, along with information about Medicare and Social Security withholdings and income tax payments.



YTD earnings may also describe the amount of money an independent contractor or business has earned since the beginning of the year. This amount consists of revenue minus expenses. Small-business owners use YTD earnings to track financial goals and estimate quarterly tax payments.


  Year to Date Net Pay  

Net pay is the difference between employee earnings and the withholdings from those earnings. To calculate net pay, employees subtract the tax and other withholdings from their gross pay. YTD net pay appears on many paycheck stubs, and this figure includes all of the money earned since Jan. 1 of the current year minus all of the tax and other benefit amounts withheld.


   Month to Date vs. Year to Date  

Month to date (MTD) refers to the period of time between the 1st of the current month and the last complete business day before the current date. Typically, MTD does not include the current date because business may not have ended for that day.



For example, if today's date is Aug. 21, 2021, MTD refers to the period of time from Aug. 1, 2021, to Aug. 20, 2021. This metric is used in similar ways as YTD metrics. For example, business owners, investors, and individuals use MTD data to analyze their income, business earnings, and investment returns for the month so far.


   Year to Date Formula and Calculation  

The specific formula for determining a year to date figure is:



Year to date = (value as of a specific date ÷ value at the start of the year) - 1



Then multiply the result by 100 to obtain a percentage.



Some YTD calculations can be made with simple addition. For example, if a business wishes to calculate its YTD sales, it would add up the sales figures for every budget period since the beginning of the fiscal or calendar year.



If you want to verify your YTD salary, you would add up the gross pay from every paycheck since the start of the year.


  Annualizing Year to Date Yield  

The math is more complicated for interest or yield figures, which are often represented in terms of annual percentage rates. Annualizing a yield allows investors to compare returns over different time periods. If your portfolio is up 4% and it's now June, it may be hard to determine if your portfolio is on track to beat last year's 8% returns.



The first step to annualizing yields is to divide the current value by the initial value at the beginning of the year. This gives you a fraction representing YTD growth. Next, raise that fraction to the power of 12 divided by the number of months that have passed. Subtract 1 and multiply the result by 100 to get a percentage.



For example, suppose your portfolio started the year at $1,000 and it currently has a value of $1,030 on Sept. 30. Divide $1,030 by $1,000 to get 1.03, and raise that to the power of 1.33 (12/9) to get 1.04. Thus, your portfolio is on track for an annualized 4% growth.


   Example of Year to Date Calculation  

Let's say that you are conducting one of your periodic reviews of your investment portfolio. You'd like to calculate your YTD return to gauge where things stand.



Start by determining the value of your account at the start of the year. For this example, we'll say that figure is $125,000.



Six months later, as of the the close of markets yesterday, the value of your portfolio had grown to $137,000. That's good news. You know that your return is positive, but what's the actual YTD figure?



Using the YTD formula above, you can calculate your return:



Year to date = (value as of a specific date ÷ value at the start of the year) - 1



Year to date = (137,000 ÷ 125,000) - 1]



Year to date = 1.096 - 1



Year to date = 0.096. To transform the decimal to a percentage, multiply by 100.



Year to date = 9.6%.



In six months, your portfolio has achieved a YTD return of 9.6%.




What Does Year to Date Mean on a Pay Stub?
On a pay stub, your YTD figure shows the total of your wages or earnings from the start of the current calendar year up to and including the most recent pay period. Most pay stubs show a running total of YTD earnings that includes gross wages, net pay, or both. They may also provide a YTD tally of your FICA taxes, income taxes, and other deductions.




How Do You Calculate Year to Date Returns?
Consider an investor who bought shares in a company on January 1 at $200 per share. In March, they are worth $202. Year to date equals ($202 ÷ $200) - 1, or .01. Then multiply this by 100 to arrive at 1%. The next step is to annualize these returns. Since the shares grew 1% in the first quarter of the year, that works out to an annualized growth of 4% (1% x 4).




What Is Month to Date?
Month to date is used to measure earnings, return, and income. It refers to the first of the month through the last business day before the current day (because the current business day may still be in progress).


   The Bottom Line  

Year to date represents one way to measure the return provided by a group of securities or an index. It can be a metric for a company's financial progress. Rather than wait for end-of-year figures, a company can analyze performance trends throughout the year. YTD is a simple and straightforward way to assess progress over time.
What Is the Yearly Probability of Dying?  

Yearly probability of dying is a statistical estimate of the likelihood of a person dying within a year, usually based on their age, sex, and sometimes other factors. It is widely used in health studies, by the government, and by the insurance industry in setting rates.





Key Takeaways

Yearly probability of dying is a statistical estimate of the likelihood of a person dying within a year, based on their age, sex, and other factors.An individual's probability of dying is reflected in mortality tables and often used in setting life insurance premiums and pricing annuities.Yearly probability of living is another way of looking at the same data.


   Understanding the Yearly Probability Of Dying  

Yearly probability of dying estimates are based on mortality tables (also known as actuarial or life tables), which reflect the percentage of people in a particular group who are statistically likely to die in a particular time period. Those percentages are derived by dividing the number of deaths in that group by the number of people who were alive at the beginning of the period.



For example, the mortality tables used by the Social Security Administration estimate that a 30-year-old male has a 0.23% chance of dying within one year. For a 60-year-old, the odds rise to 1.3%, while a 119-year-old (which is as high as the table goes) has a 97% chance of mortality within a year.



Mortality tables and yearly probability of dying calculations can add other variables, as well, with smoking vs. nonsmoking being a major one for life insurance and annuity contract purposes. They are also calculated using other variables such as education, income, and the specific cause of death, depending on what the researchers are studying.



One widely used set of mortality tables, particularly in the insurance industry, is the Commissioners Standard Ordinary (CSO) mortality tables, adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The CSO tables differentiate mortality risk by age, sex, and tobacco use.



The probability of dying is frequently calculated using longer or shorter time frames than one year. For example, a common measure of child health in a given country is the under-five mortality rate (U5MR), which estimates the probability of a child dying between birth and age five. Maternal mortality rates are based on a period equal to the length of time the woman is pregnant or within 42 days of the end of pregnancy, based on the World Health Organization's definition.












Investopedia / Laura Porter




What Is the Yearly Probability of Living?
The yearly probability of living is basically the flip side of the yearly probability of dying. Also based on mortality tables, it is an estimate of the likelihood of an individual still being alive a year into the future, based on their age, sex, and sometimes other factors. Like the yearly probability of dying, it is widely used in the insurance industry. While a person's yearly probability of dying rises as they age, their yearly probability of living goes the opposite direction.




What Is the Mortality Rate?
The mortality rate represents the number of deaths as a percentage of a total population in a given period, often one year. The most basic mortality rate, referred to as the "crude mortality rate" among statisticians, doesn't differentiate between men and women or according to other factors. More specialized types of mortality rates include age-specific mortality rates, sex-specific mortality rates, race-specific mortality rates, and cause-specific mortality rates, among others.




What Is Life Expectancy?
Life expectancy is another use of mortality data, an estimate of how many more years a person with certain characteristics (current age, sex, and so forth) is likely to live or what age they are likely to attain before they die. Life expectancy estimates have many uses in the insurance industry and elsewhere.For example, the Internal Revenue Service publishes life expectancy tables that taxpayers must use to determine their annual required minimum distributions (RMDs) from their retirement accounts. In its most recent tables, for example, a newborn has a life expectancy of another 84.6 years, while someone who is 120 or older (the top limit of the table) has a life expectancy of one more year.


   The Bottom Line  

The yearly probability of dying is a statistical estimate of the likelihood of a person dying within a one-year period. It can cover an entire population or break down death rates according to age, sex, and other factors, such as tobacco use. The yearly probability of dying is widely used in health studies, by the government, and by the insurance industry. Other mortality-related statistics can use time periods shorter or longer than a single year.
What Is the Yearly Probability of Living?  

The yearly probability of living is a statistical concept that measures the likelihood that a given person, or group of people, will survive for one more year. It is widely used in the insurance industry to underwrite life insurance contracts. Generally speaking, older individuals will have a lower yearly probability of living and will therefore likely be charged higher insurance premiums.





Key Takeaways

The yearly probability of living is a statistical measure of the likelihood of surviving through a given year.It is calculated using data from mortality tables.This measure, and others like them, are an essential part of how insurance companies set their premiums. It is also used by insurance customers to determine whether they are receiving appropriate rates.


   Understanding the Yearly Probability of Living  

In order to be profitable, insurance companies must use all available data to estimate the likelihood that their policyholders will file insurance claims. For life insurance policies, one of the most important types of data consists of mortality tables, also known as life tables. These important resources show the rate of death at each age, expressed in terms of the number of deaths per thousand. By studying these tables, insurers can calculate the yearly probability of living corresponding to their policyholders, setting their insurance premiums accordingly.



In essence, the data shown in a mortality table is determined by dividing the number of people alive at the end of a given year by the number of people alive at the beginning of that same year. Depending on the mortality table in question, the data may reflect a broad population, such as for the United States as a whole, or it might reflect a specific subset of that population, such as those aged 70 or older or those possessing certain pre-existing illnesses.



For insurance purposes, life insurance companies will select the most relevant data possible when underwriting their insurance products. A life insurance product marketed to senior citizens, therefore, will be underwritten using the yearly probability of living for that age cohort.



For many people, it can be uncomfortable to consider statistics such as the yearly probability of living, because it forces us to reflect on our own mortality. This is especially true considering that, when plotted over time, the yearly probability of living declines continuously as we age, eventually reaching 0%. From a financial perspective, however, this type of data is impossible to avoid because it is critical in evaluating risk. Whereas insurers use this data to calculate the likelihood of insurance claims and set their premiums accordingly, policyholders must also consider them in order to determine whether they are receiving a fair price on their life insurance.


   Real World Example of the Yearly Probability of Living  

In addition to age, other factors that are often considered when calculating these figures include the population’s pre-existing health conditions, nationality, gender, ethnicity, and economic status. These factors are considered statistically relevant because they have been shown to correlate with different life-expectancy outcomes. 



For instance, women worldwide have been shown to have a life expectancy roughly 7% higher than men. Globally, women live for roughly 75 years on average, whereas men live for about 70 years. There is also considerable difference between nations. For example, Canadians have an average life expectancy of just under 82 years, whereas Americans live for approximately 79 years on average. In some cases, the difference between countries’ yearly probability of living can be very extreme. Whereas citizens of Japan have an average life expectancy of 84 years, the citizens of the Central African Republic have an average life expectancy of only 53 years.﻿﻿
What Is The Yearly Rate Of Return Method?  

The yearly rate of return method, commonly referred to as the annual percentage rate, is the amount earned on a fund throughout an entire year. The yearly rate of return is calculated by taking the amount of money gained or lost at the end of the year and dividing it by the initial investment at the beginning of the year. This method is also referred to as the annual rate of return or the nominal annual rate.





Key Takeaways

Yearly rate of return is computed by looking at the value of an investment at the end of one year and comparing it to the value to the beginning of the year.The rate of return for a stock includes capital appreciation and any dividends paid.A disadvantage of the yearly rate of return is that it only includes one year and does not consider the potential for compounding over many years.


   The Formula for Yearly Rate of Return  

﻿














Yearly Rate of Return


=


(




EYP


−


BYP



BYP



)


×


100
















where:
















EYP


=


End of year price
















BYP


=


Beginning of year price







\begin{aligned} &\text{Yearly Rate of Return} = \Big ( \frac {\text{EYP} - \text{BYP} }{\text{BYP} } \Big ) \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EYP} = \text{End of year price} \\ &\text{BYP} = \text{Beginning of year price} \\ \end{aligned}


​Yearly Rate of Return=(BYPEYP−BYP​)×100where:EYP=End of year priceBYP=Beginning of year price​﻿


   Example of Yearly Rate of Return Method Calculation  

If a stock begins the year at $25.00 per share and ends the year with a market price of $45.00 a share, this stock would have an annual, or yearly, rate of return of 80.00%. First, we subtract the end of year price from the beginning price, which equals 45 - 25, or 20. Next, we divide by the beginning price, or 20/25 equals .80. Lastly, to arrive at a percentage, .80 is multiplied by 100 in order to arrive at a percentage and the rate of return 80.00%.



It should be noted that this would technically be called capital appreciation, which is only one source of an equity security’s return. The other component would be any dividend yield. For instance, if the stock in the earlier example paid $2 in dividends, the rate of return would be $2 greater or, using the same calculation, roughly 88.00% over the one-year period.



As a measure of return, the yearly rate of return is rather limiting because it delivers only a percentage increase over a single, one-year period. By not taking into consideration the potential effects of compounding over many years, it’s limited by not including a growth component. But as a single period rate, it does serve its purpose.


   Other Return Measures  

Other common return measures, which may be an extension of the basic return method, include adjusting for discrete or continuous time periods, which is helpful for more accurate compounding calculations over longer time periods and in certain financial market applications.



Asset managers commonly use money-weighted and time-weighted rates of return to measure performance or the rate of return on an investment portfolio. While money-weighted rates of return focus on cash flows, the time-weighted rate of return looks at the compound rate of growth of the portfolio.



In an effort to be more transparent with investors, particularly retail, measuring and disseminating investment performance has become its niche within capital markets. The CFA Institute, a worldwide leader in the advancement of financial analysis, now offers a professional Certificate in Investment Performance Measurement (CIPM) designation.



According to the CIPM Association, the CIPM program was developed by the CFA Institute as a specialty credentialing program that develops and recognizes the performance evaluation and presentation expertise of investment professionals who "pursue excellence with a passion."
What Is a Yearly Renewable Term (YRT)?  

Yearly renewable term is a one-year temporary life insurance policy that automatically continues each year at the same death benefit. When someone buys a YRT insurance policy, the premium quoted is for one year of coverage based on the insured's current age. Premiums then increase annually to cover the increased risk of death as the insured ages while keeping their policy in-force.





Key Takeaways

A yearly renewable term is a one-year term life insurance policy.The policy can be extended into future years without additional underwriting but the premium will go up each year.When you buy a YRT policy, the premium quoted is for each one-year term, starting in the current year.If you renew for many years, you might end up paying more in premiums than if you'd bought a level term life or permanent life insurance policy.YRTs can often be converted to other types of insurance if your needs change over time.


   Understanding Yearly Renewable Terms (YRTs)  

Yearly renewable term life insurance, or YRT, provides one year of insurance that pays a tax-free death benefit to the policy's beneficiaries if the insured dies during that 12-month period. Each year (unless the policy owner cancels the coverage or stops paying premiums), the YRT renews at the same death benefit but charges a higher premium that reflects the insured's higher age. This type of life insurance is also called increasing premium term insurance or annual renewal term insurance.



Actuaries at insurance companies determine what premium to charge for a renewable term policy, based on different risk variables. Using specific formulas that consider age, health, and other factors, actuaries can predict the likelihood a policyholder will die at a given age. Renewable term policies allow the policyholder to renew coverage each year without additional medical underwriting over a given period of time. YRT essentially actually functions as a series of one-year term policies that levy a new premium each year based on the insured's current age.


  Yearly Renewable Term Suitability  

YRT policies tend to be attractive to young insurance seekers who want to start out with a low-cost, flexible premium to meet their current needs. YRTs also fill niche short-term demands, such as for those awaiting insurance coverage while changing jobs; people who recently quit smoking; those with short-term medical conditions; and others who might only need one to two years of coverage.



The primary drawback of yearly renewable term life insurance is that if a policyholder renews for many years, they could end up paying more in premiums than if they'd started out buying a level term life or permanent life insurance policy. If someone buys a YRT policy and later realizes their coverage needs will last longer, the insurance company may let a policyholder convert the policy to whole life insurance without taking another medical exam.


   Why Choose a Yearly Renewable Term  

Policyholders with a yearly renewable term life insurance policy can lock in a length of time during which they will remain insurable. During this period, the policy can be renewed without the need for a medical exam. Renewability rules vary by state and insurer, but it is generally permissible up to a certain age. For example, New York doesn't allow you to renew past age 80 as the cost would be too high to be worth it.



The policyholder's age is a major factor in determining how premiums are priced, so YRTs are particularly attractive to adults at lower ages. A young insured person's premiums start lower and generally increase with age. That's because the older you get, the more costly and risky it becomes to insure you.



Most policies come with a "schedule of premiums." This is a chart that outlines the maximum amount you'll have to pay each year. Premiums are billed for this exact amount when the policy is renewed. While the premiums usually increase, the death benefit stays the same.




Why might you be interested in yearly renewable term life insurance?
YRTs offer flexible, low-cost coverage that appeals to those who only need insurance for a short period of time. Policyholders lock in a length of time during which they remain insurable. During this time, the policy can be renewed without the need for a medical exam.




What is the main drawback of YRT?
If a policyholder renews for many years, they could end up paying more in total premiums than if they'd simply bought a level term life or permanent life insurance policy. However, you may have the option to covert the YRT to a level premium term or whole life policy without additional medical exams or underwriting.




How do YRT premiums differ from other types of insurance?
Yearly renewable term provides coverage for one year at a time, with premiums rising annually based on the insured's current age. Other policies do not increase the premium as frequently. A 10-year renewable term policy, for example, carries the same premium through its 10-year term, and then can be renewed with new premiums based on your older age. Whole life policies generally charge a set premium throughout the life of the policy that never increases.


   The Bottom Line  

Yearly renewable term insurance can be a reasonable choice when you are a young adult or recognize the need for temporary insurance to address a short-term financial risk. However, as years pass and you renew the policy, your premiums will rise in parallel with your age. Consult a life insurance agent to help determine whether YRT is a good solution for your particular situation or if you'd be better with a policy that doesn't increase the premium as frequently.
What Is the Yearly Renewable Term Plan of Reinsurance?  

The yearly renewable term plan of reinsurance is a type of life reinsurance where mortality risks of an insurance company are transferred to a reinsurer through a process referred to as cession.



In the yearly renewable term plan of reinsurance, the primary insurer (the ceding company) yields to a reinsurer its net amount at risk for the amount that is greater than the retention limit on a life insurance policy.



This plan is a reinsurance instantiation of a yearly renewable term (YRT), which consists of one-year term policies that are renewed annually.





Key Takeaways

Yearly renewable term (YRT) reinsurance is when a primary insurer transfers a portion of its risk to a reinsurer.YRT reinsurance is typically used to reinsure traditional whole life insurance and universal life insurance.The reinsurance premiums paid by the ceding company vary based on the policyholder's age, plan, and policy year.The reinsurance premiums for the amount ceded to the reinsurer renew annually.


   Understanding the Yearly Renewable Term Plan of Reinsurance  

Reinsurance allows insurance companies to reduce the financial risks associated with insurance claims by spreading some of the risk to another institution. Therefore, a yearly renewable term plan of reinsurance allows the primary insurance company to spread some of the risk involved in a life insurance policy to another institution.



The amount transferred from the primary insurer to the reinsurer is the net amount at risk, which is the difference between the face value and the acceptable retention limit determined by the ceding insurance company. For example, if a policy's death benefit is $200,000, and the ceding company determines the retention limit to be $105,000, then the net amount at risk is equal to $95,000. If the insured dies, the reinsurance pays the portion of the death benefit that is equal to the net amount of risk—in this case, the amount above and beyond $105,000.



When setting up a reinsurance agreement, the ceding company will prepare a schedule of the net amount at risk for each policy year. The net amount at risk on a life insurance policy decreases over time as the insured pays premiums, which adds to its accrued cash value.



For example, consider a whole life insurance policy issued for a face value of $100,000. At the time of issue, the entire $100,000 is at risk, but as its cash value accumulates, it functions as a reserve account, which reduces the net amount at risk for the insurance company. Therefore, if the cash value of the insurance policy rises to $60,000 by its 30th year, the net amount at risk is then $40,000.



Once the ceding company calculates the net amount at risk each year, the reinsurer develops a schedule of yearly renewable term premiums for reinsurance based on this schedule. The reinsurance premiums paid by the ceding company vary based on the policyholder's age, plan, and policy year. The premiums are renewed yearly under the renewable term reinsurance policy. If a claim is filed, the reinsurer would remit payment for the assumed portion of the policy's net amount at risk.


   How Yearly Renewable Term Reinsurance Is Used  

Yearly renewable term (YRT) reinsurance is typically used to reinsure traditional whole life insurance and universal life insurance. Term insurance wasn't always reinsured on a YRT basis. This was so because coinsurance made for a better match of reinsurance costs with premiums received from the policyholder on level premium term products. It also passed the risk of the adequacy rates along to the reinsurer. However, as alternative capital solutions have become more popular, YRT became a more popular method of reinsuring term insurance as well.



YRT is usually the best choice when the goal is to transfer mortality risk because a policy is large or because of concerns over claim frequency. YRT is also simple to administer and popular in situations where the anticipated number of reinsurance cessions is low.



YRT is also good for reinsuring disability income, long-term care, and critical illness risks. However, it does not work as well for reinsurance of annuities.



Since YRT reinsurance only involves a limited amount of investment risk, little persistency risk, no cash surrender risk, and little or no surplus strain, reinsurers may have a lower profit objective for YRT reinsurance. YRT can thus usually be had at a lower effective cost than either coinsurance or modified coinsurance. As long as annual premiums are paid, the reserve credit is equal to the unearned portion of the net premium of a one-year term insurance benefit. Yearly renewable term insurance normally does not provide reinsurance ceded reserve credit for deficiency reserves.
What Is a Years Certain Annuity?  

A years certain annuity is a retirement income product that pays the holder a continuous periodic income, generally monthly, for a specified number of years. Like all annuities, it is used to provide a steady income during retirement. However, what makes a years certain annuity unique is that it provides that income for a predetermined length of time regardless of how long the annuitant lives.



This differs from a life annuity, which provides payouts for the remainder of the annuitant's life and, in certain cases, the life of the annuitant's spouse.



A years certain annuity may also be referred to as a "period certain annuity," "annuity certain," "fixed period annuity," or a "guaranteed term," or "guaranteed period annuity."





Key Takeaways

A years certain annuity is usually monthly retirement income paid for a specific number of years.A years certain annuity is unique because it is income that is paid for a particular length of time.If the annuitant dies before the period ends, it is paid to the beneficiary for the remaining period.


   How a Years Certain Annuity Works  

For review, an annuity is a financial product that is usually issued by an insurance or financial services company that pays the recipient—called the annuitant—a stream of payments over a period of time. Typically, retirees use annuities to create a stable income stream.



The accumulation phase is when the annuity is being funded by the individual and payouts have to yet to occur. The annuitization phase is when the payouts begin and the length of time in which the payouts are made can vary depending on the type of annuity purchased. Some annuities make payments for a preset number of years while others pay the recipient for as many years as the person remains living.



A years certain annuity typically involves larger monthly payouts than a life annuity or an immediate annuity since it pays out over a clearly defined period of time rather than until the death of the annuitant. During the period specified by the annuity owner, payments are made to the annuity owner until the period ends. Should the annuitant die before the period ends, their beneficiary will receive the balance of payments until the period reaches its expiration.



For example, if the annuity buyer chose a years certain annuity with a 10-year period, but they died in year eight, their beneficiary would receive payments for the remaining two years. If the annuitant were to die after the predetermined 10-year period ended, then no additional payment would be due to a beneficiary.



Given the specialized nature of years certain annuities, they are used less frequently than life annuities. The period lengths for a years certain annuity can range from five to 30 years.


   Years Certain Annuity: Is it Right for You?  

Given their unique role in retirement income planning, a years certain annuity has a narrow "sweet spot" of usefulness. As a result, it may be more appealing to an individual who will have another source of income during retirement, such as another annuity or other retirement plan. A years certain annuity would be risky if it were the only retirement income because the annuitant could outlive the payment period and be forced to spend the remaining retirement years on a reduced income.



A years certain annuity also might be used to cover a short period of time, such as the gap between retirement and the age at which full Social Security benefits may be claimed. Such a use would generate a higher income payment than a life annuity, which is riskier for the annuity writer because it continues paying benefits until death.
What Is Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE)?  

The Canadian government sets the year's maximum pensionable earnings (YMPE) figure. The YMPE determines the maximum amount on which to base contributions to the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan (C/QPP). The YMPE specifies the earnings amount that can be used in calculating pension contributions for each year.





Key Takeaways

The YMPE determines the maximum earnings amount for contributions to the CPP.The maximum pensionable earnings under the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) for 2022 are $64,900.The size of those payments depends on an individual's earnings during their working years, the age an individual starts receiving their pension, and how much and for how long an individual contributes to the CPP.


   Understanding Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE)  

The Canada Pension Plan (CPP) determines the maximum earnings amount for which contributions to the Canada Pension Plan can be made. According to the Government of Canada, the maximum pensionable earnings under the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) for 2022 is $64,900—up from $61,600 in 2021. Contributors who earn more than $64,900 in 2022 cannot make additional contributions to the CPP.






Beginning in 2024, a separate contribution rate will be implemented for earnings above the YMPE (expected to be 4% each for employers and employees).


   Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings and CPP Contributions  

The Canada Pension Plan is similar to the Social Security program in the United States. It provides workers with a series of monthly payments in retirement. The size of those payments depends on an individual's earnings during their working years.



On June 20, 2016, Canada's ministers of finance agreed to augment the CPP. The deal increased how much working Canadians would receive from the CPP—from one-quarter of the employees' eligible earnings to one-third, with a boost to the earnings limit. Changes will be phased in gradually over seven years—from 2019 to 2025—so that the impact is measured and piecemeal.



The enhancement has the following features:



The income replacement level will be raised to one-third of employees' income.The upper earnings limit is set at $82,700 for 2025.There will be a gradual seven-year phase-in, starting on Jan. 1, 2019; this will consist of a five-year contribution rate phase-in below the yearly maximum pensionable earnings followed by a two-year phase-in of the upper earnings limit.The Working Income Tax Benefit will increase to help low-income earners.The enhanced part of employee CPP contributions will be tax-deductible.





$64,900

The maximum pensionable earnings under the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) for 2022.



The higher contribution rate on earnings below the YMPE ($64,900 in 2022) will be phased-in over the first five years. In 2023, the CPP contribution rate, as estimated by the Department of Finance Canada, will be one percentage point higher for both employers and employees on earnings up to the YMPE.



In 2024, a separate contribution rate (expected to be 4% each for employers and employees) will be implemented for earnings above the YMPE at that time.
What Is a Yellow Knight?  

A yellow knight is a company that was orchestrating a hostile takeover attempt, but then backs out of it and proposes a merger of equals with the target company instead.





Key Takeaways

A yellow knight is a company that was making a hostile takeover attempt, but then backs out and proposes a merger with the target company instead.Often, this change of heart occurs after they realize that the target is going to cost more and/or has better takeover defenses than expected.Suddenly the yellow knight might find itself in a weak bargaining position, forcing it to walk away or propose a friendly merger as an alternative.


   Understanding a Yellow Knight  

Various colored knights are used to identify the nature of a takeover or potential takeover: The process where a company tables an offer to assume control of or acquire another. Yellow knights are the ones that start out aggressively, seeking to purchase a company against its management’s wishes, and then experience a change of heart, back down and propose joining forces in a merger instead.﻿



Yellow knights are a case of if you can’t beat them, join them. They might have any number of reasons for backing out of the takeover attempt. Often, they simply realize that the target company is going to cost more and/or has better takeover defenses than they thought, and that they need to change strategy.



A stern rejection might leave the yellow predator in a weak bargaining position, and lead it to conclude that a friendly merger is the only reasonable option it has left on the table to get hold of the target’s assets. In a complete U-turn, the yellow knight goes from attempting to bully the target into submission and swallow it up to proposing that they team up together as an equal force.



Why are these types of companies called yellow knights? Because yellow is a color associated, among other things, with cowardice and deceit. 





Important

The term yellow knight is derogatory, as it implies that the hostile bidder got cold feet and chickened out of the takeover attempt, leaving it in a weak bargaining position.


   Other Types of Knights  

In mergers and acquisitions (M&A), the buying company may be described as a knight of any one of four different colors. Other than yellow knights, there are:


  Black Knights  

Black knights make unwelcome, hostile takeover bids and, unlike yellow knights, stand their ground. These types of predators are the source of nightmares for target company management as they bully their way into power and usually have goals that deviate from what the current bosses are trying to achieve.﻿


  White Knights  

The opposite of black knights, white knights are the friendly forces tasked with rescuing the target from the clutches of another prospective buyer with intentions to bleed it dry to make a quick profit.



Often, company officials will seek out a white knight to preserve its core business or to negotiate better takeover terms. The white knight might agree to play this role in exchange for some incentives, such as paying a smaller premium to take control than otherwise would be required under competitive bid conditions.﻿


  Grey Knights  

Grey knights, as their color suggests, sit somewhere between white and black knights. Though not as desirable as the former, they are at least viewed as a more appealing option than the latter.



Gray knights capitalize on the fact that they are perceived as a friendlier alternative to a hostile black knight and use that as a negotiating chip to get a more favorable deal when a persistent, unwanted predator comes calling.
What Are Yellow Sheets?  

Yellow sheets are bulletins for bond traders which contain information for corporate bonds listed on the over-the-counter (OTC) market. The sheets contain data on each bond's yield, volume, high, low, closing, and bid-ask spread.



Yellow sheets are published by the OTC Markets Group, formerly called the National Quotation Bureau (NQB). The company also publishes pink sheets with the equivalent data on stocks that trade over-the-counter.



Both bulletins have been distributed electronically in real-time since 1999.






Yellow sheets are bulletins that inform traders about corporate bonds that are available from brokerages as over-the-counter trades.Pink sheets are the equivalent for stocks that trade over the counter.Yellow sheets and pink sheets are now electronic services published by OTC Markets Group.Both list securities issued by companies that are not listed on the major public exchanges.


   Understanding Yellow Sheets  

Yellow sheets provide information about bonds issued by companies that are not listed on a national exchange.



These non-listed companies may be small and little-known, or still in the process of establishing a business. Many could not meet the requirements for listing on the public exchanges.



The OTC market is a decentralized system for trading securities. Dealers on the OTC market do not do business from a single physical location, or a centralized market. The yellow sheets provide contact information for the brokerages that make a market for these bonds.



Yellow sheet bonds are traded by this network of market makers through a closed network that can be accessed in hard copy or online by subscribers. If a subscriber wants to purchase a particular bond, they may use the contact information in the yellow sheets to contact the appropriate brokerage.


   Yellow-Sheet Bonds  

Bonds listed in the yellow sheets are generally considered to be riskier than other fixed-income securities.



The companies issuing these bonds are not listed on any public U.S. stock exchange and therefore are not subject to the stringent government regulation and publication requirements of listed public companies.



Some well-established foreign companies list in the U.S. through the over-the-counter markets, often as American Depositary Receipts (ADRs).



The bid-ask spread is, understandably, wider for bonds listed on yellow sheets to compensate investors for the risks involved in these entities.



The main risk is that the company will fail and default on the bonds. There also is added liquidity risk. There may be little or no market for the bond if the investor wishes to sell it.


   Yellow Sheets and the OTC Markets Group  

The National Quotation Bureau (NQB) was established in 1913 to provide investors with information regarding OTC stocks and bonds. In its early years, the NQB published information on paper of different colors, and the bulletins soon carried the same name as the paper color. Stock quotes appeared on the pink sheets, and bond quotes were published on the yellow sheets.



In 1963, the NQB was sold to Commerce Clearing House. In 1999, the NQB transitioned from printing its famous paper bulletins to operating as a primarily electronic operation. The NQB has since changed its name to OTC Markets Group.
What Is a Yen ETF?  

The term yen ETF refers to an exchange-traded fund (ETF) that tracks the relative value of the Japanese yen (JPY) in the foreign exchange (forex) market. This is done against a single currency or against a basket of other currencies. This is achieved by investing primarily in yen-backed assets, including short-term debt instruments and bonds, or simply holding the spot currency in interest-bearing accounts. Investing in a yen ETF gives investors exposure and access to the yen without the need for forex accounts.





Key Takeaways

A yen ETF tracks the relative value of Japan’s currency against a basket of other currencies or a single currency.The ETF invests in futures contracts, debt securities, money market funds, and cash deposits, all primarily held in yen.Some yen ETFs match the current income earned on the yen assets with a dividend yield while others use that income to pay the expenses of managing the ETF.There are also leveraged yen ETFs that give 2x long or short exposure to the USD/JPY movements.The yen has historically been considered a safe haven, meaning it is sought after by investors in times of heightened geopolitical risk.


   How Yen ETFs Work  

Buying and selling foreign currencies was traditionally a complicated process that involved opening up a foreign exchange account. It was a privilege generally reserved for experienced traders with expert knowledge. But ETFs helped change that, making the forex market more accessible to the average investor.



Currency ETFs are pre-packaged investments tasked with tracking specific currencies in the same way that regular ETFs seek to replicate the performance of an index. Like stocks, these vehicles trade on a stock exchange and their prices fluctuate throughout the day as traders buy and sell them.



Yen ETFs track the performance of Japan's currency relative to a single currency (like the U.S. dollar or euro) or against a basket of currencies. Like other currency ETFs, these investments give investors easy and affordable access to trade currencies during the trading day. They also allow investors to diversify their portfolios and can be used to benefit from arbitrage opportunities or to hedge against major economic events.



The portfolios of yen ETFs usually include yen-denominated futures contracts, debt securities, money market funds, and cash deposits. These funds generate income for investors through the performance of the yen against other currencies as well as through interest generated by some securities in the portfolio. Some yen ETFs match the current income earned on the yen assets with a dividend yield. Others use that income to pay the expenses of managing the ETF.






There are three JPY ETFs that trade in the United States as per VettaFi (formerly ETF Database).


   Special Considerations  

Investors who hold yen ETFs (or any other currency ETF for that matter) should keep tabs on all major economic data that affect their investments. This includes the release of gross domestic product (GDP), retail sales, industrial production, inflation, trade balances, employment figures, interest rates, including scheduled meetings of the central bank, and the daily news flow when investing in currencies.



Interest rates, inflation, and the country's equity market performance should also be taken into account when evaluating the relative attractiveness of a foreign currency. When it comes to Japan and yen traders, very low inflation and low interest rates make the currency historically attractive as a carry trade. These low interest rates make it relatively cheap to borrow in yen to fund risk-taking in other currencies that carry higher interest rates.



The Tankan survey is also something that investors may want to consider. Tankan, which is an economic survey of Japanese businesses, is published by the Bank of Japan (BOJ) every quarter. It is used to formulate monetary policy and, as a result, often moves trading in Japanese stock and currency.






Most of the movement in currency markets is dictated by interest rates, inflation, a country's economic conditions, and its political stability.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Yen ETFs  

There are several obvious benefits and drawbacks to investing in yen ETFs—some of which also apply to other currency ETFs as well.


  Advantages  

Investing in foreign currencies enables investors to protect themselves in case their own currency declines in value. Over the years, many have opted for the yen, which is the third-most widely traded currency globally behind the U.S. dollar and the euro. It is also the most widely traded currency in Asia.



The yen is sometimes used to provide diversification, as it frequently trades inversely to other major currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. The currency is often used as a reserve currency in international transactions and has even developed a reputation as a safe haven.



Another factor to consider is that Japan is the world’s largest creditor. There’s also a popular belief among traders that investors there tend to dump foreign holdings and bring their money back home in times of hardship, bolstering demand for the yen and, subsequently, its valuation.


  Disadvantages  

Some investors consider currency ETFs risky. That's because macroeconomic events affect currency values around the world, even in stable nations such as Japan. Unpredictable natural disasters can also have a big impact, an example being the Fukushima disaster in 2011, which caused a surge in the value of the yen, followed by a recession.



A handful of analysts have questioned the Japanese yen’s safe-haven status, pointing to the following issues:



Japan's trade deficits
Local asset managers buying higher-yielding foreign assets
Japanese companies running out of decent options to deploy capital at home



The yen has also lost some of its luster as a popular carry trade as low-interest rates become commonplace among major economies.



These observations serve as a reminder that forex trading is not a market for the unprepared. Traders must be knowledgeable about major foreign currencies and stay abreast of not only the current economic stats for a country but also the underpinnings of the respective economies and the special factors that can influence the currencies, such as commodity movement or interest rate changes.





Pros

Protects against declines in the home currency
Allows investors to diversify
Japan is world's largest creditor



Cons

Yen is susceptible to macroeconomic risks
Questionable safe-haven status
Lost luster as popular carry trade





   Examples of Yen ETFs  

The most popular yen ETF is the Invesco CurrencyShares Japanese Yen Trust (FXY) with $144.6 million in assets under management (AUM) as of June 30, 2022. FXY was launched in February 2007 and seeks to mirror the price and performance of the yen relative to the USD. It does this by holding yen on deposit. The fund has an expense ratio of 0.40%.



Investors looking to add yen ETFs to their portfolios have a couple of other options, too. Alternatives include the ProShares Ultra Yen ETF (YCL) and ProShares UltraShort Yen ETF (YCS). One thing to note, though, is that these two are leveraged ETFs, with the latter being an inverse ETF.




How Can I Invest in Yen?
As an ordinary investor, Japanese Yen ETFs are the easiest way to gain access to the yen.




What Is the Main ETF That Trades the Japanese Yen?
The Invesco CurrencyShares Japanese Yen Trust (FXY) is the most common yen ETF which holds physical yen in its account. ProShares also offers two yen ETFs—the ProShares Ultra Yen ETF (YCL) and ProShares UltraShort Yen ETF (YCS). These two options, though, are levered. YCL provides 2x long exposure and the YCS provides 2x inverse exposure to the yen.




How Do I Invest in the Nikkei?
American investors can invest in the Nikkei 225 index, Japan's primary equity index, via an ETF. These include:iShares MSCI Japan ETF (EWJ)JPMorgan BetaBuilders Japan ETF (BBJP)WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund (DXJ)Franklin FTSE Japan ETF (FLJP)iShares Currency Hedged MSCI Japan ETF (HEWJ)WisdomTree Japan SmallCap Dividend Fund (DFJ)The Xtrackers MSCI Japan Hedged Equity ETF (DBJP)The iShares JPX-Nikkei 400 ETF (JPXN)
What Is Yield?  

"Yield" refers to the earnings generated and realized on an investment over a particular period of time. It's expressed as a percentage based on the invested amount, current market value, or face value of the security.



Yield includes the interest earned or dividends received from holding a particular security. Depending on the valuation (fixed vs. fluctuating) of the security, yields may be classified as known or anticipated.





Key Takeaways

Yield is a return measure for an investment over a set period of time, expressed as a percentage. Yield includes price increases as well as any dividends paid, calculated as the net realized return divided by the principal amount (i.e. amount invested). Higher yields are perceived to be an indicator of lower risk and higher income, but a high yield may not always be a positive, such as the case of a rising dividend yield due to a falling stock price. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Formula for Yield  

Yield is a measure of cash flow that an investor gets on the amount invested in a security. It is mostly computed on an annual basis, though other variations like quarterly and monthly yields are also used. Yield should not be confused with total return, which is a more comprehensive measure of return on investment. Yield is calculated as:



Yield = Net Realized Return / Principal Amount



For example, the gains and return on stock investments can come in two forms. First, it can be in terms of price rise, where an investor purchases a stock at $100 per share and after a year they sell it for $120. Second, the stock may pay a dividend, say $2 per share, during the year. The yield would be the appreciation in the share price plus any dividends paid, divided by the original price of the stock. The yield for the example would be:



($20 + $2) / $100 = 0.22, or 22%






   What Yield Can Tell You  

Since a higher yield value indicates that an investor is able to recover higher amounts of cash flows in their investments, a higher value is often perceived as an indicator of lower risk and higher income. However, care should be taken to understand the calculations involved. A high yield may have resulted from a falling market value of the security, which decreases the denominator value used in the formula and increases the calculated yield value even when the security’s valuations are on a decline.



While many investors prefer dividend payments from stocks, it is also important to keep an eye on yields. If yields become too high, it may indicate that either the stock price is going down or the company is paying high dividends.



Since dividends are paid from the company’s earnings, higher dividend payouts could mean the company's earnings are on the rise, which could lead to higher stock prices. Higher dividends with higher stock prices should lead to a consistent or marginal rise in yield. However, a significant rise in yield without a rise in the stock price may mean that the company is paying dividends without increasing earnings, and that may indicate near-term cash flow problems.


   Types of Yields  

Yields can vary based on the invested security, the duration of investment, and the return amount.


  Yield on Stocks  

For stock-based investments, two types of yields are popularly used. When calculated based on the purchase price, the yield is called yield on cost (YOC), or cost yield, and is calculated as:



Cost Yield = (Price Increase + Dividends Paid) / Purchase Price



For example, if an investor realized a profit of $20 ($120 - $100) resulting from price rise, and also gained $2 from a dividend paid by the company. Therefore, the cost yield comes to ($20 + $2) / $100 = 0.22, or 22%.



However, many investors may like to calculate the yield based on the current market price, instead of the purchase price. This yield is referred to as the current yield and is calculated as:



Current Yield = (Price Increase + Dividend Paid) / Current Price



For example, the current yield comes to ($20 + $2) / $120 = 0.1833, or 18.33%.



When a company's stock price increases, the current yield goes down because of the inverse relationship between yield and stock price. 


  Yield on Bonds  

The yield on bonds that pay annual interest can be calculated in a straightforward manner—called the nominal yield, which is calculated as:



Nominal Yield = (Annual Interest Earned / Face Value of Bond)



For example, if there is a Treasury bond with a face value of $1,000 that matures in one year and pays 5% annual interest, its yield is calculated as $50 / $1,000 = 0.05 or 5%.



However, the yield of a floating interest rate bond, which pays a variable interest over its tenure, will change over the life of the bond depending upon the applicable interest rate at different terms.



If there is a bond that pays interest based on the 10-year Treasury yield + 2% then its applicable interest will be 3% when the 10-year Treasury yield is 1% and will change to 4% if the 10-year Treasury yield increases to 2% after a few months.



Similarly, the interest earned on an index-linked bond, which has its interest payments adjusted for an index, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation index, will change as the fluctuations in the value of the index.


  Yield to Maturity  

Yield to maturity (YTM) is a special measure of the total return expected on a bond each year if the bond is held until maturity. It differs from nominal yield, which is usually calculated on a per-year basis and is subject to change with each passing year. On the other hand, YTM is the average yield expected per year and the value is expected to remain constant throughout the holding period until the maturity of the bond.


  Yield to Worst  

The yield to worst (YTW) is a measure of the lowest potential yield that can be received on a bond without the possibility of the issuer defaulting. YTW indicates the worst-case scenario on the bond by calculating the return that would be received if the issuer uses provisions including prepayments, call back, or sinking funds. This yield forms an important risk measure and ensures that certain income requirements will still be met even in the worst scenarios.


  Yield to Call  

The yield to call (YTC) is a measure linked to a callable bond—a special category of bonds that can be redeemed by the issuer prior to its maturity—and YTC refers to the bond’s yield at the time of its call date. This value is determined by the bond’s interest payments, its market price, and the duration until the call date as that period defines the interest amount.



Municipal bonds, which are bonds issued by a state, municipality, or county to finance its capital expenditures and are mostly non-taxable, also have a tax-equivalent yield (TEY). TEY is the pretax yield that a taxable bond needs to have for its yield to be the same as that of a tax-free municipal bond, and it is determined by the investor's tax bracket.



While there are a lot of variations for calculating the different kinds of yields, a lot of liberty is enjoyed by the companies, issuers, and fund managers to calculate, report, and advertise the yield value as per their own conventions.



Regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have introduced a standard measure for yield calculation, called the SEC yield, which is the standard yield calculation developed by SEC and is aimed at offering a standard measure for fairer comparisons of bond funds. SEC yields are calculated after taking into consideration the required fees associated with the fund.



Mutual fund yield is used to represent the net income return of a mutual fund and is calculated by dividing the annual income distribution payment by the value of a mutual fund’s shares. It includes the income received through dividends and interest that was earned by the fund's portfolio during the given year. Since mutual fund valuations change every day based on their calculated net asset value, the yields are also calculated and vary with the fund’s market value each day.



Along with investments, yield can also be calculated on any business venture. The calculation retains the form of how much return is generated on the invested capital.




What Does Yield Represent?
Yield measures the realized return on a security over a set period of time. Typically, it applies to various bonds and stocks and is presented as a percentage of a security’s value. Key components that influence a security’s yield include dividends or the price movements of a security. Yield represents the cash flow that is returned to the investor, typically expressed on an annual basis.




How Is Yield Calculated?
To calculate yield, a security’s net realized return is divided by the principal amount. Importantly, there are different ways to arrive at a security’s yield depending on the type of asset and the type of yield. For stocks, yield is calculated as a security's price increase plus dividends, divided by the purchase price.For bonds, yield can be analyzed as either cost yield or current yield. The cost yield measures the returns as a percentage of the original price of the bond, while current yield is measured in relation to the current price.




What Is an Example of Yield?
As one measure for assessing risk, consider an investor who wants to calculate the yield to worst on a bond. Essentially, this measures the lowest possible yield. First, the investor would find that the bond’s earliest callable date, the date that the issuer must repay principal and stop interest payments. After determining this date, the investor would calculate the yield to worst for the bond. Consequently, since the yield to worst is the return for a shorter time period, it expresses a lower return than the yield to maturity.
What Is Yield-Based Option?  

A yield-based option allows investors to buy or sell calls and puts on the yield of a security rather than its price.





Key Takeaways

A yield-based option allows investors to buy or sell calls and puts on the yield of a security rather than its price.A yield-based option is a contract that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell at the underlying value, which is equal to 10 times the yield.Yield-based options are extremely useful for hedging portfolios and profiting in a rising interest rate environment.It might be easier to get some of the benefits of yield-based options by buying options on ETFs instead.


   Understanding Yield-Based Options  

A yield-based option is a contract that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell at the underlying value, which is equal to 10 times the yield.



Yields are expressed as percentage rates, and the underlying values for these options contracts are 10 times their yields. For example, a Treasury bond with a yield of 1.6% would have a yield-based option with an underlying value of 16. Yield-based options are settled in cash, and they are also called interest rate options.



A yield-based call buyer expects interest rates to go up, while a yield-based put buyer expects interest rates to go down. Suppose the interest rate of the underlying debt security rises above the strike rate of a yield-based call option. In that case, the call is in the money. For a yield-based put, the option is in the money when the interest rate falls below the strike rate. However, yield-based option buyers must also pay option premiums. When yields increase, yield-based call premiums increase and yield-based put options will lose value.



Yield-based options are European options, which means that they can only be exercised on the expiration date. On the other hand, American options can be exercised any time up to the contract's expiration date.



Given that these options are cash-settled, the writer of the call will simply deliver cash to the buyer that exercises the rights provided by the option. The cash amount paid is the difference between the actual yield and the strike yield.


   Types of Yield-Based Options  

Some of the best-known yield-based options follow the yields of the most recently issued 13-week Treasury bills, five-year Treasury notes, 10-year Treasury notes, and 30-year Treasury bonds.﻿﻿



Yield-based options on 13-week T-bill yields (IRX) are the most direct way to profit from interest rate changes.
Yield-based options on five-year Treasury yields (FVX), 10-year Treasury yields (TNX), and 30-year Treasury yields (TYX) are generally less responsive to short-term interest rate changes.


   Benefits of Yield-Based Options  

Yield-based options are extremely useful for hedging portfolios and profiting in a rising interest rate environment. Yield-based options are one of the few ways to make money when interest rates go up, and we will see why.



From time to time, the Federal Reserve embarks on a campaign of sustained interest rate increases. That usually happens because the Fed wants to reduce unsustainable price increases driven by speculation in the stock market or commodities markets. As interest rates go up, investors can get more without taking any risk in the money market. That makes the risks of stocks, commodities, and even bonds less attractive. As investors sell risk assets, their prices decline, which also decreases speculation.



There were several notable years when the Fed repeatedly hiked rates. 1981 and 1994 are perhaps the most famous, and 2018 is a more recent example.﻿﻿



In a rising rate environment, it is challenging to find any asset with an increasing price. However, yield-based calls, especially on 13-week T-bill yields, are likely to be profitable.






It is impossible to get the hedging benefits of yield-based options from conventional assets like stocks and bonds.


   Disadvantages of Yield-Based Options  

There are other ways to get the benefits of yield-based options. Yield-based options are certainly less familiar to many investors than options on exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Buying a put on a long-term Treasury ETF is another way to profit when interest rates go up.



Yield-based options also suffer from time-decay, just like most other options. If interest rates stay in place, which they can do for years, buyers of yield-based options will lose money.
What Is Yield Basis?  

The yield basis is a method of quoting the price of a fixed-income security as a yield percentage, rather than as a dollar value. This allows bonds with varying characteristics to be easily compared. The yield basis is calculated by dividing the coupon amount paid annually by the bond purchase price.





Key Takeaways

The yield basis method quotes the price of a fixed-income security (such as a bond) as a yield percentage instead of a dollar value.The yield basis method helps bond buyers easily compare the characteristics of various bonds before making a purchase.The yield quote tells the bond trader whether the bond is currently trading at a discount or premium compared to other bonds.Purchasing a bond on a net yield basis means the yield also includes the broker's profit or markup for executing the trade.


   Understanding Yield Basis  

Unlike stocks, which are quoted in dollars, most bonds are quoted with a yield basis. For example, assume a company is listed with a 6.75% coupon rate and is set to mature 10 years from the date of issuance. The $1,000 par bond is trading at a dollar value of 940.



The yield basis can be calculated using the current yield formula presented as:



Coupon / Purchase Price



Following our example above, the coupon to be paid annually is 6.75% x $1,000 = $67.50. Therefore, the yield basis is $67.50 / $940 = 0.0718, or 7.18%. The bond will be quoted to investors as having a yield basis of 7.18%.



The yield quote tells a bond trader that the bond is currently trading at a discount because its yield basis is greater than its coupon rate (6.75%). If the yield basis is less than the coupon rate, this would indicate that the bond is trading at a premium since a higher coupon rate increases the value of the bond in the markets. A bond trader could then compare the bond to others within a certain industry.


   Bank Discount Yield  

The yield basis of a pure discount instrument can be calculated using the bank discount yield formula, which is:



r = (Discount / Par Value) x (360/t) wherer = Annualized yieldDiscount = Par value minus purchase pricet = time left to maturity360 = Bank convention for the number of days in a year



Unlike the current yield, the bank discount yield takes the discount value from par and expresses it as a fraction of the par value, not the current price, of the bond. This method of calculating the yield basis assumes simple interest; that is, no compounding effect is factored in. Treasury bills are quoted only on a bank discount basis.



For example, assume a Treasury bill with a $1,000 face value is selling for $970. If its time to maturity is 180 days, the yield basis will be:



r = [($1,000 - $970)/$1,000] x (360/180)r = ($30/$1,000) x 2r = 0.06 or 6%



As Treasury bills pay no coupon, the bondholder will earn a dollar return equal to the discount if the bond is held until it matures.


   Special Considerations  

When purchasing bonds, it's important for the investor to understand the difference between the yield basis and the net yield basis. On the secondary market, you can purchase bonds through a broker/dealer, who could charge you a flat commission for this service. However, in lieu of a commission, your broker may opt to sell bonds on a net yield basis.



Net yield means the yield also includes the broker's profit for the transaction. This is the broker's markup, which is the difference between what the broker paid for the bonds and what the broker sells them for. If a broker offers bonds on a net yield basis, they've already included their markup. For example, if an online broker sells you a bond with a 3.75% yield to maturity (YTM), their profit is embedded directly in the price you pay and there is no separate commission.



When comparing various bonds for a possible purchase, bond buyers should ask their broker if the bonds are on a net yield basis or if they charge a separate commission to execute the trade. Brokers might charge other fees, such as a broker-assisted fee for transactions not conducted online. Your overall cost for the trade may also include accrued interest, which is the interest accrued on the bond between the last payment and the settlement date.
What Is a Yield Curve?   

A yield curve is a line that plots yields, or interest rates, of bonds that have equal credit quality but differing maturity dates. The slope of the yield curve can predict future interest rate changes and economic activity.



There are three main yield curve shapes: normal upward-sloping curve, inverted downward-sloping curve, and flat.





Key Takeaways

Yield curves plot interest rates of bonds of equal credit and different maturities. Three types of yield curves include normal, inverted, and flat. Normal curves point to economic expansion, and downward-sloping curves point to economic recession.Yield curve rates are published on the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s website each trading day.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Using a Yield Curve  

A yield curve is used as a benchmark for other debt in the market, such as mortgage rates or bank lending rates, and can predict changes in economic output and growth. It is easy to build an Excel sheet to chart a yield curve and get a visual representation of the curve.



The most frequently reported yield curve compares the three-month, two-year, five-year, 10-year, and 30-year U.S. Treasury debt. Yield curve rates are available at the Treasury's interest rate websites by 6:00 p.m. ET each trading day.






Investors can use the yield curve to make predictions about the economy to make investment decisions.


   Types of Yield Curves  
  Normal Yield Curve  

A normal yield curve shows low yields for shorter-maturity bonds and then increases for bonds with a longer maturity, sloping upwards. This curve indicates yields on longer-term bonds continue to rise, responding to periods of economic expansion.



As yields increase over time, the points on the curve exhibit the shape of an upward-sloping curve. Sample yields on the curve may include a two-year bond that offers a yield of 1%, a five-year bond that offers a yield of 1.8%, a 10-year bond that offers a yield of 2.5%, a 15-year bond offers a yield of 3.0% and a 20-year bond that offers a yield of 3.5%.












Investopedia / Julie Bang






A normal yield curve implies stable economic conditions and a normal economic cycle. A steep yield curve implies strong economic growth, with conditions often accompanied by higher inflation and higher interest rates.






  Inverted Yield Curve  

An inverted yield curve slopes downward, with short-term interest rates exceeding long-term rates. Such a yield curve corresponds to periods of economic recession, where investors expect yields on longer-maturity bonds to trend lower in the future. In an economic downturn, investors seeking safe investments tend to purchase longer-dated bonds over short-dated bonds, bidding up the price of longer bonds and driving down their yield.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019






An inverted yield curve is rare but suggests a severe economic slowdown. Historically, the impact of an inverted yield curve has been a warning of recession.


  Flat Yield Curve  

A flat yield curve reflects similar yields across all maturities, implying an uncertain economic situation. A few intermediate maturities may have slightly higher yields, which causes a slight hump to appear along the flat curve. These humps are usually for mid-term maturities, six months to two years.



The curve shows little difference in yield to maturity among shorter and longer-term bonds. A two-year bond may offer a yield of 6%, a five-year bond of 6.1%, a 10-year bond of 6%, and a 20-year bond of 6.05%. In times of high uncertainty, investors demand similar yields across all maturities.




What Is a U.S. Treasury Yield Curve?
The U.S. Treasury yield curve refers to a line chart that depicts the yields of short-term Treasury bills compared to the yields of long-term Treasury notes and bonds. The chart shows the relationship between the interest rates and the maturities of U.S. Treasury fixed-income securities. The Treasury yield curve is also called the term structure of interest rates.




What Is Yield Curve Risk?
Yield curve risk refers to the risk investors of fixed-income instruments, such as bonds, experience from an adverse shift in interest rates. Yield curve risk stems from the fact that bond prices and interest rates have an inverse relationship to one another, as the price of bonds decreases when market interest rates increase and vice versa.




How Can Investors Use the Yield Curve?
Investors can use the yield curve to make predictions about the economy to make investment decisions. If the bond yield curve indicates an economic slowdown, investors might move their money into defensive assets that traditionally do well during a recession. If the yield curve becomes steep, this might signal future inflation. In this scenario, investors might avoid long-term bonds with a yield that will erode against increased prices.


   The Bottom Line  

There are three main yield curve shapes: normal upward-sloping curve, inverted downward-sloping curve, and flat. The slope of the yield curve predicts interest rate changes and economic activity. Investors can use the yield curve to make predictions about the economy to make investment decisions.
What Is the Yield Curve Risk?  

The yield curve risk is the risk of experiencing an adverse shift in market interest rates associated with investing in a fixed income instrument. When market yields change, this will impact the price of a fixed-income instrument. When market interest rates, or yields, increase, the price of a bond will decrease, and vice versa.





Key Takeaways

The yield curve is a graphical illustration of the relationship between interest rates and bond yields of various maturities. Yield curve risk is the risk that a change in interest rates will impact fixed income securities. Changes in the yield curve are based on bond risk premiums and expectations of future interest rates.Interest rates and bond prices have an inverse relationship in which prices decrease when interest rates increase, and vice versa.


   Understanding Yield Curve Risk  

Investors pay close attention to the yield curve as it provides an indication of where short term interest rates and economic growth are headed in the future. The yield curve is a graphical illustration of the relationship between interest rates and bond yields of various maturities, ranging from 3-month Treasury bills to 30-year Treasury bonds. The graph is plotted with the y-axis depicting interest rates, and the x-axis showing the increasing time durations. 



Since short-term bonds typically have lower yields than longer-term bonds, the curve slopes upwards from the bottom left to the right. This is a normal or positive yield curve. Interest rates and bond prices have an inverse relationship in which prices decrease when interest rates increase, and vice versa. Therefore, when interest rates change, the yield curve will shift, representing a risk, known as the yield curve risk, to a bond investor.



The yield curve risk is associated with either a flattening or steepening of the yield curve, which is a result of changing yields among comparable bonds with different maturities. When the yield curve shifts, the price of the bond, which was initially priced based on the initial yield curve, will change in price.


   Special Considerations  

Any investor holding interest-rate-bearing securities is exposed to yield curve risk. To hedge against this risk, investors can build portfolios with the expectation that if interest rates change, their portfolios will react in a certain way. Since changes in the yield curve are based on bond risk premiums and expectations of future interest rates, an investor that is able to predict shifts in the yield curve will be able to benefit from corresponding changes in bond prices.



In addition, short-term investors can take advantage of yield curve shifts by purchasing either of two exchange-traded products (ETPs)—the iPath US Treasury Flattener ETN (FLAT) and the iPath US Treasury Steepener ETN (STPP).


   Types of Yield Curve Risk   
  Flattening Yield Curve  

When interest rates converge, the yield curve flattens. A flattening yield curve is defined as the narrowing of the yield spread between long- and short-term interest rates. When this happens, the price of the bond will change accordingly. If the bond is a short-term bond maturing in three years, and the three-year yield decreases, the price of this bond will increase.



Let’s look at an example of a flattener. Let’s say the Treasury yields on a 2-year note and a 30-year bond are 1.1% and 3.6%, respectively. If the yield on the note falls to 0.9%, and the yield on the bond decreases to 3.2%, the yield on the longer-term asset has a much bigger drop than the yield on the shorter-term Treasury. This would narrow the yield spread from 250 basis points to 230 basis points. You can chart these and other yields to create a yield curve in Excel and other software.



A flattening yield curve can indicate economic weakness as it signals that inflation and interest rates are expected to stay low for a while. Markets expect little economic growth, and the willingness of banks to lend is weak.


  Steepening Yield Curve  

If the yield curve steepens, this means that the spread between long- and short-term interest rates widens. In other words, the yields on long-term bonds are rising faster than yields on short-term bonds, or short-term bond yields are falling as long-term bond yields are rising. Therefore, long-term bond prices will decrease relative to short-term bonds.



A steepening curve typically indicates stronger economic activity and rising inflation expectations, and thus, higher interest rates. When the yield curve is steep, banks are able to borrow money at lower interest rates and lend at higher interest rates. An example of a steepening yield curve can be seen in a 2-year note with a 1.5% yield and a 20-year bond with a 3.5% yield. If after a month, both Treasury yields increase to 1.55% and 3.65%, respectively, the spread increases to 210 basis points, from 200 basis points.


  Inverted Yield Curve  

On rare occasions, the yield on short-term bonds is higher than the yield on long-term bonds. When this happens, the curve becomes inverted. An inverted yield curve indicates that investors will tolerate low rates now if they believe rates are going to fall even lower later on. So, investors expect lower inflation rates, and interest rates, in the future.
What Is Yield Equivalence?  

Yield equivalence is the interest rate on a taxable security that would generate a return equivalent to the return of a tax-exempt security, and vice versa.





Key Takeaways

Yield equivalence is the interest rate on a taxable security that would generate a return equivalent to the return of a tax-exempt security, and vice versa.Yield equivalence is important to municipal bond investors, who want to know if the tax savings of their bonds will make up for the lower yields relative to similar duration taxable securities.When calculating the yield equivalence between tax-free and taxable investments, investors should be aware of the current tax rates.


   Understanding Yield Equivalence  

Yield equivalence is important to municipal bond investors, who want to know if the tax savings of their bonds will make up for the lower yields relative to similar duration taxable securities. Yield equivalence is a comparison often used by investors when they are attempting to figure out if they’d get a better return from a tax-exempt or tax-free investment than they would from a taxable alternative.
Yield equivalence can be calculated using the following equations:















Taxable Yield Equivalence


=



Tax-Exempt Yield



1


−


Tax Rate









\begin{aligned} &\text{Taxable Yield Equivalence} = \frac { \text{Tax-Exempt Yield} }{ 1 - \text{Tax Rate} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Taxable Yield Equivalence=1−Tax RateTax-Exempt Yield​​
and









Tax-Exempt Yield Equivalence


=









 Taxable Yield 


×
















(


1


−


Tax Rate


)







\begin{aligned} \text{Tax-Exempt Yield Equivalence} =& \ \text{Taxable Yield} \ \times \\ &( 1 - \text{Tax Rate} ) \\ \end{aligned}


Tax-Exempt Yield Equivalence=​ Taxable Yield ×(1−Tax Rate)​
To calculate the yield equivalence between tax-exempt and taxable securities, start by dividing the bond’s tax-exempt yield by 1 minus the investor's tax rate. For example, suppose you were considering an investment in a 6% tax-exempt municipal bond, but wanted to know what the interest rate on a taxable corporate bond would have to be to give you the same return. If you have a 24% rate of taxation, you would subtract 0.24 minus one, which totals .76. Then, you would divide 6, the tax-exempt yield, by .76, which equals 7.9.
This calculation tells you that you would need a return of 7.9% on your taxable investment to match the 6% return on the tax-exempt investment. If, on the other hand, you were in the 35% tax bracket, you would need a return of 9.2% on your corporate bond to match the 6% return on your muni investment.
Conversely, if you know your taxable rate of return, you can calculate the equivalent rate on a tax-exempt investment. This is done by multiplying the taxable rate by 1 minus your tax rate. So, if your taxable return is 6% and your rate of taxation is 24%, you need a 4.6% return on a tax-exempt security to match the after-tax return on a taxable security.


   New Marginal Tax Rates  

The passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in late 2017 resulted in a number of changes to marginal tax rates and income brackets beginning in 2018.﻿﻿﻿﻿ The marginal tax rate is the rate of tax income earners incur on each additional dollar of income. As the marginal tax rate increases, taxpayers end up with less money per dollar earned than they had retained on previously earned dollars.



Tax systems employing marginal tax rates apply different tax rates to different levels of income; as income rises, it is taxed at a higher rate. It is important to note, however, the income is not all taxed at one rate but at many rates as it moves across the marginal tax rate schedule.



When calculating the yield equivalence between tax-free and taxable investments, investors should be aware of these new tax rates and incorporate them accordingly into their yield equivalence equations.



2021 Income Tax Brackets










Rate
Individuals
Married Filing Jointly


10%
Up to $9,950
Up to $19,900


12%
$9,951 to $40,525
$19,901 to $81,050


22%
$40,526 to $86,375
$81,051 to $172,750


24%
$86,376 to $164,925
$172,751 to $329,850


32%
$164,926 to $209,425
$329,851 to $418,850


35%
$209,426 to $523,600
$418,851 to $628,300


37%
over $523,600
Over $628,300
What Is Yield Maintenance?  

Yield maintenance is a sort of prepayment penalty that allows investors to attain the same yield as if the borrower made all scheduled interest payments up until the maturity date. It dictates that borrowers pay the rate differential between the loan interest rate and the prevailing market interest rate on the prepaid capital for the period remaining to loan maturity.



Yield maintenance premiums are designed to make investors indifferent to prepayment (the settlement of a debt or installment loan before its official due date). Furthermore, it makes refinancing unattractive and uneconomical to borrowers.





Key Takeaways

Yield maintenance is a kind of prepayment fee that borrowers pay to lenders, or bond issuers to investors, to compensate for the loss of interest resulting from the prepayment of a loan or the calling in of a bond.Yield maintenance is intended to mitigate lenders' prepayment risk, or to discourage borrowers from settling their debts ahead of schedule.The formula for calculating a yield maintenance premium is: Yield Maintenance = Present Value of Remaining Payments on the Mortgage x (Interest Rate - Treasury Yield).


   Understanding Yield Maintenance  

When a borrower obtains financing, either by issuing bonds or by taking out a loan (e.g., mortgage, auto loan, business loan, etc.), the lender is periodically paid interest as compensation for the use of their money for a period of time. The interest that is expected constitutes a rate of return for the lender who projects earnings based on the rate.



For example, an investor who purchases a 10-year bond with a $100,000 face value and an annual coupon rate of 7%, intends to be credited annually by 7% x $100,000 = $7,000. Likewise, a bank that approves a $350,000 at a fixed interest rate expects to receive interest payments monthly until the borrower completes the mortgage payments years down the line.



However, there are situations in which the borrower pays off the loan early or calls in a bond prior to the maturity date. This threat of a premature return of the principal is known as prepayment risk (in financial lingo, "prepayment" means the settlement of a debt or installment loan before its official due date). Every debt instrument carries it, and every lender faces it, to some degree. The risk is that the lender won't get the interest income stream for as long a period as they counted on.






The most common reason for loan prepayment is a drop in interest rates, which provides an opportunity for a borrower or bond issuer to refinance its debt at a lower interest rate.



To compensate lenders in the event that a borrower repays the loan earlier than scheduled, a prepayment fee or premium, known as yield maintenance, is charged. In effect, the yield maintenance allows the lender to earn its original yield without suffering any loss.



Yield maintenance is most common in the commercial mortgage industry. For example, let's imagine a building owner who's taken out a loan to buy an adjacent property. It's a 30-year mortgage, but five years in, interest rates have fallen considerably, and the owner decides to refinance. He borrows money from another lender and pays off his old mortgage. If the bank that issued that mortgage imposed a yield maintenance fee or premium, it would be able to reinvest the money returned to them, plus the penalty amount, in safe Treasury securities and receive the same cash flow as they would if they had received all scheduled loan payments for the entire duration of the loan.


   How to Calculate Yield Maintenance  

The formula for calculating a yield maintenance premium is:


















YM


=



PV


 


of


 


RP


 


on


 


the


 


Mortgage



×


(


IR


−


TY


)
















where:
















YM


=


Yield maintenance
















PV


=


Present value
















RP


=


Remaining payments
















IR


=


Interest rate
















TY


=


Treasury yield
















The Present Value factor in the formula can be calculated as 




1


−


(


1


+


r



)



−



n


12






r

















where:
















r


=


Treasury yield
















n


=


Number of months







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{YM}=\textbf{PV of RP on the Mortgage}\times(\textbf{IR}-\textbf{TY})\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{YM}=\text{Yield maintenance}\\&\text{PV}=\text{Present value}\\&\text{RP}=\text{Remaining payments}\\&\text{IR}=\text{Interest rate}\\&\text{TY}=\text{Treasury yield}\\&\text{The Present Value factor in the formula can be calculated as }\frac{1-(1+r)^{-\frac{n}{12}}}{r}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&r=\text{Treasury yield}\\&n=\text{Number of months}\end{aligned}


​YM=PV of RP on the Mortgage×(IR−TY)where:YM=Yield maintenancePV=Present valueRP=Remaining paymentsIR=Interest rateTY=Treasury yieldThe Present Value factor in the formula can be calculated as r1−(1+r)−12n​​where:r=Treasury yieldn=Number of months​



For example, assume a borrower has a $60,000 balance remaining on a loan with 5% interest. The remaining term of the loan is exactly five years or 60 months. If the borrower decides to pay off the loan when the yield on 5-year Treasury notes drops to 3%, The yield maintenance can be calculated in this way.



Step 1: PV = [(1 – (1.03)-60/12)/0.03] x $60,000



PV = 4.58 x $60,000



PV = $274,782.43



Step 2: Yield Maintenance = $274,782.43 x (0.05 – 0.03)



Yield Maintenance = $274,782.43 x (0.05 – 0.03)



Yield Maintenance = $5,495.65



The borrower will have to pay an additional $5,495.65 to prepay his debt.



If Treasury yields go up from where they were when a loan was taken out, the lender can make a profit by accepting the early loan repayment amount and lending the money out at a higher rate or investing the money in higher-paying treasury bonds. In this case, there is no yield loss to the lender, but it will still charge a prepayment penalty on the principal balance.
What Is Yield on Cost (YOC)?  

Yield on cost (YOC) is a measure of dividend yield calculated by dividing a stock's current dividend by the price initially paid for that stock. For example, if an investor purchased a stock five years ago for $20, and its current dividend is $1.50 per share, then the YOC for that stock would be 7.5%.



YOC should not be confused with the term "current dividend yield." The latter refers to the dividend payment divided by the stock's current price, rather than the price at which it was initially purchased.





Key Takeaways

YOC is a measure of dividend yield based on the original price paid for the investment.YOC can grow significantly over time if the company regularly increases its dividend, so investing for dividend growth is the way for long-term investors to maximize YOC.Investors using YOC should ensure they do not compare it to other stocks' current dividend yields, as this is an apples-to-oranges comparison.


   Understanding Yield on Cost (YOC)  

YOC shows the dividend yield associated with the initial price paid for an investment. For that reason, stocks that have grown their dividends over time can deliver very high YOCs, especially if the investor has held on to the stock for many years. In fact, it is not unusual for long-term investors to own stocks whose current dividend payments are higher than the original price paid for the security, producing a YOC of 100% or greater.



YOC is calculated based on the initial price paid for a security. Therefore, investors must make sure they keep track of the holding costs they have incurred for that security over time, as well as any additional share purchases they have made. All of these costs should be included in the cost component of the YOC calculation. Otherwise, the yield will appear unrealistically high.



When evaluating dividend yields, investors must also be careful not to compare apples and oranges. Specifically, just because a stock's YOC is higher than the current dividend yield of another company, it does not mean that the stock with the higher YOC is necessarily the better investment. That is because the company with the high YOC may actually have a lower current dividend yield than other companies.



In these situations, the investor could be better off selling their shares in the high YOC company and investing the proceeds in a company with a higher current dividend yield.






Considering (YOC) shows investors the long-term benefits of stocks compared to bonds. Since bonds pay fixed interest rates rather than dividends that grow, they have much less long-term potential.


   Example of Yield on Cost (YOC)  

Emma is a retiree who is reviewing her pension's investment returns. Her portfolio includes a large position in XYZ Corporation, which her portfolio manager purchased 15 years ago for $10/share. When it was purchased, XYZ had a current dividend yield of 5% based on a dividend of $0.50 per share.



In each of the 15 years that followed, XYZ raised its dividend by $0.20 per year. It is expected to pay $3.50 per share this year. Its stock price has risen to $50 per share, resulting in a YOC of 35% ($3.50 divided by the initial $10/share purchase price) and a current dividend yield of 7% ($3.50 divided by the current $50 share price).



Emma considers XYZ to have been one of her most successful investments. She takes satisfaction out of seeing the lofty YOC that it produces every year. Looking over the most recent report from her portfolio manager, she was therefore shocked to find that they had sold the XYZ position. The manager reinvested the proceeds in ABC Industries, a company with similar financial strength as XYZ, but with a current yield of 8.50%. Dismayed by this seemingly foolish decision, Emma calls her portfolio manager. She asks why they sold a position yielding 35% in exchange for one yielding only 8.50%.



The portfolio manager explains to Emma that she has made a common mistake. Rather than comparing YOC to the current dividend yield, she should make an apples-to-apples comparison between both companies' current dividend yields. From this perspective, switching to ABC was perhaps a wise choice because it offered a higher yield on her money—8.50% versus 7%. However, the two companies' dividend growth prospects are more important if Emma wants to continue increasing the yield on cost.
What Is Yield on Earning Assets?  

The yield on earning assets is a popular financial solvency ratio that compares a financial institution’s interest income to its earning assets. Yield on earning assets indicates how well assets are performing by looking at how much income they bring in.





Key Takeaways

Yield on earning assets is a financial solvency ratio that compares an entity's interest income to its earning assets.It is a measure of how much income assets are bringing in to the firm.A higher yield on earning assets is preferred and indicates that a company is using its assets efficiently.A high yield on earning assets also indicates that an entity is able to meet its short-term debt obligations and is not at risk of default or insolvency.Banks have to strike a balance between the number of loans offered, the rates charged, and the duration of the loans when compared to assets to achieve the right ratio levels.Increasing a low yield on earning assets would require a restructuring of an entity's pricing policy, approach to risk management, and investment strategy.


   Understanding Yield on Earning Assets  

Solvency ratios shed light on if a financial institution has the ability to stay in business by meeting its short-term obligations. The yield on earning assets is a way for regulators to determine how much money a financial institution is earning on its assets. Large cash yields are preferred, thereby indicating that a company can pay its short-term obligations and is not at risk of default or insolvency.



Banks and financial institutions that provide loans and other investment options that offer yields have to strike a balance between the different types of investment vehicles they offer, the interest rates charged, and the duration of those investments. These factors determine the amount of interest income a debt vehicle will bring in over a specific time frame. This interest income is then compared to the earning assets.



Generally speaking, the higher a company’s loan to asset ratio, the higher its yield on returning assets. This is because the more loans made the more interest income earned or because higher-yielding investment vehicles bring in more income relative to the amount of money loaned out.


   High Yield vs. Low Yield  

High yield on earning assets is an indicator that a company is bringing in a large amount of income from the loans and investments that it makes. This is often the result of good policies, such as ensuring that loans are appropriately priced, and investments are properly managed, as well as the company’s ability to garner a larger share of the market.



Financial institutions with a low yield on earning assets are at an increased risk of insolvency, which is the reason the yield on earning assets is of interest to regulators. A low ratio means that a company is providing loans that do not perform well since the amount of interest from those loans is approaching the value of the earning assets.



Regulators may take this as an indicator that a company’s policies are creating a scenario in which the company will not be able to cover losses, and could thus become insolvent.



As a measure of effectiveness, yield on earning assets can be useful for comparing different managers relative to their asset bases. Managers, or entire businesses, that can generate sizable yield with a small asset base are considered to be more efficient, and likely offer more value.


   Increasing a Low Yield on Earning Assets  

Increasing a low yield on earning assets often involves a review and restructuring of a company’s policies and approach to risk management, as well as a review of the general operations of how the company chooses which loans to provide to which markets.



Depending on the business or strategy, at times, yield on earning assets may need to be adjusted for various methods when compiling financial statements. For instance, certain off-balance sheet items could distort reported yield on assets when using financial statements that have not been adjusted to reflect these off-balance sheet items.



Furthermore, financial institutions could be charging low interest rates to remain competitive and gain business, which would result in a lower amount of income earned. In this case, a review of a company's pricing policy would be necessary.
What Is Yield Pickup?  

Yield pickup refers to the additional interest rate an investor receives by selling a lower-yielding bond and buying a higher-yielding bond. The yield pickup is done to improve the risk-adjusted performance of a portfolio.


   Understanding a Yield Pickup Strategy  

A yield pickup is an investment strategy which involves trading bonds with lower yields for bonds with higher yields. While picking up additional yield enables greater returns, the strategy also comes at a greater risk. A bond with a lower yield generally has a shorter maturity, while a bond with a higher yield will typically have a longer maturity. Bonds with longer term maturities are more sensitive to interest rate movements in the markets. Hence, an investor is exposed to interest rate risk with the longer maturity bond.



Additionally, there is a positive relationship between yield and risk. The higher the risk perceived of the bond, the higher the yield required by investors to incentivize them to purchase the bond. Bonds with a higher risk have a lower credit quality than bonds with lower risk. With a yield pickup, then, a certain amount of risk is involved since the bond with a higher yield is often of a lower credit quality.



For example, an investor owns a bond issued by Company ABC that has a 4% yield. The investor can sell this bond in exchange for a bond issued by Company XYZ that has a yield of 6%. The investor's yield pickup is 2% (6% - 4% = 2%). This strategy can profit from either a higher coupon or higher yield to maturity (YTM) or both. Bonds that have a higher default risk often have higher yields, making a yield pickup play risky. Ideally, a yield pickup would involve bonds that have the same rating or credit risk, though this is not always the case.


   Pickup and Swaps  

The yield pickup strategy is based on the pure yield pickup swap, which takes advantage of bonds that have been temporarily mispriced, buying bonds that are underpriced relative to the same types of bonds held in the portfolio, thus paying a higher yield, and selling those in the portfolio that are overpriced, which, consequently, pay a lower yield. The swap involves trading lower-coupon bonds for higher coupon bonds, increasing the reinvestment risk faced by the investor when interest rates decline since it is likely that the high-coupon bond will be “called” by the issuer. There is also some risk faced if interest rates go up. For instance if prevailing rates in the economy go up while the transaction is in progress or over the holding period of the bond, the investor may incur a loss.



The yield pickup strategy is entered into simply to generate higher yields. An investor does not need to speculate or predict the movement of interest rates. This strategy results in worthwhile gains if implemented properly and at the right time.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Yield Spread?  

A yield spread is the difference between yields on differing debt instruments of varying maturities, credit ratings, issuers, or risk levels. A yield spread is calculated by deducting the yield of one instrument from the other. This difference is most often expressed in basis points (bps) or percentage points.



Yield spreads are commonly quoted in terms of one yield versus that of U.S. Treasuries, where it is called the credit spread. For example, if the five-year Treasury bond is at 5% and the 30-year Treasury bond is at 6%, the yield spread between the two debt instruments is 1%. If the 30-year bond is trading at 6%, then based on the historical yield spread, the five-year bond should be trading at around 1%, making it very attractive at its current yield of 5%.





Key Takeaways

A yield spread is a difference between the quoted rate of return on different debt instruments which often have varying maturities, credit ratings, and risk.The spread is straightforward to calculate since you subtract the yield of one from that of the other in terms of percentage or basis points.Yield spreads are often quoted in terms of a yield versus U.S. Treasuries, or a yield versus AAA-rated corporate bonds.When yield spreads expand or contract, it can signal changes in the underlying economy or financial markets.Yield spreads can come in varying types, including zero-volatility spreads, high-yield bonds spreads, and option-adjusted spreads.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Yield Spreads Work  

The yield spread is a key metric that bond investors use when gauging the level of expense for a bond or group of bonds. If one bond yields 7% and another one yields 4%, the spread is three percentage points or 300 bps. Non-Treasury bonds are generally evaluated based on the difference between their yield and that of a Treasury bond of comparable maturity.



Typically, the higher the risk a bond or asset class carries, the higher its yield spread. When an investment is viewed as low-risk, investors do not require a large yield for tying up their cash. However, if an investment is viewed as a higher risk, investors demand adequate compensation through a higher yield spread in exchange for taking on the risk of their principal declining.



Because bond yields often change, yield spreads change, too:



The direction of the spread may increase or widen, meaning the yield difference between the two bonds increases, and one sector performs better than another.When spreads narrow, the yield difference decreases and one sector performs more poorly than another.



Let's say the yield on a high-yield bond index increases to 7.5% from 7%. Meanwhile, the 10-year Treasury yield remains at 2%. The spread moved from 500 basis points to 550 basis points (the difference between the bond and the 10-year U.S. Treasury), which indicates that high-yield bonds underperformed Treasuries during that period.






Yield spreads can be used to help predict recessions and economic recoveries, and may indicate how investors view economic conditions. Widening spreads typically lead to a positive yield curve, indicating stable economic conditions in the future. But when falling spreads contract, worsening economic conditions may be coming, resulting in a flattening of the yield curve.


   Yield Spread vs. Credit Spread  

A bond credit spread reflects the difference in yield between a treasury and corporate bond of the same maturity. Debt issued by the United States Treasury is used as the benchmark in the financial industry due to its risk-free status being backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.



US Treasury (government-issued) bonds are considered to be the closest thing to a risk-free investment, as the probability of default is almost non-existent. Investors have the utmost confidence in getting repaid.


   Types of Yield Spreads  

There are a few different types of yield spreads, including the zero-volatility, high-yield bond, and the option-adjusted spread. We explore these in a little more detail below.


  Zero-Volatility Spread (Z-Spread)  

A zero-volatility spread (Z-spread) measures the spread realized by the investor over the entire Treasury spot-rate curve, assuming the bond would be held until maturity. This method can be a time-consuming process, as it requires a lot of calculations based on trial and error.



You would basically start by trying one spread figure and run the calculations to see if the present value of the cash flows equals the bond’s price. If not, you have to start over and keep trying until the two values are equal.


  High-Yield Bond Spread  

The high-yield bond spread is the percentage difference in current yields of various classes of high-yield bonds compared against investment-grade (e.g. AAA-rated) corporate bonds, Treasury bonds, or another benchmark bond measure. High-yield bond spreads that are wider than the historical average suggest greater credit and default risk for junk bonds. 


  Option-Adjusted Spread (OAS)  

An option-adjusted spread (OAS) converts the difference between the fair price and market price, expressed as a dollar value, and converts that value into a yield measure. Interest rate volatility plays an essential part in the OAS formula. The option embedded in the security can impact the cash flows, which is something that must be considered when calculating the value of the security.


   Example of a Yield Spread  

Let's say a bond issued by a large, financially-healthy company typically trades at a relatively low spread in relation to U.S. Treasuries. In contrast, a bond issued by a smaller company with weaker financial strength typically trades at a higher spread relative to Treasuries. For this reason, bonds in emerging markets and developed markets, as well as similar securities with different maturities, typically trade at significantly different yields.




What Is a Yield Spread?
The difference in yields on two debt instruments that have different maturity dates, issuers, credit ratings, or risk levels is known as the yield spread. Yield spreads are commonly reported in percentage or basis points. In order to determine the yield spread, you must subtract one investment's yield from that of the other.




Can Yield Spreads Forecast Future Economic Performance?
Yield curves are valuable tools that can shed light on the economy, which means they can be used to help forecast whether a recession or a recovery is on the horizon. As such, they are often considered leading economic indicators. When spreads widen, it leads to a positive yield curve. This means that the economy is expected to grow in the future. But when the yield curve flattens, it generally indicates that short-term rates are falling. The expectation here is that the economy won't be doing very well in the future.




What Is a Yield Spread Premium?
A yield spread premium is a type of compensation paid to mortgage brokers. These individuals receive this fee from lenders when they give borrowers mortgage loans with interest rates that are higher than the lender's standard rate. The yield spread premium doesn't include any additional costs that borrowers are typically responsible for, such as commissions or other fees.


   The Bottom Line  

If you're a savvy investor or a fund manager, you can figure out what the best investments are for you or your clients using different metrics, including yield spreads. This is the difference between two investments (notably bonds) with different maturities, issuers, credit ratings, and risks. You can also use yield spreads to figure out which bonds tend to be affordable or expensive.
What Is a Yield Spread Premium (YSP)?  

A yield spread premium (YSP) is a form of compensation that a mortgage broker, acting as the intermediary, receives from the originating lender for selling an interest rate to a borrower that is above the lender's par rate for which the borrower qualifies. The YSP can sometimes be applied to cover costs associated with the loan, so the borrower isn't on the hook for additional fees.



As a result of legislation that was passed in 1999, the yield spread premium had to be reasonably related to the actual services the mortgage broker performs for the home buyer. The yield spread premium also had to be disclosed by law on the HUD-1 Form when the loan is closed. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Financial Reform Bill subsequently banned yield-spread premium altogether, a prohibition put into place to protect consumers after the 2008-09 financial crisis.





Key Takeaways

A yield spread premium (YSP) is additional compensation paid to a mortgage broker as compensation for placing a higher-interest loan with a borrower.Any YSP will be listed on the HUD-1 form presented at closing.The yield spread premium is one of many fees associated with purchasing a piece of property or home.In 1999, legislation was passed, designed to protect homebuyers against exorbitant yield spread premium fees. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act banned the practice of the YSP.


   How a Yield Spread Premium Worked  

Mortgage brokers are compensated directly by borrowers when the borrower pays an origination fee when the lender pays the broker a yield spread premium or a combination of these. If there is no origination fee, the borrower is most likely agreeing to pay an interest rate above the market rate.



Paying an interest rate above-market rates to compensate a mortgage broker/lender is not necessarily a bad thing for the borrower, as it can reduce the mortgage's upfront costs.






There is no such thing as a 100% no-cost mortgage for the borrower. If a borrower does not pay closing costs or commissions, they will end up paying those fees spread out over the life of the loan in the form of slightly higher monthly payments.



Note that if a borrower expects to hold the mortgage for a short time, paying a relatively high-interest rate can be more economical than paying high fees upfront. A thorough cost-benefit analysis should be performed before any contracts are signed.


   Par Rates and Mortgage Brokers  

The par rate is the standard interest rate offered by a mortgage lender based on the terms of the loan and the creditworthiness of the borrower. This rate is free of any adjustments such as closing points, discount (mortgage) points, fees, or commissions.



When a homebuyer decides to work with an independent mortgage broker, the broker will be able to compare loans from a variety of banks and mortgage companies. For their work, the broker will be paid a commission. Instead of receiving a cash commission, many brokers instead receive compensation in the form of the yield spread premium, which is an adjustment upward in the par rate. All adjustments made to the par rate must be disclosed in the loan agreement and agreed to at closing in the settlement statements (the HUD-1 form).
What Is a Yield Tilt Index Fund?  

A yield tilt index fund is a type of fund that invests in stocks or securities that mirrors the holdings of a market index but contains a higher weighting towards higher-yielding investments. A yield tilt index fund can be a mutual fund, which is a basket of securities that are actively managed by a portfolio or fund manager.



A yield tilt index fund can also be an exchange-traded fund (ETF), which merely mirrors an index of stocks.





Key Takeaways

A yield tilt index fund invests in stocks that mirror the holdings of an index but contain a higher weighting towards high yield investments.A yield tilt index fund enhances the yield of a standard index fund by weighting its holdings towards stocks that offer higher dividend yields.Since a yield tilt index fund uses a baseline benchmark index, the fund is diversified, reducing the risk of loss while boosting income.The fund will closely track its underlying index but will not match the index identically.Investors considering investing in yield tilt funds should make sure they understand the tax implications and purchase the funds in the most advantageous account.


   How a Yield Tilt Index Fund Works  

Typically, an index fund would contain all of the stocks of a particular stock index, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500). Investors can't buy an index per se, since it's merely a tracking mechanism containing a collection of stocks designed to provide investors with the overall trend for those stocks.



Instead, investors would need to buy a fund that contains all of those stocks within the index. For example, there are ETFs that contain all 500 of the stocks in the S&P 500. However, if investors want to own the index, while also increasing their return, they can invest in a tilt fund.



Tilted funds contain all of the stocks of a benchmark index but are enhanced with investments that tilt the fund in the direction of a specific investment strategy or financial goal. For example, many stocks pay dividends, which are usually cash payments paid to investors as a reward for owning a stock. A tilted fund might mirror an index but also contain more shares of the stocks that pay high dividends.


   Yield Tilt Index Fund Weighting  

A yield tilt index fund enhances the income of a standard index fund by weighting its holdings towards stocks that pay higher dividends. In other words, attractive dividend-paying stocks are given a greater portfolio weighting, making them represent more of the fund's portfolio than they otherwise would in the standard index. The fund's yield is “tilted” due to the heavier weighting in that direction.



In this way, the fund is tilted towards earning higher-than-normal dividend income, while also keeping with the overall investment strategy of owning the benchmark index.


   Benefits of Yield Tilt Index Fund  

A yield tilt index fund allows for the fund to be able to outperform the yield from the baseline fund. Also, many dividend-paying stocks are of well-established companies since they need to generate consistent earnings to keep up with paying quarterly dividends.



As a result, a fund that's tilted toward dividend-paying companies can also enhance the returns from the investments in the fund since it's overweighted with more profitable companies.



Since the investment strategy of a yield tilt index fund uses a baseline benchmark index, the fund is diversified, meaning the invested dollars are spread out over many companies. This diversification reduces the risk of loss if a few of the companies within the fund fall into financial difficulties. The other remaining companies can still outperform, which partially offsets the drag on the fund from the underperformers.



Since the fund is merely tilted towards dividend-paying stocks, the fund can continue to keep pace with the direction of the overall market, while boosting dividend income with little additional risk.






If a yield tilt index fund has the proper mix of investments, it can provide investors with an enhanced yield along with the safety that comes with investing in index funds.


   Yield Tilt Index Funds and Taxes  

The structure of a yield tilt index fund can offer some tax benefits for investors who are seeking a way to minimize the tax liability associated with their holdings. Dividend payments issued to shareholders can be subject to double taxation. This means that they are taxed once at the corporate level and then once again at the shareholder level. So the investor is essentially paying income taxes twice on the same single amount of income.



Proponents of this taxation structure see it as a way to ensure the wealthy are paying their fair share, and cannot get rich off their investment earnings without paying a sufficient amount of taxes in return. Opponents, on the other hand, contend that this dual-level taxation is unfair and imposes an additional penalty on successful investors.


  Tax Shelter Strategy  

Due to the effect of double taxation, some investors contend that the market must value the share prices of high-yield stocks at somewhat of a discount to other stocks, so as to provide an increased return on high-yield stocks in order to compensate for the negative tax effects. The theory is that an investor who is able to purchase a yield tilt index fund in a tax-sheltered investment account—such as a retirement account—might be able to outperform the index since they receive the supposed valuation benefit but are sheltered from taxes on the dividends they receive.






Roth IRAs are funded with after-tax dollars—this means that the contributions are not tax-deductible, but once you start withdrawing funds, the money is tax-free.



This strategy would be a potentially smart option for a sophisticated investor who understands the intricate details of this structure, is familiar with the tax regulations involved, or has a financial advisor who is well-versed in the tax code.


   How to Invest in a Yield Tilt Index Fund  

Investors will find that the tax-advantaged strategy of holding yield tilt index funds in tax-sheltered accounts means that they will be purchasing these types of funds as an ETF. The investor would purchase the ETF through the custodian who manages their tax-sheltered account such as Schwab, Fidelity, or maybe a robo-advisor.



From that point, the security is purchased and all an investor needs to do is let the dividend strategy develop in their account. A common tax-advantaged account that could use this strategy would be a Roth IRA. Many investors will choose to purchase these funds through their brokerage account instead of with the fund directly, as the index fund they intend to purchase is usually only a portion of their portfolio. Having a brokerage account allows for greater purchasing diversity versus investing with the fund directly, although often at the cost of additional fees, such as trading commissions.




What Is a Good ROI for an Index Fund?
There are tax considerations when using an index fund, as well as expense ratios, that could eat away at a return on investment (ROI). An index fund will not necessarily deliver the highest return, but this comes with the benefit of diversification. Diversification alleviates some aspects of risk and is considered a must in any investment portfolio.




Can You Lose All Your Money in an Index Fund?
It is nearly impossible to lose all your money in an index fund. For this to happen, every single stock that comprises the fund will need to go to zero. Not only this, but the owner of the fund would need to declare bankruptcy and be unable to sell any of their assets in order to pay back the holders of the fund. Neither of these scenarios is likely to happen.




Do I Get Dividends From Index Funds?
Certain index funds pay dividends as the fund receives dividends from the stocks they hold in the fund. Others will reinvest the dividends into their fund and although the investor who holds shares in the index fund won't receive an actual dividend, the reinvestment will be apparent in the appreciation of the fund's share price.




What Is a Dividend Yield Fund?
A dividend yield fund is a fund that tracks an index of companies that have a history of paying regular, high dividends. These funds will seek to mirror the performance of the underlying index. Investors who favor a dividend-based strategy will lean heavily on these funds for the core of their investment portfolio.


   The Bottom Line  

Yield tilt index funds can be a great way for investors to track an index while also pursuing dividend-based strategy goals. These types of funds offer the risk-averse nature inherent in diversification while providing a lean, or tilt, towards those companies who produce regular dividends. Investors looking to reinvest dividend growth back into their portfolio, such as with a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP), should consider tilt funds to meet their investment objectives.
What Is Yield-to-Average Life?  

Yield-to-average life is the calculation of a bond's yield based on the average maturity rather than the stated maturity date of the issue. This yield replaces the stated final maturity with the average life maturity. Average life is also called the weighted average maturity (WAM) or weighted average life (WAL).





Key Takeaways

Yield-to-average life is the calculation of a bond's yield that is based on the average maturity rather than the stated maturity date of the issue.Yield-to-average life determines the amount of time it will take to recover one-half of a bond’s face value.Trustees of a sinking fund bond will use the yield-to-average-life calculation to help them determine if they should re-buy some of the bonds on the open market.


   Understanding Yield-to-Average Life  

Yield-to-average life lets the investor estimate the actual return from a bond investment, regardless of the bond's exact maturity date. The yield-to-average life calculation assumes that the bond matures on the day given by its average life and at the average redemption price instead of the par price. It can be calculated with the same formula as yield to maturity (YTM) by substituting the average life for the bond’s maturity.



Yield-to-average life determines the amount of time it will take to recover one-half of a bond’s face value. Bonds that have a faster repayment of principal will lower the risk of default and allows a bondholder to reinvest their money sooner. Speedier reinvestment can be good or bad, depending on which direction interest rates have moved since the investor bought the bond.



While some bonds repay the principal in a lump sum at maturity, others repay the principal in installments over the term of the bond. This installment method of repayment is called a sinking fund feature. In these bonds, the indenture requires the issuer to set money aside into a separate account regularly.



This account is for the exclusive purpose of redeeming the bonds. With the amortization of a bond's principal in this way, the average life calculation will allow investors to determine how soon repayment of the principal will be.



Trustees of a sinking fund bond will use the yield-to-average life calculation to help them determine if they should re-buy some of the bonds on the open market. This is typical when the bonds are trading below par. The average life, in this case, may be significantly less than the actual number of years until maturity.



A sinking fund is a means of repaying funds borrowed through a bond issue through periodic payments to a trustee who retires part of the issue by purchasing the bonds in the open market. A sinking fund improves a corporation's creditworthiness, letting the business pay investors a lower interest rate.


   Yield-to-Average Life for Mortgage-Backed Securities  

Yield-to-average life allows investors to determine the expected return of mortgage-backed securities (MBS), because of the prepayment of the underlying mortgage debt. This metric is useful in the pricing of MBSs, such as collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) and private issuers.



An MBS generally repays principal throughout the life of the investment. Depending on whether the MBS was purchased at a discount or a premium, the advanced paying of the principal can affect an investor's expected return.



An environment with declining interest rates often leads homeowners to refinance. In the refinancing process, the old loan is paid off as a new loan with lower interest payments takes its place.
What Is Yield To Call?  

Yield to call (YTC) is a financial term that refers to the return a bondholder receives if the bond is held until the call date, which occurs sometime before it reaches maturity. This number can be mathematically calculated as the compound interest rate at which the present value of a bond's future coupon payments and call price is equal to the current market price of the bond.



Yield to call applies to callable bonds, which are debt instruments that let bond investors redeem the bonds—or the bond issuer to repurchase them—on what is known as the call date, at a price known as the call price. By definition, the call date of a bond chronologically occurs before the maturity date.



Generally speaking, bonds are callable over several years. They are normally called at a slight premium above their face value, though the exact call price is based on prevailing market rates.





Key Takeaways

The term "yield to call" refers to the return a bondholder receives if the security is held until the call date, prior to its date of maturity. Yield to call is applied to callable bonds, which are securities that let bond investors redeem the bonds (or the bond issuer to repurchase them) early, at the call price.Yield to call can be mathematically calculated, using computer programs.


   Understanding Yield To Call  

Many bonds are callable, especially municipal bonds and bonds issued by corporations. If interest rates fall, the company or municipality that issued the bond might opt to pay off the outstanding debt and get new financing at a lower cost.



Calculating the yield to call on such bonds is important because it reveals rate of return the investor will receive, assuming:



The bond is called on the earliest possible dateThe bond is purchased at the current market priceThe bond is held until the call date






The yield to call is widely deemed to be a more accurate estimate of expected return on a bond than the yield to maturity.


   Calculating Yield-To-Call  

Although the formula used to calculate the yield to call looks slightly complicated at first glance, it is actually quite straightforward.



The complete formula to calculate yield to call is:



P = (C / 2) x {(1 - (1 + YTC / 2) ^ -2t) / (YTC / 2)} + (CP / (1 + YTC / 2) ^ 2t)



Where:



P = the current market price



C = the annual coupon payment



CP = the call price



t = the number of years remaining until the call date



YTC = the yield to call



Based on this formula, the yield to call cannot be solved for directly. An iterative process must be used to find the yield to call, if the calculation is being done by hand. Fortunately, many computer software programs have a "solve for" function that's capable of calculating such values, with a click of the mouse.


   Yield-To-Call Example  

As an example, consider a callable bond that has a face value of $1,000 and pays a semiannual coupon of 10%. The bond is currently priced at $1,175 and has the option to be called at $1,100 five years from now. Note that the remaining years until maturity does not matter for this calculation.



Using the above formula, the calculation would be set up as:



$1,175 = ($100 / 2) x {(1- (1 + YTC / 2) ^ -2(5)) / (YTC / 2)} + ($1,100 / (1 + YTC / 2) ^ 2(5))



Through an iterative process, it can be determined that the yield to call on this bond is 7.43%.
What Is Yield to Maturity (YTM)?  

The term yield to maturity (YTM) refers to the total return anticipated on a bond if the bond is held until it matures. Yield to maturity is considered a long-term bond yield but is expressed as an annual rate. In other words, it is the internal rate of return (IRR) of an investment in a bond if the investor holds the bond until maturity, with all payments made as scheduled and reinvested at the same rate.





Key Takeaways

Yield to maturity is the total rate of return that will have been earned by a bond when it makes all interest payments and repays the original principal.YTM is essentially a bond's internal rate of return if held to maturity.Calculating the yield to maturity can be a complicated process, and it assumes all coupon or interest payments can be reinvested at the same rate of return as the bond.A bond's YTM is different from its coupon rate, which is the total amount of income it pays for the length of time it's held.YTM calculations usually don't account for taxes paid on a bond.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Yield to Maturity (YTM)  

Yield to maturity is also referred to as book yield or redemption yield. It is similar to current yield, which divides annual cash inflows from a bond by the market price of that bond to determine how much money one would make by buying a bond and holding it for one year.



Unlike current yield, YTM accounts for the present value of a bond's future coupon payments. In other words, it factors in the time value of money, whereas a simple current yield calculation does not. As such, it is often considered a more thorough means of calculating the return from a bond.



The YTM of a discount bond that does not pay a coupon is a good starting place in order to understand some of the more complex issues with coupon bonds.


   Formula and Calculation of Yield to Maturity  

The formula to calculate the YTM of a discount bond is as follows:















Y


T


M


=





F


a


c


e


V


a


l


u


e




C


u


r


r


e


n


t


P


r


i


c


e





−


1
















where:
















n


=


Number of periods to maturity
















F


a


c


e


 


V


a


l


u


e


=


Bond’s maturity value or par value
















C


u


r


r


e


n


t


 


P


r


i


c


e


=


Bond’s price today







\begin{aligned}&YTM = \sqrt { \frac {Face Value}{Current Price} } - 1 \\&\textbf{where:} \\&n = \text{Number of periods to maturity} \\&Face \ Value = \text{Bond's maturity value or par value} \\&Current \ Price = \text{Bond's price today} \\\end{aligned}


​YTM=CurrentPriceFaceValue​​−1where:n=Number of periods to maturityFace Value=Bond’s maturity value or par valueCurrent Price=Bond’s price today​
Because YTM is the interest rate an investor would earn by reinvesting every coupon payment from the bond at a constant interest rate until the bond's maturity date, the present value of all the future cash flows equals the bond's market price.
An investor knows the current bond price, its coupon payments, and its maturity value, but the discount rate cannot be calculated directly. However, there is a trial-and-error method for finding YTM with the following present value formula:









Bond


 


Price









=


 





Coupon


 



1




(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


1





+


 





Coupon


 



2




(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


2




















+


 


⋯


 


+


 





Coupon


 



n




(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


n





 


+


 




Face


 


Value




(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


n










\begin{aligned} \textit{Bond Price} &= \ \frac{\textit{Coupon }1}{(1+YTM)^1} +\ \frac{\textit{Coupon }2}{(1+YTM)^2}\\ &\quad +\ \cdots\ +\ \frac{\textit{Coupon }n}{(1+YTM)^n} \ +\ \frac{\textit{Face Value}}{(1+YTM)^n} \end{aligned}


Bond Price​= (1+YTM)1Coupon 1​+ (1+YTM)2Coupon 2​+ ⋯ + (1+YTM)nCoupon n​ + (1+YTM)nFace Value​​
Or this formula:















B


o


n


d


 


P


r


i


c


e


=


(


C


o


u


p


o


n


×




1


−



1



(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


n







Y


T


M




)

















B


o


n


d


P


r


i


c


e


=



+


(


F


a


c


e


 


V


a


l


u


e


×



1



(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


n





)







\begin{aligned}&Bond\ Price = \Bigg ( Coupon \times \frac {1 - \frac{1}{(1 + YTM)^n} }{YTM} \Bigg ) \\&\phantom{Bond Price =}+ \Bigg ( Face\ Value \times \frac {1}{(1 + YTM)^n} \Bigg ) \\\end{aligned}


​Bond Price=(Coupon×YTM1−(1+YTM)n1​​)BondPrice=+(Face Value×(1+YTM)n1​)​
Each one of the future cash flows of the bond is known and because the bond's current price is also known, a trial-and-error process can be applied to the YTM variable in the equation until the present value of the stream of payments equals the bond's price.
Solving the equation by hand requires an understanding of the relationship between a bond's price and its yield, as well as the different types of bond prices. Bonds can be priced at a discount, at par, or at a premium. When the bond is priced at par, the bond's interest rate is equal to its coupon rate. A bond priced above par, called a premium bond, has a coupon rate higher than the realized interest rate, and a bond priced below par, called a discount bond, has a coupon rate lower than the realized interest rate.
If an investor were calculating YTM on a bond priced below par, they would solve the equation by plugging in various annual interest rates that were higher than the coupon rate until finding a bond price close to the price of the bond in question.
Calculations of yield to maturity assume that all coupon payments are reinvested at the same rate as the bond's current yield and take into account the bond's current market price, par value, coupon interest rate, and term to maturity. The YTM is merely a snapshot of the return on a bond because coupon payments cannot always be reinvested at the same interest rate. As interest rates rise, the YTM will increase; as interest rates fall, the YTM will decrease.
The complex process of determining yield to maturity means it is often difficult to calculate a precise YTM value. Instead, one can approximate YTM by using a bond yield table, financial calculator, or online YTM calculator.






   Yield to Maturity vs. Coupon Rate  

Buying bonds is a relatively low-risk way to invest your money. That's because, unlike stocks, bond issuers promise to pay the holder the full face value once it matures. Having said that, investors should ensure that they do their research before making any investment decisions, including purchasing any bonds.



Bonds come with two very important metrics: YTM and their coupon rate. Remember that the YTM is the total return that's expected on a bond if it's held until it matures. The coupon rate, on the other hand, is the total amount that a bond pays in income to the bondholder for as long as they hold it. The coupon rate, which is also called the coupon yield, is the amount of interest paid on the bond's face value on an annual basis.



A bond's YTM fluctuates over time. The coupon rate, though, remains fixed. If you buy a bond at face value, both the YTM and the coupon rate are the same. A bond purchased at a discount means that the YTM is higher. But if you purchase a bond at a premium (higher than its face value), the coupon rate will be higher.






Investors typically look for bonds with higher coupon rates.


   Example: Calculating YTM Through Trial and Error  

Let's say an investor currently holds a bond whose par value is $100. The bond is currently priced at a discount of $95.92, matures in 30 months, and pays a semi-annual coupon of 5%. Therefore, the current yield of the bond is (5% coupon x $100 par value) / $95.92 market price = 5.21%.
To calculate YTM here, the cash flows must be determined first. Every six months (semi-annually), the bondholder would receive a coupon payment of (5% x $100)/2 = $2.50. In total, they would receive five payments of $2.50, in addition to the face value of the bond due at maturity, which is $100. Next, we incorporate this data into the formula, which would look like this:






$


95.92


=



(


$


2.5


 


×


 




1


−



1



(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


5







Y


T


M




)



 


+


 



(


$


100


 


×


 



1



(


1


+


Y


T


M



)


5





)




\$95.92=\left(\$2.5\ \times\ \frac{1-\frac{1}{(1+YTM)^5}}{YTM}\right) \ +\ \left(\$100\ \times \ \frac{1}{(1+YTM)^5}\right)


$95.92=($2.5 × YTM1−(1+YTM)51​​) + ($100 × (1+YTM)51​)

Now we must solve for the interest rate YTM, which is where things get tough. Yet, we do not have to start simply guessing random numbers if we stop for a moment to consider the relationship between bond price and yield. As mentioned earlier, when a bond is priced at a discount from par, its interest rate will be greater than the coupon rate. In this example, the par value of the bond is $100, but it is priced below the par value at $95.92, meaning the bond is priced at a discount. As such, the annual interest rate we are seeking must necessarily be greater than the coupon rate of 5%.
With this information, we can calculate and test several bond prices by plugging various annual interest rates that are higher than 5% into the formula above. Using a few different interest rates above 5%, one would come up with the following bond prices:







Taking the interest rate up by one and two percentage points to 6% and 7% yields bond prices of $98 and $95, respectively. Because the bond price in our example is $95.92, the list indicates that the interest rate we are solving for is between 6% and 7%.



Having determined the range of rates within which our interest rate lies, we can take a closer look and make another table showing the prices that YTM calculations produce with a series of interest rates increasing in increments of 0.1% instead of 1.0%. Using interest rates with smaller increments, our calculated bond prices are as follows:







Here, we see that the present value of our bond is equal to $95.92 when the YTM is at 6.8%. Fortunately, 6.8% corresponds precisely to our bond price, so no further calculations are required. At this point, if we found that using a YTM of 6.8% in our calculations did not yield the exact bond price, we would have to continue our trials and test interest rates increasing in 0.01% increments.



It should be clear why most investors prefer to use special programs to narrow down the possible YTMs rather than calculating through trial and error, as the calculations required to determine YTM can be quite lengthy and time-consuming.


   Uses of YTM  

Yield to maturity can be quite useful for estimating whether buying a bond is a good investment. An investor will determine a required yield (the return on a bond that will make the bond worthwhile). Once an investor has determined the YTM of a bond they are considering buying, the investor can compare the YTM with the required yield to determine if the bond is a good buy.



Because YTM is expressed as an annual rate regardless of the bond's term to maturity, it can be used to compare bonds that have different maturities and coupons since YTM expresses the value of different bonds in the same annual terms.


   Variations of YTM  

Yield to maturity has a few common variations that account for bonds that have embedded options:



Yield to call (YTC) assumes that the bond will be called. That is, a bond is repurchased by the issuer before it reaches maturity and thus has a shorter cash flow period. YTC is calculated with the assumption that the bond will be called at soon as it is possible and financially feasible.
Yield to put (YTP) is similar to YTC, except the holder of a put bond can choose to sell the bond back to the issuer at a fixed price based on the terms of the bond. YTP is calculated based on the assumption that the bond will be put back to the issuer as soon as it is possible and financially feasible.
Yield to worst (YTW) is a calculation used when a bond has multiple options. For example, if an investor was evaluating a bond with both calls and put provisions, they would calculate the YTW based on the option terms that give the lowest yield.


   Limitations of YTM  

YTM calculations usually do not account for taxes that an investor pays on the bond. In this case, YTM is known as the gross redemption yield. YTM calculations also do not account for purchasing or selling costs.



YTM also makes assumptions about the future that cannot be known in advance. An investor may not be able to reinvest all coupons, the bond may not be held to maturity, and the bond issuer may default on the bond.




What Is a Bond’s Yield to Maturity?
The YTM of a bond is essentially the internal rate of return (IRR) associated with buying that bond and holding it until its maturity date. In other words, it is the return on investment associated with buying the bond and reinvesting its coupon payments at a constant interest rate. All else being equal, the YTM of a bond will be higher if the price paid for the bond is lower, and vice-versa.




What Is the Difference Between a Bond’s YTM and Its Coupon Rate?
The main difference between the YTM of a bond and its coupon rate is that the coupon rate is fixed whereas the YTM fluctuates over time. The coupon rate is contractually fixed, whereas the YTM changes based on the price paid for the bond as well as the interest rates available elsewhere in the marketplace. If the YTM is higher than the coupon rate, this suggests that the bond is being sold at a discount to its par value. If, on the other hand, the YTM is lower than the coupon rate, then the bond is being sold at a premium.




Is It Better to Have a Higher YTM?
Whether or not a higher YTM is positive depends on the specific circumstances. On the one hand, a higher YTM might indicate that a bargain opportunity is available since the bond in question is available for less than its par value. But the key question is whether or not this discount is justified by fundamentals such as the creditworthiness of the company issuing the bond, or the interest rates presented by alternative investments. As is often the case in investing, further due diligence would be required.


   The Bottom Line  

A bond's yield to maturity is the internal rate of return required for the present value of all the future cash flows of the bond (face value and coupon payments) to equal the current bond price. YTM assumes that all coupon payments are reinvested at a yield equal to the YTM and that the bond is held to maturity.



Some of the more known bond investments include municipal, treasury, corporate, and foreign. While municipal, treasury, and foreign bonds are typically acquired through local, state, or federal governments, corporate bonds are purchased through brokerages. If you have an interest in corporate bonds then you will need a brokerage account.
What Is Yield to Worst (YTW)?  

Yield to worst is a measure of the lowest possible yield that can be received on a bond that fully operates within the terms of its contract without defaulting. It is a type of yield that is referenced when a bond has provisions that would allow the issuer to close it out before it matures. Early retirement of the bond could be forced through a few different provisions detailed in the bond’s contract—most commonly callability.



The yield to worst metric is used to evaluate the worst-case scenario for yield at the earliest allowable retirement date. YTW helps investors manage risks and ensure that specific income requirements will still be met even in the worst scenarios.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding Yield to Worst  

A bond's YTW is calculated based on the earliest call or retirement date. It is assumed that a prepayment of principal occurs if a bond issuer uses the call option. After the call, principal is usually returned and coupon payments are stopped. An issuer will likely exercise their callable option if yields are falling and the issuer can obtain a lower coupon rate through new issuance in the current market environment.



The YTW may also be known as the yield to call (YTC). In order to identify the YTW, yield to call and yield to maturity should both be calculated. In general, YTW may be the same as yield to maturity, but it can never be higher since it represents yield for the investor at an earlier prepayment date than the full maturity. YTW is the lowest possible return an investor can achieve from holding a particular bond that fully operates within its contract without defaulting. YTW is not associated with defaults, which are different scenarios altogether.





Key Takeaways

Yield to worst is a measure of the lowest possible yield that can be received on a bond with an early retirement provision.Yield to worst is often the same as yield to call.Yield to worst must always be less than yield to maturity because it represents a return for a shortened investment period.


   The Mechanics  

The yield to call is an annual rate of return assuming a bond is redeemed by the issuer at the earliest allowable callable date. A bond is callable if the issuer has the right to redeem it prior to the maturity date. YTW is the lower of the yield to call or yield to maturity. A put provision gives the investor the right to sell the bond back to the company at a certain price at a specified date. There is a yield to put, but this doesn't factor into the YTW because it is the investor's option on whether to sell the bond.



The equation for calculating YTC is the following:



YTC = (coupon interest payment + (call price - market value) ÷ number of years until call) ÷ (( call price + market value ) ÷ 2 )


   Analyzing Yields  

Yields are typically always reported in annual terms. If a bond is not callable, the yield to maturity is the most important and appropriate yield for investors to use because there is no yield to call.



Yield to maturity is calculated from the following equation:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



If a bond is callable, it becomes important to look at the YTW. The yield to maturity will always be higher than the YTW (YTC) because the investor earns more when they hold the bond for its full maturity. The YTW is important though because it provides deeper due diligence on a bond with a call provision. The shorter time frame a bond is held for, the less the investor earns. YTW provides a clear calculation of this potential scenario showing the lowest yield possible.



Some other types of yield that an investor might also want to consider include: running yield and nominal yield.
What Is Yield Variance?  

Yield variance is the difference between actual output and standard output of a production or manufacturing process, based on standard inputs of materials and labor. The yield variance is valued at standard cost. Yield variance is generally unfavorable, where the actual output is less than the standard or expected output, but it can be that output expects expectations as well.


   How to Calculate Yield Variance  

Yield variance is calculated as the actual yield minus the standard yield multiplied by standard unit cost.



﻿















Yield Variance


=


SC


∗



(


Actual Yield 


−


 Standard Yield


)

















where:
















SC = Standard unit cost








\begin{aligned} &\text{Yield Variance}=\text{SC}*\left(\text{Actual Yield }-\text{ Standard Yield}\right)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{SC = Standard unit cost}\\ \end{aligned}


​Yield Variance=SC∗(Actual Yield − Standard Yield)where:SC = Standard unit cost​﻿


   What Does Yield Variance Tell You?  

Yield variance is a common financial and operational metric within manufacturing industries. To improve or enhance the measure, it's fairly regular for an analyst to adjust inputs for special scenarios. For instance, during a raw material price spike, it may not make sense to use temporary price inputs experiencing short-term jumps in prices, as these results would be distorted from normal levels. Here, like any other analysis, it is part art and science.



Generally, yield variance uses direct materials, which are raw materials that are made into finished products. These are not materials used in the production process. Direct materials are goods that physically become the finished product at the end of the manufacturing process. In other words, these are the tangible pieces or components of a finished product.



If a firm overestimates or underestimates how much material it requires to take to generate a certain amount, the material's yield variance will be less than or greater than zero. If the standard quantity is equal to the quantity actually used, then the variance will be zero.



If the direct materials yield variance proves that the company is producing less than originally planned for a given level of input, the company can review their operations for ways to become more efficient. Intuitively, producing more products with the same level of inventory while keeping quality constant can help the organization improve profitability.



While a yield variance may tell you whether or not your output is efficient or as expected, it can’t tell you why the variance occurred or what contributed to it.


   Yield Variance vs. Mix Variance  

Yield variance is a measure of the difference in output. Meanwhile, mix variance is the difference in overall material usage or inputs. Specifically, material usage can vary because a mix of products or inputs is used, which are different from the standard mix.


   Example of Using Yield Variance  

If 1,000 units of a product are the standard output based on 1,000 kilograms of materials in an 8-hour production unit, and the actual output is 990 units, there is an unfavorable yield variance of 10 units (1,000 - 990). If the standard cost is $25 per unit, the unfavorable yield variance would be $250 (10 x $25).



Or consider company ABC, which will produce 1,000,000 units of a toy for every 1,500,000 units of specialized plastic parts. In its most recent production run, Company ABC used 1,500,000 plastic units, but only produced 1,250,000 toys. The cost of plastic units is $0.50 per unit. The yield variance is:



(1.25M actual toy output - 1.5M expected toy output) * $0.50 per unit cost = $125,000 unfavorable yield variance





Key Takeaways

Yield variance measures the difference between actual output and standard output of a production or manufacturing process.It contrasts with mix variance, which is the difference in overall material usage.Yield variance will be above or below zero if a firm overestimates or underestimates how much material it takes to generate a certain amount.
What Is Yo-Yo?  

"Yo-yo" is a slang term for a very volatile market. The name comes from the movements of a yo-yo toy; in a yo-yo market, security prices continually go up and down.



A yo-yo market has no distinguishing features of either an up or down market—rather, it exhibits characteristics of both. Security prices in a yo-yo market may swing from very high to reach a low point over a given period of time, making it difficult for buy and hold investors to profit.





Key Takeaways

"Yo-yo" is a slang term for a very volatile market; in this type of market, security prices continually go up and down.Security prices in a yo-yo market may swing from very high to reach a low point over a given period of time, making it difficult for buy and hold investors to profit.Yo-yo markets can be profitable environments for astute traders who are able to recognize buy and sell points and make trades before the market reverses.Yo-yo markets are characterized by steep up and down movements in share prices which can occur within a short timeframe—such as weeks, days, or even hours.


   Understanding a Yo-Yo Market  

While it is difficult for buy and hold investors to profit in a yo-yo market, they can be profitable environments for astute traders who are able to recognize buy and sell points and make trades before the market reverses. These markets are characterized by steep up and down movements in share prices which can occur within a short timeframe—such as weeks, days, or even hours. The movements are often abrupt, and they usually involve a majority of the stocks moving in unison.



Traders on Wall Street also refer to this kind of share price activity as “all or nothing," implying that everything about the market is either good or bad.


   2015 As an Example of a Yo-Yo Market  

The occurrence of yo-yo markets is rare, especially those that last for several days or more. They are more likely to occur when market volatility picks up following a protracted rise in stock prices, which can tend to make investors nervous.



For example, during the first six months of 2015, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) never fluctuated up or down more than 3.5% as it rose to record heights. Then, in August, a convergence of issues—China’s slowing economy, crashing oil prices, and the prospect of higher interest rates—sent the stock market in a steep decline.



From Aug. 20, 2015, to Sept. 1, 2015, the market experienced eight trading days in which the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advance/decline reading was either above 400 or below 400: 400 of the 500 stocks in the index were either advancing or declining at the same time. Within just two days, the DJIA had its worst and best days of the year. Prior to Aug. 20, there had been only 13 days when that occurred. The previous time the market had experienced an extended number of yo-yo days was during the stock market crash of 2008. During a 15-day period from Aug. 20, 2008, to Sept. 9, 2008, there were 11 occurrences.
What Are York Antwerp Rules?  

The York Antwerp Rules are a set of maritime regulations concerning protocols surrounding jettisoned cargo.





Key Takeaways

The York Antwerp Rules are a set of maritime regulations surrounding jettisoned cargo.The York Antwerp Rules are a set of maritime rules dating back to 1890.The rules are a codification of the law of general average.


   How York Antwerp Rules Work  

The York Antwerp Rules are a set of maritime rules that were established in 1890. Amended several times since their inception, this set of maritime rules outlines the rights and obligations of both ship and cargo owners in the case that cargo must be jettisoned in order to save a ship. Generally, bills of lading, contracts of affreightment and marine insurance policies all include the York Antwerp Rules in their language.



The York Antwerp Rules state three clear principles, all of which must be met in order for the rule to be applied. The first stipulation is that danger to the ship must be imminent. Second, there must be a voluntary jettison of a portion of the ship’s cargo in order to save the whole. Third, the attempt to avoid the danger must be successful. If a situation meets all the stipulations, all parties involved in the maritime adventure must share proportionately in the financial burden of the losses incurred to the owner or owners of any of the cargo that was jettisoned in order to save the vessel.






All three principles of the York Antwerp Rules must be met for the rules to apply.


   Origins of the York Antwerp Rules  

The York Antwerp Rules are a codification of a principle called the law of general average. Though the York Antwerp Rules are quite old themselves, the law of general average is a much older maritime principle with roots that go back to Ancient Greece. The law specifies that all parties involved in a sea venture must proportionately share in any losses that result from sacrifices made to the cargo to save the remainder.


   When Do You Use the York Antwerp Rules?  

In a life-threatening situation at sea, the captain and crew may deem it necessary to jettison the cargo. To jettison cargo is a maritime term that is the last resort in an emergency situation where the crew throws the cargo overboard in order to stabilize the vessel. If there is a threat to a ship, due to damage to the hull, weather conditions, etc., the staff will jettison the cargo.



While jettisoning happens as a last resort, the crew must move quickly when they throw the cargo overboard, which means they do not have time to see whose cargo gets tossed. This is when the York Antwerp Rules come into play, as those who lost their cargo will receive compensation from the profits of the ship’s owner and the owners of the other cargo.

What Was a Yugen Kaisha (YK)?  

A yugen kaisha (YK) was a type of limited liability company that could be established in Japan from 1940 through early 2006.



The Companies Act enacted in Japan in June 2005 abolished the YK business form. The law changed most YKs into KKs, or kabushiki kaisha (KK)—which were in turn replaced by godo gaisha (GG), a joint-stock company, which is now the most common business form in Japan. The corporation law also changed the corporate governance of YKs.





Key Takeaways

A yugen kaisha (YK) was a form of limited liability company once common in Japan.As a result of the 2005 Companies Act of Japan, the yugen kaisha form was abolished effective 2006.YK firms were restructured as joint-stock companies known as kabushiki kaisha (which themselves were later replaced by godo gaisha).


   Understanding the Yugen Kaisha (YK)  

The YK corporate structure was based on the German GmbH, a limited liability company and the most common form of corporation in Germany. Japan's YK structure was commonly used by small businesses and could have a maximum of 50 shareholders. The shareholders, called members, were collectively required to contribute 3 million yen in capital. YKs were required to have one director, but they did not need to have a full board of directors.



After the Japanese Companies Act of 2005, which became effective on May 1, 2006, no new YK could be formed, and the structure was replaced by godo gaisha.


   The 4 Forms of Japan's Corporate Entities  

Gomei kaisha (a partnership)Goshi kaisha (a limited partnership)Yugen kaisha (a limited liability company)Kabushiki kaisha, replaced by godo gaisha (a joint-stock company)



A yugen kaisha could have been considered similar to a subchapter S corporation, (a limited liability company, or LLC) or partnership in the United States while a KK is a standard corporation). The accounting, capitalization, and procedural requirements for a YK are much less strict than those for a KK. The owners of a YK have limited liability, but they also are restricted in the transfer of shares. The company cannot offer shares to the public.



Japan is a nation of small businesses. According to David Luhmen of Luhmen.org, 70% of all Japanese companies have fewer than 20 employees, and most Japanese companies are formed as GG rather than YKs. GGs are considered larger and more prestigious in Japan, which is an image-conscious nation where appearances are important.


   Capitalization Requirements for KKs and YKs  

The capitalization requirements for KK's and YKs changed in 1991. Before 1991, YK, a limited liability company, could be formed with approximately $1,000. After 1991, the minimum capitalization amount was changed to $30,000 (with one dollar equaling ¥100). In addition, at the same time, the minimum capitalization amount for a KK, a standard corporation, increased from about $4,000 to $100,000. 



Because of its simplified structure and relatively lax incorporation requirements, the YK form was associated with small businesses. However, some larger companies have used the form, for example, ExxonMobil's main Japanese subsidiary was a YK.
What Is a Yuppie?  

Yuppie is a slang term denoting the market segment of young urban professionals. A yuppie is often characterized by youth, affluence, and business success. They are often preppy in appearance and like to show off their success by their style and possessions.





Key Takeaways

The term yuppie originated in the 1980s and is used to refer to young urban professionals who are successful in business and considerably affluent.Some credit writer Joseph Epstein with using the term while others point to journalist Dan Rottenberg's Chicago magazine article.It is difficult to identify modern yuppies because modern society has doled out wealth to various groups of people rather than a specific set of people with similar characteristics.


   Understanding Yuppies  

Coined in the 1980s, the term yuppie was used as a derogatory title for young business people who were considered arrogant, undeservedly wealthy, and obnoxious. Yuppies were often associated with wearing high fashion clothing, driving BMWs, and gloating about their successes. The term has become less of a stereotype and now promotes the image of an affluent professional.



Yuppies tend to be educated with high-paying jobs, and they live in or near large cities. Some typical industries associated with yuppies include finance, tech, academia, and many areas in the arts, especially those associated with liberal thinking and style.


   History of the Term Yuppie  

There is some debate over who first coined the term yuppie, but many attribute this to Joseph Epstein, writer and former editor of The American Scholar. Others credit journalist Dan Rottenberg with coining the term in 1980 an article titled "About That Urban Renaissance..." for Chicago magazine. Rottenberg describes the gentrification of Chicago's downtown by upwardly mobile young professionals rebelling against suburbia. "The Yuppies seek neither comfort nor security, but stimulation, and they can find that only in the densest sections of the city," he wrote.



Linguistically, the term was an evolution, starting from the word "hippie," which 20 years earlier was a label attached to someone considered "hip" to the current culture. That word morphed into "yippie"—counterculture advocates associated with the Youth International Party.



At nearly the same time, a parody of an American stereotype of the "country-club/prep school culture" called The Preppy Handbook made The New York Times bestseller list. "Yuppie" was the mash-up of all of these moments in the young adults in America, each a reflection of their time.



Yippies, in contrast to yuppies, were affiliates of the Youth International Party, a counterculture group that emerged in the late 1960s. The term continued to grow throughout the 1980s as it was used in more newspaper and magazine articles.



After the 1987 stock market crash, the term yuppie became less political and gained more of the social implications it has today. Although its usage declined in the 1990s, it has since come back into the United States lexicon. It has been used and cited in articles, songs, movies, and other pop culture media. To name a few, the term has appeared in the novel and film Fight Club, the movie American Psycho, the satirical blog "Stuff White People Like" and the Tom Petty song "Yer So Bad."



The term yuppie isn't confined only to the United States—other countries, such as China, Russia, and Mexico, have their variations of yuppies that generally also carry the hallmark connotation of young, higher-class professionals. The term tends to spread and thrive in prospering economies.


   Modern Yuppies  

In the 21st century, the term takes on new meaning while retaining the basic tenets of original yuppies. For example, due to the internet and growing reliance on electronic communication, the term yuppie could refer to a Silicon Valley tech worker that doesn't necessarily have the same social skills as the original yuppie, but still works for a prestigious company and makes a lot of money.



This can make it harder to define yuppies since it might not be obvious at first glance that these people have glamorous careers. Perhaps, as a result, the term yuppie isn't used as widely as it was in the 1980s and early 1990s.



A 2015 article in The New York Times made the case that the all-encompassing definition of yuppies had fragmented. Micro-yuppies abounded. These yuppies profess allegiance to lifestyles, such as nature-based, or professional communities, such as technology executives, or even online communities, such as gaming. Hipsters, who mock the consumption culture fostered by modern society, have replaced earlier yuppies. However, the irony of the situation is that they participate in society actively through their choices.
