What Is Z in the Nasdaq?  

The term Z refers to a designation for Nasdaq-listed securities that identifies a miscellaneous entity. This extension is just one of the fifth-letter identifiers that appear after a company's ticker symbol. It indicates that the stock is different from single issues of common or capital stock.



The reasons for a Z-designation tend to vary and may include things like depositary receipts or units. The reasons for a Z designation aren't always obvious and usually require a little research.





Key Takeaways

Z is a fifth-letter identifier for Nasdaq stock symbols.It indicates that a stock is different from a single issue of common or capital stock.Z might indicate that the issue is a depositary receipt, stub, additional warrant, or unit.


   Understanding Z  

Companies must choose a unique ticker symbol when they want to list on a stock exchange. This symbol is made up of a series of characters that identifies the company's stock. It allows traders to execute transactions for these securities. The ticker symbol also identifies the stock exchange on which a particular security trades. For instance, a ticker with three letters trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), while those with four letters trade on the Nasdaq.



These ticker symbols may come with suffixes that alert shareholders to specific situations about the stock itself. Suffixes for Nasdaq-listed securities appear as fifth-letter identifiers and follow a dot after their ticker symbols. When a fifth letter appears, it identifies the issue as different from a single issue of common stock or capital stock.



The Z-letter suffix identifies a variety of miscellaneous entities. Unlike other designations, this one can be fairly vague, so it's up to individuals investors and traders to do their due diligence. Doing a little research can help them figure out why the suffix is added to the end of the security's ticker symbol.



As mentioned above, the letter Z identifies securities that are not single issues of common or capital stock. It may indicate that the security is a depositary receipt, stub, additional warrant, or another type of unit. Z historically had a different meaning in futures trading, though, where it indicated a delivery month of December until new options symbology was introduced in 2010.






The NYSE uses fourth-letter identifiers to distinguish unique instances when certain issuances vary from normal conditions.


   Z vs. Other Letter Designations  

The Nasdaq uses a variety of letters or fifth-letter designations to distinguish stock issuances and the rights that come along with them. Z is just one of those designations. Like Z, the letter L also identifies miscellaneous entities. This identifier denotes certificates of participation (COPs), preferred participation, and stubs.



If you see a ticker symbol with the letter P after a dot, it means that the issuance is the preferred first issue of a company, while the letter O is the second preferred issue. The letter E means the company is delinquent with a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing, while K denotes a series of non-voting stock. The letter F means that the stock is a foreign issue.
What is Z-Bond?  

A Z-bond, also known as an accrual bond, is often the last bond to mature. It receives payment, which is the accrual of interest added to the principal, after all other bond classes.





Key Takeaways

A Z-bond, also known as an accrual bond, is often the last bond to mature. It receives payment, which is the accrual of interest added to the principal, after all other bond classes.A Z-bond is a type of mortgage-backed security (MBS) and the last tranche of a collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO).Z-Bonds are categorized as speculative investments and can be risky for investors.


   Understanding Z-Bond  

A Z-bond is the last tranche of a collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO). As the last portion of the debt security, it receives payment last. Unlike other tranches of a CMO, a Z-bond does not distribute payments to its holder until all the separate tranches are paid. However, the interest will continue to accrue throughout the life of the mortgage. Thus, when the Z-bond does finally pay off, its holder can expect a hefty sum. The bond will pay both principal and interest.



Z-bonds are categorized as speculative investments and can be risky for investors. A Z-bond is a type of mortgage-backed security (MBS). An MBS is made up of a pool of underlying securities that are usually home mortgages. An MBS is secured only by the lender's confidence in the borrower's ability to make their mortgage payments. 



If a pool of borrowers all default on their mortgage payments, and those mortgages are packaged together into a single CMO, the investor holding a Z-bond for that CMO may lose money. Without the incoming mortgage payments, the bonds cannot be paid off. People who invested in other tranches of the CMO may still make back their initial investment. However, because Z-bonds pay out after all other portions, the Z-bond holder stands to lose the most. Conversely, the inclusion of Z-bonds increases the confidence in the other tranches of the CMO, given that the Z-bonds payments can be applied to satisfy the payment obligations of the other tranches before the Z-bonds obligations.


   Minimizing Z-Bond Risk  

Most mortgage-backed securities are issued by either a federal agency or by a government-sponsored entity (GSE) such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Those that are issued by a federal agency are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. In this way, they can be extremely low risk because they are guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury.﻿﻿ 



However, a government-sponsored entity (GSE) does not have U.S. Treasury backing. These entities may borrow money directly from the Treasury, but the government is not obligated to provide funds to bail out these agencies should they find themselves unable to pay their debts. Though these securities carry some risk, that risk is generally considered to be low. For example, during the 2007-08 Financial Crisis, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were deemed too big to fail, and the U.S. Treasury stepped in to support their debt.﻿﻿ 



A smaller portion of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) comes from private firms, such as investment banks and other financial institutions. These securities should be considered significantly higher in risk, as the U.S. government does not back them. The issuers cannot borrow directly from the U.S. Treasury, should the mortgages default.
What Is Z-Score?  

Z-score is a statistical measurement that describes a value's relationship to the mean of a group of values. Z-score is measured in terms of standard deviations from the mean. If a Z-score is 0, it indicates that the data point's score is identical to the mean score. A Z-score of 1.0 would indicate a value that is one standard deviation from the mean. Z-scores may be positive or negative, with a positive value indicating the score is above the mean and a negative score indicating it is below the mean.



In investing and trading, Z-scores are measures of an instrument's variability and can be used by traders to help determine volatility. The Z-score is sometimes confused with the Altman Z-score, which is calculated using factors taken from a company's financial reports. The Altman Z-score is used to calculate the likelihood that a business will go bankrupt in the next two years, while the Z-score can be used to determine how far a stock's return differs from it's average return—and much more.





Key Takeaways 

A Z-Score is a statistical measurement of a score's relationship to the mean in a group of scores.A Z-score can reveal to a trader if a value is typical for a specified data set or if it is atypical.In general, a Z-score of -3.0 to 3.0 suggests that a stock is trading within three standard deviations of its mean.Traders have developed many methods that use z-score to identify correlations between trades, trading positions, and evaluate trading strategies.


   Z-Score Formula  

The statistical formula for a value's z-score is calculated using the following formula:



z = ( x - μ ) / σ



Where:



z = Z-scorex = the value being evaluatedμ = the meanσ = the standard deviation


   How to Calculate Z-Score  
  Z-Score  

Calculating a z-score requires that you first determine the mean and standard deviation of your data. Once you have these figures, you can calculate your z-score. So, assume you have the following variables:



x = 57μ = 52σ = 4



You would use the variables in the formula:



z = ( 57 - 52 ) / 4z = 1.25



So, your selected value has a z-score that indicates it is 1.25 standard deviations from the mean.


  Spreadsheets  

To determine z-score using a spreadsheet, you'll need to input your values and determine the average for the range and the stadard deviation. Using the formulas:



=AVERAGE(A2:A7)



=STDEV(A2:A7)



You'll find that the following values have a mean of 12.17 and a standard deviation of 6.4.












A
B
C




1
Factor (x)
Mean (μ)
St. Dev. (σ)


2
3
12.17
6.4


3
13 
12.17
6.4


4
8 
12.17
6.4


5
21 
12.17
6.4


6
17
12.17
6.4


7
11
12.17
6.4






Using the z-score formula, you can figure out each factor's z-score. Use the following formula in D2, then D3, and so on:



Cell D2 = ( A2 - B2 ) / C2



Cell D3 = ( A3 - B3 ) / C3













A
B
C
D




1
Factor (x)
Mean (μ)
St. Dev. (σ)
Z-Score 


2
3
12.17
6.4
-1.43


3
13 
12.17
6.4
0.13


4
8 
12.17
6.4
-0.65


5
21 
12.17
6.4
1.38


6
17
12.17
6.4
0.75


7
11
12.17
6.4
-0.18





   How the Z-Score Is Used  

In it's most basic form, the z-score allows you determine how far (measured in standard deviations) the returns for the stock you're evaluating are from the mean of a sample of stocks. The average score you have could be the mean of a stock's annual return, the average return of the index it is listed on, or the average return of a selection of stocks you've picked.



Some traders use the z-scores in more advanced evalulation methods, such as weighting each stock's return to use factor investing, where stocks are evaluated based on specific attributes using z-scores and standard deviation. In the forex markets, traders use z-scores and confidence limits to test the capability of a trading system to generate winning and losing streaks.


   Z-Scores vs. Standard Deviation  

In most large data sets (assuming a normal distribution of data), 99.7% of values lie between -3 and 3 standard deviations, 95% between -2 and 2 standard deviations, and 68% between -1 and 1 standard deviations.



Standard deviation indicates the amount of variability (or dispersion) within a given data set. For instance, if a sample of normally distributed data had a standard deviation of 3.1, and another had one of 6.3, the model with a standard deviation (SD) of 6.3 is more dispersed and would graph with a lower peak than the sample with an SD of 3.1.



A distribution curve has negative and positive sides, so there are positive and negative standard deviations and z-scores. However, this has no relevance to the value itself other than indicating which side of the mean it is on. A negative value means it is on the left of the mean, and a positive value indicates it is on the right.



The z-score shows the number of standard deviations a given data point lies from the mean. So, standard deviation must be calculated first because the z-score uses it to communicate a data point's variability.




How Is Z-Score Used in Real Life?
A z-score is used in many real-life applications, such as medical evaluations, test scoring, business decision-making, and investing and trading opportunity measurements. Traders that use statistical measures like z-scores to evaluate trading opportunities are called quant traders (quantitative traders).




What Is a Good Z-Score?
The higher (or lower) a z-score is, the further away from the mean the point is. This isn't necessarily good or bad; it merely shows where the data lies in a normally distributed sample. This means it comes down to preference when evaluating an investment or opportunity. For example, some investors use a z-score range of -3.0 to 3.0 because 99.7% of normally distributed data falls in this range, while others might use -1.5 to 1.5 because they prefer scores closer to the mean.




Why Is Z-Score So Important?
A z-score is important because it tells where your data lies in the data distribution. For example, if a z-score is 1.5, it is 1.5 standard deviations away from the mean. Because 68% of your data lies within one standard deviation (if it is normally distributed), 1.5 might be considered too far from average for your comfort.


   The Bottom Line  

A z-score is a statistical measurement that tells you how far away from the mean (or average) your datum lies in a normally distributed sample. At its most basic level, investors and traders use quantitative analysis methods such as a z-score to determine how a stock performs compared to other stocks or its own historical performance. In more advanced z-score uses, traders weigh investments based on desirable criteria, develop other indicators, or even try to predict the outcome of a trading strategy.
What Is a Z-Share?  

A Z-share is a class of mutual fund shares that employees of the fund's management company are allowed to own. Employees may have the option to buy Z-shares. They are also used in employee benefit plans and offered as a part of compensation or through a reward package.





Key Takeaways

Z-shares are the class of mutual funds that employees of the fund's management company are allowed to own.Typically, Z-shares are offered as part of employees' benefits packages, and some employers even match the number of Z-shares purchased. They can be a valuable offering for employees considering long-term employment prospects.While Z-share investors will pay the same management and miscellaneous fund expenses as other investors, Z-shares typically do not charge any front-end or back-end fees.


   How Z-Shares Work  

Z-shares are typically no-load funds which can make them an even more attractive investment for employees. They usually have no front-end or back-end fees. Generally, they also have one of the lowest expense ratios. While Z-share investors will pay the same management and miscellaneous fund expenses as other investors, their expenses usually do not include distribution or service fees since they are bought and sold directly through the management company without the involvement of an intermediary.



Similar to stock options and stock incentive grants, mutual fund companies offer Z-shares as compensation or through a reward package. In some cases, employers may match the number of shares purchased as a bonus for employees. Z-shares are held in employee benefits accounts. All Z-share transactions are managed by the fund company, which provides reporting for the employees on the investments.



Other aspects of Z-shares are similar to the other share classes in the fund. Z-share assets are pooled by the fund for management and operational economies of scale. Open-end fund Z-shares must be transacted at the forward price, which is its next reported net asset value.



Overall, mutual fund companies structure their offerings to include Z-shares as a firm-wide incentive. Z-shares are a valuable instrument that mutual fund companies can use in all types of employee compensation. They are also used broadly in employee benefit plans. Z-shares can be a valuable offering for employees considering long-term employment prospects. Companies also use Z-shares to support employee morale, loyalty, and long-term career development.


   Franklin Templeton Z-Shares Example  

Franklin Templeton is a prominent mutual fund manager offering Z-shares across nearly all of its mutual fund offerings. The Franklin Mutual Shares Fund (MUTHX) provides one example. This fund offers A, C, R, R6, and Z shares. The Z-shares in the Franklin Mutual Shares Fund have no front-end or back-end fees for employees.



The expense ratio is also one of the lowest among all share classes at 0.81%. In addition, its annual 12b-1 fee is 0%. Because this Franklin Templeton mutual shares stock also doesn't require any distribution and service fees, this helps to keep the annual expense ratio down. The lower fees have helped the Z-share class to report high returns since inception.
What Is a Z-Test?  

A z-test is a statistical test used to determine whether two population means are different when the variances are known and the sample size is large.



The test statistic is assumed to have a normal distribution, and nuisance parameters such as standard deviation should be known in order for an accurate z-test to be performed.





Key Takeaways

A z-test is a statistical test to determine whether two population means are different when the variances are known and the sample size is large.A z-test is a hypothesis test in which the z-statistic follows a normal distribution. A z-statistic, or z-score, is a number representing the result from the z-test.Z-tests are closely related to t-tests, but t-tests are best performed when an experiment has a small sample size.Z-tests assume the standard deviation is known, while t-tests assume it is unknown.


   Understanding Z-Tests  

The z-test is also a hypothesis test in which the z-statistic follows a normal distribution. The z-test is best used for greater-than-30 samples because, under the central limit theorem, as the number of samples gets larger, the samples are considered to be approximately normally distributed.



When conducting a z-test, the null and alternative hypotheses, alpha and z-score should be stated. Next, the test statistic should be calculated, and the results and conclusion stated. A z-statistic, or z-score, is a number representing how many standard deviations above or below the mean population a score derived from a z-test is.



Examples of tests that can be conducted as z-tests include a one-sample location test, a two-sample location test, a paired difference test, and a maximum likelihood estimate. Z-tests are closely related to t-tests, but t-tests are best performed when an experiment has a small sample size. Also, t-tests assume the standard deviation is unknown, while z-tests assume it is known. If the standard deviation of the population is unknown, the assumption of the sample variance equaling the population variance is made.


   One-Sample Z-Test Example  

Assume an investor wishes to test whether the average daily return of a stock is greater than 3%. A simple random sample of 50 returns is calculated and has an average of 2%. Assume the standard deviation of the returns is 2.5%. Therefore, the null hypothesis is when the average, or mean, is equal to 3%.



Conversely, the alternative hypothesis is whether the mean return is greater or less than 3%. Assume an alpha of 0.05% is selected with a two-tailed test. Consequently, there is 0.025% of the samples in each tail, and the alpha has a critical value of 1.96 or -1.96. If the value of z is greater than 1.96 or less than -1.96, the null hypothesis is rejected.



The value for z is calculated by subtracting the value of the average daily return selected for the test, or 1% in this case, from the observed average of the samples. Next, divide the resulting value by the standard deviation divided by the square root of the number of observed values.



Therefore, the test statistic is:



(0.02 - 0.01) ÷ (0.025 ÷ √ 50) = 2.83



The investor rejects the null hypothesis since z is greater than 1.96 and concludes that the average daily return is greater than 1%.




What's the Difference Between a T-Test and Z-Test?
Z-tests are closely related to t-tests, but t-tests are best performed when the data consists of a small sample size, i.e., less than 30. Also, t-tests assume the standard deviation is unknown, while z-tests assume it is known.




When Should You Use a Z-Test?
If the standard deviation of the population is unknown and the sample size is greater than or equal to 30, then the assumption of the sample variance equaling the population variance should be made using the z-test. Regardless of the sample size, if the population standard deviation for a variable remains unknown, a t-test should be used instead.




What Is a Z-Score?
A z-score, or z-statistic, is a number representing how many standard deviations above or below the mean population the score derived from a z-test is. Essentially, it is a numerical measurement that describes a value's relationship to the mean of a group of values. If a z-score is 0, it indicates that the data point's score is identical to the mean score. A z-score of 1.0 would indicate a value that is one standard deviation from the mean. Z-scores may be positive or negative, with a positive value indicating the score is above the mean and a negative score indicating it is below the mean.




What Is Central Limit Theorem (CLT)?
In the study of probability theory, the central limit theorem (CLT) states that the distribution of sample approximates a normal distribution (also known as a “bell curve”) as the sample size becomes larger, assuming that all samples are identical in size, and regardless of the population distribution shape. Sample sizes equal to or greater than 30 are considered sufficient for the CLT to predict the characteristics of a population accurately. The z-test's fidelity relies on the CLT holding.


   The Bottom Line  

A z-test is used in hypothesis testing to evaluate whether a finding or association is statistically significant or not. In particular, it tests whether two means are the same (the null hypothesis). A z-test can only be used if the population standard deviation is known and the sample size is 30 data points or larger. Otherwise, a t-test should be employed.
What Is a Z Tranche?  

A Z tranche is the lowest-ranked tranche of a collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO) in terms of seniority. Its owners are not entitled to any coupon payments, receiving no cash flow from underlying mortgages until the more senior tranches are retired, or paid off.



Instead of paying interest to the Z tranche, the money is used to pay off the principal of the upper tranches faster. In turn, the principal of the Z tranche increases over this time due to the accrued interest. The Z tranche is also written as "Z-tranche" and referred to as the "accrual tranche." 



Typical Z tranche investors include those that possess long-term liabilities or those who worry about reinvestment risk, the possibility of being unable to reinvest cash flows at a rate comparable to their current rate of return.





Key Takeaways

A Z tranche is a portion of a structured financial product that only receives payments once all the other tranches have been retired.Instead of paying interest to the Z tranche, the money is used to pay off the principal of the upper tranches faster.Waiting for everyone else to collect first means holders of Z tranches are the most likely to come up empty.A Z tranche is commonly used to make the tranches that come first, or the more junior tranches, seem more appealing. A common maturity length of a Z tranche can be 20 years or more. 


   Understanding a Z Tranche  

CMOs, a type of mortgage-backed security (MBS) that contains a pool of home loans bundled together and sold as an investment, are stratified so that the contrasting needs of various investors can be met using the same pool of assets. 



Tranches are created to divide up different mortgage profiles into slices that have financial terms suitable for specific investors. The A tranche, for example, may offer short-term income and a shorter time to maturity. The B tranche would then offer a longer time frame of steady cash flow. 



At the bottom of the structure is the Z tranche. The Z tranche is mainly used to improve the attractiveness of the tranches above it. The payments that would be going to the Z tranche instead are dedicated to speeding up the maturity of the senior tranches.


   Z Tranche Structure and Payment  

Z tranches are structured as the final tranche in a sequential pay CMO. After the earlier tranches in the series have been retired, the Z tranche begins paying cash payments that include both principal and interest.



A Z tranche is structured in a way so that there is no interest paid until the lockout period ends and the tranche begins to pay the principal. The tranche is credited the accrued interest, and the bond's face amount is increased by its coupon rate on each payment date.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Z Tranche  

The Z tranche plays a critical role in the creation and long-term success of a CMO, helping to make its senior tranches more secure. That also means that they don't tend to make very attractive investments. Z tranches are described as the riskiest tranche for a reason. It can take decades before an investor sees any money from them, so their holders are up against the time value of money.






Z tranches have average life spans of 18 to 22 years, of which the accrual period is expected to last eight to 10 years, although a prepayment rate above expectations can significantly shorten both.



Waiting for everyone else to collect first comes with several other caveats. As we saw during the Great Recession, homeowners can eventually default on loans. Another big risk that increases over time is outstanding balances on mortgages being paid off ahead of schedule. This phenomenon, known as prepayment risk, prevents MBS holders from recouping all the interest payments they expected to receive as part of their investment.






The volatility that the Z tranche experiences provides additional stability to the upper tranches, making it the ultimate team player within the CMO stratification.



Z tranches face a lot of volatility over their lifespans as interest rates fluctuate and the mortgage pool goes through its refinancing bouts and refinancing burnout.



Despite these flaws, there is a market for Z tranches, indicating that there are people out there who choose to invest in them. These individuals usually have capital on hand and want to park it rather than have to reinvest it regularly.





Pros

Interest accrues before the payout period
Low reinvestment risk



Cons

No cash flow until other tranches retired
High volatility
Can take a long time to receive a payout





   Example of a Z Tranche  

To give an example of a Z tranche, let's say you get a mortgage from First Example Bank. The bank decides to transfer the money into your account per your agreement. You agree to repay this amount over time per the mortgage payment schedule. First Example Bank doesn't necessarily need to keep the mortgage in their own portfolio, and they could choose to sell it.



If First Example Bank sells the mortgage to Second Example Bank, they are then able to use the money from the sale for other investments. Once Second Example Bank receives the purchased mortgage, it will group them together. This is called mortgage pooling. Second Example Bank will then sell securities to investors that represent the pool of mortgages.



You make your payment as scheduled to First Example Bank. They keep a small amount and pass the rest of the payment to Second Example Bank, which also takes a small amount in the form of a fee, passing what is left of the principal and interest to the investors who purchased securities representing the mortgage pool. These are broken down into tranches, with the Z tranche coming last. Therefore, investors who purchased a Z tranche only receive the interest and principal payments after all the other tranches have retired (paid).




How Can I Buy a CMO?
CMOs are over-the-counter product offerings and can be purchased through an issuing institution. Other than individual investors, pension funds, insurance companies, commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks, and other financial institutions also buy CMOs.




Which CMO Tranche Has the Most Prepayment Risk?
The CMO tranche that carries the most prepayment risk is the first tranche, which is the most junior. As more payments are made and tranches retired, the risk of prepayment decreases.




What Kinds of Risk do CMOs Have?
CMOs carry specific risks such as the possibility that not all payments will be made on time, there could be a loss of premium due to prepayments, a risk of interest rates rising and the effect that would have on the securities, and extensions when the principal is returned earlier or later than expected.




Is a CMO a Pass-Through Security?
A CMO is not a pass-through security, although they are similar in that they are both securities created from pools of mortgages.


   The Bottom Line  

A Z tranche is the riskiest tranche in a CMO, and the one that takes the longest time to pay out. Investors will typically consider Z tranches if they want to park their money in an investment and not have to worry about adjusting it over time. However, Z tranches are still considered a risk and can be affected by changes in the interest rate environment and if payments are made met on time.
What Is Zacks Investment Research?  

Zacks Investment Research is an American company dedicated to the production of independent research and investment-related content. It was founded in 1978 by Len Zacks, based on his insights while pursuing his Ph.D. at MIT.



The company provides professional investors with financial data and analysis to help make better investment decisions for proprietary accounts and the investment accounts of clients. Zacks is probably known best known for its extensive array of consensus earnings-per-share (EPS) estimates. More recently, the company has moved into other related areas including research reports, recommendation summaries on various stocks, stock prices, funds, charts and tables, and a host of other investment tools and data.





Key Takeaways

Zacks Investment Research is an American company that produces independent research and investment content.Zacks was founded in 1978 by Len Zacks, a Ph.D. scholar from MIT.Zacks Research is known for its focus on earnings estimate revisions, which Len Zacks described as "the most powerful force impacting stock prices."The company is known for "Zacks Ranks," stock ratings on a scale of one to five. A rank of #1 means "Strong Buy."In addition to "Zacks Ranks" for stock prices, the company has also introduced ratings for mutual funds and ETFs.


   Understanding Zacks Investment Research  

Zacks uses a quantitative stock-rating system that is purely mathematical, meaning they're not influenced by the biases or preferences of individual analysts. The rating system relies heavily on Earnings per share (EPS) related metrics, such as revisions to a company's projected earnings.



These ratings are based on research produced by U.S. brokerage firms. Every day, the company collects electronic data feeds and printed research on more than 8,500 North American publicly traded companies from 185 brokerage firms. By combining and aggregating the opinions of thousands of analysts, the company is able to identify expert consensus on the earnings potential of certain stocks.


   Zacks Ranks  

A key element of Zacks research products is Zacks Ranks, a set of investment ratings that groups equity products according to their earnings potential. Originally launched for stock rankings, Zacks Ranks is now available for mutual funds, exchange traded funds, and other vehicles.



Zacks Ranks assigns stocks into five categories ranging from "Strong Buy" to "Strong Sell," based on the aggregate analysis of multiple brokerage assessments. According to the company, Zacks "Strong Buy" stocks have generated better than 25% annual average returns and outperformed the S&P 500 in 26 years out of 30.



Zacks Ranks uses four criteria to assess earnings potential:



Agreement: the extent to which brokerage analysts are unanimous in assessing the change in a stock's valuation.
Magnitude: the size of the latest change in analysts' consensus.
Upside: the difference between the estimated change, as calculated by Zacks, compared with the consensus estimate.
Surprise: the occurrence of positive earnings surprises in the last few quarters.



These rankings are based on Len Zacks' insight that "earnings estimate revisions are the most powerful force impacting stock prices." When a stocks' earnings estimates are revised upwards, institutional buyers will typically enlarge their positions, thereby buoying the prices of that security. Since large buyers take a long time to enlarge their positions, a small individual investor can quickly take advantage of the anticipated price bump.





#1

Zacks Ranks is a system that rates stocks between one to five. Unlike most ratings systems, a #1 Zacks Rank means "Strong Buy."


   Zacks vs. Morningstar  

Zacks Investment Research is frequently compared with Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based investment research firm that compiles data on mutual funds and ETFs. Like Zacks, Morningstar publishes analysis and rates funds on a five-tiered scale.



However, the two companies take different approaches to investment research. While Zacks relies on quantitative analysis of fund performance, Morningstar has a larger focus on fundamental analysis. Morningstar also uses a proprietary mathematical formula, based on past performance, to determine how each fund ranks in its respective category. Both companies offer free and paid products, with different levels of access at each tier.


   Example of Zacks Investment Research  

Zacks lists several cases of successful predictions to demonstrate the success of their investment model. One example is LSB Industries (LSX), which was given a "Strong Buy" in July of 2012 in anticipation of a potential breakout over the next three months.



The "Strong Buy" rating indicated that brokerage analysts had revised their earnings estimates for LSX, and were likely to continue revising their projections upwards. Within three months, following several more upward revisions, LSX had returned 36% gains to investors who used Zacks Research, compared to 5% returns by the S&P 500.


   The Bottom Line  

Zacks Investment Research is one of many firms that publish data and analysis of mutual funds, stocks, and other investment vehicles. However, Zacks stands out for its unique quantitative approach, focusing on revised earnings estimates as the key to identifying strong performers. Because brokerage analysts tend to be extremely conservative when it comes to revising their estimates, these revisions can be indicators of strong future performance.




What Is Zacks Stock Screener?
The Stock Screener is a paid product by Zacks Investment Research that allows an investor to sort and search for stocks according to desirable metrics, such as price changes, dividends, or return on investment. In keeping with their focus on earnings estimates, the Zacks Stock Screener also allows investors to sort stocks according to their Zacks Rank and changes to their earnings per share.




How Much Does Zacks Stock Screener Cost?
Zacks Premium Screens are available with a premium membership, priced at $249 per year. This product is also available for higher tiers, with prices ranging as high as $2995 per year.




What Is the Zacks Industry Rank?
The Zacks Industry Rank is the average Zacks Rank of all the companies in a specific industry sector. This metric can be used to identify favorable industry-wide conditions that could benefit similar companies.




What Is the Zacks Mutual Fund Rank?
The Zacks Mutual Fund Rank is a rating that is applied to mutual funds, in the same way that Zacks Ranks are assigned to individual stocks. Each quarter, the Zacks Quantitative Research Department calculates a rating for 19,000 different mutual funds, based on the average Zacks Rank of the stocks held by each fund, as well as other quantitative factors.




What Is the Zacks ETF Rank?
Zacks ETF Rank is a similar ranking system that seeks to identify exchange-traded funds that have a favorable one-year outlook. These rankings are based on a wide range of quantitative metrics, such as expense ratio, momentum, yields, and the assets contained in each ETF.




Do you have a news tip for Investopedia reporters? Please email us at
tips@investopedia.com
What Are Zacks Lifecycle Indices?  

Zacks Lifecycle Indices are a series of indexes developed by Zacks Investment Research, Inc., that provide a benchmark for the lifecycle allocation of various target-date funds, with a different index for each target date.





Key Takeaways

Zacks Lifecycle Indices are benchmarks used to measure the relative performance of target-date funds.Target-date funds are pooled investments that begin with more risky investments and gradually become more conservative over time as retirement approaches.As such, there are several Zacks Lifecycle indexes, each with a date corresponding with the terminal date of target-date funds, typically in 10-year increments


   Understanding Zacks Lifecycle Indices  

Zacks Lifecycle Indices provide comparative benchmarks for lifecycle or target-date funds that have become popular with investors saving for retirement, especially those without the knowledge or interest to be actively involved in the management of their investments. As the target date approaches, the asset allocation, or glide path, gradually becomes more conservative.



Zacks, a provider of proprietary research on securities and packaged investments, launched its lifecycle indexes in 2007. It uses proprietary selection rules to identify stocks and bonds with risk/return profiles consistent with general market benchmarks. At launch, the five Zacks indices consisted of different combinations of U.S. stocks, international developed markets stocks and U.S. bonds for funds with target dates of “at retirement” as well as 2010, 2020, 2030 and 2040.


   Example: The Zacks 2040 Lifecyle Index  

The Zacks 2040 Lifecycle Index (ticker: TDAXFO) is designed for investors expecting to retire in 2040. According to Zack's website, the objective of the Index is to select a diversified group of stocks, bonds, and complementary securities with the potential to outperform on a risk-adjusted basis general market benchmarks.﻿﻿ The Index constituent selection methodology utilizes multi-factor proprietary selection rules to determine the optimal mix of domestic stocks, international stocks and fixed income securities in the overall allocation and to identify those securities that offer the greatest potential from a risk/return perspective. The approach is specifically designed to enhance investment applications and investability. The Index is adjusted annually, or as required, to assure timely stock selections.


   Motivation for Zacks Lifecycle Indices  

Zacks created the lifecycle indexes to provide more in-depth details on the risk and return characteristics of target date funds or TDFs. Educating shareholders in these funds about the high level of equity exposure – and thus risk of principal loss – at the target date was one of the primary motivations for the series.



Most target date funds define their target as either “to or through” the probable retirement age of a fund shareholder, either investing “through” that date or “to” that date. As Zacks explained in its launch, most TDF glidepaths target actuarial life expectancies. In other words, most of these funds assume the shareholder will remain invested and need some combination of growth and conservation of capital during retirement and keep a portion of their allocation in higher-risk equities. Zacks believed this setup created undue risk for investors with short-term capital needs, such as funding a college education or paying for medical expenses, where losing a large portion of principal was unacceptable.



A TDF investing “to” a target date, meanwhile, would permanently shift to a conservative, capital preservation-based allocation at retirement consisting mostly of bonds and cash, with the goal of generating income while protecting principal. Critics of these TDFs suggest that retirees expected to be in retirement for 20 to 30 years or more need the capital appreciation provided by equity exposure to prevent them from outliving their retirement savings.



Another consideration is the differing glide paths followed by each provider of target date funds. The Fidelity Freedom 2030 Fund is expected to hold 53% equities, 40% bonds and 7% cash at retirement in 2030, a more aggressive allocation than the T. Rowe Price Target 2030 Fund, which would hold 42.5% equities and 57.5% bonds.
What Does Zakat Mean?  

Zakat is an Islamic finance term referring to the obligation that an individual has to donate a certain proportion of wealth each year to charitable causes. Zakat is mandatory for all Muslims in most countries and is considered to be a form of worship. Giving away money to the poor is said to purify yearly earnings that are over and above what is required to provide a person and their family with their essential needs.





Key Takeaways

Zakat is a religious obligation for all Muslims who meet the necessary criteria to donate a certain portion of their wealth each year to charitable causes.It is said to purify yearly earnings that are over and above what is required to provide individuals and their families with their essential needs. Zakat is based on income and the value of possessions. The common minimum amount for those who qualify is 2.5% or 1/40 of a Muslim's total savings and wealth.No zakat is required when someone's personal wealth falls below the threshold during a lunar year, 


   How Zakat Works  

There are Five Pillars of Islam: the declaration of faith, prayer, fasting during Ramadan, the Hajj pilgrimage, and zakat. Zakat is a compulsory procedure for Muslims who earn above a certain threshold. It should not be confused with Sadaqah, the act of voluntarily giving charitable gifts out of kindness or generosity.



Religious texts offer comprehensive descriptions of the minimum amount of zakat that should be distributed to those less fortunate. It generally varies, depending on whether wealth came from farm produce, cattle, business activities, paper currency, or precious metals like gold and silver.



Zakat is based on income and the value of possessions. The common minimum amount for those who qualify is 2.5% or 1/40 of a Muslim's total savings and wealth. 



The recipients of zakat are:



The poor and needyStruggling Muslim convertsEnslaved peopleIndividuals in debtSoldiers fighting to protect the Muslim communityThose stranded during their travels



The collectors of zakat are also compensated for the work they do.






Each year, between $200 billion and $1 trillion is spent on mandatory alms and voluntary charity across the Muslim world, according to Islamic financial analysts.


   Special Considerations  

As one of the Five Pillars of Islam, zakat is a religious obligation for all Muslims who meet the necessary criteria of wealth. This rule plays a major role in the history of Islam and has led to disputes, notably during the Ridda wars.



Zakat is considered to be a mandatory type of tax, although not all Muslims abide. In many countries with large Muslim populations, individuals can choose whether or not to pay zakat.



That is not the case for countries such as Libya, Malaysia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Yemen. Those who fail to pay zakat in places where it is compulsory are treated like tax evaders and warned that they will face God’s punishment on Judgment Day.



There has been considerable controversy and criticism surrounding zakat, though. Islamic scholars and development workers argue that it has failed to lift people out of poverty, prompting them to suggest that the funds are being wasted and mismanaged.






A personal residence doesn't count toward wealth and thus, doesn't count when calculating zakat. Property used to generate income, such as a rental or vacation home, does.


   Zakat vs. Nisab  

Nisab is a term that often appears alongside zakat. It is a threshold, referring to the minimum amount of wealth and possessions that a Muslim must own before being obligated to pay zakat. In other words, if personal wealth is below this minimum during one lunar year, no zakat is owed for that period. The nisab is set at the value of 87.48 grams of gold or 612.36 grams of silver.



Not everyone pays zakat at the same time. That's where nisab comes into play. Individuals become eligible to pay zakat once they reach the threshold during the full lunar year. So one individual may owe it earlier than someone else.



There is no set payment date for zakat. But it is often paid out at the end of the year once calculations on any leftover wealth are made. Some Muslims believe that paying zakat during Ramadan brings good fortune.



This requires that individuals take regular inventory of their possessions and wealth. This can be done either weekly or monthly.




What Is Zakat in Islam?
Zakat is an Islamic financial term. As one of the pillars of the faith, it requires all Muslims to donate a portion of their wealth to charity. Muslims must meet a certain threshold before they can qualify for zakat. The amount is 2.5% or 1/40 of an individual's total savings and wealth. Zakat can be paid at any time during the lunar year. Some Islamic countries require citizens to pay zakat while others do not.




How Do You Calculate Zakat?
Muslims should take inventory of their possessions and wealth. Once they reach nisab or the threshold, which is the value of 87.48 grams of gold or 612.36 grams of silver, they must pay zakat. The total amount to be paid is 2.5% or 1/40 of their total savings and wealth. Muslims can use any number of zakat calculators which are available online to determine their obligations.




What Are the Rules of Zakat?
Individuals must meet a certain threshold known as nisab in order to qualify for zakat every lunar year. This is set at the value of 87.48 grams of gold or 612.36 grams of silver. People whose wealth exceeds the value of these amounts must pay 2.5% of the value of their wealth in zakat. Individuals who do not meet this limit are not obligated to pay.




How Much Are Muslims Obligated to Pay in Zakat?
Muslims are obligated to pay 2.5% of the total value of their wealth less any liabilities in zakat provided they reach nisab. This is the threshold, which is the value of 87.48 grams of gold or 612.36 grams of silver. Some Muslim countries make zakat mandatory, just like taxes. Others, though do not obligate their citizens to do so.


   The Bottom Line  

Sharia is a set of religious laws that adherents of the Islamic faith follow. It dictates various facets of Muslim life, from rituals to raising a family to financial matters. Zakat is an Islamic financial term that obligates Muslims to donate a portion of their wealth to charitable causes. While the practice is mandatory in many Islamic nations, some countries don't obligate their citizens to do so. Whether obligatory or voluntary, using an online zakat calculator can help individuals determine just how much of their wealth they must donate each lunar year.
What Is ZCash (ZEC)?  

ZCash emerged in 2016 when a group of scientists decided they wanted to create a cryptocurrency similar to Bitcoin but with some additional features. They developed a fork of the Bitcoin blockchain, with enhanced user security and anonymity. The scientists first invented Zerocoin, which became Zerocash not too long after its initial release. Eventually, the cryptocurrency was renamed ZCash.





Key Takeaways

ZCash is a Bitcoin fork with a different hashing algorithm and security protocols.ZCash started as Zerocash; it was later improved upon by the Electric Coin Company and rebranded ZCash.ZCash verifies ownership of coins and transactions more anonymously than Bitcoin, thus providing more security for users.Zcoin can be mined on devices and computers, but the currency is best mined on dedicated systems called application-specific integrated circuits.


   Understanding ZCash (ZEC)  

ZCash is forked from the original Bitcoin codebase. In 2014, Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza believed there were security flaws in the way transactions were tracked through Bitcoin's blockchain. In their whitepaper outlining their ideas, they called their cryptocurrency Zerocash.



The scientists created Zerocoin (Electric Coin Company) in 2015. In 2016, the name changed to Zcash, by the Electric Coin Company.



ZCash uses the zk-SNARK security protocol to ensure the parties involved in a transaction are verified without revealing any information to each other or the network.






ZCash is an altcoin, a category of cryptocurrency that shares many of the characteristics of Bitcoin. Many altcoins are different in their purpose and intended uses.



Zk-Snark allows for fully shielded transactions in which the sender, recipient, and amount are encrypted. This feature is a large deviation from other cryptocurrencies, where transaction transparency is an underlying concept aside from securing user information.


   How Is ZCash Different from Bitcoin?  

The Bitcoin community prides itself on transparent transactions while maintaining anonymity. However, anyone interested or who has a stake in a transaction could trace the parties within it.



ZCash doesn’t eliminate transaction information. Instead, it encrypts it so that it cannot be tracked. The ZCash blockchain is still encrypted, but the security protocol zk-SNARK adds additional user security and anonymity.



Bitcoin uses the hashing algorithm SHA-256. ZCash uses Equihash, which is incompatible with hardware and software designed for Bitcoin mining. It also has larger blocks and increased hashing times, which increases the network's hash rate. A cryptocurrency’s hash rate is the processing power of the network of miners—it's a measure of how fast the transactions can be verified and validated to open a new block.






Joining a mining pool is one of the best ways to benefit from ZCash mining. Efficiency and opportunities to earn are increased when resources are pooled together.



Hashing is the process used to convert data into a string of alphanumeric characters. The string of numbers is unique because it is created from the data in the block. Once hashed, it cannot be replicated. The hashing algorithm is the mathematical method used to create the alphanumeric string, also called the hash.


   Goals of ZCash  

ZCash was designed to be efficient, safe, and anonymous. The developers behind ZCash also promote complying with regulatory requirements. Additionally, you can choose full transparency when you use ZCash, in which case its transparency is similar to that of Bitcoin when transfers are conducted.


   How to Mine ZCash  

New coins are produced by mining. You can use an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) miner or your computer if it has a graphics card capable of mining. Operating systems supported by ZCash are Docker, Debian/Ubuntu, Mac, and other Linux flavors. However, ZCash recommends using an ASIC miner and mining pool because the network difficulty has gotten high enough that PC mining is not worth the time and costs.



ZCash uses a proof-of-work mining algorithm, which requires miners to compete against each other to produce a new block by racing to solve the hash. The first miner to find the solution opens a new block and receives the block reward.




How Many ZCash are Left?
ZCash has a maximum supply of 21 million coins, with 14.6 million in circulation. Once there are 21 million ZCash in circulation, no more can be mined, and you’ll only be able to acquire them by purchasing them on an exchange or from an individual.




Is ZCash Safe?
ZCash is safe in the sense that it hides and protects your information.




Does ZCash Use Proof of Work?
Yes, it uses Equihash, a proof-of-work mining algorithm based on the Generalized Birthday Problem concept.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is a Zero Balance Account (ZBA)?  

A zero balance account (ZBA) is exactly what it sounds like: a checking account in which a balance of $0 is maintained. When funds are needed in the ZBA, the exact amount of money required is automatically transferred from a central or master account. Similarly, deposits are swept into the master account daily.



Corporations sometimes use zero balance accounts to ensure funds are readily available throughout different departments, to eliminate excess balances in separate accounts, and to maintain greater control over the disbursement of funds. These accounts often handle items such as payroll, petty cash and other similar needs.





Key Takeaways

A zero balance account (ZBA) is an account in which a balance of zero is maintained by transferring funds to and from a master account.ZBAs are not consumer products but are used by larger businesses.An organization may have multiple zero balance subaccounts to monitor and track spending by department or project. ZBAs promote risk mitigation, as a company has greater control over where it cash balances are and what unauthorized spending may occur. ZBAs are also typically heavily automated. Though this limits clerical errors and incites operational efficiency in some ways, a business must still monitor and reconcile its bank statements. 


   How Zero Balance Accounts (ZBAs) Work  

The master account provides a centralized place to manage an organization's funds. Whenever funds are required in the ZBA checking account to cover a charge or transaction, money is transferred from the master account in the exact amount required. There is no need for an employee to do this manually, as the process is fully automated.






The ZBA's activity is limited to the processing of payments and is not used to maintain a running balance.



Using a ZBA to fund debit cards issued by the organization helps ensure that all of the activity on the cards is pre-approved. Since idle funds are not present within the ZBA, it is not possible to run a debit card transaction until funds are supplied to the account.



The use of a ZBA as a spending control mechanism is especially helpful when managing incidental charges across a large organization. By limiting quick access to funds via debit cards, it is more likely that proper approval procedures will be followed prior to the completion of a purchase. This permits easy tracking of transfers and reconciliation across accounts.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of ZBAs  

Transactions from ZBAs are self-managed, often saving the account holder time for having to manually rebalance or fund transactions. ZBAs may also be easier to reconcile, audit, or receive department-level reporting on spending.



Because so much of ZBAs is automated, many companies find there are less clerical errors or transaction failures due to human error. This saves on overdraft fees. ZBAs are also great control mechanisms to monitor spending. If a company has one main account instead of many accounts with bank balances, a company can mitigate the chance of their bank account being compromised by unapproved or fraudulent transactions.



By concentrating funds in the master account, more money is available for investments rather than having small dollar amounts idle within a variety of subaccounts. The master account often has additional benefits such as a higher interest rate on balances. Thus, ZBAs maximize funds available for investment and minimize the risk of overdraft fees.



There are some downsides to ZBAs. Though sweeping and transfers are automatic, the business must still reconcile bank statements and monitor for failed transactions. Should a transaction fail to process or be canceled, money moved into that account may automatically swept back resulting in multiple unnecessary transactions. Last, though intended to relieve administrative burdens, ZBAs proliferate the number of bank accounts a company owns and may result in higher admin demands.


   Requirements to Open ZBAs  

Not everyone can qualify for a ZBA. Banks will often not offer this product to general consumers and will only offer this solution to companies. In addition, banks may not provide ZBAs to small, unestablished businesses.



By its nature, ZBAs must have a linked master account, and the bank offering the ZBA will likely require the master account be held at their institution. The bank may require transaction history evidence, historical average bank balances, estimated spend projections, and applicable credit history information prior to opening the account.





FDIC Insured

Although ZBAs don't often have cash balances, those balances are often insured (up to certain limits) by both the FDIC and NCUA.


   Special Considerations  

An organization may have multiple zero balance accounts to improve budget management and make the process of allocating funds more efficient. This can include creating a separate ZBA for each department or function as a way to monitor daily, monthly, or yearly charges.



Other reasons for creating separate ZBAs might involve the financial management of particular short-term projects or those at particular risk for unexpected overages. The use of zero balance accounts helps to prevent excess charges without proper notification and approval.




What Is a Zero Balance Account?
A zero balance account is a bank account that intentionally carried $0. A company only funds the account when items need to be paid, and any remaining cash after deposits is often swept at the end of the night. A zero balance account relies heavily on a master account to sweep money.




Is a Zero Balance Account Bad?
In the context of the financial product, a zero balance account is not bad. A company intentionally holds $0 in the account and only puts money into the account when a transaction will occur. A company does this to strategically manage cash and protect its assets.




How Can I Open a Zero Balance Account?
Zero balance accounts are often only offered to businesses. In addition, a business must often have been operating for some time with credit history, banking history, and proof of future cash flow prior to opening a ZBA.




What Are the Benefits of a Zero Balance Account?
A zero balance account automatically sweeps funds from a master account to pay obligations or sweeps unused funds into a master account. The account is intended to increase efficiency of how cash is used, limit risk and fraud, and streamline the banking process.
What Is a Zero Balance Card?  

The term “zero balance card” refers to a credit card with no outstanding balance of debt. Credit card users can maintain zero balance cards either by paying off their full balances at the end of each billing cycle, or by simply not using their cards. In either case, maintaining zero balance cards can benefit credit card users by helping to improve their credit score.





Key Takeaways

A zero balance card is a credit card with no outstanding balance.Customers can maintain such cards by paying off their full balance each month, or by simply refraining to make any purchases on their cards.Maintaining zero balance cards can help improve customers’ credit scores by helping to reduce their overall credit utilization ratio.


   Understanding Zero Balance Cards  

Many credit card users rely on their credit cards to finance everyday transactions such as groceries, gasoline, or various discretionary purchases. According to a survey by Clever, roughly 53% of borrowers pay off their full outstanding balances each month.



This method of using credit cards can be very beneficial to the user, since it allows them to enjoy benefits such as cash-back incentives and rewards programs without actually incurring any interest on the debts. Since credit card companies typically calculate their customers’ outstanding debts at the end of each month, these customers’ credit cards would show an outstanding balance of zero—making them zero balance cards.



But what about the roughly 47% of customers who do not pay off their credit card balances each month? These credit card users will show a steady balance of outstanding debt from one month to the next, the size of which will be recorded on their credit report. If the outstanding balance becomes too large relative to their credit limit, then this may have a negative effect on the borrower’s credit score. On the other hand, maintaining a relatively low balance of debt relative to their credit limit can help improve a borrower’s credit score.



If you're having trouble maintaining an outstanding balance of zero on your current card due to a high interest rate, you might be worth considering a balance transfer to a better card.


   Real World Example of a Zero Balance Card  

In the past, some credit card companies would charge their customers inactivity fees if they failed to make regular purchases using their credit cards. This practice was made illegal through the passage of the Credit CARD Act in 2009, although credit card companies are still permitted to charge annual fees on their cards.



Assuming a zero balance card does not have an annual fee, keeping the account open can benefit the cardholder by helping to decrease their overall level of credit utilization. For example, suppose you are the holder of three credit cards: one is a zero balance card with a credit limit of $5,000; the second has a $1,000 balance with a credit limit of $4,000; and the third has a $2,000 balance with a credit limit of $3,000.



In total, your combined credit limit is $12,000, and your combined balance is $3,000, giving you an overall utilization ratio of 25%. From this example, we can plainly see that keeping the zero balance card is helpful in reducing your overall ratio. After all, if you closed the card your combined balance would still be $3,000, but your credit limit would drop to only $7,000. As a result, your new utilization ratio would rise to over 40%.
What Is Zero-Based Budgeting (ZBB)?  

Zero-based budgeting (ZBB) is a method of budgeting in which all expenses must be justified for each new period. The process of zero-based budgeting starts from a "zero base," and every function within an organization is analyzed for its needs and costs. The budgets are then built around what is needed for the upcoming period, regardless of whether each budget is higher or lower than the previous one.





Key Takeaways

Zero-based budgeting is a technique used by companies, but this type of budgeting can be used by individuals and families.Budgets are created around the monetary needs for each upcoming period, like a month.Traditional budgeting and zero-based budgeting are two methods used to track expenditures.Zero-based budgeting helps managers tackle lower costs in a company.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How Zero-Based Budgeting (ZBB) Works  

In business, ZBB allows top-level strategic goals to be implemented into the budgeting process by tying them to specific functional areas of the organization, where costs can be first grouped and then measured against previous results and current expectations.



Because of its detail-oriented nature, zero-based budgeting may be a rolling process done over several years, with a few functional areas reviewed at a time by managers or group leaders. Zero-based budgeting can help lower costs by avoiding blanket increases or decreases to a prior period's budget. It is, however, a time-consuming process that takes much longer than traditional, cost-based budgeting.



The practice also favors areas that achieve direct revenues or production, as their contributions are more easily justifiable than in departments such as client service and research and development.



Zero-based budgeting, primarily used in business, can be used by individuals and families, too.


   Zero-Based Budgeting vs. Traditional Budgeting  

Traditional budgeting calls for incremental increases over previous budgets, such as a 2% increase in spending, as opposed to a justification of both old and new expenses, as called for with zero-based budgeting.



Traditional budgeting also only analyzes only new expenditures, while ZBB starts from zero and calls for a justification of old, recurring expenses in addition to new expenditures. Zero-based budgeting aims to put the onus on managers to justify expenses and aims to drive value for an organization by optimizing costs and not just revenue.


   Example of Zero-Based Budgeting  

Suppose a construction equipment company implements a zero-based budgeting process calling for closer scrutiny of manufacturing department expenses. The company notices that the cost of certain parts used in its final products and outsourced to another manufacturer increases by 5% every year. The company can make those parts in-house using its workers. After weighing the positives and negatives of in-house manufacturing, the company finds it can make the parts more cheaply than the outside supplier.



Instead of blindly increasing the budget by a certain percentage and masking the cost increase, the company can identify a situation in which it can decide to make the part itself or buy the part from the external supplier for its end products.



Traditional budgeting may not allow cost drivers within departments to be identified. Zero-based budgeting is a more granular process that aims to identify and justify expenditures. However, zero-based budgeting is also more involved, so the costs of the process itself must be weighed against the savings it may identify.




What Is Zero-Based Budgeting?
Zero-based budgeting originated in the 1960s by former Texas Instruments account manager Peter Pyhrr. Unlike traditional budgeting, zero-based budgeting starts at zero, justifying each individual expense for a reporting period. Zero-based budgeting starts from scratch, analyzing each granular need of the company, instead of incremental budgeting increases found in traditional budgeting, Essentially, this allows for a strategic, top-down approach to analyze the performance of a given project.




What Are the Advantages of Zero-Based Budgeting?
As an accounting practice, zero-based budgeting offers a number of advantages including focused operations, lower costs, budget flexibility, and strategic execution. When managers think about how each dollar is spent, the highest revenue-generating operations come into greater focus. Meanwhile, lowered costs may result as zero-based budgeting may prevent the misallocation of resources that may happen over time when a budget grows incrementally.




What Are the Disadvantages of Zero-Based Budgeting?
Zero-based budgeting has a number of disadvantages. First, it is timely and resource-intensive. Because a new budget is developed each period, the time cost involved may not be worthwhile. Instead, using a modified budget template may prove more beneficial. Second, it may reward short-term perspectives in the company by allocating more resources to operations with the highest revenues. In turn, areas such as research and development, or those that have a long-term horizon, may get overlooked.
What Is a Zero Basis Risk Swap (ZEBRA)?  

A zero basis risk swap (ZEBRA) is an interest rate swap agreement between a municipality and a financial intermediary. A swap is an agreement with two counterparties, where one party pays the other party a fixed interest rate and receives a floating rate.



This particular swap is considered zero-risk because the municipality receives a floating rate that is equal to the floating rate on its debt obligations, meaning that there is no basis risk with the trade. The ZEBRA is also known as a "perfect swap" or "actual rate swap."





Key Takeaways

A zero basis risk swap (ZEBRA) is an interest rate swap entered into between a municipality and a financial intermediary.A swap is an over-the-counter (OTC) derivative where one party pays the other party a fixed interest rate and receives a floating rate. A ZEBRA entails the municipality paying a fixed rate of interest on a specified principal amount to the financial intermediary.


   Understanding a Zero Basis Risk Swap (ZEBRA)  

ZEBRAs entail the municipality paying a fixed rate of interest on a specified principal amount to the financial intermediary. In return, they receive a floating rate of interest from the financial intermediary. The floating rate received is equal to the floating rate on the outstanding debt initially issued by the municipality to the public.



Basis risk is the financial risk that offsetting investments in a hedging strategy will not experience price changes in entirely opposite directions from each other. This imperfect correlation between the two investments creates the potential for excess gains or losses in a hedging strategy, thus adding risk to the position. A ZEBRA is free from such risk.



Municipalities use these types of swaps to manage risk, as the swap creates more stable cash flows. If the floating rate on their debt rises, the floating rate they receive from the ZEBRA swap also rises. This helps avoid the situation where interest on debt rises but those higher interest charges are not offset by higher interest payments coming in.



The municipality always pays the fixed interest rate in a ZEBRA swap. This is what allows them to keep their cash flows stable; they know what they will be paying out, and also know that the floating rate they pay will be equally offset by the floating rate they receive.






ZEBRA swaps are traded over-the-counter (OTC) and can be for any amount agreed on by the municipality and the financial institution counterparty.


   Example of a Zero Basis Risk Swap (ZEBRA)  

Say a municipality has $10 million in floating-rate debt issued at the prime rate plus 1%, with the prime rate at 2%. The municipality agrees to pay a fixed rate of 3.1% to a financial intermediary for a term agreed to by the parties. In exchange, the municipality receives floating interest rate payments of the prime rate plus 1% from the financial institution.



No matter what happens with rates in the future, the floating rate received will equal the floating rate the municipality needs to pay on their debt. This is why it is called a zero basis risk swap.



One party could still end up better off, though. If interest rates rise, this will favor the municipality because they are paying a fixed rate. Alternatively, should interest rates fall, the municipality is worse off. This is because they will be paying a higher fixed rate when instead they could have just paid the lower interest rate on their debt directly.



While there is the possibility of ending up worse off, municipalities still enter into such agreements since their main goal is to stabilize debt costs, not bet on interest rate movements.
What Is a Zero-Beta Portfolio?  

A zero-beta portfolio is a portfolio constructed to have zero systematic risk, or in other words, a beta of zero. A zero-beta portfolio would have the same expected return as the risk-free rate. Such a portfolio would have zero correlation with market movements, given that its expected return equals the risk-free rate or a relatively low rate of return compared to higher-beta portfolios.



A zero-beta portfolio is quite unlikely to attract investor interest in bull markets, since such a portfolio has no market exposure and would therefore underperform a diversified market portfolio. It may attract some interest during a bear market, but investors are likely to question whether merely investing in risk-free, short-term treasuries is a better and cheaper alternative to a zero-cost portfolio.





Key Takeaways

A zero-beta portfolio is constructed to have zero systematic risk—a beta of zero.Beta measures an investment's sensitivity to a price movement of a specifically referenced market index.Zero-beta portfolios have no market exposure so are unlikely to attract investor interest in bull markets, since such portfolios would underperform diversified market portfolios.


   Understanding Zero-Beta Portfolios  
  Beta and Formula  

Beta measures a stock's (or other security's) sensitivity to a price movement of a specifically referenced market index. This statistic measures if the investment is more or less volatile compared to the market index it is being measured against.



A beta of more than one indicates that the investment is more volatile than the market, while a beta less than one indicates the investment is less volatile than the market. Negative betas are possible and indicate that the investment moves in an opposite direction than the particular market measure.



For example, imagine a large-cap stock. It's possible that this stock could have a beta of 0.97 versus the Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 index (a large-cap stock index) while simultaneously having a beta of 0.7 versus the Russell 2000 index (a small-cap stock index). At the same time, it could be possible the company would have a negative beta to a very unrelated index, such as an emerging market debt index.



The formula for beta is:



Beta = Covariance of Market Return with Stock Return / Variance of Market Return


  A Simple Zero-Beta Example  

As a simple example of a zero-beta portfolio, consider the following. A portfolio manager wants to construct a zero-beta portfolio versus the S&P 500 index. The manager has $5 million to invest and is considering the following investment choices:



Stock 1: has a beta of 0.95Stock 2: has a beta of 0.55Bond 1: has a beta of 0.2Bond 2: has a beta of -0.5Commodity 1: has a beta of -0.8



If the investment manager allocated capital in the following way, he would create a portfolio with a beta of approximately zero:



Stock 1: $700,000 (14% of the portfolio; a weighted-beta of 0.133)Stock 2: $1,400,000 (28% of the portfolio; a weighted-beta of 0.154)Bond 1: $400,000 (8% of the portfolio; a weighted-beta of 0.016)Bond 2: $1 million (20% of the portfolio; a weighted-beta of -0.1)Commodity 1: $1.5 million (30% of the portfolio; a weighted-beta of -0.24)



This portfolio would have a beta of -0.037, which would be considered a near-zero beta portfolio.
What Is Zero-Bound?  

Zero-bound is an expansionary monetary policy tool where a central bank lowers short-term interest rates to zero, if needed, to stimulate the economy. A central bank that is forced to enact this policy must also pursue other, often unconventional, methods of stimulus to resuscitate the economy.





Key Takeaways

Zero-bound is an expansionary monetary policy tool where a central bank lowers short-term interest rates to zero, if needed, to stimulate the economy.Central banks will manipulate interest rates to either stimulate a stagnating economy or dampen an overheating one.The Great Recession forced some international central banks to push the limits of zero-bound below the numerical level and implement negative rates to spur growth and spending.


   Understanding Zero-Bound  

Zero-bound refers to the lowest level that interest rates can fall to, and logic dictates that zero would be that level. The main arrow in a central bank's monetary policy quiver is interest rates. The bank will manipulate interest rates to either stimulate a stagnating economy or dampen an overheating one. Clearly, there are limits, especially at the lower end of the range.



The zero-bound is the lower limit that rates can be cut to, but no further. When this level is reached, and the economy is still underperforming, then the central bank can no longer provide stimulus via interest rates. Economists use the term liquidity trap to describe this scenario.



When faced with a liquidity trap, alternative procedures for monetary stimulus often become necessary. Conventional wisdom was that interest rates could not move into negative territory, meaning once interest rates reach zero or are close to zero, for example, 0.01%, monetary policy has to be altered to continue to stabilize or stimulate the economy.



The most familiar alternative monetary policy tool is perhaps quantitative easing (QE). This is where a central bank engages in a large-scale asset-buying program, often involving treasuries and other government bonds. Not only will this keep short-term rates low, but it will push down longer-term rates, which further incentivizes borrowing.


  Negative Rates  

Since the Great Recession of 2008 and 2009, some central banks pushed the limits of zero-bound below the numerical level and implemented negative rates. As the global economy plummeted, central banks slashed rates to spur growth and spending. However, as the recovery remained slow, central banks began entering the uncharted territory of negative rates. 



Sweden was the first country to enter this territory, when in 2009 the Riksbank cut the repo rate to 0.25%, which pushed the deposit rate to -0.25%. Since then, the European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of Japan (BOJ), and a handful of others followed suit at one time or another. 



There are instances where negative rates have been implemented during normal times. Switzerland is one such example; through much of the 2010s, its target interest rate was-0.75%, which was raised to -0.50% in 2021. Japan similarly had adopted a negative interest rate policy (NIRP), with a target rate of -0.1%.


   Example of Zero-Bound and Negative Interest Rates in Switzerland  

The Swiss National Bank (SNB) maintains a negative interest-rate policy. While there are other examples of negative interest rates, the Swiss example is rather unique in that the country is opting to keep rates very low (and negative) to prevent its currency from rising too significantly.






In the Swiss example, negative interest rates are only applied to Swiss franc bank balances over a certain threshold.



Switzerland is viewed as a safe-haven, with low political and inflation risk. Other examples of negative and zero-bound interest rate policies have often come about because of economic turmoil, which requires cutting interest rates to stimulate the economy. The Swiss situation doesn't fit this scenario.



The SNB has maintained that it must keep rates low to prevent its already relatively high currency value from going even higher. A rising currency hurts the Swiss export industry. Therefore, the SNB has taken a two-pronged approach to control the currency. The Bank has actively engaged in currency market interventions to help cap the strong Swiss franc, and also keeps interest rates low or negative to dissuade strong speculative buying of the franc.



In this situation, the SNB will eventually adopt a zero-bound strategy for moving back to 0% and above. However, that won't happen until the central bank feels it can raise rates without causing too significant of a rise in the currency.
What Is a Zero-Bound Interest Rate?  

A central bank's weapons for stimulating the economy may become ineffective if short-term interest rates are "zero-bound," or hit zero. At least, that is the conventional wisdom, but the assumption has been tested in the recent past and found faulty.



In three recent cases, a central bank's action in pushing interest rates below zero seemed to have had modest success, or at least not worsened the situation. In all three cases, the action was a response to a financial crisis.





Key Takeaways

Conventional wisdom says that interest rates are "zero-bound." That is, forcing rates below zero will not stimulate economic activity.That's logical: Why would anyone pay to loan money?In fact, rates were allowed to drift below zero in three recent crises.The policy may have worked, perhaps because investors sought safety.


   Understanding the Zero-Bound Interest Rate  

In general, short-term interest rates are loans for less than one year. Bank certificates of deposit and Treasury bills fall into this category.



For consumers and investors, these are the ultimate safe-haven investments. They pay a minimal amount of interest but there's virtually no risk of the loss of principal.



The central bank, such as the Federal Reserve in the U.S., revises lending rates periodically. It may push lending rates lower in order to stimulate economic activity or hike them higher to slow an overheated economy.



It also sets the overnight lending rate. That's the interest rate that banks (and the Fed) charge each other for borrowing and loaning money amongst themselves for very short terms (literally "overnight.")



But these adjustments by the Federal Reserve are incremental and the powers of the Fed are limited.


  When Rates Reach Zero  

So, what happens when short-term rates go to zero? Conventional wisdom says they can go no lower. Zero is the boundary beyond which monetary policy won't work.



After all, below zero rates mean negative interest. The borrower is asking for a loan and demanding to be paid for the privilege of taking the money. Or, a bank is accepting your cash and demanding to be paid for the privilege.



Until recently it was assumed that central banks, in setting overnight lending rates, did not have the ability to push the nominal interest rate beyond 0% and into negative territory.



And yet it happened, in three cases.





March 2020: The Federal Reserve Lowered the Fed Funds Rate to 0%-0.25% in Response to COVID-19

Yields on both the 1-month and 3-month U.S. Treasury bills dipped below zero on March 25, 2020.


   March 2020: A Flight to Safety  

In March of 2020, the U.S. Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate to a range of 0%-0.25% in reaction to the economic slowdown caused by the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.



Yields on both one-month and three-month Treasury bills dipped below zero on March 25, 2020, a week and a half after the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark rate. Amid the turmoil, investors flocked to the safety of fixed-income investments, even at a slight loss.



It was the first time that had happened in 4½ years when a brief dip below zero had occurred.


  2008-2009: The Financial Crisis  

The belief in this constraint was severely tested during the period following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.



The recovery was sluggish, and central banks including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank began quantitative easing programs which brought interest rates to record low levels.



The ECB introduced a negative rate policy (effectively a charge for deposits) on overnight lending in 2014.


  The 1990s: Stagflation in Japan  

Japan’s interest rate policy tested convention for decades. For much of the 1990s, the interest rate set by the Japanese central bank, the Bank of Japan, hovered near the zero bound as the country struggled to recover from an economic crash and reduce the threat of deflation.



BOJ moved to negative interest rates in 2016, by charging depositing banks a fee to store their overnight funds. Japan’s experience has been instructive for other developed markets.


   Crisis Tactics  

In extreme conditions, it seems that central banks can pursue non-conventional means of stimulating the economy.



A study by the New York Fed found that, as interest rates hovered near the zero bound, it was important for the central bank to manage investor expectations. That might mean assuring investors that interest rates would remain low for the foreseeable future and that the bank would continue various aggressive measures such as quantitative easing and purchases of bonds on the open markets. In fact, the Fed's management of expectations made “the sum... more powerful than the component parts," the study concluded."
What Is a Zero Capital Gains Rate?  

A zero capital gains rate implies a tax rate of 0% on capital gains. This 0% rate may be charged to individuals who sell property within a so-called "enterprise zone." Such a zone is a geographic area that has been granted special tax breaks, regulatory exemptions, or other public assistance in order to encourage private economic development and job creation. They are used most often to promote the revitalization of a city neighborhood.



The zero capital gains rate can be applied by a given level of government in order to prompt investment in a given area.





Key Takeaways

A zero capital gains rate incurs no taxation on the sales of assets or property that would otherwise have a capital gain.A 0% rate on the sale of property is most often associated with enterprise zones, which are special areas granted special status by a government in order to encourage development and economic growth.In order to keep a zero capital gains rate, property owners must meet certain qualifications and requirements, which may vary among different enterprise zones.


   Understanding a Zero Capital Gains Rate  

In 2004, the U.S. Congress passed, and the president approved, the Working Families Tax Relief Act.﻿﻿ The act contains provisions that extend the 0% capital gains tax to certain properties being sold within certain enterprise zones.﻿﻿ Enterprise zones were introduced in the U.S. in the 1970s in an effort to reverse the flight of people and businesses from urban centers to the suburbs. The programs may be used to encourage a private company to stay in a neighborhood, expand in it, or relocate to it.



The logic behind this act is to give an incentive to individuals to invest in this area. The rate is not exclusive to any one region, state, or municipality. Legislators looking to create jobs and draw investment into a community frequently enact a zero capital gains tax rate, or institute other tax-related incentives in that area.



A 2012 tax bill made the 0% capital gains rate permanent for most filers, provided that are either single with a taxable income under $37,950, or couples with taxable income under $75,900.﻿﻿ Even still, some of these filers face modest tax rates of 25% to 30%, if they earn additional income that’s taxed at ordinary rates, consequently pushing their long-term gains or qualified dividend income from the 0% bracket into the 15% bracket for investment income.



On the other hand, itemized deductions may reduce ordinary income, placing individuals beneath the 15% bracket and thus increasing the capital gains or dividends that are taxed at 0%. This helps explain why taxpayers can have high adjusted gross incomes but still face 0% taxes on their long-term capital gains.


   Example: The D.C. Enterprise Zone  

Under this program, each enterprise zone has its own particular set of rules, which may change as the legislation is extended or amended. For example, with the D.C. enterprise zone, the following mandates must be satisfied:



The property must have been substantially improved during that time period of ownership.The property must be been for a minimum of five years from the date of acquisitionAt least 80% of the total gross income resulting from the property ownership must be derived from business actively conducted within the D.C. Enterprise Zone.If the property in question is for commercial rental purposes, at least 50% of the rental income must come from businesses located within the D.C. enterprise zone.The original use of the property must commence with the taxpayer; this requirement is deemed to be met if substantial improvements have been made to the property.
What Is a Zero Cost Collar?  

A zero cost collar is a form of options collar strategy that limits your losses. To execute it, you sell a short call option and buy a long put option whose prices cancel each other out. The downside of this strategy is that profits are capped if the underlying asset's price increases.





Key Takeaways

A zero cost collar strategy is used to hedge against volatility in an underlying asset's prices.A zero cost collar strategy involves selling a short call and buying a long put that place a cap and floor on profits and losses for the underlying.It may not always be successful because premiums or prices of different option types do not always match.


   Understanding Zero Cost Collar  

A zero cost collar strategy involves the outlay of money on one half of the strategy, which offsets the cost incurred by the other half. It is a protective options strategy implemented after your long position in a stock experiences substantial gains.



To create the position, you use a stock you own, buy a protective put, and sell a covered call. Other names for this strategy include zero cost options, equity risk reversals, and hedge wrappers.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



To implement a zero cost collar, you buy an out-of-the-money put option (making the seller buy the underlying at strike) and simultaneously sell an out-of-the-money call option (hoping the buyer purchases the underlying at strike) with the same expiration date.



For example, imagine you purchased a stock for $100. One month later, it was trading at $120 per share. You want to lock in some gains, so you buy a put option with a $115 strike price at $0.95 and sell a call with a $124 strike price for $0.95. In terms of dollars, the put will cost $0.95 x 100 shares per contract = $95.00. The call will create a credit of $0.95 x 100 shares per contract—the same $95.00. Therefore, the net cost of this trade is zero, and you've locked in profits.













Purchase Price
Price
Strike Price
Result




Call Option
$95 (credit)
---
$124
$14 profit


Share Price
$110
$120 
---
---


Put Option
$95 (debit)
---
$115
$5 profit





   Using the Zero Cost Collar  

Executing this strategy is not always possible as the premiums—or prices—of the puts and calls do not always match exactly. Therefore, investors can decide how close to a net cost of zero they want to get. Choosing puts and calls that are out of the money by different amounts can result in a net credit or debit to the account.



The further out-of-the-money the option, the lower its premium. Therefore, to create a collar with only a minimal cost, you can choose a call option farther out of the money than the respective put option. In the previous example, that could be a strike price of $125.



To create a collar with a small credit to the account, you do the opposite—choose a put option farther out of the money than the respective call. In the example, that could be a strike price of $114.






If the collar resulted in a net cost or debit, that outlay would reduce the profit. On the other hand, if the collar resulted in a net credit, that amount is added to the total profit.



At the expiration of the options, the maximum loss would be the difference between your purchase price and the value of the stock at the lower strike price, even if the underlying stock price fell sharply. The maximum gain would be the difference between the purchase price and the value of the stock at the higher strike, even if the underlying stock moved up sharply. If the stock closed within the strike prices, then there would be no effect on its value to you because the options would expire.




Is a Costless Collar Really Costless?
Buying and selling the option make the collar costless, although additional fees and costs might be associated with the trade.




What Is the Benefit of a Zero Cost Collar?
This strategy minimizes your losses if the market takes a turn for the worse. However, your gains are also minimized by selling the call. That will be the highest price you can get for your stock unless the buyer elects not to exercise.




What Is the Risk Reversal?
Risk reversal is the same strategy as a zero cost collar. You sell a call and buy a put on a long position to minimize the risk of significant losses.


   The Bottom Line  

The zero cost collar is a long position strategy that protects you from significant losses if the market drops. To create the collar, you buy a put with a lower strike price and sell a call with a higher strike price. This creates a safety net for you but also limits how much you can make on the underlying asset if the call purchaser exercises.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info.



Correction—May 20, 2023: A previous version of this article mistakenly stated that a trader needed to buy a call and put option to create a zero cost collar. This was inaccurate, as a trader buys a call and sells a put to create the collar.
What Is a Zero-Cost Strategy?  

The term zero-cost strategy refers to a trading or business decision that does not entail any expense to execute. A zero-cost strategy costs a business or individual nothing while improving operations, making processes more efficient, or serving to reduce future expenses. As a practice, a zero-cost strategy may be applied in a number of contexts to improve the performance of an asset.





Key Takeaways

A zero-cost strategy is a trading or business decision that does not entail any additional expense to execute.Zero-cost trading strategies can be used with a variety of assets and investment types including equities, commodities, and options.A zero-cost portfolio may see an investor build a strategy based on going long in stocks expected to go up in value and short stocks expected to fall in value—a long/short strategy.Zero-cost strategies are often more flexible that allow for easily obtainable educational opportunities for a trader or business.Zero-cost strategies may also have hidden long-term costs, limited upside, or restricting diversification.


   How Zero-Cost Strategies Work  

Employing a zero-cost strategy means there are no additional expenses to make improvements or additions to the activities of a business or other entity. As mentioned above, an individual or business can cut future expenses, as well as simplify and streamline its current processes by using zero-cost strategies.



Zero-cost trading strategies can be used with a variety of assets and investment types including equities, commodities, and options. Zero-cost strategies also may involve the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset with like costs that cancel each other out.






Zero-cost trading strategies also involve simultaneously purchasing and selling an asset with like costs that cancel each other out.



In investing, a zero-cost portfolio may see an investor build a strategy based on going long in stocks that are expected to go up in value and short stocks that are expected to fall in value—a long/short strategy.



For example, an investor may choose to borrow $1 worth of Google stock and sell the $1 stake in Google, then reinvest that money into Apple. After a year, assuming the trade has gone as expected, the investor sells Apple to buy back and return the stock of Google they borrowed. The return on this zero-cost strategy is the return on Apple minus the return on Google. One important point to note is that this scenario ignores margin requirements.


   Examples of Zero-Cost Strategy  

A company that seeks to increase its efficiency while also reducing costs may decide to buy a new network server to replace several older ones. Because of advances in technology, the older servers are resold and the sum earned from the sale pays for the new server, which is more efficient, works faster, and reduces costs going forward due to lower maintenance and energy costs.



A practical application of a zero-cost business strategy for an individual may be to improve sales prospects for a home by decluttering all the rooms, packing excess belongings into boxes, and moving the boxes to the garage. Because the labor is free, no cost is incurred.


  Zero-Cost Strategies in Options Trading  

One example of a zero-cost trading strategy is the zero-cost cylinder. In this options trading strategy, the investor works with two out-of-the-money options, either buying a call and selling a put, or buying a put and selling a call. The strike price—the price at which the contract can be bought or sold—is chosen so that the premiums from the purchase and sale effectively cancel each other out. Zero-cost strategies help reduce risk by eliminating upfront costs.



Another example of a zero-cost strategy in options trading involves setting up several options trades simultaneously for which the premiums from the net credit trades offset the net debit trade premiums. With such a strategy, profits are determined by the performance of the assets rather than transaction costs.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Zero-Cost Strategies in Trading  
  Pros of Zero-Cost Strategies in Trading  

Zero-cost strategies have the main benefit of often having less expensive up front than other investing strategies. As a result, small-capital individual investors may find them to be easier to access. In addition, risk in a portfolio can be managed using zero-cost solutions. Investors, for example, might restrict their potential losses while keeping upside potential by using options.



Income can be generated in a portfolio using zero-cost solutions. For example, by selling covered calls on a stock, investors can earn premiums while still owning the equity. Plus, an individual investors' needs can be met by tailoring zero-cost strategies. Investors, for example, can change their risk and return profile by using different strike prices or expiration dates on options.



Last, zero-cost strategies can be an effective way for new investors to learn. These options, because they have minimal upfront costs, allow investors to acquire them to gain experience and knowledge they can use and apply for future investment decisions.


  Cons of Zero-Cost Strategies in Trading  

Zero-cost techniques frequently include limiting an investor's potential profit. When employing options, the premium earned for selling an option limits the possible profit from the deal, even if the price of the underlying asset advances in the investor's favor.



Some zero-cost solutions have the potential to enhance an investor's overall risk exposure. Using options might carry significant risk, especially if the options expire out of the money. Also, certain zero-cost techniques necessitate holding holdings for extended periods of time, which might expose the investor to unanticipated changes in the market or the underlying asset.



Zero-cost strategies can be more complex than other investment strategies. In addition, zero-cost methods frequently entail a concentrated investment in a particular asset or market segment. This can reduce diversification, raising overall portfolio risk.



Finally, despite their moniker, zero-cost techniques are not without danger. If the price of the underlying asset goes against the investor's position, they can still lose money, especially if they use leverage or complicated financial instruments. Therefore, a zero-cost strategy is only aptly name in the initial acquisition of the investment and not the long-term implications of the investment.




Zero-Cost Strategies (Trading/Options)

Pros

Often has lower upfront costs
Can be used to manage risk
May still be able to generate income or cash flow
May give investors flexibility and portfolio diversification
Allows for investors to buy and easily learn from in low-cost environment



Cons

May have limited upside potential
May increase the risk exposure of a portfolio
May add unnecessary complexity to a portfolio
May not diversify a portfolio
May still result in losses





   Advantages and Disadvantages of Zero-Cost Strategies in Corporate Business  
  Pros of Zero-Cost Strategies in Business  

A corporate zero-cost strategy can help businesses cut costs by eliminating or lowering upfront fees. This can free up resources for other objectives, such as expansion projects, research and development, or debt repayment. This zero-cost strategy can also enhance cash flow by lowering upfront costs,



Risk management in a corporation can be accomplished through the deployment of zero-cost strategies. Companies might use options or other financial instruments to hedge against price swings or other risks that could affect their profitability. Because these strategies may often have no upfront strings attached, these strategies can provide companies with more flexibility in pursuing growth initiatives or other business opportunities.



In some ways, companies that use zero-cost strategies may have a competitive advantage over their peers, especially if their peers must incur costs for the same strategies. For example, a company may already have access to or have already made an investment that now represents a sunk cost. By leveraging this added benefit, companies may enter new markets, exploit new technologies, or outperform others if they are able to implement zero-cost strategies where others can not.


  Cons of Zero-Cost Strategies in Business  

Zero-cost techniques still have the potential to limit a company's ability to invest in growth projects or other opportunities. Companies may be unable to make the necessary investments in technology, infrastructure, or talent if they reduce upfront expenses. In addition, a zero-cost strategy may incur costs in the future the company may not be able to handle.



Similar to the trading disadvantages discussed before, some zero-cost strategies might raise a company's overall risk profile. Using financial instruments such as options or derivatives might expose a corporation to large losses if the market turns against them.



Some stakeholders may interpret zero-cost methods as a sign of financial insecurity or a lack of long-term vision. This might have a negative influence on a company's reputation and capacity to attract investors, partners, or consumers. This may be especially true for higher-end products that often require substantial research and development investment prior to a product being brought to market.



Last, because the barrier of entry for a zero-cost corporate strategy may be very low, these strategies may be ineffective because so many market participants may be able to emulate the endeavor. As there is no restriction on capital to prevent some market participants from entering the space, there may be more competition and lower profit margins with these strategies.




Zero-Cost Strategy for Corporate Business

Pros

May allow companies to enter strategies with reduced expenses
May improve a company's cash flow
May allow for a company to manage risk
May offer a company strategic flexibility and the ability to leave a plan with no costs
May be a competitive advantage over other companies



Cons

Might be tied to strategies with less profit potential
May result in long-term corporate expenses
May come with higher risk
May deviate from shareholder expectations or desires
May be met with many competitors







What Is Meant by Zero-Cost Marketing?
A zero-cost marketing strategy stresses the use of low-cost or no-cost ways to promote a product, service, or brand. The purpose of zero cost marketing is to generate greatest impact with the least amount of money. This strategy often relies on free platforms to raise awareness of a company or product.




What Are Zero Cost Materials?
In many college courses, instructors may implement zero cost materials for the class. This type of course does not require a student to buy any type of course material to fulfill the course. In these classes, a study may still have a textbook but may be able to receive it for free online provided by the instructor.




What Is a Zero Marginal Cost Product?
A zero cost margin refers to when each additional product made of a certain good approaches zero. This occurs when there is substantial technological or computational disruption occurs and the company is able to capture strong efficiencies in how raw materials or labor are used.


   The Bottom Line  

A zero cost strategy is an investment strategy that aims to reduce or eliminate the upfront cost of implementing an investment or business initiative. The goal of a zero cost strategy is to generate returns or achieve a specific outcome without incurring significant expenses. In trading, this is done by executing contracts that do not incur a fee. In business, this is done by entering into markets or product lines that do not require upfront investments.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Bond?  

A zero-coupon bond, also known as an accrual bond, is a debt security that does not pay interest but instead trades at a deep discount, rendering a profit at maturity, when the bond is redeemed for its full face value.





Key Takeaways

A zero-coupon bond is a debt security instrument that does not pay interest.Zero-coupon bonds trade at deep discounts, offering full face value (par) profits at maturity.The difference between the purchase price of a zero-coupon bond and the par value indicates the investor's return.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Zero-Coupon Bonds  

Some bonds are issued as zero-coupon instruments from the start, while other bonds transform into zero-coupon instruments after a financial institution strips them of their coupons, and repackages them as zero-coupon bonds. Because they offer the entire payment at maturity, zero-coupon bonds tend to fluctuate in price, much more so than coupon bonds.



A bond is a portal through which a corporate or governmental body raises capital. When bonds are issued, investors purchase those bonds, effectively acting as lenders to the issuing entity. The investors earn a return in the form of coupon payments, which are made semiannually or annually, throughout the life of the bond.



When the bond matures, the bondholder is repaid an amount equal to the face value of the bond. The par or face value of a corporate bond is typically stated as $1,000. If a corporate bond is issued at a discount, this means investors can purchase the bond below its par value. For example, an investor who purchases a bond for $920 at a discount will receive $1,000. The $80 return, plus coupon payments received on the bond, is the investor's earnings or return for holding the bond.



But not all bonds have coupon payments. Those that do not are referred to as zero-coupon bonds. These bonds are issued at a deep discount and repay the par value, at maturity. The difference between the purchase price and the par value represents the investor's return. The payment received by the investor is equal to the principal invested plus the interest earned, compounded semiannually, at a stated yield.



The interest earned on a zero-coupon bond is an imputed interest, meaning that it is an estimated interest rate for the bond and not an established interest rate. For example, a bond with a face amount of $20,000, that matures in 20 years, with a 5.5% yield, may be purchased for roughly $6,855. At the end of the 20 years, the investor will receive $20,000. The difference between $20,000 and $6,855 (or $13,145) represents the interest that compounds automatically until the bond matures. Imputed interest is sometimes referred to as "phantom interest."



The imputed interest on the bond is subject to income tax, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Therefore, although no coupon payments are made on zero-coupon bonds until maturity, investors may still have to pay federal, state, and local income taxes on the imputed interest that accrues each year. Purchasing a municipal zero-coupon bond, buying zero-coupon bonds in a tax-exempt account, or purchasing a corporate zero-coupon bond that has tax-exempt status are a few ways to avoid paying income taxes on these securities.






   Pricing a Zero-Coupon Bond  

The price of a zero-coupon bond can be calculated as:



Price = M ÷ (1 + r)n



where:



M = Maturity value or face value of the bondr = required rate of interestn = number of years until maturity



If an investor wishes to make a 6% return on a bond, with $25,000 par value, that is due to mature in three years, they will be willing to pay the following:



$25,000 / (1 + 0.06)3 = $20,991.



If the debtor accepts this offer, the bond will be sold to the investor at $20,991 / $25,000 = 84% of the face value. Upon maturity, the investor gains $25,000 - $20,991 = $4,009, which translates to 6% interest per year.



The greater the length of time until the bond matures, the less the investor pays for it, and vice versa. The maturity dates on zero-coupon bonds are usually long-term, with initial maturities of at least 10 years. These long-term maturity dates let investors plan for long-range goals, such as saving for a child’s college education. With the bond's deep discount, an investor can put up a small amount of money that can grow over time.



Zero-coupon bonds can be issued from a variety of sources, including the U.S. Treasury, state and local government entities, and corporations. Most zero-coupon bonds trade on the major exchanges.





Risk in Bonds 

Zero-coupon bonds are like other bonds, in that they do carry various types of risk, because they are subject to interest rate risk if investors sell them before maturity.




How Does a Zero-Coupon Bond Differ From a Regular Bond?
Payment of interest, or coupons, is the key differentiator between a zero-coupon and regular bond. Regular bonds, which are also called coupon bonds, pay interest over the life of the bond and also repay the principal at maturity. A zero-coupon bond does not pay interest but instead trades at a deep discount, giving the investor a profit at maturity when they redeem the bond for its full face value.




How Does an Investor Price a Zero-Coupon Bond?
An investor chooses the zero-coupon bond they would like to purchase based on several criteria, but one of the main ones will be the imputed interest rate that they can earn at maturity. The price of a zero-coupon bond can be calculated with the following equation:Zero-coupon bond price = Maturity value ÷ (1 + required interest rate)^number years to maturity




How Does the IRS Tax Zero-Coupon Bonds?
Imputed interest, sometimes referred to as "phantom interest," is an estimated interest rate. The imputed interest on the bond is subject to income tax. The IRS uses an accretive method when calculating the imputed interest on Treasury bonds and has applicable federal rates that set a minimum interest rate in relation to imputed interest and original issue discount rules.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A zero-coupon certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of CD that does not pay interest during its term. Instead, zero-coupon CDs provide a return by being sold for less than their face value. This means that an investor would receive more than their initial investment once the CD reaches its maturity date. This provides the investor with a return on investment (ROI), even though no interest payments were made prior to the maturity date.



By contrast, traditional CDs pay interest periodically throughout their term, usually on an annual basis. Both zero-coupon CDs and regular CDs are popular options among risk-averse investors because they offer guaranteed principal protection. Zero-coupon CDs, however, may be especially attractive for investors who are not particularly concerned with generating cashflow during the investment term.





Key Takeaways

A zero-coupon CD is a type of CD that does not pay interest throughout its term.Instead, the investor is compensated by receiving a face value upon maturity that is higher than the instrument’s purchase price.Zero-coupon CDs generally offer higher returns than traditional CDs, in order to compensate the investor for the lack of interest income.


   How Zero-Coupon CDs Work  

A zero-coupon CD is a CD sold at a steep discount, which nevertheless pays out the full face value at maturity. For instance, a zero-coupon CD with a face value of $100 might be sold for only $90, meaning investors would receive a profit of $10 upon reaching the end of the term. The term “zero-coupon” comes from the fact that these investments have no annual interest payments, which are also referred to as “coupons”.



Zero-coupon CDs are considered a low-risk investment. Provided they do not withdraw their funds before the end of the term, investors are guaranteed a specified return over a predetermined time period. And because zero-coupon CDs are often issued by banks, this means they are backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as long as the bank issuing the CD is insured by the FDIC.



The main advantage of zero-coupon CDs is that they tend to offer slightly higher returns as compared to traditional CDs. However, they also have their disadvantages. For instance, even though zero-coupon CDs do not pay interest each year, the accrued interest earned each year is considered taxable income even though those funds are not actually received until the end of the term. This means that investors must plan ahead to ensure that they have sufficient funds available in order to cover these taxes. Aside from their treatment, the other potentially significant drawback of zero-coupon CDs is that they can be structured as callable investments. This means that they can be called back by the issuing bank prior to maturity and then reissued at a current lower interest rate. And of course, zero-coupon CDs do not offer annual interest payments, which might be inconvenient for cashflow-oriented investors.


   Real World Example of a Zero-Coupon CD  

To illustrate, consider the case of a 5-year zero-coupon CD with a face value of $5,000 being sold for $4,000. To purchase the CD, the investor only needs to pay $4,000. At the end of 5 years, they will receive the full $5,000. In the meantime, however, no interest will be paid on the instrument.



In this case, the $1,000 profit received on the investment works out to accrued income of $200 per year for 5 years. From the investor’s perspective, this can be seen as equivalent to a 5% annual interest rate, with the important caveat that those funds will not actually be received until the end of year 5. Also, because the accrued interest is considered taxable income, the investor will need to ensure they have sufficient funds available to cover that tax expense in the years prior to the maturity date. 



Taking all of this into consideration, an investor might consider this to be an attractive investment to the extent that alternative fixed-income investments are yielding less than 5%, and if the investor is not in need of regular cashflow during the 5-year term.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Convertible?  

A zero-coupon convertible is a fixed income instrument that combines the features of a zero-coupon bond with that of a convertible bond.



Due to the zero-coupon feature, the bond pays no interest and is therefore issued at a discount to par value, while the convertible feature means that bondholders have the option to convert bonds into common stock of the issuer at a certain conversion price.





Key Takeaways

A zero-coupon convertible is a convertible bond issued by a corporation that pays no regular interest to bondholders.Because of the zero-coupon feature, these convertibles are sold at a discount and will instead mature to face value if they are not converted prior to the maturity date.Zero-coupon convertibles before they are converted, however, still favor investors in the event of a bankruptcy as bondholders are given repayment priority ahead of shareholders.As a result, these two features tend to balance each other out in terms of riskiness and benefits to investors, although these securities can be quite complex to accurately price.


   Understanding Zero-Coupon Convertibles  

Zero-coupon convertibles marry two features: zero-coupons and convertibles. A zero-coupon security is a debt instrument which does not make interest payments. An investor purchases this security at a discount and receives the face value of the bond on the maturity date. Because there are no payments prior to maturity, zero-coupons have no reinvestment risk. A convertible security is a debt instrument that can be converted into equity of the issuing company at a given time. This is essentially an embedded put option that gives bondholders the right to convert bonds into shares, and acts as a sweetener for investors who get to participate in any upside in the price of the issuer's stock.



A zero-coupon convertible is, thus, a non-interest paying bond that can be converted into the equity of the issuing company after the stock reaches a certain price. An investor who purchases this type of security pays a discount for foregoing any interest income. These bonds, however, tend to also benefit shareholders who can use the conversion option to profit on the exchange for shares, and who maintain priority ahead of equity holders as a creditor in the case of bankruptcy if the bonds are not converted.



However, these financial instruments have a built-in option which allows the issuer to force the conversion of the bonds when the stock performs as expected, capping the investor's upside potential. In addition, zero-coupon convertibles tend to be somewhat volatile in the secondary market because the convertible option may or may not become valuable, depending on how the company performs over the life of the debt instrument.



A zero-coupon convertible can also refer to a zero-coupon issued by a municipality that can be converted to an interest-paying bond at a certain time before the maturity date. When a municipal government issues these muni convertibles, they are tax-exempt, but are also convertible to other bonds that may yield more.


   Special Considerations  

The zero-coupon and convertible features offset each other in terms of the yield required by investors. Zero-coupon bonds are often the most volatile fixed-income investments because they have no periodic interest payments to mitigate the risk of holding them. As a result, investors demand a slightly higher yield to hold them. On the other hand, convertibles pay a lower yield compared to other bonds of the same maturity and quality because investors may be willing to pay a premium for the convertible feature.



The issuer of zero-coupon convertible increases the principal of the convertible security each year to compensate investors for the absence of coupons. A zero-coupon convertible and interest-paying convertible with identical maturity and call provisions will have approximately the same conversion premium despite the difference in compensation to bondholders.


   Pricing Zero-Coupon Convertibles  

Zero-coupon convertibles are priced using option pricing models such as the Black-Scholes model; tree-based models(such as the binomial or trinomial model); or the dividend valuation model.



The underlying share price, assumptions about the behavior of the price, assumed equity valuation, and an assumed volatility level are inputs required to price the security. Due to the complexity of zero-coupon convertibles, only sophisticated investors typically trade them.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Inflation Swap (ZCIS)?  

A zero-coupon inflation swap (ZCIS) is a type of derivative in which a fixed-rate payment on a notional amount is exchanged for a payment at the rate of inflation. It is an exchange of cash flows that allows investors to either reduce or increase their exposure to the changes in the purchasing power of money.



A ZCIS is sometimes known as a breakeven inflation swap.





Key Takeaways

A zero-coupon inflation swap (ZCIS) is a type of inflation derivative where an income stream tied to the inflation rate is exchanged for an income stream with a fixed interest rate.A ZCIS pays both income streams as a single lump sum when the swap reaches maturity, and the inflation level is known instead of exchanging periodic payments.As inflation rises, the inflation buyer receives more from the inflation seller than what they paid.Conversely, if inflation falls, the inflation buyer receives less from the inflation seller than what they paid.


   Understanding a Zero-Coupon Inflation Swap (ZCIS)  

An inflation swap is a contract that transfers inflation risk from one party to another through an exchange of fixed cash flows. A ZCIS is a basic type of inflation derivative, where an income stream tied to the inflation rate is exchanged for an income stream with a fixed interest rate. A zero-coupon security does not make periodic interest payments during the life of the investment. Instead, a lump sum is paid on the maturity date to the security holder.



Likewise, with a ZCIS, both income streams are paid as one lump-sum payment when the swap reaches maturity and the inflation level is known. The payoff at maturity depends on the inflation rate realized over a given period, as measured by an inflation index. In effect, the ZCIS is a bilateral contract used to provide a hedge against inflation.






While payment is typically exchanged at the end of the swap term, a buyer may choose to sell the swap on the over-the-counter (OTC) market prior to maturity.



Under a ZCIS, the inflation receiver, or buyer, pays a predetermined fixed rate and, in return, receives an inflation-linked payment from the inflation payer or seller. The side of the contract that pays a fixed rate is referred to as the fixed leg, while the other end of the derivatives contract is the inflation leg. The fixed rate is called the breakeven swap rate, even though the two parties may not actually end up with even payouts.



The payments from both legs capture the difference between expected and actual inflation. If actual inflation exceeds expected inflation, the resulting positive return to the buyer is considered a capital gain. As inflation rises, the buyer earns more; if inflation falls, the buyer earns less.


   Computing the Price of a Zero-Coupon Inflation Swap (ZCIS)  

The inflation buyer pays a fixed amount, known as the fixed leg. This is:



Fixed Leg = A * [(1 + r)t – 1]



The inflation seller pays an amount given by the change in the inflation index, known as the inflation leg. This is:



Inflation Leg = A * [(IE ÷ IS) – 1]



Where:



A = Reference notional of the swap
r = The fixed rate
t = The number of years
IE = Inflation index at the end (maturity) date
IS = Inflation index at the start date


   Example of a Zero-Coupon Inflation Swap (ZCIS)  

Assume that two parties enter into a five-year ZCIS with a notional amount of $100 million, a 2.4% fixed rate, and the agreed-upon inflation index, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI), at 2.0% when the swap is agreed upon. At maturity, the inflation index is at 2.5%.



Fixed Leg = $100,000,000 * [(1.024)5 – 1)] = $100,000,000 * [1.1258999 – 1]



= $12,589,990.68



Inflation Leg = $100,000,000 * [(0.025 ÷ 0.020) – 1] = $100,000,000 * [1.25 – 1]



= $25,000,000.00



The fixed leg counterparty received a lump sum payment of 12.59M at expiration but had to pay out 25.0M, resulting in a net loss. Since the compounded inflation rate rose above 2.4%, the inflation buyer profited; the inflation seller would have profited if the inflation index dropped below 2.25% because, at that rate, they would have broken even.


   Special Considerations  

The currency of the swap determines the price index used to calculate the inflation rate. For example, a swap denominated in U.S. dollars would be based on the CPI, a proxy for inflation that measures price changes in a basket of goods and services in the United States. Meanwhile, a swap denominated in British pounds would typically be based on Great Britain's Retail Price Index (RPI).



Like every debt contract, a ZCIS is subject to the risk of default from either party, either because of temporary liquidity problems or more significant structural issues, such as insolvency. Both parties may agree to put up collateral for the amount due to mitigate this risk.



Other financial instruments that can be used to hedge against inflation risk are real yield inflation swaps, price index inflation swaps, Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS), municipal and corporate inflation-linked securities, inflation-linked certificates of deposit, and inflation-linked savings bonds.


   Benefits of Inflation Swaps  

The advantage of an inflation swap is that it provides an analyst with a reasonably accurate estimation of what the market considers to be the "break even" inflation rate. Conceptually, it is very similar to how a market sets the price for any commodity, namely the agreement between a buyer and a seller (between demand and supply) to transact at a specified rate. In this case, the specified rate is the expected rate of inflation.



Simply put, the two parties to the swap agree based on their respective takes on what the inflation rate is likely to be for the period in question. As with interest rate swaps, the parties exchange cash flows based on a notional principal amount (this amount is not actually exchanged), but instead of hedging against or speculating on interest rate risk, their focus is solely on the inflation rate.




What Is a Zero-Cost Inflation Swap?
This hedge against inflation is called a zero-coupon inflation swap because the instrument has no coupon (interest payment) until maturity. It is sold to another investor with payment due at maturity for the inflation rate at that time.




What Is a Zero Coupon Swap?
A zero-coupon swap is a contract where one party makes fixed interest payments to another, and the other makes floating payments based on the agreed-upon interest rate index.




How Does an Inflation Swap Work?
An inflation swap is a contract where one party agrees to pay a fixed rate, and the other pays a floating rate based on an inflation index.


   The Bottom Line  

A zero coupon inflation swap is where a debt instrument with an inflation-adjusting interest payment is sold to another investor for a fixed amount, delivered at maturity. Investors use it as a way to hedge against inflation.



Correction—Aug. 23, 2023: A previous version of this article did not specify the point at which two investors engaged in a zero-coupon inflation swap would break even. Content was added to reduce any confusion and address the inflation rate at which a breakeven would occur.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Mortgage?  

A zero-coupon mortgage is a long-term commercial mortgage that defers all payments of principal and interest until the maturity of the mortgage. The loan's structuring is as an accrual note, meaning interest due rolls into the outstanding amount borrowed. At maturity, the borrower either pays off the note or floats another loan at the current interest rates.





Key Takeaways

Zero-coupon mortgages are long-term commercial mortgages that defer all payments of principal and interest until maturity.Interest due rolls into the outstanding amount borrowed, which must be paid off at the expiry date or refinanced at prevailing interest rates.Commercial projects may use zero-coupon mortgages when the cash flows needed to repay the debt aren't available until the project nears completion.Lenders usually only offer zero-coupon mortgages to established commercial borrowers that have clean credit records.


   How a Zero-Coupon Mortgage Works  

Zero-coupon mortgages resemble zero-coupon bonds. The coupon, the annual interest rate paid on the loan, is zero until the expiration date when it must all be paid back in one hit, together with the full amount borrowed.



Commercial projects use zero-coupon mortgages when cash flows to service the debt are unlikely to be available until the project nears completion. An example of this would be a sports stadium. In this case, no revenues are generated until the structure is complete and able to host events.



Because total interest plus principal repayment is only received by the lender when the loan matures, the credit risk is significantly higher than with a conventional loan. As a result, lenders generally only offer this form of financing to established commercial borrowers with clean credit records. They also tend to charge a higher interest rate on zero-coupon mortgages to compensate for the lack of immediate return.






With a zero-coupon mortgage, a borrower can finance a commercial project with smaller cash flow, on the expectation that appreciation of the property value over the life of the loan is sufficient to pay it off.


   Example of a Zero-Coupon Mortgage   

Let's say ABC Corp. takes out a $400,000 zero-coupon mortgage due for repayment 20 years from now. Over the course of the next two decades, ABC returns nothing to the lender. Unlike conventional mortgages, the company isn’t required to immediately start gradually paying back the principal, as well as interest for the privilege of taking out a loan.



That all changes when its 20 years are up. Suddenly ABC must return the $400,000 it borrowed all at once, together with the compounded interest on the loan, or refinance at prevailing interest rates. Failure to do so will lead it to lose the property and force it to hand over the keys to the lender.





1984

The year Kansas-based Franklin Savings Association sold the first issue of zero-coupon bonds backed by mortgages.


   Investing in Zero-Coupon Mortgage Notes  

Investors have the opportunity to get in on the action and make money from zero-coupon mortgages and bonds. These investments are popular among certain investors, partly due to their availability in specific real estate markets and also because zero-coupon bonds sell at a discount from the face value of the note. 



Investors will not receive regular interest payments. However, the borrower will add the interest amount to the principal amount, which gets returned to the creditors at maturity. Interest will compound semiannually, and as the primary value rises, it will create higher interest payments, which roll back into the total principal sum.



Because they pay no coupons and only deliver money at maturity, zero-coupon mortgage prices can be very volatile. They are also subject to annual income tax payments, even though the income is attributed and not regularly received by investors. An exception would be if the investment agreement makes no promise to pay investors a specific return, in which case there would be no current taxable yearly income. 



Another similar type of investment is operated primarily for Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and other entities where current-year taxation is not a consideration.
What Is a Zero-Coupon Swap?  

A zero-coupon swap is an exchange of cash flows in which the stream of floating interest-rate payments is made periodically, as it would be in a plain vanilla swap, but where the stream of fixed-rate payments is made as one lump-sum payment at the time when the swap reaches maturity, instead of periodically over the life of the swap.





Key Takeaways

A zero-coupon swap involves the fixed side of the swap being paid in one lump sum when the contract reaches maturity.The variable side of the swap still makes regular payments, as they would in a plain vanilla swap.Because the fixed leg is paid as a lump sum, valuing a zero-coupon swap involves determining the present value of those cash flows using a zero-coupon bond's implied interest rate.


   Understanding a Zero-Coupon Swap  

A zero-coupon swap is a derivative contract entered into by two parties. One party makes floating payments which changes according to the future publication of the interest rate index (e.g. LIBOR, EURIBOR, etc.) upon which the rate is benchmarked. The other party makes payments to the other based on an agreed fixed interest rate.



The fixed interest rate is tied to a zero-coupon bond, or a bond that pays no interest for the life of the bond but is expected to make one single payment at maturity. In effect, the amount of the fixed-rate payment is based on the swap's zero-coupon rate. The bondholder on the end of the fixed leg of a zero-coupon swap is responsible for making one payment at maturity, while the party on the end of the floating leg must make periodic payments over the contract life of the swap. However, zero-coupon swaps can be structured so that both floating and fixed-rate payments are paid as a lump sum.



Since there’s a mismatch in the frequency of payments, the floating party is exposed to a substantial level of default risk. The counterparty that does not receive payment until the end of the agreement incurs a greater credit risk than it would with a plain vanilla swap in which both fixed and floating interest rate payments are agreed to be paid on certain dates over time.


   Valuing a Zero-Coupon Swap  

Valuing a zero-coupon swap involves determining the present value of the cash flows using a spot rate (or zero-coupon rate). The spot rate is an interest rate that applies to a discount bond that pays no coupon and produces just one cash flow at the maturity date. The present value of each fixed and floating leg will be determined separately and summed together.



Since the fixed rate payments are known ahead of time, calculating the present value of this leg is straightforward. To derive the present value of cash flows from the floating rate leg, the implied forward rate must be calculated first. The forward rates are usually implied from spot rates. The spot rates are derived from a spot curve which is built from bootstrapping, a technique that shows a sequence of spot (or zero-coupon) rates that are consistent with the prices and yields on coupon bonds.



Variations of the zero-coupon swap exist to meet different investment needs. A reverse zero-coupon swap pays the fixed lump-sum payment upfront when the contract is initiated, reducing credit risk for the pay-floating party. Under an exchangeable zero-coupon swap, the party scheduled to receive a fixed sum at the maturity date can use an embedded option to turn the lump-sum payment into a series of fixed payments.



The floating payer will benefit from this structure if volatility declines and interest rates are relatively stable to declining. It is also possible for the floating-rate payments to be paid as a lump sum in a zero-coupon swap under an exchangeable zero-coupon swap.
What Is a Zero-Day Attack?  

A zero-day attack (also referred to as Day Zero) is an attack that exploits a potentially serious software security weakness that the vendor or developer may be unaware of. The software developer must rush to resolve the weakness as soon as it is discovered in order to limit the threat to software users. The solution is called a software patch. Zero-day attacks can also be used to attack the internet of things (IoT).



A zero-day attack gets its name from the number of days the software developer has known about the problem.





Key Takeaways

A zero-day attack is a software-related attack that exploits a weakness that a vendor or developer was unaware of.The name comes from the number of days a software developer has known about the problem.The solution to fixing a zero-day attack is known as a software patch.Zero-day attacks can be prevented, though not always, through antivirus software and regular system updates.There are different markets for zero-day attacks that range from legal to illegal. They include the white market, grey market, and dark market.


   Understanding a Zero-Day Attack  

A zero-day attack can involve malware, adware, spyware, or unauthorized access to user information. Users can protect themselves against zero-day attacks by setting their software—including operating systems, antivirus software, and internet browsers—to update automatically and by promptly installing any recommended updates outside of regularly scheduled updates.



That being said, having updated antivirus software will not necessarily protect a user from a zero-day attack, because until the software vulnerability is publicly known, the antivirus software may not have a way to detect it. Host intrusion prevention systems also help to protect against zero-day attacks by preventing and defending against intrusions and protecting data.



Think of a zero-day vulnerability as an unlocked car door that the owner thinks is locked but a thief discovers is unlocked. The thief can get in undetected and steal things from the car owner’s glove compartment or trunk that may not be noticed until days later when the damage is already done and the thief is long gone.



While zero-day vulnerabilities are known for being exploited by criminal hackers, they can also be exploited by government security agencies who want to use them for surveillance or attacks. In fact, there is so much demand for zero-day vulnerabilities from government security agencies that they help to drive the market for buying and selling information about these vulnerabilities and how to exploit them.



Zero-day exploits may be disclosed publicly, disclosed only to the software vendor, or sold to a third party. If they are sold, they can be sold with or without exclusive rights. The best solution to a security flaw, from the perspective of the software company responsible for it, is for an ethical hacker or white hat to privately disclose the flaw to the company so it can be fixed before criminal hackers discover it. But in some cases, more than one party must address the vulnerability to fully resolve it so a complete private disclosure may be impossible.


   Markets for Zero-Day Attacks  

In the dark market for zero-day information, criminal hackers exchange details about how to break through vulnerable software to steal valuable information. In the gray market, researchers and companies sell information to militaries, intelligence agencies, and law enforcement. In the white market, companies pay white hat hackers or security researchers to detect and disclose software vulnerabilities to developers so they can fix problems before criminal hackers can find them.



Depending on the buyer, the seller, and the usefulness, zero-day information might be worth a few thousand to several hundred thousand dollars, making it a potentially lucrative market to participate in. Before a transaction can be completed, the seller should provide a proof-of-concept (PoC) to confirm the zero-day exploit’s existence. For those who want to exchange zero-day information undetected, the Tor network allows for zero-day transactions to be conducted anonymously using Bitcoin.



Zero-day attacks may sometimes be less of a threat than they sound. Governments may have easier ways to spy on their citizens and zero-days may not be the most effective way to exploit businesses or individuals. An attack must be deployed strategically and without the target’s knowledge to have maximum effect. Unleashing a zero-day attack on millions of computers at once could reveal the vulnerability’s existence and get a patch released too quickly for the attackers to accomplish their ultimate goal.


   Real World Examples  

In April 2017, Microsoft was made aware of a zero-day attack on its Microsoft Word software. The attackers used a malware called Dridex banker trojan to exploit a vulnerable and unpatched version of the software. The trojan allowed the attackers to embed malicious code in Word documents which automatically got triggered when the documents were opened. The attack was discovered by antivirus vendor McAfee which notified Microsoft of its compromised software. Although the zero-day attack was unearthed in April, millions of users had already been targeted since January.



In a more recent example, Google's Chrome web browser has been subject to several attack vectors and exploits. In 2022 alone, Google urged Chrome users to update their browsers on no less than four separate occasions, citing a series of zero-day attacks.




Why Is it Called a Zero-Day Attack?
The term "zero-day" (or 0-day) is used for a software exploit or hack referring to the fact that the developer or creator of the at-risk program has only just become aware of it - so they literally have zero days to fix it.




How Are Zero-Day Attacks Fixed?
Once a developer learns of a zero-day attack, the exploit is usually quickly identified and fixed via a software patch or upgrade.




What Was the Most Famous Zero-Day Attack?
While many prominent examples of zero-day examples exist, many cite the Sony Pictures hack of 2014, which utilized a previously-unrecognized vulnerability to install malware unnoticed, which then was used to delete or damage files involved with new films, causing millions of dollars in damages and a scarred reputation for Sony's apparent lack of security. The attack, many believe, was carried out by North Korean agents in response to the release of the film "The Interview," which parodied N. Korea's leader, Kim Jong Un.
What Is Zero-Dividend Preferred Stock?  

A zero-dividend preferred stock is a preferred share issued by a company that is not required to pay a dividend to its holder. The owner of a zero-dividend preferred share will earn income from capital appreciation and may receive a one-time payment at the end of the investment term.





Key Takeaways

Zero-dividend preferred stock is preferred stock that does not pay out a dividend.Common stock is still subordinate to zero-dividend preferred stock.Zero-dividend preferred stock earns income from capital appreciation and may offer a one-time lump sum payment at the end of the investment term.Issuers benefit from zero-dividend preferred stock as it allows them to raise capital, holds no voting rights, and pays no dividend.There are a few advantages and disadvantages of zero-dividend preferred stock for investors.


   Understanding Zero-Dividend Preferred Stock  

When a company issues stock, they issue two types: preferred stock and common stock. Preferred stock has priority over common stock when it comes to dividends and asset distribution and is therefore seen as less risky. Preferred stock usually does not have voting rights, whereas common stock does.



Owners of zero-dividend preference shares will not receive a normal dividend but they will still maintain reimbursement priority over common shareholders in the event of a bankruptcy. In such an event, they will get a fixed sum that was agreed upon in advance.



Zero-dividend preferred stock is comparable in some ways to zero-coupon bonds, though they are regarded as lower tier than bonds. Still, they do have upper-tier preference compared with common shareholders if a bankruptcy occurs. This type of stock is usually backed by the issuer’s assets and can be part of split capital investment trusts as a sort of share to produce fixed capital growth in a defined period.


   Why Zero-Dividend Preferred Stock Is Issued  

Companies that are likely to issue zero-dividend preferred stock include investment trusts, particularly those that may face challenges getting long-term debt approved. Zero-dividend preferred stock usually comes with a specific time period.



Issuing zero-dividend preferred stock is a way for an investment trust to raise capital that is easier than seeking a loan from a bank, and oftentimes lasts much longer than a bank would typically be willing to lend for. Zero-dividend preferred stock also comes with fewer restrictions than a bank would include in a loan. A zero-dividend preferred stock raises capital, holds no voting rights, and doesn't pay out a dividend. It's an extremely attractive option for a company to issue.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Zero-Dividend Preferred Stock  

There are many advantages and disadvantages for an investor that come with a zero-dividend preferred stock.


  Disadvantages  

Zero-dividend preferred stocks are vulnerable to increasing inflation, just as bonds are.
The fluctuations of the market could see this type of stock be outperformed if the market rises.
There is also no guarantee on its yields and the underlying assets could erode in value if the market goes through a downturn.


  Advantages:  

The lack of taxes that would normally be warranted on dividends. Also, the lump sum payout would be taxed as a capital gain as opposed to net income, which would be at a lower rate.
There is an expectation of a predetermined return within the window of time set for the stock.
These shares are also predominantly less volatile when compared with equities.
What Is a Zero-Floor Limit?  

The term "zero-floor limit" refers to a policy whereby merchants are required to obtain authorization for every transaction processed at their store, regardless of its size. By contrast, some stores only require authorization for transactions that are above a certain size, with that size threshold being known as the store's floor limit.





Key Takeaways

A zero-floor limit is a policy whereby all transactions must be authorized, regardless of size.The zero-floor limit has become increasingly common, due to the speed of computerized payment processing systems.Zero-floor limits can help protect against fraudulent transactions, particularly in relation to relatively small purchases which might otherwise go undetected.


   How Zero-Floor Limits Work  

Zero-floor limits are an increasingly popular provision. By taking advantage of the advanced computerized systems that are now responsible for processing payments, transactions can be authorized within a matter of seconds. In fact, there is essentially no difference in the speed required to authorize a large transaction as compared to a small one. For this reason, zero-floor limits have become common in recent years.



In the past, merchants who wished to authorize a transaction would need to take a physical imprint of the customer’s credit card. This process would inevitably slow down the pace of transactions, causing many merchants to impose floor limits: minimum size thresholds below which transactions would not need to be authorized. By switching to a zero-floor limit policy, merchants and customers alike can benefit from improved fraud protection.





Important

Although merchants have some discretion when deciding on their own floor limit, credit card companies can also set their own rules, which the merchants would then be obliged to follow. If a merchant allows a transaction to be processed without adhering to the credit card company's floor limit policies, that merchant may be penalized by the credit card company.



Although zero-floor limits are growing in popularity, they were initially used mainly in situations where the merchant could not have access to the customer's physical credit card, such as with online stores or mail-order companies. In these cases, which are known as "contactless transactions," it has long been customary to authorize all transactions regardless of their size, to protect against the risk of purchases being made with stolen credit cards.


   Real World Example of a Zero-Floor Limit  

When reviewing her monthly credit card bill, Emma was shocked to find several small transactions at stores that she did not recognize. Concerned that her card may have been compromised, she contacted her credit card issuer to notify them about the potential theft.



After investigating the matter, Emma's credit card issuer confirmed that her credit card information had been stolen and used by the thief to make online purchases. Because the purchases in question were for relatively small amounts, the thief was able to avoid detection by deliberately making purchases from online merchants without zero-floor limit policies.



Thankfully, the credit card issuer agreed to reimburse Emma for the fraudulent transactions, while also mailing her a replacement credit card. In doing so, they informed Emma that going forward the credit card company would be requiring all merchants to impose zero-floor limit policies in order to reduce the risk of such theft in the future.
What Is a Zero-Gap Condition?  

A zero-gap condition exists when a financial institution's interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities are in perfect balance for a given maturity. The condition derives its name from the fact that the duration gap—or the difference in the sensitivity of an institution's assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates—is exactly zero. Under this condition, a change in interest rates will not create any surplus or shortfall for the company, since the firm is immunized to its interest rate risk for a given maturity.





Key Takeaways

A zero-gap condition exists when a financial institution's interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities are in perfect balance for a given maturity.Large banks must protect their current net worth, and pension funds have the obligation of payments after a number of years, so they must protect the future value of their portfolios while also addressing the uncertainty of future interest rates.In a zero-gap condition scenario, the duration gap—or the difference in the sensitivity of an institution's assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates—is exactly zero.Under this condition, a change in interest rates will not create any surplus or shortfall for the company, since the firm is immunized to its interest rate risk for a given maturity.


   Understanding a Zero-Gap Condition  

Financial institutions are exposed to interest rate risk when the interest rate sensitivity (also known as the duration) of their assets differs from the interest rate sensitivity of their liabilities. A zero-gap condition immunizes an institution from interest rate risk by ensuring that a change in interest rates will not affect the overall value of the firm's net worth.



Due to fluctuations in interest rates, firms and financial institutions face the risk of a duration gap in the interest rate sensitivities between their assets and liabilities. As a result, a 1% change in interest rates may increase the value of its assets by a lesser degree than the value gained to its liabilities, and this would result in a shortfall. To mitigate such interest rate risks, firms must make sure that any change in interest rates does not affect the overall value of the net worth of the firm. This "immunization" of the firm from interest rate risks is practiced by maintaining the difference in the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities of the firm given the same maturity, which is called the zero-gap condition.



The zero-gap condition can be achieved by interest rate immunization strategies—also known as multi-period immunization. Immunization is a hedging strategy that seeks to limit or offset the effect that changes in interest rates can have on a portfolio of fixed income securities, including the mix of various interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities on a firm's balance sheet. Large banks must protect their current net worth, and pension funds have the obligation of payments after a number of years. Both of these firms—and others—must protect the future value of their portfolios while also addressing the uncertainty of future interest rates.



Immunization strategies may use derivatives and other financial instruments to offset as much risk as possible when it comes to interest rates, taking into account both the portfolio's duration and its convexity—the change in duration as interest rates move (or the curvature of the duration). In the case of fixed-income instruments, such as bonds, immunization seeks to limit changes to the price, as well as reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is the likelihood that an investment's cash flows will earn less when invested in a new security.
What Is a Zero-Investment Portfolio?  

A zero-investment portfolio is a collection of investments that has a net value of zero when the portfolio is assembled, and therefore requires an investor to take no equity stake in the portfolio. For instance, an investor may short sell $1,000 worth of stocks in one set of companies, and use the proceeds to purchase $1,000 in stock in another set of companies.





Key Takeaways

The zero-investment portfolio is a financial portfolio that is composed of securities that cumulatively result in a net value of zero. A zero-investment portfolio that requires no equity whatsoever is purely theoretical; a truly zero-cost investment strategy is not achievable for several reasons.The most important contribution of portfolio theory to our understanding of investments is that a group of stocks can earn investors a better risk-adjusted return than individual investments can; however, diversification of assets cannot eliminate risk completely. 


   Understanding a Zero-Investment Portfolio  

A zero-investment portfolio that requires no equity whatsoever is purely theoretical; it doesn’t exist in the real world, but conceptually this type of portfolio is of interest to academics studying finance. A truly zero-cost investment strategy is not achievable for several reasons. First, when an investor borrows stock from a broker in order to sell the stock and profit from its decline, they must use much of the proceeds as collateral for the loan. Second, in the U.S., short selling is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) such that it may not be possible for investors to maintain the right balance of short investments with long investments. Finally, buying and selling securities requires investors to pay commissions to brokers, which increases costs to an investor; a real-life attempt at a zero-investment portfolio would involve risking one’s own capital



The unique nature of a zero-investment portfolio leads it to not have a portfolio weight at all. A portfolio weight is usually calculated by dividing the dollar amount that a portfolio is long by the total value of all the investments in the portfolio. Because the net value of a zero-investment portfolio is zero, the denominator in the equation is zero. Therefore, the equation cannot be solved. 



Portfolio theory is one of the most important areas of study for students and practitioners of finance and investing. The most important contribution of portfolio theory to our understanding of investments is that a group of stocks can earn investors a better risk-adjusted return than individual investments can. In most real-world markets, however, diversification of assets cannot eliminate risk completely. An investment portfolio that can guarantee a return without any risk is known as an arbitrage opportunity, and academic financial theory usually assumes that such scenarios are not possible in the real world. A true zero-investment portfolio would be considered an arbitrage opportunity—if the rate of return this portfolio earns equals or exceeds the riskless rate of return (usually assumed to be the rate one can earn from U.S. government bonds).



Arbitrage is the process of buying certain amounts of securities in one market while simultaneously selling the same amount of the same or similar securities in another market. The principle of arbitrage can also be applied to buying and selling securities of like value in the same market. The goal of an arbitrage strategy is to minimize the overall risk of losing money, while at the same time taking advantage of opportunities to make money.
What Is a Zero Layoff Policy?  

A zero layoff policy dictates that no employees shall be terminated as a result of business-based purposes dictated by the economy. This policy does not exempt termination as a result of poor performance or other violations of the employment contract, such as ethical lapses.



Such policies are enacted in recognition that the welfare of employees should not be harmed due to economic factors that are out of their control. A zero layoff policy may also be referred to as a "no layoffs policy."





Key Takeaways

A zero layoff policy is a form of protection offered to employees, should the company's business decline as a result of a weakening economy.The policy means that employees won't be terminated due to circumstances beyond their control, such as a recession.However, an employee can still be let go for poor performance, ethical violations, or behavior that would result in termination regardless of the state of the economy.


   How a Zero Layoff Policy Works  

A zero layoff policy means that an employer will do everything in its power to avoid terminating employees when the economy falls into a recession. This may include salary cuts, cuts to benefits, natural attrition, moving employees to part-time schedules, or other cost-cutting means.



A zero layoff policy runs contrary to the current habit of treating employees like free agents, almost devoid of any sense of loyalty on both sides. Such a policy is seen by some as a throwback to times of greater paternalism among employers. Having a zero layoff policy has a positive effect on employee morale, especially during rough economic times, as employees do not have to fear being unemployed. Companies that employ zero layoff policies frequently find themselves in lists of top places to work.


   Special Considerations  

A zero layoff policy is especially evident in recessionary times when most companies will cut headcount in order to improve their financial position. Companies that employ a zero layoff policy tend to treat employees like investments. They hire carefully and tend to train their employees to cover a variety of jobs.


   Zero Layoff Policy Examples  

As of the third quarter of 2020, the following companies have never laid off an employee. Some have been able to maintain a zero layoff policy due to steady growth and lean operating principles, as well as engendering a sense of teamwork among employees that makes occasional belt-tightening more palatable. However, as the impact of COVID-19 drags on, some of the companies have warned that layoffs may end up happening.



Southwest Airlines: The low-cost airline believes that its zero-layoff policy contributes to its winning attitude. It has managed to avoid layoffs and furloughs even amid the impact of COVID-19 on its industry but has said that without more government help, it will have to make cuts.﻿﻿
NuStar Energy: Despite the volatility of the energy industry and impact from COVID-19, this San Antonio, Texas, company has maintained a zero layoff policy.﻿﻿
Nucor: This steel company has grown since 2009 and has long had a no-layoff policy. But amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the company has had to restructure its operations in Alabama and reduce the workforce by over 200. Nucor has said it has offered to hire those employees in other segments of the company.﻿﻿
Publix: This Southern grocery store chain is consistently ranked among the best places to work in America and features a zero layoff policy. The company has hired thousands of more people during the pandemic.﻿﻿
What Is a Zero Liability Policy?  

A zero liability policy in a credit card or debit card agreement relieves the cardholder from responsibility for certain unauthorized charges, even beyond the limits set by federal law. All major credit card issuers provide such protection, although their specific terms can vary. Debit cards often come with similar protections.





Key Takeaways

Federal law limits the financial liability that credit and debt card holders face if their cards, or card numbers, are used in fraudulent transactions.Many credit card and debit card issuers also have voluntary zero liability policies that reduce cardholders' exposure even more.Rules can vary among card issuers, so it's worth checking your card agreements to see what protections they offer and under what circumstances.Even with zero liability policies in place it's worth keeping a close eye on your cards if only to avoid the hassle of getting any fraudulent charges removed.


   How Zero Liability Policies Work  

Under federal law, the issuers of credit cards are largely responsible for absorbing the costs of credit card fraud. The cardholder is not liable for any charges if they report the loss or theft of their card before it is used in a fraudulent transaction, or if their card number (but not the physical card) was used. Even if they don't meet those requirements, their liability for losses is limited to a maximum of $50. A zero liability policy, which is voluntary on the card issuer's part, removes even that potential for loss.



Debit cards, however, are covered by a different set of federal rules, making the cardholder responsible for greater losses in some instances. The amount depends on how soon they report the problem as well as on whether the actual card (and not just the card number) was involved. Specifically:



If the cardholder reports that their debit card was lost or stolen before any fraudulent charges have been made on it, their liability is $0.
If they report it within two business days after discovering the loss or theft, their liability is limited to $50.
If more than two days elapse before they report it, their loss is capped at $500 during the first 60 calendar days after their bank mailed their statement to them.
If more than 60 days go by, however, their liability can be as high as all the money in that account plus any linked accounts.



As with credit cards, if a debit card's number, but not the physical card, is used in a fraudulent transaction, the rules are more lenient. In that case, the cardholder has up to 60 days from the date their statement was mailed to report the incident before they incur any liability.



Debit card issuers can, however, choose to implement zero liability policies that go beyond the federal protections. Those policies can vary from issuer to issuer and card network to card network.



USAA, for example, says that, "You are not liable for unauthorized use of a debit card that you report to us" and goes on to define unauthorized use as the "use of a debit card by someone other than you without actual authority to use the debit card and from which you receive no benefit. It does not include use of a debit card (1) by a person who was furnished the debit card by you unless you notified us that transfers by that person are no longer authorized or (2) with fraudulent intent by you or any person acting in concert with you."



Mastercard, meanwhile, says that cardholders will not be held responsible for unauthorized transactions if "1. You have used reasonable care in protecting your card from loss or theft; and 2. You promptly reported loss or theft to your financial institution."



Zero liability policies frequently have exceptions. For example, they may not apply to business credit cards or to foreign transactions. The cardholder agreement should lay all this out.


   How Fraudulent Card Charges Happen  

There are any number of scenarios that can cause fraudulent charges to show up on a credit or debit card account. Common ones include:


  Hack Attacks  

In one common ploy, a hacker accesses the database of a company such as a retail store chain that has retained its consumers' credit card information. This information is then sold, directly or on the black market, to other criminals who specialize in making unauthorized purchases.



The trick is to rack up purchases before the card's real owner or the card issuer realizes that the information has been stolen.



This is why you may get a call from your card issuer inquiring, say, whether you've been downloading a lot of games from a Hong Kong-based videogame site lately, or whether you're really in Peru shopping for jewelry today. Be careful how much information you supply, however, as scam artists also make calls using a similar pretext. When in doubt, hang up and call your issuer back using the number on the back of your card.


  Skimming  

Through a process called skimming, a criminal can tamper with a credit or debit card swiping device at an ATM, store, or gas pump to collect relevant information from customers' cards. The information can then be used to make unauthorized transactions.



The transition to cards with embedded microchips is designed to thwart this technique with more sophisticated encryption. However, not all merchants have installed the appropriate card readers, so skimming still goes on.


  Phishing Scams  

In a phishing scam, a fraudulent message goes out to a vast number of potential victims in hopes of capturing a few unwary souls.



The message purports to be from a trusted company or government agency. The phone, email, or text message asks recipients to supply information, such as their cards' account numbers and validation codes, giving the thieves all they need to start running up charges.




How Do You Report Credit or Debit Card Fraud?
You can usually report fraud by phone, online, or through your bank's mobile app. The Federal Trade Commission also suggests following up immediately with a letter to the bank that includes "your account number, the date and time when you noticed your card was missing, and when you first reported the loss." Also keep a copy of that letter, just in case.




What Is a Validation Code?
A validation code, often referred to as a CVV code, is a three- or four-digit number on the front or back of your credit or debit card. It's designed to add a layer of protection in online or phone transactions, on the assumption that thieves who attempt to use your card number may not have the physical card in their possession and will be unable to supply the validation code if asked for it.




Do Prepaid Cards Have Zero Liability Protection?
Prepaid cards don't have the same federal protections as credit and regular debit cards. Some issuers and networks do provide liability protection when a prepaid card is lost or stolen, if the cardholder has registered it in their name.


   The Bottom Line  

Federal law provides certain liability protections to credit and debit cardholders whose cards, or card numbers, have been used in fraudulent transactions. Some card issuers go beyond that, however, with zero-liability policies that further limit the cardholder's financial exposure.
What Is a Zero-Lot-Line House?  

A zero-lot-line house is a piece of residential real estate in which the structure comes up to, or very near to, the edge of the property line. Rowhouses, garden homes, patio homes, and townhomes are all types of properties that may be zero-lot-line homes. They may be attached (as in a townhouse) or a detached single story or multistory residence.





key takeaways

A zero-lot-line house is a piece of residential real estate in which the structure comes up to, or very near to, the edge of the property line.Zero-lot-line houses can be attached or detached, and are especially popular in urban areas.Noise and proximity to neighbors can be disadvantages to zero-lot-line homes.Low maintenance and lower prices are advantages of zero-lot-line homes.


   Understanding a Zero-Lot-Line House  

Zero-lot-line houses are built very close to their boundary lines to create more usable space for the residence. Because there is virtually no space left over they are called "zero lot." With a zero-lot-line house, the buyer only has to pay for a lot large enough to hold the house. Such a home confers savings to purchasers who cannot afford a larger lot or do not feel they need one enough to justify the expense.



These homes are especially popular in urban renewal settings. In places with high population density, such as the urban core of a large metropolitan area, zero-lot-line houses impart buyers with options beyond the typical lofts and condos while maintaining the ability to provide housing for large numbers of people in a tightly circumscribed area.


   Zero-Lot-Line House Advantages  

Though they cost less than homes with lots of extra acreage, zero-lot-line homes are not just for low-income homebuyers; they are an attractive option for anyone who doesn't have the time or inclination to maintain landscaping. Not leaving room in the property plot for a yard allows for maximum square footage in the home. Zero-lot homes offer many of the advantages of actualhouses—without the time-consuming demands of upkeep and the expense oflarge backyards or front lawns.



These homes are also an appealing alternative to condos because they offer greater privacy and independence while still being low-maintenance. A common complaint in condominium settings is that a homeowner shares walls with as many as five neighbors, increasing the chances of noise disturbances from neighbors and eroding any sense of privacy. While certain zero-lot-line homes, such as townhouses and rowhouses, still include shared walls, there are fewer of them. Other zero-lot-line options, such as garden homes, offer homeowners the freedom of a standalone structure.



Because zero lot developments often incorporate shared spaces into their design—features such as shared back alleys and front porches right at the street—many of these home encourage a real sense of community among neighbors.


   Zero-Lot-Line House Disadvantages  

Window placement, noise, and a lack of privacy can be issues with these types of homes since there is little to no buffer zone surrounding them. Moreover, because zero-lot-line homes typically feature less setback from the road compared to homes on larger lots, noise from passing cars may be of constant concern, particularly if the home is situated on a busy thoroughfare.



Zero-lot-line houses can create challenges among neighbors, especially in areas where people are used to having larger buffer zones. In traditionally dense neighborhoods where residents are used to living in close quarters, smaller buffer zones are less of a challenge.



Finally, zero-lot-line homes might fetch less on the real estate market, especially in boom times. Lots of land around a home still connote luxury and value, and provide homeowners with flexibility to expand. To some, a zero-lot-line home could represent the worst of all worlds: all the noise and lack of privacy of an apartment, with the upkeep of a free-standing structure, but without compensatory acreage and space.
What Is Zero-One Integer Programming?  

Zero-one integer programming (which can also be written as '0-1' integer programming) is a mathematical method of using a series of binary functions; in particular, yes ('1') and no ('0') answers to arrive at a solution when there are two mutually exclusive options.



In the world of finance, zero-one integer programming is often used to provide answers to capital rationing problems, as well as to optimize investment returns and assist in planning, production, transportation, and other issues.





Key Takeaways

Zero-one integer programming relies on mutually exclusive yes (1) and no (0) decisions to find solutions to logic problems.In zero-one integer problems, each variable is represented only by 0 ('no') or 1 ('yes'), and could represent selecting or rejecting an option, turning on or off electronic switches, or a straight-forward yes or no answer used in various other applications.This type of programming can be useful for companies making decisions on issues like what to invest in or which of two proposed products are easiest to manufacture.


   Understanding Zero-One Integer Programming  

Integer programming is a branch of mathematical programming or optimization, which involves creating equations in order to solve problems. The term "mathematical programming" is connected with the fact that the goal of solving various problems is choosing programs of action. Assigning a simple yes/no value can be a powerful way to establish a linear problem-solving framework to identify inefficiencies.



Fundamentally, the most basic instructions executed by a computer are binary codes, consisting only of ones and zeros. Those codes are directly translated into the “on” and “off” states of the electricity moving through the computer’s physical circuits. In essence, these simple codes form the basis of “machine language”, the most fundamental variety of programming languages. These on and off positions can also be construed as assigning a "yes" or "no" to a logical function.



Of course, no human would be able to construct modern software programs by explicitly programming ones and zeros. Instead, human programmers must rely on various layers of abstraction that can allow them to articulate their commands in a format that is more intuitive to humans. Specifically, modern programmers issue commands in so-called “high-level languages”, which utilize intuitive syntax such as whole English words and sentences, as well as logical operators such as “And”, “Or”, and “Else” that are familiar to everyday usage.



Ultimately, however, these high-level commands need to be translated into machine language. Rather than doing so manually, programmers rely on assembly languages whose purpose is to automatically translate between these high-level and low-level languages.


   Real-World Example of Zero-One Integer Programming  

A simple example of how zero-one integer programming might be used in capital rationing would be in determining the number of product development projects that can be completed by a company by a certain date or within a certain budget. For example, a number of variables for each project can be given values that ultimately result in a 1 (yes) or 0 (no) binary decision about whether or not to include the project in a budget. This can be helpful to companies that are unsure about a specific business decision and are looking for a straightforward way to assess the possibilities.
What Is Zero Percent?  

In finance, the term “zero percent” refers to promotional interest rates used to entice consumers. They are often used by businesses wishing to sell big-ticket items such as cars or home appliances.



Although zero-percent financing might seem attractive, consumers should be aware of any hidden fees embedded in the offer and should ensure that they are able to fully repay the debt once the promotional period has expired.





Key Takeaways

Zero percent financing is an incentive offered by retailers who wish to sell products that might otherwise be unaffordable to most consumers.These offers are typically limited to short periods, such as six to twelve months.Customers often underestimate the long-term cost of such purchases, failing to recognize that their interest rate can increase substantially after the promotional period.


   How Zero Percent Works  

Stores often offer aggressive financing packages to incentivize customers to purchase relatively expensive items. For example, a car dealership might offer zero-percent financing for a certain number of years on its vehicles. Given that most cars are priced at $30,000 or more, this type of low-cost financing might make it possible for customers to buy the car despite not having the cash available to buy it outright otherwise.



It is important to note, however, that these offers may not be as affordable as they seem. After all, zero percent offers typically last for only a limited period of time, such as six months or one year. After the promotional period has ended, any unpaid balance will typically incur a much higher interest rate. If the customer has not managed to repay the debt by that time, they might find themselves surprised by the sudden increase in monthly payments, and may even be forced into default.



Ultimately, stores that offer zero-percent financing are relying on the fact that many customers will have failed to pay off the balance of their purchase by the time the promotional period is over. They, therefore, hope to benefit from the much higher interest rates charged afterward. Similarly, stores will sometimes increase the upfront price of the product before offering it under flexible financing terms. For instance, they might increase the cost of a car by 5% before offering it to customers under a zero percent financing program. In instances such as this, the zero percent interest offer can be misleading.


   Real-World Example of Zero Percent  

Kyle is shopping for a new TV at a local big-box electronics store. He is pleased to find that many of the high-end models are being offered under very generous financing terms.



One of these models, a $2,500 4K TV, is being offered with zero percent financing for twelve months. Although Kyle had only saved $1,500 toward this purchase, he reasons that there is no harm in purchasing the more expensive TV since he can delay making payments on it for a full year, even without paying interest.



Unfortunately for Kyle, he had failed to adequately read the details of the offer. One year later, he receives his first bill from the electronics store. Because the promotional period has ended, he is now being charged interest at a post-promotional rate of 20%. Unless he quickly pays off the outstanding balance of the TV, he may find that the true cost of the purchase was far greater than he had imagined.



In addition, 0% financing deals often include a provision that will add any deferred interest back into the balance due, if the entire amount is not paid off prior to the end of the promotional period. It pays to read the fine print of any 0% financing offer.
What Is a Zero Plus Tick?  

A zero plus tick or zero uptick is a security trade that is executed at the same price as the preceding trade but at a higher price than the last trade of a different price. For example, if a succession of trades occurs at $10, $10.01, and $10.01 again, the latter trade would be considered a zero plus tick, or zero uptick trade, because it is the same price as the previous trade, but a higher price than the last trade at a different price.



The term zero plus tick or zero uptick can be applied to stocks, bonds, commodities, and other traded securities, but most often is used for listed equity securities. The opposite of a zero plus tick is a zero minus tick.





Key Takeaways

A zero tick plus is when a security has a transaction above the national best bid (uptick), and then another transaction occurs at that same price.Up until 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had a rule stating that a stock could only be shorted on an uptick or a zero plus tick in order to prevent the destabilization of a stock.As of 2010, an alternate uptick rule states that if a stock has declined more than 10% that day traders may only short on an uptick. They may short freely if the stock hasn't declined by more than 10%.


   Understanding a Zero Plus Tick  

An uptick, and zero plus tick, means the price of a stock moved higher and then stayed there, albeit briefly. It was for this reason that, for more than 70 years, there was an uptick rule as established by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which stated that stocks could only be shorted on an uptick or a zero plus tick, not on a downtick.



The uptick rule was intended to stabilize the market by preventing traders from destabilizing a stock’s price by shorting it on a downtick. Prior to the implementation of the uptick rule, it was common for groups of traders to pool capital and sell short in order to drive down the price of a specific security. The goal of this was to cause a panic among shareholders, who would then sell their shares at a lower price. This manipulation of the market caused securities to decline even further in value.



It was thought that short selling on downticks may have led to the stock market crash of 1929, following inquiries into short selling that occurred during the 1937 market break. The uptick rule was implemented in 1938 and lifted in 2007 after the SEC concluded that markets were advanced and orderly enough to not need the restriction. It is also believed that theadvent of decimalization on the major stock exchanges helped to make the rule unnecessary.



During the 2008 financial crisis, widespread calls for the reinstatement of the uptick rule led the SEC to implement an alternative uptick rule in 2010. This rule stated that if a stock dropped more than 10% in a day, short selling would only be allowed on an uptick. Once the 10% drop has been triggered the alternate uptick rule remains in effect for the rest of the day and the following day.


   Example of a Zero Plus Tick  

Assume that Company ABC has a bid price of $273.36 and an offer of $273.37. Transactions have occurred at both of these prices in the last second as the price holds there. A transaction occurring at $273.37 is an uptick. If another transaction occurs at $273.37, that is a zero tick plus.



In most circumstances, this doesn't matter. But say the stock has fallen by 10% from the prior close price at one point in the day. Then the upticks matter because a trader could only short if the price is on an uptick. Essentially this means they can only get filled on the offer side. They can't cross the market to remove liquidity off the bid. This is per the alternative uptick rule established in 2010.
What Is Zero-Proof Bookkeeping?  

Zero-proof bookkeeping is a manual bookkeeping procedure used in accounting in which posted entries are systematically subtracted from an ending balance to check for errors. In zero-proof bookkeeping, a balance of zero when all entries have been subtracted is proof that the accounting entries have been entered correctly. In this way, this practice is quite similar to keeping a balance sheet, which is a common financial statement issued by firms that balances assets with liabilities and shareholder's equity - such that subtracting the left side from the right side of the balance sheet results in a sum of zero.



Zero-proof bookkeeping is employed as part of a double-entry bookkeeping system, where credits (liabilities) and debits (assets) are kept track of simultaneously.


   Understanding Zero-Proof Bookkeeping  

This method, used as part of a double-entry bookkeeping system, may be used to reconcile accounting differences in situations where the number of entries or transactions is not overly large. A typical situation where zero-proof bookkeeping is used is by bank tellers to reconcile differences at the end of a day. Zero proof bookkeeping is not practical where large numbers of transactions are the norm, and many of the figures are rounded. Thus, this practice is most often used by smaller businesses or for individual purposes.



Because zero-proof bookkeeping is carried out by hand, it is a laborious and time-consuming process. It is also tedious in that the same sort of manual calculations must be carried out on a regular basis, for example, at the end of each business day. Of course, this work can be augmented with the work of calculators or spreadsheets such as Microsoft Excel.



To start in the zeroing out process, the bookkeeper will first engage in "footing" the ledger. The footing here means summing up all of the numbers recorded in a single column of the accounting ledger. The resulting sum, which appears at the bottom ("foot') of the column is then used to reconcile against the other columns by comparing and subtracting debits from credits (cross-footing). An example of zero-proof bookkeeping in practice is the use of balance sheets by firms where shareholders' equity is used as a figure (either positive or negative) to balance assets with liabilities so that they add up to zero on net.
What Are Zero-Rated Goods?  

Zero-rated goods, in countries that use value-added tax (VAT), are products that are exempt from that value taxation.





Key Takeaways

Zero-rated goods are products that are exempt from value-added taxation (VAT).Countries designate products as zero-rated because they are leading contributors to other manufactured goods and a significant component of a broader supply chain.Often, goods and services that are zero-rated are those that are considered necessary, such as food items, sanitary products, and animal feeds.Examples of zero-rated goods include certain foods and beverages, exported goods, equipment for the disabled, prescription medications, water, and sewage services.


   Understanding Zero-Rated Goods  

In most countries, the government mandates a domestic VAT requirement for goods and services. In most reported data, the total price of products sold in a country includes the VAT and is an additional charge to sales tax in most transactions. The VAT is a form of consumption tax.



Countries using VAT designate certain goods as zero-rated goods. Zero-rated goods are typically individualized items. Countries designate these products as zero-rated because they are leading contributors to other manufactured goods and a significant component of a broader supply chain. Also, many food items are identified as zero-rated goods and sell with 0% VAT.



Examples of items that may be zero-rated include certain foods and beverages, exported goods, donated goods sold by charity shops, equipment for the disabled, prescription medications, water, and sewage services, books and other printed publications, and children's clothing.



In many cases, buyers use zero-rated goods in production and benefit from paying a lower price for the goods without the tax. A food manufacturer may use zero-rated goods in the manufacturing of a food product, but when the consumer buys the final product, it includes a VAT.



Overall, the absence of VAT on zero-rated goods results in a lower total purchase price for the goods. Zero-rated goods can save buyers a significant amount of money. In the United Kingdom, for example, the standard VAT rate levied on most goods is 20%, and the reduced rate is 5%.


  International Dealings with Zero-Rated Goods  

When a consumer brings a good from one country to another, either individually or via a shipment, there is generally an international VAT charge in addition to any import or export tariffs due. Internationally designated zero-rated goods are not subject to international VAT, so the cost of importing or exporting them is lower.


  Exempt Goods  

Some goods and services are also reported as exempt from VAT. These exempt goods and services are typically a focused group provided by a seller that is not subject to VAT.



The European Commission, for example, exempts goods such as finance and insurance services, and some land building supplies. Other examples of exempt goods are those that serve the public interest, such as medical and dental care, social services, and education.


   Zero-Rated Goods Example  

Often, goods and services that are zero-rated are those that are considered necessary, such as food items, sanitary products, and animal feeds. Zero-rating these items makes them more affordable for lower-income consumers.



For example, in 2018, an independent panel at the University of Stellenbosch in South Africa made the recommendation to add several items to the country’s list of zero-rated food items. White bread, cake flour, bread flour, baby and adult diapers, sanitary products, and school uniforms were some of the items.



The recommendation came on the heels of an increase in the VAT rate in South Africa from 14% to 15%, a move that was opposed by many, who saw it as harmful to lower-income households. The country's finance minister at the time, Nhlanhla Nene, appointed the independent panel, which was headed by professor Ingrid Woolard, who teaches economics at the University of Stellenbosch.



The panel’s recommendations expanded an existing list of 19 zero-rated food items, including brown bread, fruits, vegetables, dried beans, rice, lentils, maize meal, milk, eggs, fish, mealie rice, and vegetable oil.
What Is a Zero-Sum Game?  

Zero-sum is a situation, often cited in game theory, in which one person’s gain is equivalent to another’s loss, so the net change in wealth or benefit is zero. A zero-sum game may have as few as two players or as many as millions of participants.



In financial markets, options and futures are examples of zero-sum games, excluding transaction costs. For every person who gains on a contract, there is a counter-party who loses.





Key Takeaways

A zero-sum game is a situation where, if one party loses, the other party wins, and the net change in wealth is zero.Zero-sum games can include just two players or millions of participants.In financial markets, futures and options are considered zero-sum games because the contracts represent agreements between two parties and, if one investor loses, then the wealth is transferred to another investor.Most transactions are non-zero-sum games because the end result can be beneficial to both parties.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Zero-Sum Games  

Zero-sum games are found in many contexts. Poker and gambling are popular examples of zero-sum games since the sum of the amounts won by some players equals the combined losses of the others. Games like chess and tennis, where there is one winner and one loser, are also zero-sum games.



Derivatives trades are also often cited as zero-sum games, since every dollar earned has to be lost by another party to the transaction.


   Zero Sum vs. Positive Sum Games  

Zero-sum games are the opposite of win-win situations—such as a trade agreement that significantly increases trade between two nations—or lose-lose situations, like war, for instance. In real life, however, things are not always so obvious, and gains and losses are often difficult to quantify.



When applied specifically to economics, there are multiple factors to consider when understanding a zero-sum game. A zero-sum game assumes a version of perfect competition and perfect information; both opponents in the model have all the relevant information to make an informed decision. Taking a step back, most transactions or trades are inherently non-zero-sum games because when two parties agree to trade they do so with the understanding that the goods or services they are receiving are more valuable than the goods or services they are trading for it, after transaction costs. This is called positive-sum, and most transactions fall under this category.



Many well-known game theory examples like the prisoner’s dilemma, Cournot Competition, Centipede Game, and Deadlock are also non-zero sum.






A positive sum game is where the net result is greater than zero, even though there may be some winners and losers. In economics, trade and exchange are thought to be examples of a positive sum game.


   Zero-Sum Games and Game Theory  

Game theory is a complex theoretical study in economics. The 1944 groundbreaking work “Theory of Games and Economic Behavior,” written by Hungarian-born American mathematician John von Neumann and co-written by Oskar Morgenstern, is the foundational text. Game theory is the study of the decision-making process between two or more intelligent and rational parties.



Game theory can be used in a wide array of economic fields, including experimental economics, which uses experiments in a controlled setting to test economic theories with more real-world insight. When applied to economics, game theory uses mathematical formulas and equations to predict outcomes in a transaction, taking into account many different factors, including gains, losses, optimality, and individual behaviors.



In theory, a zero-sum game is solved via three solutions, perhaps the most notable of which is the Nash Equilibrium put forth by John Nash in a 1951 paper titled “Non-Cooperative Games.” The Nash equilibrium states that two or more opponents in the game—given knowledge of each others’ choices and that they will not receive any benefit from changing their choice—will therefore not deviate from their choice.


   Example of a Zero Sum Game  

The game of matching pennies is often cited as an example of a zero-sum game, according to game theory. The game involves two players, A and B, simultaneously placing a penny on the table. The payoff depends on whether the pennies match or not. If both pennies are heads or tails, Player A wins and keeps Player B’s penny; if they do not match, then Player B wins and keeps Player A’s penny.



Matching pennies is a zero-sum game because one player’s gain is the other’s loss. The payoffs for Players A and B are shown in the table below, with the first numeral in cells (a) through (d) representing Player A’s payoff, and the second numeral representing Player B’s playoff. As can be seen, the combined playoff for A and B in all four cells is zero.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   How Zero Sum Games Apply to Finance  

In the stock market, trading is often thought of as a zero-sum game. However, because trades are made on the basis of future expectations, and traders have different preferences for risk, a trade can be mutually beneficial. Investing longer term is a positive-sum situation because capital flows facilitation production, and jobs that then provide production, and jobs that then provide savings, and income that then provides investment to continue the cycle.



Options and futures trading is the closest practical example to a zero-sum game scenario because the contracts are agreements between two parties, and, if one person loses, then the other party gains. While this is a very simplified explanation of options and futures, generally, if the price of that commodity or underlying asset rises (usually against market expectations) within a set time frame, an investor can close the futures contract at a profit. Thus, if an investor makes money from that bet, there will be a corresponding loss, and the net result is a transfer of wealth from one investor to another.




Does Zero-Sum Game Mean All or Nothing?
Yes. Often the terms zero-sum and "all or nothing" are used to describe the same phenomenon: where there can only be one winner, at the expense of the loser(s).




Why Is It Called Zero-Sum?
The term "zero-sum" comes from the fact that some situations require winners to gain at the expense of losers, such that the net value of the system remains unchanged. For example, a winner with +3 would result in, say, two losers, one with -1 and one with -2. The sum is zero (3 - 2 - 1).




What Is a Zero-Sum Game in Relationships?
In the context of personal relationships, a zero-sum game implies that there can only be one "winner" at the expense of the other person or people. This can create conflict and tension.
What Is a Zero Uptick?  

A zero uptick is a security purchase that is executed at the same price as the trade immediately preceding it, but at a price higher than the transaction before that. For example, if shares trade at $47 a share, and the following two trades transact at $47.03, the last of the two trades at $47.03 is considered to be a zero uptick. This was important for short-sellers trying to avoid shorting a stock on an uptick to comply with the uptick rule (although that rule is no longer in place).





Key Takeaways

A zero uptick is a security purchase executed at the same price as the trade immediately preceding it, but at a price higher than the transaction before that.A zero uptick occurs instantly when a trade is made with qualifying characteristics based on the two transactions before it.The qualifications of a zero tick trade include trades between buyers and sellers on security that make no change to the price of that security.Zero upticks were often used by short-sellers to meet the uptick rule.The uptick rule (also known as the plus tick rule) was a law established by the SEC that required every short sale transaction to be entered at a higher price than the previous trade—it was eliminated in 2007.


   How a Zero Uptick Works  

A zero uptick occurs instantly as a trade is made that has qualifying characteristics based on the two transactions before it. The qualifications of a zero tick include trades between buyers and sellers of a stock that makes no change to the price of that security.



Additionally, the trade before the no-change trade must make the price go higher than it was on the tick before. The following illustration displays each tick of the stock price of Exxon Mobil (XOM) during a one-minute span. The two ticks that would qualify as zero ticks are noted.















Zero Ticks on XOM.



A zero tick is allowable for initiating a short sell position. The technique of shorting on a zero uptick does not apply to all investment markets, due to various rules and regulations prohibiting or restricting such transactions. The Forex or foreign exchange market, which has limited restrictions on shorting, is among the markets in which the technique is more popular.


   Special Considerations  

The uptick rule is a former law established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that required every short sale transaction to be entered at a higher price than the previous trade. This rule was introduced in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as Rule 10a-1 and implemented in 1938. It prevented short sellers from adding to the downward momentum of an asset already experiencing sharp declines.






The uptick rule was eliminated in 2007. In 2010, the SEC put in place an alternative uptick rule (Rule 201 of Regulation SHO) that is only triggered when a security's price falls by 10% or more from the previous closing price. It then remains in effect until the close of the next day.



Uptick rules can be frustrating to short-sellers (people who are betting that a stock will fall) because they must wait for the stock to stabilize before their order can be filled. Some investors argue that uptick rules inhibit trading and shrink liquidity.



Shorting means an investor must first borrow the shares from someone who owns them. This creates demand for the shares. They argue that short selling provides liquidity to markets and also prevents stocks from being bid up to ridiculously high levels of hype and over-optimism.
What Is the Zero-Volatility Spread (Z-Spread)?  

The Zero-volatility spread (Z-spread) is the constant spread that makes the price of a security equal to the present value of its cash flows when added to the yield at each point on the spot rate Treasury curve where cash flow is received. In other words, each cash flow is discounted at the appropriate Treasury spot rate plus the Z-spread. The Z-spread is also known as a static spread.





Key Takeaways

The zero-volatility spread of a bond tells the investor the bond's current value plus its cash flows at certain points on the Treasury curve where cash-flow is received.The Z-spread is also called the static spread.The spread is used by analysts and investors to discover discrepancies in a bond's price.


   Formula and Calculation for the Zero-Volatility Spread  

To calculate a Z-spread, an investor must take the Treasury spot rate at each relevant maturity, add the Z-spread to this rate, and then use this combined rate as the discount rate to calculate the price of the bond. The formula to calculate a Z-spread is:


















P


=




C


1





(


1


+





r


1



+


Z



2



)




2


n





+




C


2





(


1


+





r


2



+


Z



2



)




2


n





+




C


n





(


1


+





r


n



+


Z



2



)




2


n



















where:
















P


=


Current price of the bond plus any accrued interest

















C


x



=


Bond coupon payment

















r


x



=


Spot rate at each maturity
















Z


=


Z-spread
















n


=


Relevant time period







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \frac { C_1 }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { r_1 + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ {2n} } + \frac { C_2 }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { r_2 + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ {2n} } + \frac { C_n }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { r_n + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ {2n} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{P} = \text{Current price of the bond plus any accrued interest} \\ &C_x = \text{Bond coupon payment} \\ &r_x = \text{Spot rate at each maturity} \\ &Z = \text{Z-spread} \\ &n = \text{Relevant time period} \\ \end{aligned}


​P=(1+2r1​+Z​)2nC1​​+(1+2r2​+Z​)2nC2​​+(1+2rn​+Z​)2nCn​​where:P=Current price of the bond plus any accrued interestCx​=Bond coupon paymentrx​=Spot rate at each maturityZ=Z-spreadn=Relevant time period​



For example, assume a bond is currently priced at $104.90. It has three future cash flows: a $5 payment next year, a $5 payment two years from now and a final total payment of $105 in three years. The Treasury spot rate at the one-, two-, and three- year marks are 2.5%, 2.7% and 3%. The formula would be set up as follows:












$


104.90


=









 




$


5





(


1


+




2.5


%


+


Z



2



)




2


×


1





+




$


5





(


1


+




2.7


%


+


Z



2



)




2


×


2



















+




$


105





(


1


+




3


%


+


Z



2



)




2


×


3










\begin{aligned} \$104.90 = &\ \frac { \$5 }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { 2.5\% + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 \times 1 } } + \frac { \$5 }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { 2.7\% + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ { 2 \times 2 } } \\ &+ \frac { \$105 }{ \left ( 1 + \frac { 3\% + Z }{ 2 } \right ) ^ {2 \times 3 } } \end{aligned}


$104.90=​ (1+22.5%+Z​)2×1$5​+(1+22.7%+Z​)2×2$5​+(1+23%+Z​)2×3$105​​



With the correct Z-spread, this simplifies to:












$


104.90


=


$


4.87


+


$


4.72


+


$


95.32







\begin{aligned} \$104.90 = \$4.87 + \$4.72 + \$95.32 \end{aligned}


$104.90=$4.87+$4.72+$95.32​



This implies that the Z-spread equals 0.25% in this example.


   What the Zero-Volatility Spread (Z-spread) Can Tell You  

A Z-spread calculation is different than a nominal spread calculation. A nominal spread calculation uses one point on the Treasury yield curve (not the spot-rate Treasury yield curve) to determine the spread at a single point that will equal the present value of the security's cash flows to its price.



The Zero-volatility spread (Z-spread) helps analysts discover if there is a discrepancy in a bond's price. Because the Z-spread measures the spread that an investor will receive over the entirety of the Treasury yield curve, it gives analysts a more realistic valuation of a security instead of a single-point metric, such as a bond's maturity date.
What Is the Zeta Model?  

The Zeta Model is a mathematical model that estimates the chances of a public company going bankrupt within a two-year time period. The number produced by the model is referred to as the company's Z-score (or zeta score) and is considered to be a reasonably accurate predictor of future bankruptcy.



The model was published in 1968 by New York University professor of finance Edward I. Altman. The resulting Z-score uses multiple corporate income and balance sheet values to measure the financial health of a company.





Key Takeaways

The Zeta Model is a mathematical model that estimates the chances of a public company going bankrupt within a certain time period.The Zeta Model was developed by New York University professor Edward Altman in 1968. The resulting Z-score uses multiple corporate income and balance sheet values to measure the financial health of a company.


   The Formula for the Zeta Model Is  

﻿















ζ


=


1


.


2


A


+


1


.


4


B


+


3


.


3


C


+


0


.


6


D


+


E
















where:
















ζ


=


score
















A


=


working capital divided by total assets
















B


=


retained earnings divided by total assets
















C


=


earnings before interest and tax divided by total assets
















D


=


market value of equity divided by total liabilities
















E


=


sales divided by total assets








\begin{aligned} &\zeta = 1.2A + 1.4B + 3.3C + 0.6D + E\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\zeta=\text{score}\\ &A = \text{working capital divided by total assets} \\ &B = \text{retained earnings divided by total assets}\\ &C = \text{earnings before interest and tax divided by total assets}\\ &D = \text{market value of equity divided by total liabilities}\\ &E = \text{sales divided by total assets}\\ \end{aligned}


​ζ=1.2A+1.4B+3.3C+0.6D+Ewhere:ζ=scoreA=working capital divided by total assetsB=retained earnings divided by total assetsC=earnings before interest and tax divided by total assetsD=market value of equity divided by total liabilitiesE=sales divided by total assets​﻿


   What Does the Zeta Model Tell You?  

The Zeta Model returns a single number, the z-score (or zeta score), to represent the likelihood of a company going bankrupt in the next two years. The lower the z-score, the more likely a company is to go bankrupt. The Zeta model’s bankruptcy prediction accuracy has been found to range from more than 95% percent one period prior to a bankruptcy to 70% for a series of five prior annual reporting periods.



Z-scores exist in so-called zones of discrimination, which indicates the likelihood of a firm going bankrupt. A z-score lower than 1.8 indicates that bankruptcy is likely, while scores greater than 3.0 indicate bankruptcy is unlikely to occur in the next two years. Companies that have a z-score between 1.8 and 3.0 are in the gray area, and bankruptcy is as likely as not.



Z > 2.99 -“Safe” Zones1.81 < Z < 2.99 -“Grey” ZonesZ < 1.81 -“Distress” Zones



Different z-score formulations and zeta models exist for special cases such as private firms, emerging market risks, and non-manufacturer industrials.



The Zeta Model was developed by New York University professor Edward Altman in 1968. The model was originally designed for publicly traded manufacturing companies. Later versions of the model were developed for privately held companies, small businesses and non-manufacturing companies and emerging markets.
What Is the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment?  

The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment is a simple sentiment indicator created out of the monthly ZEW Financial Market Survey. The ZEW Financial Market Survey is an aggregation of the sentiments of approximately 350 economists and analysts on the economic future of Germany in the medium term. ZEW stands for Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschaftsforschung, which translates to the Center for European Economic Research.





Key Takeaways

The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment measures overall expert opinions on the direction of the German economy over the next six months.It is constructed based on a monthly survey of up to 350 analysts, financial professionals, and other experts.Indicators of popular and expert opinion are widely used to gauge trends in the economy based on various economic theories and the wisdom of crowds.


   Understanding the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment  

The ZEW Financial Market Survey covers a number of areas, sectors, and regions, but only the questions related specifically to the German economy are used to create the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment. From this data, a simple indicator reading is given showing the difference between the number of analysts that are bullish on the German economy versus those who are bearish. If the reading is a negative percentage, it means the majority of analysts are bearish. If the reading is positive, it means the majority is bullish.



For example, if 20% of respondents expect the German economic situation to deteriorate, 30% expect it to remain unchanged and 50% expect it to improve, then the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment would have a positive value of 20. This is a bullish reading and suggests that financial experts see positive signs for growth in the medium term.



As it is a sentiment indicator, double-digit readings are not uncommon. In 2018, for example, the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment went from a positive reading of 20.4 to -25 over a span of seven months. During this time, German economic growth slowed from 2.2% in 2017 to 1.5% in 2018, but the impact on the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment somewhat overstated the severity of this slowdown—as sentiment indicators are known to do.


   Sentiment Indicators  

Economic sentiment indicators are a popular means of gauging and forecasting trends in the economy and the markets. Various economic theories support the use of such indicators, though they may otherwise disagree greatly in their assumptions and conclusions.



These include Keynesian economics, with its focus on investor and consumer psychology as (fundamentally irrational) driving forces of recessions and business cycles, and rational expectations theory, with its assertion that market participants in general use all available and relevant economic combined with a more-or-less accurate understanding of the structure of the economy to efficiently form rational expectations of future economic trends.



Sentiment indicators usually take the form of surveys of opinions or intentions toward future actions and economic trends among various groups of people in the economy. By surveying large numbers of people, sentiment indicators are geared to leveraging the wisdom of crowds. This is the idea that while individuals might often be mistaken, the average thinking of a large number of people aggregates more dispersed information and is likely to be more accurate.



The groups surveyed may include investors, CEOs, supply chain managers, small business owners, bank lending officers, or consumers. For example, a survey of consumer sentiment might ask a sample of consumers whether they feel optimistic about the economy and whether they plan to make any big-ticket purchases in the next six months. Some indicators are targeted at key participants who directly drive markets, such as consumers and investors, and some, like the ZEW Index of Economic Sentiment, are targeted at experts who are expected to have better-than-average insight into future economic trends.


   The Data Behind the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment  

As mentioned, the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment takes the aggregate of around 350 economists' and analysts' sentiments to get a sense of Germany's economic future. These experts come from banks, insurance companies, and the financial departments of selected corporations. They are asked about their expectations for the coming six months, regarding the economy generally, inflation rates, interest rates, stock markets, exchange rates, and oil prices.



The Index itself is calculated as the percentage of experts who are optimistic regarding Germany's economy in the next six months minus the percentage who are pessimistic for the German economy over that time period.



In addition to the questions about the German economy, the ZEW Financial Market Survey covers the economic futures of several other countries and regions, including Japan, the United States, the eurozone, the UK, France, and Italy.
What Is the Zig Zag Indicator?  

The Zig Zag indicator lowers the impact of random price fluctuations and is used to help identify price trends and changes in price trends.





Key Takeaways

The Zig Zag indicator lowers the impact of random price fluctuations and is used to identify price trends and changes in price trends.The indicator lowers noise levels, highlighting underlying trends higher and lower.The Zig Zag indicator works best in strongly trending markets.


   Understanding the Zig Zag Indicator  

The Zig Zag indicator plot points on a chart whenever prices reverse by a percentage greater than a pre-chosen variable. An analyst can set the percentage level to trigger the indicator. Straight lines are then drawn, connecting these points.















TradingView.



The indicator is used to help identify price trends. It eliminates random price fluctuations and attempts to show trend changes. Zig Zag lines only appear when there is a price movement between a swing high and a swing low that is greater than a specified percentage—often 5%. By filtering minor price movements, the indicator makes trends easier to spot in all time frames.



The Zig Zag indicator is often used in conjunction with Elliot Wave Theory to determine the positioning of each wave in the overall cycle. Traders can experiment with different percentage settings to see what gives the best results. For example, a setting of 4% may define waves more clearly than a setting of 5%. Stocks have their own patterns, so it is likely that traders will need to optimize the Zig Zag indicator’s percentage setting to suit those securities. 



Although the Zig Zag indicator does not predict future trends, it helps to identify potential support and resistance zones between plotted swing highs and swing lows. Zig Zag lines can also reveal reversal patterns, i.e. double bottoms and head and shoulders tops. Traders can use popular technical indicators such as the relative strength index (RSI) and the stochastics oscillator to confirm whether the price of a security is overbought or oversold when the Zig Zag line changes direction.






A momentum investor might use the indicator to stay in a trade until the Zig Zag line confirms in the opposite direction. For example, if the investor holds a long position, they would not sell until the Zig Zag line turns downward.


   The Zig Zag Indicator Formula  
















ZigZag


(


HL


,


%


c


h


a


n


g


e


=


X


,


r


e


t


r


a


c


e


=


FALSE


,
















L


a


s


t


E


x


t


r


e


m


e


=


TRUE


)
















If 


%


c


h


a


n


g


e


>


=


X


,


plot ZigZag
















where:
















HL


=


High-Low price series or Closing price series
















%


c


h


a


n


g


e


=


Minimum price movement, in percentage
















R


e


t


r


a


c


e


=


Is change a retracement of the previous
















move or an absolute change from peak to trough?
















L


a


s


t


E


x


t


r


e


m


e


=


If the extreme price is the same over
















multiple periods, is the extreme price the first or
















last observation?







\begin{aligned} &\text{ZigZag}(\text{HL}, \%change=X, retrace=\text{FALSE},\\ &LastExtreme=\text{TRUE})\\ &\text{If } \%change >=X, \text{plot ZigZag}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{HL}=\text{High-Low price series or Closing price series}\\ &\%change=\text{Minimum price movement, in percentage}\\ &Retrace=\text{Is change a retracement of the previous}\\ &\text{move or an absolute change from peak to trough?}\\ &LastExtreme=\text{If the extreme price is the same over}\\ &\text{multiple periods, is the extreme price the first or}\\ &\text{last observation?}\\ \end{aligned}


​ZigZag(HL,%change=X,retrace=FALSE,LastExtreme=TRUE)If %change>=X,plot ZigZagwhere:HL=High-Low price series or Closing price series%change=Minimum price movement, in percentageRetrace=Is change a retracement of the previousmove or an absolute change from peak to trough?LastExtreme=If the extreme price is the same overmultiple periods, is the extreme price the first orlast observation?​


  How To Calculate the Zig Zag Indicator  

Choose a starting point (swing high or swing low).
Choose % price movement.
Identify next swing high or swing low that differs from the starting point = > % price movement.
Draw trendline from starting point to new point.
Identify next swing high or swing low that differs from the new point = > % price movement.
Draw trendline.
Repeat to most recent swing high or swing low.


   Zig Zag Indicator Limitations  

Like other trend-following indicators, buy and sell signals are based on past price history that may not be predictive of future price action. For example, the majority of a trend may have already happened when a Zig Zag line finally appears.



Traders should be aware the most recent Zig Zag line may not be permanent. When price changes direction, the indicator starts to draw a new line. If that line does not reach the indicator’s percentage setting and the price of the security reverses direction, the line is removed and replaced by an extended Zig Zag line in the trend’s original direction.



Given the lag, many traders use the Zig Zag indicator to confirm the direction of the trend rather than attempting to time a perfect entry or exit.
What Is zk-SNARK?  

Zk-SNARK is an acronym that stands for “Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge.” A zk-SNARK is a cryptographic proof that allows one party to prove it possesses certain information without revealing that information. This proof is made possible using a secret key created before the transaction takes place. It is used as part of the protocol for the cryptocurrency, Zcash.





Key Takeaways

Zk-SNARK is a zero-knowledge proof protocol used in encryption, and is an acronym that stands for "Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge."This proof was first developed and introduced in the late 1980s, and is now employed by the cryptocurrency Zcash to solve a perceived anonymity problem with Bitcoin-type blockchains.Zk-SNARK proofs rely on an initial "trust system" setup that has been critiqued as an inherent security flaw.


   Understanding zk-SNARK  

For many original members of the cryptocurrency community—primarily the Bitcoin community—privacy was an assumed aim and feature of cryptocurrencies. However, privacy was always a second-order concern, given cryptocurrency's need to create a "trustless" system of guaranteeing the integrity of electronic currency and digital transactions.



In the early 2010s, Bitcoin users sometimes assumed that their transactions were anonymous because their offline identities weren't associated with users' public keys. But through the end of the decade, coordinated efforts by data scientists, hackers, and law enforcement proved that it is not only possible but relatively easy to re-identify people who had given pseudonymous data to multiple sources.



Because of the perceived lack of privacy of some of the original cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, developers started working on privacy-focused coins. The most prominent of these was Zcash, backed by a technology known as zk-SNARKs.


  Zero-Knowledge Proof  

A zk-SNARK ("zero-knowledge succinct non-interactive argument of knowledge") utilizes a concept known as a "zero-knowledge proof." The idea behind these proofs was first developed in the 1980s. Put simply, a zero-knowledge proof is a situation in which each of two parties in a transaction is able to verify to each other that they have a particular set of information, while at the same time not revealing what that information is.



For most other types of proof, at least one of the two parties must have access to all of the information. A traditional proof can be compared to a password used to access an online network. The user submits the password, and the network itself checks the contents of the password to verify that it is correct. In order to do this, the network must also have access to the contents of the password.



A zero-knowledge proof version of this situation would involve the user demonstrating to the network (via mathematical proof) that they have the correct password without actually revealing the password itself. The privacy and security advantages in this situation are clear: If the network does not have the password stored somewhere for verification purposes, the password cannot be stolen.



The mathematical basis of zk-SNARKS is complex. Nonetheless, proofs of this type allow one party to demonstrate not only that a particular bit of information exists, but also that the party in question has awareness of that information. In the case of Zcash, zk-SNARKs can be verified nearly instantly, and the protocol does not require any interaction between the prover and the verifier.


   Criticism of zk-SNARKs  

There are, of course, concerns related to zk-SNARKs. For instance, if someone was able to access the private key that was used to create the parameters of the proof protocol, they could create false proofs that nonetheless looked valid to verifiers. This would allow that person to create new tokens of Zcash through a counterfeiting process. In order to prevent this from happening, Zcash was designed in such a way as to make the proving protocols elaborate and spread out over multiple parties.



While the construction of the Zcash proving process was completed in such a way as to minimize the possibility of counterfeiting tokens via false proofs, there is at least one other concern related to the cryptocurrency as well. Zcash was created with a 20% "tax" levied on all blocks created over the first several years of the token. This tax is known as the "founder's tax," and it is used to compensate the developers of the cryptocurrency.



Critics have suggested that the founders could potentially use this facet of the system to create an infinite number of Zcash tokens without anyone else being aware of the existence of those tokens. For that reason, it's not entirely possible to know the exact number of Zcash tokens in existence at this point.



Since 2019, some developers have been working to improve zk-SNARKs by removing the trusted set up. A team called Suterusu has developed a system called zK-ConSNARK that claims to be operable without a trusted set up, can provide privacy protection for mainstream blockchains like Bitcoin, and has the lowest inflation for any extant cryptocurrency.
What Is a Zombie Bank?  

A zombie bank is an insolvent financial institution that is able to continue operating thanks to explicit or implicit support from the government.





Key Takeaways

A zombie bank is an insolvent financial institution that is able to continue operating thanks to explicit or implicit support from the government.Zombie banks are kept afloat to prevent panic from spreading to healthier banks.The term zombie bank was first coined by Edward Kane of Boston College in 1987, in reference to the savings and loan crisis (S&L).Restoring zombie banks back to health can cost hundreds of billions of dollars, weigh on economic growth, and prevent investors from pursuing better opportunities elsewhere.


   Understanding Zombie Banks  

Zombie banks have large amounts of nonperforming assets on their balance sheets and are kept afloat to prevent panic from spreading to healthier banks. Normally, a bank running at a significant loss will eventually be forced into bankruptcy, at which point its assets will be sold off to pay down as many debts as possible. That is unless they are bailed out by governments.



Zombie banks are creatures of financial repression. When loans go bad, a capital flight takes hold and the value of assets plummet, central banks sometimes decide to keep debt-burdened banks, corporations, and households on life support, instead of allowing nature to take its course and creative destruction to do its work.



Previously, banks were left to die. Government intervention surfaced later on when it became clear that struggling financial institutions incite panic. Policymakers wanted to avoid healthier ones getting caught in the crossfire and decided to take action. Since then, debates have raged about when is the right time to pull the plug.



The term zombie bank was first coined by Edward Kane of Boston College in 1987, in reference to the savings and loan crisis (S&L). Commercial mortgage losses threatened to wipe out savings and loans institutions. Rather than let them go under, policymakers allowed many of them to stay in business. They hoped that keeping them afloat would pay off should the market rebound. Eventually, policymakers gave up on this strategy—when the losses of the zombies had tripled.



Shutting down struggling banks can incite widespread panic. However, evidence shows that enabling them to continue operating comes with several drawbacks as well. Restoring banks back to health can cost hundreds of billions of dollars and weigh on economic growth.



By not liquidating zombie banks, investors’ capital is trapped, instead of being put to more productive use. Plus, rather than strengthening healthy companies and supporting economic recovery, zombie banks prop up rotting corporations. By distorting market mechanisms, the resulting misallocation of resources weakens the whole financial system.


   Zombie Bank Examples  
  Japan  

When its real estate bubble collapsed in 1990, Japan kept its insolvent banks going, rather than recapitalizing them or letting them go bust, as the U.S. did during the S&L crisis. Nearly 30 years later, Japan's zombie banks still have large amounts of non-performing loans on their books. Instead of helping Japan to recover, these banks locked its economy into a deflationary trap that it has never escaped from.


  Europe  

In its desperation to avoid becoming Japan after the 2008 global financial crisis, the eurozone made the same mistake. Zombie banks, stuffed with toxic liabilities, have increased lending to existing impaired borrowers, instead of financially healthy or new borrowers. This zombie lending behavior by distressed banks, designed to avoid realizing losses on outstanding loans, has led to a significant misallocation of credit, which has hurt creditworthy firms. No other economy has taken longer to recover.



The European Central Bank (ECB) has warned that debt sustainability is the biggest risk to financial stability if interest rates rise. In other words, zombie banks that are dependent on ECB liquidity may be unable to absorb the losses if zombie companies, which have also only survived thanks to the ECB’s regime of artificially cheap finance, go under. Europe's banks are still sitting on $1 trillion of bad loans.


  The United States  

What about the U.S.? Bank stress tests were more rigorous in the U.S. than in Europe, in the wake of the financial crisis. They forced the weakest banks to raise private capital and sell off toxic legacy assets. 



However, there may be just as many zombie firms, whose interest expenses exceed the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), stalking the economy in America as there are in Europe, according to the Bank of International Settlements (BIS). So, quantitative easing (QE) may have only postponed the day when banks in Europe and America will have to write off bad debt.
What Is Zombie Debt?  

Zombie debt is debt that has fallen off your credit report but, for various reasons, someone is still trying to collect. Zombie debt has often been long forgotten and has probably been written off as uncollectible. But zombie debt can rise from the grave if a debt collector attempts to collect on it all over again, even when the debt is too old to legally pursue.





Key Takeaways

Zombie debt is debt that is beyond the statute of limitations for collection.Despite this, debt collection agencies may still attempt to collect on it, in a sense bringing it back from the dead.There is no legal obligation to pay back zombie debt, but debt collectors can be aggressive and unscrupulous in their attempts to get people to pay.


   How Zombie Debt Works  

Zombie debt generally refers to debt that is more than three years old, which has either been forgotten about, already paid off, or belonged to someone else. It can also be the result of identity theft, a computer error, or a fraudulent attempt to collect on a debt that does not exist.



The original creditor will most likely have given up on the debt and sold it to a debt collection agency. These debt collectors can be quite unscrupulous and often make harassing and threatening phone calls.


  Statute of Limitations  

The statute of limitations on how long a lender can attempt to collect on a debt is three-to-six years in most states and even shorter in some. While the debt is still considered valid even after the statute of limitations has passed, you are not legally required to pay it. However, the companies that buy uncollectible debts are playing a numbers game. They only need a few people to repay their debts to be profitable.



Those on the receiving end of these efforts need to be careful. There is no benefit in paying a debt that is beyond the statute of limitations because paying anything will restart the statute of limitations, put the debt back on your credit report, and enable the debt collector to take you to court.


   What to Do If You Are Contacted About Zombie Debt  

Debtors can protect themselves from harassment under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA).﻿﻿ This particular law limits the behavior and actions of third-party debt collectors and restricts the means and methods by which they can contact debtors, as well as the time of day and number of times contact can be made.



The important thing is not to spend any time on the phone with the debt collector. Ask for their address and send them a certified letter within 35 days of contact. Dispute that you owe the debt and ask them to prove that you owe it.



If you continue to be contacted by the debt collection agency, write them another letter and inform them that they cannot contact you unless it is by writing or if they are going to sue you. If the debt is beyond the statute of limitations the collector will probably go away.
What Is a Zombie ETF?  

A zombie exchange-traded fund (ETF) is no longer growing and attracting money from new investors. When an ETF enters zombie territory, it is usually only a matter of time before it is shut down by the company that issued it.



Investors will get their money back, or most of it. However, they may make less than they had hoped, and taxes will be due on any profits they earned from the fund.





Key Takeaways

The popularity of ETFs has led to a flood of niche offerings, some of which fail to catch on with investors.A zombie ETF has stopped growing and taking in new money for the company that issued it.When a zombie is killed off, investors in the fund get cashed out. They will owe taxes on any profits for the year in which the payout was received.


   Understanding the Zombie ETF  

The popularity of ETFs has led to a flood of niche offerings. Some of them fail to catch on with investors. Or, they may have been tied to a once-hot market trend that has petered out.



Zombie ETFs are a symptom of a saturated ETF market. There were 8,754 ETFs to choose from as of 2022, according to Statista.


  How ETFs Work  

ETFs are investments that are designed to replicate the contents and the performance of a specific market index or sector. They are not actively managed, as many mutual funds are. Stocks are bought or sold only as needed to mirror the index and their shares go up (or down) in value with the index or sector.



The biggest and most popular ETFs are tied to the biggest and broadest indexes like the S&P 500 Index. Others are tied to performance measures for a specific sector such as oil, cloud services, or emerging markets.


  Zombie Territory  

There is no hard and fast rule on when an ETF will be declared a zombie, and when or whether it will be closed down. Some issuers have a generous timeline for a new fund to start generating interest, while others make quick calls based on the growth in other offerings.



As a general rule of thumb, if a fund hasn’t seen inflows for two or more successive quarters and the trading volume is low, there is a good chance the issuer is at least thinking about pulling the plug on that ETF.



ETFs that enter zombie territory are more likely to close than they are to come back from the dead. Once seen as an admission of failure, closures can be seen as a good thing for the issuing company and for the industry, ridding it of rubbish and helping asset managers learn from their past mistakes and come up with better ideas.


  What Makes a Zombie?  

ETFs are popular with individual investors because they can produce results comparable to those of mutual funds or professional investment managers but with lower fees. The industry average fee for an ETF is 0.45%, compared with an average expense ratio of 0.16% for a managed mutual fund. The difference was far greater before competition from ETFs forced managed funds to trim their fees.



ETFs that struggle to attract new money can go into a downward spiral. Liquidity concerns associated with low trading volume can scare investors away. Meanwhile, the cost of administering a fund that isn't attracting new capital erodes the profitability of the fund to the issuing company.



Investors measure the success of an ETF by its return. The company issuing it measures its success by its profitability to the business. For this reason, some ETFs have been declared zombies and shut down despite making good returns for their investors.




How Do I Spot a Zombie ETF?
Look at the numbers. A low number for assets under management (AUM) indicates a fund that is not currently attracting strong interest from investors. A low trading volume indicates the same.It's not a question of whether it is a good or a bad ETF. If it's not attracting enough interest, it's headed toward zombie land.




Why Are There Zombie ETFs?
Zombie ETFs are no longer a rarity. The broadest and most popular ETFs, such as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY), have filled much of the market demand, leaving few gaps left to capitalize on.Against this competitive backdrop, providers are coming up with increasingly quirky ideas to stand out from the crowd, increase market share, and broaden their lineup of offerings.This has resulted in a number of hyper-focused ETFs investing in niche areas of the market. Consider the Global X Millennials Thematic ETF (MILN), an ETF that focuses on companies that make products that are relevant to young Americans. While these funds might have good or even great returns, they're not obvious picks for investors looking to diversify their portfolios across sectors.The real issue is whether or not a fund fits a strategic need in enough investors' portfolios.




What Is an Example of a Quirky ETF?
Quirky ETFs tend to follow hot investing trends. Unfortunately, they can ride the trend to its bitter end, at which time they become zombie ETFs.For example, there is The Obesity ETF (SLIM), which invests in biotechnology, obesity-related disease, and, of course, Weight Watcher's International.Or, there's the HealthShares Dermatology and Wound Care ETF, which closed in 2008 due to a lack of investor interest.




Are Thematic ETFs at Risk of Becoming Zombie ETFs?
A thematic ETF invests in current megatrends that are seen as transformative, not to mention lucrative. In 2023, the list could include ETFs that focus on artificial intelligence, the blockchain, and alternative energy sources.A thematic ETF is probably never going to attract as high a total of assets under management (AUM) as an ETF that is tied to the S&P 500. That does not mean it's headed for zombie territory.Some will perform very well for the informed investor who wants to put some money into a hot area but wants the diverse selection of related assets that an ETF offers.As always in investing, there will be winners and there will be losers.


   The Bottom Line  

Owning shares in a zombie ETF is not the end of the world. It's not called a zombie because it's losing money. It's a zombie because it has failed to attract a steady stream of new investors.



At worst, the company that issued the ETF will shut it down. In that case, you'll get your money back, or most of it. Then, you can invest the proceeds in another ETF that shows some real signs of life. Look for reasonably high trading volume and an AUM number that reflects good demand.
What Is a Zombie Foreclosure?  

A zombie foreclosure occurs when a home is left vacant by homeowners who have defaulted on their mortgage and either incorrectly believes they have to immediately move out after receiving a foreclosure notice or choose to abandon the property for other reasons. More commonly, the former scenario where the owner mistakenly believes that the foreclosing lender is now responsible for the property, even though the homeowners still hold title to the property.



For example, let's say a homeowner defaults on their mortgage and vacates their property, and the lender doesn't complete the foreclosure process, so the title is still held by the original homeowner. The property becomes unoccupied for an extended time, and the lawn, driveway, etc. is not taken care of. As a result, the state of the property falls into disrepair, creating safety concerns and resulting in an appearance that may lower property values in the surrounding community.





Key Takeaways

Zombie foreclosure is the abandonment of property by homeowners who have defaulted on their mortgage, received a foreclosure notice, and mistakenly believe that they need to vacate the premises.The homeowner continues to hold title to the property and is responsible for its upkeep until the foreclosure process has been completed.A zombie foreclosure can create problems for an entire neighborhood because a vacant, unattended house can lower property values.During the 2008 financial crisis that severely impacted the housing market, zombie properties were widespread across the United States. 


   How a Zombie Foreclosure Works  

Zombie foreclosure results from a homeowner's misunderstanding of the foreclosure process. During a typical foreclosure, the homeowners notice the institution holding the defaulted mortgage that the house is entering foreclosure.



After this notice is issued, there is a mandated waiting period during which the homeowners can pull the house out of foreclosure by paying a large lump sum of money. The required payment may range from a few back payments to the total amount the homeowners owe in arrears or the entire balance of the mortgage.



Until a foreclosure goes through, the homeowner continues to hold the title to the property. If the homeowners do not pay the lump sum, the process continues, and a court will rule that the house belongs to the lender. It is only after this point that the house legally becomes the lender's property that the homeowners must vacate the property.






In the fourth quarter of 2020, zombie foreclosures rose to 3.8% of all foreclosures, but overall, they have fallen by more than half since 2016, according to ATTOM Data Solutions.



Sometimes, a lender will decide not to complete a foreclosure—one reason might be that it's too expensive to pay for repairs and back property taxes that are owed on the property. The lender won't take title to the house but is under no obligation to notify the homeowner of this. In this circumstance—when the title of a home in zombie foreclosure remains in the name of the original homeowner (who is often unaware that the foreclosure wasn't completed)—it is known as a zombie title.


   How Zombie Foreclosures Impact Homeowners  

Zombie foreclosure escalates a bad situation—default on a mortgage—making it a problem for the entire neighborhood, not just the homeowner. A homeowner who leaves a property upon receiving a foreclosure notice is abandoning the property without understanding the legal and financial ramifications of the notice or their actions.



The owner of a zombie foreclosure is likely still responsible for maintenance, upkeep, homeowners association (HOA) fees, and property taxes. These requirements do not end just because someone has abandoned their home. Eventually, local authorities could attempt to recover unpaid property taxes or fees or charge the owner expenses for maintenance.



To protect against the impact of a home falling into zombie foreclosure, homeowners who have defaulted on their mortgage and are facing foreclosure should stay in the residence until an official notice to vacate arrives. Afterward, they should follow up to ensure that the title of the property is no longer in their name.




What Does "Zombie Foreclosure" Mean?
A zombie foreclosure refers to an incident in which a homeowner is presented with a pending foreclosure notice and abandons their house before legally necessary. Because the foreclosure process can be a long one, homeowners are still responsible for taxes and home insurance. If an owner leaves their home and it becomes zombie foreclosure, it often means the house can fall into disrepair.




Will a Zombie Foreclosure Impact My Credit?
A zombie foreclosure will impact your credit because when you walk away from your mortgage, you are defaulting on loan.




Where Do Zombie Foreclosures Happen?
Foreclosures can happen in any state but zombie foreclosures often happen in lower-income communities. According to a Q1 2022 report from ATTOM Data Solutions, the Midwest and Northeast are home to states with the most zombie foreclosures.




Why Are They Called Zombie Foreclosures?
Because a zombie foreclosure occurs after a homeowner receives a notice of default. This paperwork is the beginning of foreclosure. If the mortgage holders leave the home before hte bank forecloses, the home may stay vacant for a length of time, often falling into disrepair.
What Is a Zombie Title?  

A zombie title is a real estate title that remains with a homeowner who is mistakenly under the impression that the property has been lost to foreclosure and that, as a result, the title has passed to the lender.  Zombie titles are the result of lenders initiating foreclosure proceedings by issuing a notice of foreclosure and then unexpectedly dismissing it.



If the homeowner is unaware of a foreclosure dismissal, they will be left holding a zombie title. A lender may decide to dismiss the foreclosure for a variety of reasons, including a surplus of inventory or unjustifiable costs.



A zombie title can pose a significant financial risk to the homeowner who continues to be shown on the property title, since they remain liable for property taxes and code violations.





Key Takeaways

A zombie title is one that remains with a homeowner when a foreclosure is dismissed but the owner is unaware of the dismissal. Thus, the title remains with the homeowner unaware.The lender may choose not to take the title of the foreclosed property if the costs associated with selling the property (arising from unpaid taxes, liens, and penalties) or potential liability are too high, and may walk away.Zombie titles arise because a financial institution is under no obligation to take the legal title to a property in foreclosure, and may not (or may be unable to) contact the homeowner if it dismisses the foreclosure.


   Understanding Zombie Titles  

Zombie titles are often the result of confusion on the part of homeowners regarding foreclosure rules. A homeowner who has defaulted on a mortgage may abandon the property and move out upon receiving a foreclosure notice from the lender. The lender will assess the property prior to the .foreclosure sale. If the property is in disrepair and needs a substantial outlay for repairs and unpaid taxes before it can be sold, the lender may choose to not take the title, based on the premise that there is no point in throwing good money after bad. If the lender cancels or dismisses the foreclosure process, the homeowner is left with a zombie title.



Zombie titles arise for two reasons. First, a lender or financial institution is under no obligation to take the legal title of a property in foreclosure, even if the homeowner has defaulted on the loan. If the costs of selling the property or potential liability associated with the property are too high, the lender may walk away rather than take the title of the property. Second, the lender is also not required to let the homeowner know if it has decided to dismiss the foreclosure; even if the lender does decide to inform the homeowner, it may not have an address or contact information for the homeowner who is now living elsewhere.



A homeowner in this situation will unknowingly still hold title to the property, along with all of the associated costs and responsibilities of owning a home, without any of the intended benefits. Ownership does not change until someone else's name is on the title.


   Recent Trends  

The 2007-2008 mortgage lending crisis resulted in millions of homeowners facing foreclosure. While the majority of those foreclosures were carried through, many were left dangling in the middle of the process or unexpectedly dismissed, resulting in tens of thousands of homeowners unknowingly holding zombie titles in the years after the financial crisis. As the U.S. economy and housing market gradually strengthened, the number of zombie foreclosures began declining.



However, with inflation and interest rates ticking up in 2022, vacancies have again seen a tick up. According to industry data, in the third quarter of 2022 around 1.3 million residential properties in the United States sat vacant, or 1.3% of all U.S. homes.






According to property data provider ATTOM Data Solutions, of approximately 270,500 homes that were in the process of foreclosure during the third quarter of 2022, just over 7,700 or 2.85% were sitting empty as zombie foreclosures.


   Financial Impact on Lenders and Homeowners  

What are the financial implications for the lender? By walking away from such mortgages, banks can at least reap the insurance, tax, and accounting benefits arising from such losses. A lender may also sell the unpaid debt to debt collectors to recoup all or part of the loan.



While the financial impact of zombie titles on deep-pocketed financial institutions may thus be limited, they can lead to significant, and often catastrophic, financial problems for homeowners who thought they had moved out and moved on. A zombie title represents a double-whammy for a homeowner who is already financially stressed due to bankruptcy, and may be faced with a hefty bill for back taxes and code violations just as they are getting back on their feet financially.



An unoccupied home, for example, can easily fall into disrepair. Not only does the homeowner remain liable for property taxes, but they can also be held liable by the local government for maintenance and repairs on the property. If the house is derelict and has to be demolished, these costs have to be borne by the zombie title homeowner.



The homeowner also has to contend with the host of problems that arise in connection with an abandoned property. These may range from public nuisance issues arising from the property developing pest infestations or being used for criminal activity, to complications arising from illegal squatters or adverse possession.


   Neighborhood Effects  

Abandoned properties also have a negative impact on the value of other houses in the neighborhood. Complaints from neighbors and area residents about abandoned and neglected houses often forces the local municipality to step in and perform basic maintenance such as trimming overgrown yards or trash removal, since neither the lender nor the absentee homeowner will take responsibility for the property's upkeep.



The costs of such third-party maintenance, and the penalties levied for code violations can mount up over time. If those costs are left unpaid, the homeowner could incur penalties and fees, and even face legal action. In addition, holders of zombie titles may have their wages and tax refunds garnished and their credit destroyed, resulting in more financial trouble in the future. Many homeowners do not realize they hold zombie titles until they find themselves being pursued by mortgage servicers, debt collectors and local governments.



Buyers who unwittingly buy homes with zombie titles can also be left in legal limbo, as the previous homeowner may be unable to transfer title to the buyer due liens on the property arising from unpaid taxes and penalties. Caveat emptor should be the main guiding principle before buying a house, the biggest purchase decision for most people.



Some real estate professionals advise that the homeowner's only recourse is to continue staying in the home through the foreclosure process, in order to keep it secure and well-maintained. In any case, homeowners can protect themselves against zombie titles by seeing the foreclosure process through to completion, as well as making sure that the title to their home legally transfers to another party.
What Are Zombies?  

Zombies are companies that earn just enough money to continue operating and service debt but are unable to pay off their debt. Such companies, given that they just scrape by meeting overheads (wages, rent, interest payments on debt, for example), have no excess capital to invest to spur growth. Zombie companies are typically subject to higher borrowing costs and may be one just event—market disruption or a poor quarter performance—away from insolvency or a bailout. Zombies are especially dependent on banks for financing, which is fundamentally their life support. Zombie companies are also known as the "living dead" or "zombie stocks."





Key Takeaways:

Zombies are companies that earn just enough money to continue operating and service their debt.Zombie companies have no excess capital to spur growth and are considered close to insolvency.In rare cases, a zombie company might stretch itself financially, produce a lucrative product, and reduce its liabilities.Zombies are high-risk investments, and not for the faint-hearted.


   Understanding Zombies  

Zombies often fail, falling victim to the high costs associated with debt or certain operations, such as research and development. They may lack the resources for capital investment, which would create growth. If a zombie company employed so many people that its failure would become a political issue, it may be deemed "too big to fail," as was the case with many financial institutions during the 2008 financial crisis. Given that many analysts expect that zombies will eventually be unable to meet their financial obligations, such companies are considered riskier investments and will, therefore, see their share prices suppressed.



Zombies were first spoken of in reference to companies in Japan during the country's "Lost Decade" of the 1990s following the bursting of its asset price bubble. During this period, companies were dependent on bank backing to remain in operation, even though they were bloated, inefficient, or failing. Economists argue that the economy would have been better served by allowing such poorly performing companies to fail. The term "zombies" was picked up again in 2008 in response to U.S. government bailouts that were part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP).



While the ranks of zombie companies are small, years of loose monetary policy highlighted by quantitative easing, high leverage and historically low interest rates, have contributed to their growth. Economists argue that such policies preserve inefficiencies while stifling productivity, growth, and innovation. When the market shifts, zombies will be the first to fall victim, unable to meet their basic obligations as rising interest rates make their debt more expensive to service. Meanwhile, successful companies, which are less able to build on their success because of tight credit, may feel any downturn more than they should.



While keeping zombies on life support may preserve jobs, economists note that using such resources is misguided because it impedes growth at successful firms and, therefore, inhibits job creation.


   Special Considerations  
  Zombie Investors  

Because a zombie's life expectancy tends to be highly unpredictable, zombie stocks are extremely risky and are not suitable for all investors. For example, a small biotech firm may stretch its funds extremely thin by concentrating its efforts in research and development in the hope of creating a blockbuster drug. If the drug fails, the company can go bankrupt within days of the announcement. On the other hand, if the drug is successful, the company could profit and reduce its liabilities. In most cases, however, zombie stocks are unable to overcome the financial burdens of their high burn rates and most eventually dissolve.



Given the lack of attention paid to this group, there are often interesting opportunities for investors who have a high risk tolerance and are seeking speculative opportunities.
What Is Zomma?  

Zomma is a third-order risk measure of the degree to which the gamma of an options contract is sensitive to changes in implied volatility. It is also referred to as "D-gamma/D-vol." Gamma itself is a second-order risk measure of an option's sensitivity of its delta to changes in the underlying price.



Zomma is part of a category of measurements used to assess the price sensitivity of a derivative to various factors, such as changes in interest rates, volatility, or the spot price of the derivative's underlying asset. These measurements are commonly referred to as "Greeks" because they are denoted by Greek symbols; however, the word "zomma" was made up by traders to sound like a Greek letter and is not part of the Greek alphabet.





Key Takeaways

Zomma is an option's sensitivity of gamma to changes in implied volatility, where a higher zomma indicates small changes in IV translate into large changes in gamma.It is one of the so-called minor Greeks used to manage higher-order risk in derivative trading, most commonly in the context of options trading.Zomma is a highly abstract concept that can only be understood in relation to other measurements used to evaluate an option's risk position.


   Understanding Zomma  

Understanding zomma can be quite difficult for those who are not experienced in the jargon of derivatives. This is because zomma can only be defined in relation to two other abstract concepts: gamma and delta. In order to understand the "real world" meaning of zomma, you therefore need to understand gamma and delta as well.



With that in mind, we can begin by stating that zomma is a third-order derivative. What this means is that zomma measures the change of a second-order derivative—specifically, gamma. Gamma, in turn, measures the sensitivity of delta to changes in the price of the underlying asset. Lastly, delta measures the sensitivity of change between the underlying asset and the derivative product.



Derivative traders and portfolio managers often use zomma to determine the effectiveness of a gamma hedged portfolio. In this context, zomma would measure fluctuations in the volatility and/or the underlying assets of that portfolio.





Gamma Hedging

Gamma hedging is a hedging strategy used in relation to options or other derivative products. In essence, the user of the delta hedging strategy aims to protect against the risk that the price of the derivative will become decoupled from the price of its underlying asset. Zomma is an important measurement in this context.


   Real World Example of Zomma  

Derivative portfolios can have very dynamic risk profiles. For instance, their risk can vary based on factors such as price fluctuations in the underlying assets, changes in interest rates, or adjustments to implied volatility.



In order to keep track of this ever-evolving risk profile, derivative traders use various measurements. For example, delta is a measurement of how much profit or loss will be generated as the prices of the underlying assets move up or down. However, even this seemingly straightforward concept is more nuanced than it appears. This is because the relationship between delta and the underlying asset's price movements is not linear. This gives rise to a second measure, gamma, which tracks the sensitivity of delta to those price changes. In this sense, delta is a first-order measurement, while gamma is a second-order measurement.



Zomma, lastly, measures the rate of change of gamma in relation to changes in implied volatility. For example, if zomma = 1.00 for an options position, then a 1% increase in volatility will also increase the gamma by 1 unit, which will, in turn, increase the delta by the amount given by the new gamma. If the zomma is high in absolute terms (either positive or negative), it will indicate that small changes in volatility could produce large changes in directional risk as the underlying price moves.
What is a Zone Of Possible Agreement (ZOPA)?  

Not a physical place, the zone of possible agreement or bargaining range is considered an area where two or more negotiating parties may find common ground. It is this area where parties will often compromise and strike a deal.



In order for negotiating parties to find a settlement or reach an agreement, they must work towards a common goal and seek an area that incorporates at least some of each party's ideas.





Key Takeaways

A zone of possible agreement (ZOPA) is a bargaining range in an area where two or more negotiating parties may find common ground.A ZOPA can only exist when there is some overlap between each party's expectations regarding an agreement.If negotiating parties cannot reach a ZOPA, they are in a negative bargaining zone.


   Understanding Zone Of Possible Agreement  

No matter how much negotiation occurs, an agreement can never be reached outside of the zone of possible agreement. In order to reach an agreement successfully, negotiating parties must understand one another’s needs, values and interests.



A ZOPA can only exist if there is some overlap between what all parties are willing to accept from a deal. For example, in order for Tom to sell his car to John for a minimum $5,000, John must be willing to pay at least $5,000. If John is willing to offer $5,500 for the car, then there is an overlap between his and Tom’s bottom lines. If John can only offer $4,750 for the car, then there is no overlap, and there cannot be a ZOPA.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Negative Bargaining Zones  

When negotiating parties cannot reach a ZOPA, they are in a negative bargaining zone. A deal cannot be reached in a negative bargaining zone, as the needs and desires of all parties cannot be met by a deal made under such circumstances.



For example, let’s say that Dave wants to sell his mountain bike and gear for $700 to buy new skis and ski gear. Suzy wants to buy the bike and gear for $400, and can’t go any higher. Dave and Suzy have not reached a ZOPA; they are in a negative bargaining zone.



However, negative bargaining zones can be overcome if negotiating parties are willing to learn about one another’s desires and needs. For example, let’s say Dave explains to Suzy that he wants to use the proceeds from the sale of the bike to buy new skis and ski gear. Suzy has a pair of gently-used, high-quality skis that she is willing to part with. Dave is willing to take less cash for the mountain bike if Suzy throws the used skis in. The two parties have reached a ZOPA and can, therefore, make a successful deal.
What Is the Zone of Resistance?  

The zone of resistance is the upper range of a stock's price that shows price resistance, with the lower range being its support levels. Understanding a share price's zones allows investors to buy and sell shares in order to maximize their short-term gains. It may therefore be contrasted with the zone of support.



The zone of resistance is an important concept in technical analysis. Technical analysts look for signs that a stock price is moving through the zone of resistance and establishing new support and resistance levels.





Key Takeaways

A zone of resistance is the price range achieved when a security's price rises to a predicted near-term high, known as a support level.A zone of resistance is an upper boundary that the stock has not previously broken through, and is the opposite range to the zone of support.A zone of resistance provides high probability areas where a reversal or continuation of an upward trend may occur.


   Breaking Down Zones of Resistance  

Most day traders buy and sell on the belief that support and resistance zones maintain themselves for extended periods of time. This logic follows the rules of basic supply and demand. As more shares are purchased at the lower support level the price begins trending upwards until it meets the zone of resistance and selling sends the price back down.



As is the case with all technical analysis, there are key times when the zone of resistance and support levels of a stock will be reconfigured by external events, which is why experienced technical traders rely on several charts when attempting to predict future price moves. A move through the zone of resistance may be confirmed on a chart as a new breakout opportunity for taking a long position in a stock previously traded solely within the support and resistance levels.



Oftentimes this breakout occurs due to fundamental changes in the company’s performance, such as a new product launch or news about market share gains and improved cash on hand.















Zone of Resistance.


   Using Trend Lines to Mark Zones  

Support and resistance zones are utilized by technical analysts to study past prices and predict future market moves. These zones can be drawn using simple technical analysis tools, like horizontal lines or up/down trendlines, or by applying more advanced indicators, such as Fibonacci retracements. Market psychology plays a major role in a given instrument's price movement as traders and investors remember the past, react to changing conditions, and anticipate future market movement.



Trend lines are useful in painting a more complete picture of stock movement over time. Within every significant price move up or down there will be times when plateaus are reached and the stock price drifts sideways. An example of a plateau occurring within an overall price move upwards is seen in a bull market when investors look to lock in gains across many stocks. The risk here is they will miss a significant ongoing move upwards thinking the plateau is the beginning of yet another downward move, when in fact it is just a rest on the way to new highs.



Using trend lines can help investors see the longer-term trends in a chart so they don't set their strategy solely based on short-term movements.


   The Zone of Resistance and Other Technical Indicators  

Technical investors rely on several indicators to help them make informed decisions. In addition to the zone of resistance, traders monitor moving averages (MAs), candlestick analysis, and daily stock volume to help predict the next moves up or down.



Traders look for confirmation in a chart to identify when a breakout is underway in terms of setting new resistance and support levels. Volume is an excellent indicator of interest in a stock and as volume increases, so does the likelihood that a new high or low will be established.
What Is a Zone of Support?  

A zone of support refers to a price zone reached when a security's price has fallen to a predicted low, known as a support level.





Key Takeaways

A zone of support is when a security's price falls to a predicted low, known as a support level.A zone of support is a lower boundary that the stock has not previously broken through.A zone of support provides high probability areas where a reversal or continuation of the trend may occur.


   Understanding a Zone of Support  

A zone of support generally shows an area of price lows that the security has not previously easily moved beneath. The zone of support typically occurs around a support trendline. While it can be a finite point on a technical chart, continuous trading of a security keeps the support trendline's price dynamic.



Traders typically use technical analysis to identify a zone of support. The zone of support on a chart shows a lower boundary that the stock has not previously broken through. At the support level, supply outweighs demand and volume is usually low.



A zone of support can provide profitable areas for traders. Similar to zones of resistance, these areas present an opportunity for a reversal. As such, traders can use a variety of different technical analysis patterns to identify these zones for profitable trading opportunities.



Envelope channels are a popular charting technique that allows a trader to draw continuous support and resistance boundaries around a security’s moving price. The Bollinger Band® tool is one of the most common envelope channels used by traders. This indicator draws support and resistance trendlines two standard deviations above and below a security price's moving average. Other popular envelope channels that incorporate support and resistance boundaries include Keltner Channels and Donchian Channels.



Traders can also use shorter-term trendlines to draw tighter channels at a security's peak and trough levels. These channels are known as ascending, descending, or horizontal channels and can help identify a zone of support.



Support zone areas can be subjective. They sit around a support trendline, but the price action in this area can be volatile. Market pricing mechanisms and the use of similar charting techniques by other traders can make trading somewhat choppy in a support zone.



To identify trading indicators in the support zone, there are a few defined systems traders can use. One is Fibonacci Retracement. This methodology is built around ascending, descending, and sideways channels. The technique draws parameters by percentages, from 0% at the support boundary to 100% at the resistance boundary. Intermediary lines drawn through the charting pattern are available to help a trader better identify zones for trading.



Advanced technical analysis charting software can also help a trader to draw support zones on a technical analysis candlestick chart. These software programs typically include support and resistance zones with varying color schemes to represent the strength of the support signals. Traders can usually customize the parameters for support in the charting software based on their preferences.



Traders typically watch support zone activity closely as it can be profitable for identifying a reversal or further downside. If a trader believes that a security's price will rebound from the support zone, then the area can be a good place to buy to benefit from price increases. If the trader finds that the price seems likely to continue its downtrend, then selling or short-selling positions would be the most profitable course of action.


   Zone of Support Example  

Adding two horizontal trendlines to the Campbell Soup Company (CPB) chart below shows a clear zone of support between $26.50 and $27.50. The two trendlines connect significant peaks and troughs over the past twelve months of price action. Traders can watch the zone of support area for a potential upside reversal or look for a breakdown that would indicate downside continuation. In either case, the zone of support provides a higher probability area from which to trade, due to the increased level of interest in this area from market participants.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021
What Is Zoning?  

Zoning refers to municipal or local laws or regulations that govern how real property can and cannot be used in certain geographic areas. For example, zoning laws can limit commercial or industrial use of land to prevent oil, manufacturing, or other types of businesses from building in residential neighborhoods.



These laws can be modified or suspended if the construction of a property will serve to help the community advance economically.





Key Takeaways

Zoning allows local governments to regulate which areas under their jurisdiction may have real estate or land used for particular purposes.Examples of zoning classifications include residential, commercial, agricultural, industrial, or hotel/hospitality, among other more specific designations.Zoning laws can be changed by a local government as long as they fall within state and federal statutes, and a particular plot of land may be rezoned based on consideration.


   How Zoning Works  

Zoning outlines what types of developmental and operational use of land is allowed on a given tract. Municipalities tend to partition districts and neighborhoods according to a master plan. This may be done to promote economic development, control traffic flow, manage noise levels, reserve living space for residents, and protect certain resources.






Examples of zoning classifications include industrial, light industrial, commercial, light commercial, agricultural, single-family residential, multiunit residential, and schools.



Local government might ban the use of residential property for business purposes to keep commercial activity confined to specific parts of town. Such zoning can lead to conflicts if residents dispute the designated usage.



Zoning laws can also regulate the details of construction in specific neighborhoods. For example, zoning can limit the maximum height of buildings in a given area regardless of the type of construction allowed. High-rise residences or offices could be banned on particular parcels through zoning regardless of whether the buildings otherwise comply with the laws.



The presence of zoning restrictions can influence prices when purchasing a piece of property. Real estate might sell at a premium based on how many limits were put in place by the municipality.






In 1926, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that properly drawn zoning ordinances were a valid exercise of states’ governing power. Zoning became constitutional by the court as a result of the case of Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty.


   Economic Theory of Zoning  

According to Nobel Prize-winning economist Ronald Coase’s Theorem, in the absence of transaction costs, questions and disputes over land use and development could be solved optimally without government regulation. Under the assumptions of Coase’s Theorem, how a given piece of land should be used and what type of activities should be permitted could simply be negotiated among the parties involved to achieve an economically efficient outcome.



Coase’s Theorem illustrates why, in the real world—where transaction costs do occur and frictionless bargaining among stakeholders is unlikely—land use regulations such as zoning and other government-imposed solutions are the norm.


   Critiques of Zoning Law  

There are varied critiques of traditional zoning implementation.



Some critics claim that zoning creates and widens the disparity of quality of life among socioeconomic groups. For example, a township might maintain zoning laws that restrict heavy industrial and commercial development to tracts of land adjacent to lower-income neighborhoods. The effects of such policies would let more affluent parts of town avoid the associated noise and pollution.



Areas that continue to be zoned for low-density residential neighborhoods with a housing shortage are contributing to homelessness in their area by refusing to allow more residential housing units to be built.



A more modern critique of zoning that segregates commercial and residential areas is that it makes residents dependent on cars. A more integrated, walkable neighborhood where people could get groceries, work, and recreate close to their homes would allow them to forgo the environmental and financial costs of car ownership. If zoning allowed for walkable neighborhoods, less space would have to be devoted to roads and more space could be reserved for housing and green space.


   Special Considerations  

Alterations to zoning laws are possible even without full repeals of the current legislation. A developer or property owner can apply for variances that would allow certain exceptions to zoning regulations. This would let property be used in ways generally not permitted—for example, the owner of a home-based business might request a variance to allow the operations to continue.



Applicants for variances might be required to explain why the variance is needed and how the change will not cause significant disruption or detriment to the surrounding community.




Who Controls Zoning?
There is no federal agency for zoning, so who controls the zoning in your area depends almost entirely on where you live. It is controlled at the county level in some cases, at the city level in others. Sometimes zoning is decided by a zoning office, and sometimes it is controlled by a land use office.




How Can You Get the Zoning Changed on Something?
First, you’ll have to figure out who controls the zoning in your area. Then they usually will have a process by which you can appeal the zoning on something, but the specific steps will vary depending on where you live. Getting advice from a local real estate lawyer is advisable.




Can Zoning Laws Stop Me From Building on My Property?
Yes. You may own the land on which you want to build, but you still will have to abide by zoning laws that may say you can’t build a building of a certain size, or for a certain purpose, or any number of other regulations.


   The Bottom Line  

Zoning was originally created to design uniform neighborhoods, control traffic patterns, and—when done right—allow room for a city to grow. Zoning implementation had several unintended consequences and unfortunately contributed to increased income inequality and racial wealth disparities. With modern times, zoning practices will have to adapt to growing populations and needs.
What Is a Zoning Ordinance?  

A zoning ordinance is a rule that defines how property in specific geographic zones can be used. Zoning ordinances detail whether specific geographic zones are acceptable for residential or commercial purposes. Zoning ordinances may also regulate lot size, placement, density, architectural style, and the height of structures. Zoning ordinances also describe the procedures for how to handle any zoning rule infractions (including any penalties).





Key Takeaways

A zoning ordinance is a rule that defines how property in specific geographic zones can be used.Zoning ordinances may also regulate lot size, placement, density, and the height of structures.Zoning rules vary greatly by region, but their most general, shared purpose is to separate residential property use from commercial property use.


   Zoning Types  

The main types of zoning are industrial, commercial, residential, and agricultural. Other types of zoning used in some municipalities include historic, school, hospital, and airport zoning. Within the main categories, there are usually designations for density of units. For example, in some areas, residential zoning includes designations like R-2 for up to two residential units per acre or R-4 for up to four residential units per acre. Designations like R-2 and R-4 mean very different things depending on the municipality, so check with your local zoning office to see what it means in yours.


   How a Zoning Ordinance Works  

The process of zoning consists of dividing a particular region of land into districts or zones, then specifying the types of land uses that are allowed or prohibited for each zone. This is generally performed by a municipal corporation or county. Zoning rules vary greatly by region, but their most general, shared purpose is to separate residential property use from commercial property use.



Municipal governments can institute highly specific zoning ordinances to influence the nature of a district or neighborhood in its municipality. For example, by designating several neighboring sections of a city strictly for residential use, residents of that region will experience less traffic and noise pollution in their environment. Zoning ordinances are also used to preserve the architectural integrity of the buildings in a specific area. If a municipality wishes to maintain the historic appearance of a part of town, zoning ordinances can be used to limit real estate construction there so that all new buildings must be of comparable height and square footage with the historic buildings.





Local Specificity

Zoning designations vary wildly by state, county, and municipality. If you are confused about zoning laws in your area, the first step is to check with your county’s or municipality’s zoning office, sometimes referred to as your land use office. You may need to consult with a local real estate attorney if you have an issue with zoning.


   Exceptions to Zoning Laws  

Changes to zoning ordinances can create tension among current and prospective residents and landlords of property in the zoned region. For example, this may be the case if a new business plans to move to a specific city, only to discover that the zoning rules have changed in the geographic region of the property that they intended to occupy.


  Grandfather Clause  

As a result of new zoning ordinances, commercial properties may be forced to switch to residential properties and vice versa. In some instances, existing tenants may be forced to relocate because of these changes. However, zoning ordinances sometimes contain legacy clauses, also referred to as grandfather clauses. Legacy clauses exempt existing tenants from being impacted by any changes to the current zoning rules, provided that they were already residing in the zone by a specified date. This process of being exempt from new rules and regulations is also referred to as being “grandfathered in.”



Certain exceptions allow properties that do not meet the requirements of a zoning ordinance to still be established in those respective geographic zones. If an ordinance changes a zone that once allowed commercial businesses to operate to a residential-only zone, then some small, local businesses may be allowed to stay open because of a legacy clause.


  Zoning Variance  

New businesses also have the option of applying for a variance. A variance is a request to deviate from current zoning rules. If the variance is approved, the new tenant can move in and operate regardless of the zoning ordinance.




What are the disadvantages of zoning?
Traditional applications of zoning ordinances geographically separate residential neighborhoods from where people work, shop, and play, making residents dependent on cars. Those who would like to move away from the high economic and environmental costs of transportation advocate for integrated, walkable neighborhoods with less rigid zoning ordinances.




What are the advantages of zoning?
When done properly, zoning allows cities to grow sustainably for generations. By setting aside areas near schools or airports or hospitals for future expansion, cities are able to build their communities responsibly.




Do zoning regulations contribute to the housing crisis?
Low-density residential zoning regulations have contributed to the housing crisis in areas with limited opportunities for expansion. Formerly small cities that have exploded in population, like Palo Alto, Calif., are full of areas zoned for low density. If they stay low density, then their housing crisis will continue to worsen. However, locals in these low-density areas usually strongly oppose any proposals to build more dense neighborhoods.


   The Bottom Line  

Zoning ordinances exist to help cities keep their character as they grow. They prevent a factory from being built in your backyard or a residential high rise from being built miles away from any transportation hubs or roads built for high capacity. As populations rise globally, particularly in urban areas, cities will need to adjust some residential ordinances to allow for higher-density housing.

What Was ZZZZ Best?  

ZZZZ Best was a carpet cleaning and restoration company founded by Barry Minkow that served as a front for a famous Ponzi scheme. The company went public in December 1986 and was quickly valued at over $300 million. Within just seven months of the initial public offering (IPO), however, ZZZZ Best was bankrupt and its assets were auctioned for approximately $64,000.





Key Takeaways

ZZZZ Best was a company set up as a front for a Ponzi scheme.Its founder Barry Minkow engaged in a range of criminal acts including insurance scams and check kiting.Minkow and his business associate Tom Padgett set up a fake company called Interstate Appraisal to defraud financial institutions out of millions.Minkow was eventually sentenced to 25 years in prison for fraud. When released, he ended up convicted for fraud again and sentenced to five more years.The fraud was discovered by a woman who chased the paper trail, all due to an overcharge of only a few hundred dollars.


   Understanding ZZZZ Best  

Barry Minkow formed ZZZZ Best in his parents' garage. The business performed poorly and 15-year-old Minkow was often inundated with customer complaints and supplier collection requests. To create an illusion of a profitable business, Minkow began committing criminal acts, such as check kiting, theft, insurance scams, and fraud, to fund operations and pay suppliers.



Within a few years of ZZZZ Best's inception, Minkow launched fictitious insurance restoration and appraisal businesses. While active, ZZZZ Best was at the center of a credit card scheme involving over $70,000 in fraudulent charges. Although Minkow assigned blame to contractors and employees, he repaid all of the victims except for one: a homemaker swindled out of a few hundred dollars.


   The Scheme and the Downfall  

Minkow and business associate Tom Padgett created a fictitious company, Interstate Appraisal Service, to defraud banks and other lending institutions out of millions of dollars. Tom Padgett, an insurance claims adjuster, conspired with Minkow to forge documents crediting ZZZZ Best for restoration work and use Interstate Appraisal Services as the source to verify the claims. Increasingly, investors and bankers developed an interest in ZZZZ Best based on fraudulent financial statements produced by Minkow’s firm.






Barry Minkow claimed his fraudulent actions were driven by a need to repay organized crime.



As the Ponzi scheme continued, ZZZZ Best experienced significant cash flow problems. As a solution, Minkow planned to acquire KeyServ, Sears' authorized carpet cleaner, for $25 million. According to Minkow, the revenues from KeyServ would provide enough cash flow to end the Ponzi scheme. Before the deal was closed, the jilted homemaker sparked a campaign against ZZZZ Best that would expose more than the fraud committed against her.



The L.A. Times featured her story, which caused ZZZZ Best's stock price to decline sharply. Lenders began to call their loans and more investigations commenced, unraveling Minkow's dark web of deceit and fraud. Eventually, the truth behind the fictitious companies was revealed and the Ponzi scheme was exposed.


   How Auditors Were Misled  

To launch an IPO, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires a firm to compile a prospectus, which must include a set of audited financial statements. Independent certified public accountant (CPA) firm Ernst & Whinney (now Ernst & Young) audited ZZZZ Best's financials to provide an opinion as to whether the financial statements were free of material misstatement. 



Assuming an independent third party provided the paperwork, the CPAs used false appraisal documents to perform its audit. When the CPA firm requested to visit a building refurbishing customer site, Minkow and his associates rented a building and created a bogus customer job site.


   Minkow After ZZZZ Best  

In January 1988, Minkow and 11 other company insiders were indicted by a grand jury on counts of racketeering, money laundering, securities fraud, embezzlement, mail fraud, bank fraud, and tax evasion. Separately, Minkow was also indicted on counts of credit card fraud. Approximately a year later, Minkow was found guilty on all charges, was sentenced to 25 years in prison, and was ordered to pay over $26 million in restitution.



After his early release in 1995, he became an ordained minister and served as a pastor of a church in California. Minkow informally investigated and reported other Ponzi schemes. From this success, he formed the fraudulent Fraud Discovery Institute.



In 2011, he was again convicted for fraud and sentenced to five years in prison. It was discovered that while filming and producing his biography, he simultaneously was using his anti-fraud company to short stocks of companies he was investigating. A few years later, Minkow was sentenced to an additional five years in prison for defrauding his church and tax evasion. His restitution balance has increased ten-fold to $612 million.


   ZZZZ Best Frequently Asked Questions  


What Accounting Procedures Did ZZZZ Best Fail to Follow?
ZZZZ Best failed because it was a Ponzi scheme so, in essence, the company followed almost no proper accounting procedures. However, it took the company going public before the fraud was discovered so there is an argument that exists that Minkow was quite skilled with his accounting.




How Was the ZZZZ Best Fraud Discovered?
Minkow was visited by his past when a homemaker who was overcharged just a few hundred dollars by Minkow tracked down a few others who Minkow had defrauded. When the homemaker located the others, she passed her findings onto the Los Angeles Times. The newspaper then ran a story exposing Minkow's relatively minor fraud. This caused a domino effect and ZZZZ Best was quickly outed as a Ponzi scheme.




When Did Barry Minkow Get Out of Prison?
Barry Minkow was released from prison most recently in 2018 after serving time for insider trading and embezzlement from his church. Before that conviction, he served a significant jail sentence from 1989 to 1995, being released only six years into his 25-year sentence.




Is There a Barry Minkow Movie Being Made?
There was a Barry Minkow movie made in 2011 that was eventually released in 2018, titled Con-Man. During the filming, Barry was arrested and pleaded guilty to insider trading charges. In January of 2022, a docuseries titled King of the Con was released on Discovery+.


   The Bottom Line  

Barry Minkow's company ZZZZ Best committed serious fraud and is one of the best-known Ponzi schemes in history. Even though Barry was released from prison early, he squandered the second chance and eventually ended up in much bigger trouble and ended up back in prison. Although there are multiple cinematic versions of his story, he is by no means a role model. ZZZZ Best was an excellent company on paper and at one point was valued over a quarter billion dollars, then bankrupted shortly afterward.
