
What Are GAFAM Stocks?  

GAFAM is an acronym for five popular U.S. tech stocks: Google (Alphabet), Apple, Facebook (Meta), Amazon, and Microsoft. 



GAFAM is quite close to, but nonetheless different than, the more popular FAANG acronym which collectively indicates U.S. technology stocks: Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google. In the latter, Netflix takes the place of Microsoft.





Key Takeaways

GAFAM is an acronym for the stocks of American technology companies: Google (Alphabet); Apple; Facebook (Meta); Amazon; and Microsoft.FAANG stocks include much the same stocks, but replaces Microsoft with Netflix.GAFAM is somewhat more focused on technology stocks than FAANG, since Netflix is considered a consumer services and media company.


   Understanding GAFAM Stocks  

While a lot of market indexes exist to collectively track the developments of a sector, there are a handful of companies that lead the pack in terms of sector influence. FAANG, GAFAM, and BATX are acronyms for influential companies that have a large impact on their sectors, and the market as a whole.



GAFAM is made up of Alphabet Inc.(GOOG), Apple Inc. (AAPL), Meta (META) (formerly Facebook), Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN), and Microsoft Corp. (MSFT). All five companies are listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange.


   GAFAM Versus FAANG  

Among the commonly used FAANG group of companies, Netflix is the only one belonging to the “consumer services” sector and “consumer electronics/video chains” sub-sector owing to its media content business, while the other four belong to the “technology” sector.



The term GAFAM was coined to replace Netflix with Microsoft in the list, making it a group of more technology-focused companies.



While Amazon is also classified under the “consumer services” sector and “catalog/specialty distribution” subsector, it also has its cloud hosting business and Amazon Web Services (AWS), which make it a significant contributor to the technology space.



Essentially, GAFAM represents the U.S.'s technology leaders whose products span mobile and desktop systems, hosting services, online operations, and software products.



The five GAFAM companies have a joint market capitalization of around $4.5 trillion and are all within the top 10 companies in the US according to market capitalization as of March 31, 2020.



Among GAFAM stocks, the oldest company to list on the stock exchange is Apple which had its initial public offering (IPO) in 1980, followed by Microsoft in 1986, Amazon in 1997, Google in 2004, and Facebook in 2012.


   Example How GAFAM Is Used in the Real World  

Alphabet, Apple, Meta, Amazon, and Microsoft are big players in the technology space.



Many investors believe that if these stocks are doing well, the entire sector likely is as well. In a way, these stocks act like an index for the technology sector.



Heading into early 2020, the Nasdaq 100 index was rising. GAFAM stocks were also rising. Meta was the first one to break lower, peaking in late January 2020. The other GAFAM stocks and the Nasdaq 100 continued to advance.















Nasdaq 100 Versus GAFAM Stocks.
TradingView



Apple put in its peak on Feb. 12, Microsoft on Feb. 10. The Nasdaq put in its peak on February 19. Therefore, by the time the Nasdaq peaked, three of the five GAFAM stocks were already heading lower. Alphabet and Amazon peaked on the same day as the Nasdaq (closing price basis).



Monitoring the GAFAM stocks may have alerted investors that the technology sector was weakening, even though the Nasdaq 100 was still rising. That said, GAFAM stocks are not always a reliable indicator of what the sector will do.
What Is a Gain?  

A gain is a general increase in the value of an asset or property. A gain arises if the current price of something is higher than the original purchase price. For accounting and tax purposes, gains may be classified in several ways, such as gross vs. net gains or realized vs. unrealized (paper) gains. Capital gains may additionally be classified as short-term vs. long-term in nature.



A gain can be contrasted with a loss, which occurs when property or assets held lose value compared to their purchase price. A loss can thus be construed as a negative gain.





Key Takeaways

A gain arises if the current price of something currently owed is higher than the original purchase price.Investors may talk about gains whenever the market price of an asset exceeds the purchase price they paid, but unrealized gains may come and go many times before an asset is sold.Once an asset that has seen a gain in value is sold, an investor is said to have realized the gain—or, put more simply, made a profit.


   Understanding a Gain  

A gain refers generally to the positive difference between the price of something at acquisition and its current price. A net gain takes transaction costs and other expenses into consideration. A gain may also be either realized or unrealized. A realized gain is the profit that is received when the asset is sold and an unrealized gain, also known as a paper gain, is an increase in value since purchase while the asset is still owned by the buyer and not yet disposed of.



Another important distinction between gains is when they are taxable or non-taxable, as taxes can have a large impact on how much of a gain actually ends up in an investor's pocket.



For investors and traders, a gain can occur anytime in the life of an asset. If an investor owns a stock purchased for $15 and the market now prices that stock at $20, then the investor is sitting on a $5 gain. That said, a gain only truly matters when the asset is sold and the gains are realized as profit. An asset may see many unrealized gains and losses between purchase and sale because the market is constantly reassessing the value of assets.


   Gains and Taxes  

In most jurisdictions, realized gains are subject to capital gains tax. As well as applying to traditional assets, capital gains tax may also apply to gains in alternative assets, such as coins, works of art, and wine collections.



Capital gains tax varies depending on the type of asset, personal income tax rate, and how long the asset gets held. Short-term gains are generally taxed as ordinary income, while long-term gains (held longer than one year) are taxed more favorably.



A capital gain can typically be offset by a capital loss. For instance, if an investor realized a $50,000 capital gain in stock A and realized a $30,000 capital loss in stock B, they may only have to pay tax on the net capital gain of $20,000 ($50,000 - $30,000).






If the gains accrue in a non-taxable account—such as an Individual Retirement Account in the U.S. or a Retirement Savings Plan in Canada—gains will not be taxed.



For taxation purposes, net realized gains rather than gross gains are taken into consideration. In a stock transaction in a taxable account, the taxable gain would be the difference between the sale price and purchase price, after considering brokerage commissions.


  Taxable Gain Example  

Here is an example of how a taxable gain works:



Jennifer buys 5,000 shares at $25 = $125,000
Jennifer sells 5,000 shares at $35 = $175,000
Jennifer’s commission is $200
Jennifer’s taxable gain is $49,800: ($175,000 - $125,000) - $200


   Compounding Gains  

Legendary investor Warren Buffet attributes compounding gains as one of the key factors to accumulating wealth. The basic concept is that gains add to existing gains.



For example, if $10,000 is invested in a stock and it gains 10% in a year, it generates $1,000. After another 10% return in the following year, the investment generates $1,100 ($11,000 x 10% gain), and after the third year of a 10% gain, the investment now generates $1,210 ($12,100 x 10% gain). Investors who start compounding gains at a young age have time on their side to build substantial wealth.
What Is the Gambler's Fallacy?  

The gambler's fallacy, also known as the Monte Carlo fallacy, occurs when an individual erroneously believes that a certain random event is less likely or more likely to happen based on the outcome of a previous event or series of events.



This line of thinking is incorrect, since past events do not change the probability that certain events will occur in the future.





Key Takeaways


Gambler's fallacy refers to the erroneous thinking that a certain event is more or less likely, given a previous series of events.
It is also called the Monte Carlo fallacy, after the Casino de Monte-Carlo in Monaco where it was observed in 1913.
The gambler's fallacy line of thinking is incorrect because each event should be considered independent and its results have no bearing on past or present occurrences.
Investors and traders often commit the gambler's fallacy when they believe that a stock will lose (or gain) value after a series of sessions that each had the opposite outcome.



   Understanding the Gambler's Fallacy  

If a series of events is random and the events are independent from one another, then by definition the outcome of one or more events cannot influence or predict the outcome of the next event.



The gambler's fallacy consists of misjudging whether a series of events is truly random and independent. It involves wrongly concluding that the outcome of the next event will be the opposite of the outcomes of the preceding series of events.


  Flip a Coin  

For example, consider a series of 10 coin flips that have all landed with the "heads" side up. A person might predict that the next coin flip is more likely to land with the "tails" side up.



However, if the person knows that this is a fair coin with a 50/50 chance of landing on either side and that the coin flips are not systematically related to one another by some mechanism then they are falling prey to the gambler's fallacy with their predictions.



The likelihood of a fair coin turning up heads is always 50%. Each coin flip is an independent event, which means that any and all previous flips have no bearing on future flips.



If before any coins were flipped a gambler were offered a chance to bet that 11 coin flips would result in 11 heads, the wise choice would be to turn it down because the probability of 11 coin flips resulting in 11 heads is extremely low.



However, if offered the same bet with 10 flips having already produced 10 heads, the gambler would have a 50% chance of winning because the odds of the next one turning up heads is still 50%. The fallacy is believing that with 10 heads having already occurred, an 11th heads up is now less likely.






Traders aware of the gambler's fallacy can try to avoid it by strictly following a trading system of their own design that has specific buy and sell signals and is based on independent research. They can track their own behavior before and after trades for review and analysis later.


   Examples of the Gambler's Fallacy  

The most famous example of the gambler's fallacy occurred at the Casino de Monte-Carlo in Monaco in 1913. The roulette wheel's ball had fallen on black several times in a row. This led people to believe that it would fall on red soon and they started pushing their chips, betting that the ball would fall in a red square on the next roulette wheel turn. The ball did fall on the red square, but only after a total of 26 turns. Accounts state that millions of dollars had been lost by then.



Gambler's fallacy (or Monte Carlo fallacy) represents an inaccurate understanding of probability and can equally be applied to investing.



Some investors liquidate a position once it has risen in value after a long series of positive trading sessions. They do so because they erroneously believe that because of the string of successive gains, the position is now much more likely to decline.




How Far Back Does Gambler's Fallacy Go?
Pierre-Simon Laplace, a French mathematician who lived over 200 years ago, wrote about the behavior in his Philosophical Essay on Probabilities.




What Is the Inverse Gambler's Fallacy?
It's the incorrect belief that a random series of events has occurred many times in the past because a seemingly rare outcome of such a series is observed.




Are the Odds of a Coin Flip 50/50?
Almost. They're more like 51/49 and are biased toward the side facing up when a coin is flipped.


   The Bottom Line  

Gambler's fallacy is the mistaken belief that a random event will occur simply because a series of the opposite of that event has taken place.



It's a fallacy because random and independent events have no bearing on each other and thus cannot influence a future outcome.



Correction—July 28, 2023: This article has been edited from a previous version that mistakenly associated the Monte Carlo fallacy with a Las Vegas casino. The Monte Carlo fallacy was named after the Casino de Monte-Carlo in Monaco, where it was observed in 1913.
What Is a Game-Changer?  

Throughout time, certain ideas have changed how people live, how societies function, and even the course of history. These ideas have been brought to life by individuals who considered things as they were, envisioned what could be, and committed to creating the changes that they believed in.



Those people are sometimes referred to as game-changers. Think Johannes Gutenberg and the printing press, Thomas Edison and the electric light, Andrew Fleming and the antibiotic penicillin, or Alan Turing and the first modern computer.



Game-changers are those people who bring the force of their vision, will, and personality to bear on the sometimes unique, sometimes mundane ideas that can alter the ways in which we live.



Game-changer can also refer to a company that significantly switches things up and develops new business plans and strategies that place it above its competition.



Game-changers can drive changes that transform the landscape in which we live, on either small or large scales.





Key Takeaways

A game-changer is an individual or company that significantly alters the way things are done.Game-changing individuals often use their personality traits and attitude to spark change.Companies that are game-changers look for new and innovative products and services, ways to operate, efficiencies, production methods, and marketing strategies.Game-changers overcome naysayers, adversity, and uncertainty.Becoming a game-changer requires time, determination, and commitment.


   Understanding Game-Changers  

Game-changers compare what's possible to what's currently being done. They spur a shift in the status quo. The changes they pursue may be radical and difficult for others to understand. However, they often drive a change in the way other people think and operate.



A game-changer, therefore, is someone or something that can spark new concepts, inspire the desire for—and acceptance of—change, and create the change itself.



A game-changing individual often uses their personality traits and attitude to affect what people perceive and how they do things. Certain influencers might be called game-changers if they shift the dynamic of thought and behavior of their followers. For instance, a social media influencer with a particular fashion sense who revolutionizes how people dress might be considered a game-changer.



Game-changing companies (usually led by game-changing individuals) can develop different kinds of business objectives, technologies, efficiencies, production methods, and marketing strategies.



These corporate innovations can open up new avenues of opportunity and potential for financial growth. They can disrupt and transform entire industries—or more—in the process.



Becoming a game-changer requires a long term commitment. One needs a certain ingenuity of thought and action, time, and determination. Game-changers have to have the ability to manage uncertainties and overcome obstacles.



Both entrepreneurs and those within companies who seek to make an impact can study and learn from the leadership, strategies, tactics, and achievements of visionary leaders.






Not all game-changers effect positive change. For instance, the 20th century bore witness to charismatic leaders with unquenchable desires to alter the status quo who unleashed destruction and misery for not just their own countries, but the world at large.


   Examples of Game-Changers  
  Jeff Bezos  

Amazon founder and billionaire Jeff Bezos is widely recognized as a game-changer. That's not surprising when you consider what he's achieved since he founded the company in 1994.



Amazon started as a small ecommerce website that sold books during the internet boom of the late 1990s. It quickly disrupted the retail industry as a whole. Bezos stepped down from the role of CEO on July 5, 2021 but remains executive chair of the company. He continues to invest in new game-changing technologies, such as spaceflight.


  Elon Musk  

Elon Musk is another entrepreneurial individual who is considered a game-changer. Musk became the CEO of electric automotive manufacturer and clean energy company Tesla in 2008. He had high ambitions of being a game-changer in the auto industry.



Tesla is now a leading name in electric cars, raising its stature and driving its popularity by using high-powered, lithium-ion batteries rather than gasoline to power vehicles.



Musk's vision for Tesla's method of production may have been criticized. However, the company's emergence and dominance in the electric car market caused others to scramble to try to match its impressive and undeniable achievement.




What's a Game-Changer?
A game-changer is a person who, by the force of their personality, desire to do things differently, and their belief in the change they envision, alter the status quo. The changes that result can affect communities, industries, nations, and the world.




What Women Have Been Game-Changers?
Rebecca Lee Crumpler overcame racism and sexism to obtain a medical degree in 1864. She became the first female African American doctor in the U.S. Rachel Carson, the marine scientist and author of the game-changing book about the harm caused by pesticides, Silent Spring, is often credited with launching the environmental movement in the 1960s. Muriel Siebert became the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange in 1967. She established the first women-owned and operated brokerage firm in 1969. These are just three of countless women game-changers, each of whom faced incredible obstacles but persevered to accomplish remarkable goals that affected the lives of others.




How Do Game-Changers Make Things Happen?
Generally, game-changers make things happen by looking for and seeing things that others don't. They strive to be innovative in small or large ways. Importantly, they understand that they'll make the progress they seek by being persistent, committed, courageous, energetic, visionary, and hard working. What's more, if they find that they don't have the knowledge or experience to reach their goals, they get it.
What Is Game Theory?  

Game theory is a theoretical framework for conceiving social situations among competing players. In some respects, game theory is the science of strategy, or at least the optimal decision-making of independent and competing actors in a strategic setting.





Key Takeaways

Game theory is a theoretical framework to conceive social situations among competing players. The intention of game theory is to produce optimal decision-making of independent and competing actors in a strategic setting. Using game theory, real-world scenarios for such situations as pricing competition and product releases (and many more) can be laid out and their outcomes predicted. Scenarios include the prisoner's dilemma and the dictator game among many others.Different types of game theory include cooperative/non-cooperative, zero-sum/non-zero-sum, and simultaneous/sequential. 







Game Theory 


   How Game Theory Works  

The key pioneers of game theory were mathematician John von Neumann and economist Oskar Morgenstern in the 1940s. Mathematician John Nash is regarded by many as providing the first significant extension of the von Neumann and Morgenstern work.



The focus of game theory is the game, which serves as a model of an interactive situation among rational players. The key to game theory is that one player's payoff is contingent on the strategy implemented by the other player. 



The game identifies the players' identities, preferences, and available strategies and how these strategies affect the outcome. Depending on the model, various other requirements or assumptions may be necessary.



Game theory has a wide range of applications, including psychology, evolutionary biology, war, politics, economics, and business. Despite its many advances, game theory is still a young and developing science.






According to game theory, the actions and choices of all the participants affect the outcome of each. It's assumed players within the game are rational and will strive to maximize their payoffs in the game.


   Useful Terms in Game Theory  

Any time we have a situation with two or more players that involve known payouts or quantifiable consequences, we can use game theory to help determine the most likely outcomes. Let's start by defining a few terms commonly used in the study of game theory:



Game: Any set of circumstances that has a result dependent on the actions of two or more decision-makers (players)
Players: A strategic decision-maker within the context of the game
Strategy: A complete plan of action a player will take given the set of circumstances that might arise within the game
Payoff: The payout a player receives from arriving at a particular outcome (The payout can be in any quantifiable form, from dollars to utility.)
Information set: The information available at a given point in the game (The term information set is most usually applied when the game has a sequential component.)
Equilibrium: The point in a game where both players have made their decisions and an outcome is reached


   The Nash Equilibrium  

Nash equilibrium is an outcome reached that, once achieved, means no player can increase payoff by changing decisions unilaterally. It can also be thought of as "no regrets," in the sense that once a decision is made, the player will have no regrets concerning decisions considering the consequences.



The Nash equilibrium is reached over time, in most cases. However, once the Nash equilibrium is reached, it will not be deviated from. After we learn how to find the Nash equilibrium, take a look at how a unilateral move would affect the situation. Does it make any sense? It shouldn't, and that's why the Nash equilibrium is described as "no regrets." Generally, there can be more than one equilibrium in a game.



However, this usually occurs in games with more complex elements than two choices by two players. In simultaneous games that are repeated over time, one of these multiple equilibria is reached after some trial and error. This scenario of different choices overtime before reaching equilibrium is the most often played out in the business world when two firms are determining prices for highly interchangeable products, such as airfare or soft drinks.






Ever seen an opposing coach call a timeout right before the other team's kicker is to attempt a game-winning field goal? Th


   Impact of Game Theory  

Game theory is present in almost every industry or field of research. Its expansive theory can pertain to many situations, making it a versatile and important theory to comprehend. Here are several fields of study directly impacted by game theory.


  Economics  

Game theory brought about a revolution in economics by addressing crucial problems in prior mathematical economic models. For instance, neoclassical economics struggled to understand entrepreneurial anticipation and could not handle the imperfect competition. Game theory turned attention away from steady-state equilibrium toward the market process.



Economists often use game theory to understand oligopoly firm behavior. It helps to predict likely outcomes when firms engage in certain behaviors, such as price-fixing and collusion.


  Business  

In business, game theory is beneficial for modeling competing behaviors between economic agents. Businesses often have several strategic choices that affect their ability to realize economic gain. For example, businesses may face dilemmas such as whether to retire existing products or develop new ones or employ new marketing strategies. 



Businesses can often choose their opponent as well. Some focus on external forces and compete against other market participants. Others set internal goals and strive to be better than previous versions of itself. Whether external or internal, companies are always competing for resources, attempting to hire the best candidates away from their rivals, and gather the attention of customers away from competing goods.



Game theory in business may most resemble a game tree as shown below. A company may start in position one and must decide upon two outcomes. However, there are continually other decisions to be made; the final payoff amount is not known until the final decision has been processed.















Example of Game Tree.
Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy


  Project Management  

Project management involves social aspects of game theory as different participants may have different influences. For example, a project manager may be incentivized to successfully complete a building development project. Meanwhile, the construction worker may be incentivized to work slower for safety or delay the project to incur more billable hours.



When dealing with an internal team, game theory may be less prevalent as all participants working for the same employer often have a greater shared interest for success. However, third-party consultants or external parties assisting with a project may be incentivized by other means separate from the project's success.


  Consumer Product Pricing  

The strategy of Black Friday shopping is at the heart of game theory. The concept holds that should companies reduce prices, more consumers will buy more goods. The relationship between a consumer, a good, and the financial exchange to transfer ownership plays a major part in game theory as each consumer has a different set of expectations.



Outside from sweeping sales in advance of the holiday season, companies must utilize game theory when pricing products for launch or in anticipation of competition from rival goods. The company must balance pricing a good too low and not reaping profit, yet pricing a good too high may scare customers away towards a substitute good.


   Types of Game Theories  
  Cooperative vs. Non-Cooperative Games  

Although there are many types (e.g., symmetric/asymmetric, simultaneous/sequential, etc.) of game theories, cooperative and non-cooperative game theories are the most common. Cooperative game theory deals with how coalitions, or cooperative groups, interact when only the payoffs are known. It is a game between coalitions of players rather than between individuals, and it questions how groups form and how they allocate the payoff among players.



Non-cooperative game theory deals with how rational economic agents deal with each other to achieve their own goals. The most common non-cooperative game is the strategic game, in which only the available strategies and the outcomes that result from a combination of choices are listed. A simplistic example of a real-world non-cooperative game is rock-paper-scissors. 


  Zero-Sum vs. Non-Zero Sum Games  

When there is a direct conflict between multiple parties striving for the same outcome, this type of game is often a zero-sum game. This means that for every winner, there is a loser. Alternatively, it means that the collective net benefit received is equal to the collective net benefit lost. Almost every sporting event is a zero-sum game in which one team wins and one team loses.



A non-zero-sum game is one in which all participants can win or lose at the same time. Consider business partnerships that are mutually beneficial and foster value for both entities. Instead of competing and attempting to "win", both parties benefit.



Investing and trading stocks is sometimes considered a zero-sum game. After all, one market participant will buy a stock and another participant sell that same stock for the same price. However, because different investors have different risk appetites and investing goals, it may be mutually beneficial for both parties to transact.


  Simultaneous Move vs. Sequential Move Games  

Many times in life, game theory presents itself in simultaneous move situations. This means each participant must continually make decisions at the same time their opponent is making decisions. As companies devise their marketing, product development, and operational plans, competing companies are also doing the same thing at the same time.



In some cases, there is intentional staggering of decision-making steps in which one party is able to see the other party's moves before making their own. This is usually always present in negotiations; one party lists their demands, then the other party has a designated amount of time to respond and list their own.


  One Shot vs. Repeated Games  

Last, game theory can begin and end in a single instance. Like much of life, the underlying competition starts, progresses, ends, and cannot be redone. This is often the case with equity traders that must wisely choose their entry point and exit point as their decision may not easily be undone or retried.



On the other hand, some repeated games continue on and seamlessly never end. These types of games often contain the same participants each time, and each party has the knowledge of what occurred last time. For example, consider rival companies trying to price their goods. Whenever one makes a price adjustment, so may the other. This circular competition repeats itself across product cycles or sale seasonality.



In the example below, a depiction of the Prisoner's Dilemma (discussed in the next section) is shown. In this depiction, after the first iteration occurs, there is no payoff. Instead, a second iteration of the game occurs, bringing with it a new set of outcomes not possible under one shot games.















Example of Repeated Game.
Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy


   Examples of Game Theory  

There are several "games" that game theory analyzes. Below, we will just briefly describe a few of these.


  The Prisoner's Dilemma  

The Prisoner's Dilemma is the most well-known example of game theory. Consider the example of two criminals arrested for a crime. Prosecutors have no hard evidence to convict them. However, to gain a confession, officials remove the prisoners from their solitary cells and question each one in separate chambers. Neither prisoner has the means to communicate with each other. Officials present four deals, often displayed as a 2 x 2 box.



If both confess, they will each receive a five-year prison sentence. If Prisoner 1 confesses, but Prisoner 2 does not, Prisoner 1 will get three years and Prisoner 2 will get nine years. If Prisoner 2 confesses, but Prisoner 1 does not, Prisoner 1 will get 10 years, and Prisoner 2 will get two years. If neither confesses, each will serve two years in prison. 



The most favorable strategy is to not confess. However, neither is aware of the other's strategy and without certainty that one will not confess, both will likely confess and receive a five-year prison sentence. The Nash equilibrium suggests that in a prisoner's dilemma, both players will make the move that is best for them individually but worse for them collectively.



The expression "tit for tat" has been determined to be the optimal strategy for optimizing a prisoner's dilemma. Tit for tat was introduced by Anatol Rapoport, who developed a strategy in which each participant in an iterated prisoner's dilemma follows a course of action consistent with their opponent's previous turn. For example, if provoked, a player subsequently responds with retaliation; if unprovoked, the player cooperates.



The image below depicts the dilemma where the choice of the participant on the column and the choice of the participant in the row may clash. For example, both parties may receive the most favorable outcome if both choose row/column 1. However, each faces the risk of strong adverse outcomes should the other party not choose the same outcome.















Example of Static Two-Person Game.
Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy


  Dictator Game   

This is a simple game in which Player A must decide how to split a cash prize with Player B, who has no input into Player A’s decision. While this is not a game theory strategy per se, it does provide some interesting insights into people’s behavior. Experiments reveal about 50% keep all the money to themselves, 5% split it equally, and the other 45% give the other participant a smaller share.



The dictator game is closely related to the ultimatum game, in which Player A is given a set amount of money, part of which has to be given to Player B, who can accept or reject the amount given. The catch is if the second player rejects the amount offered, both A and B get nothing. The dictator and ultimatum games hold important lessons for issues such as charitable giving and philanthropy.


  Volunteer’s Dilemma  

In a volunteer’s dilemma, someone has to undertake a chore or job for the common good. The worst possible outcome is realized if nobody volunteers. For example, consider a company in which accounting fraud is rampant, though top management is unaware of it. Some junior employees in the accounting department are aware of the fraud but hesitate to tell top management because it would result in the employees involved in the fraud being fired and most likely prosecuted.



Being labeled as a whistleblower may also have some repercussions down the line. But if nobody volunteers, the large-scale fraud may result in the company’s eventual bankruptcy and the loss of everyone’s jobs.


  The Centipede Game  

The centipede game is an extensive-form game in game theory in which two players alternately get a chance to take the larger share of a slowly increasing money stash. It is arranged so that if a player passes the stash to their opponent who then takes the stash, the player receives a smaller amount than if they had taken the pot.



The centipede game concludes as soon as a player takes the stash, with that player getting the larger portion and the other player getting the smaller portion. The game has a pre-defined total number of rounds, which are known to each player in advance.






Game theory exists in almost every facet of life. Because the decisions of other people around you impact your day, game theory pertains to personal relationships, shopping habits, media intake, and hobbies.


   Types of Game Theory Strategies  

Game theory participants can decide between a few primary ways to play their game. In general, each participant must decide what level of risk they are wiling to take and how far they are wiling to go to pursue the best possible outcome.


  Maximax Strategy  

A maximax strategy involves no hedging. The participant is either all in or all out; they'll either win big or face the worst consequence. Consider new start-up companies introducing new products to the market. Their new product may result in the company's market cap increasing fifty-fold. On the other hand, a failed product launch will leave the company bankrupt. In either situation, the participant is willing to take a chance on achieving the best outcome even if the worst outcome is possible.


  Maximin Strategy  

A maximin strategy in game theory results in the participant choosing the best of the worst payoff. The participant has decided to hedge risk and sacrifice full benefit in exchange for avoiding the worst outcome. Often, companies face and accept this strategy when considering lawsuits. By settling out of court and avoid a public trial, companies agree to an adverse outcome. However, that outcome could have been worse due to the exploits of the trial or even worse judicial finding.


  Dominant Strategy  

In a dominant strategy, a participant performs actions that are the best outcome for the play irrespective of what other participants decide to do. In business, this may a situation where a company decides to scale and expand to a new market whether or not a competing company has decided to move into the market as well. In Prisoner's Dilemma, the dominant strategy would be to confess.


  Pure Strategy  

Pure strategy entails the least amount of strategic decision-making, as pure strategy is simply a defined choice that is made regardless of external forces or actions of others. Consider a game of rock-paper-scissors in which one participant decides to throw the same shape each trial. As the outcome for this participant is well-defined in advance (outcomes are either a specific shape or not that specific shape), the strategy is defined as pure.


  Mixed Strategy  

A mixed strategy may seem like random chance, but there is much thought that must go into devising a plan of mixing elements or actions. Consider the relationship between a baseball pitcher and batter. The pitcher cannot throw the same pitch each time; otherwise, the batter could predict what would come next. Instead, the pitcher must mix its strategy from pitch to pitch to create a sense of unpredictability in which it hopes to benefit from.


   Limitations of Game Theory  

The biggest issue with game theory is that, like most other economic models, it relies on the assumption that people are rational actors that are self-interested and utility-maximizing. Of course, we are social beings who do cooperate often at our own expense. Game theory cannot account for the fact that in some situations we may fall into a Nash equilibrium, and other times not, depending on the social context and who the players are.



In addition, game theory often struggles to factor in human elements such as loyalty, honesty, or empathy. Though statistical and mathematical computations can dictate what a best course of action should be, humans may not take this course due to incalculable and complex scenarios of self-sacrifice or manipulation. Game theory may analyze a set of behaviors but it can not truly forecast the human element.




What Are the Games Being Played in Game Theory?
It is called game theory since the theory tries to understand the strategic actions of two or more "players" in a given situation containing set rules and outcomes. While used in several disciplines, game theory is most notably used as a tool within the study of business and economics.The "games" may involve how two competitor firms will react to price cuts by the other, whether a firm should acquire another, or how traders in a stock market may react to price changes. In theoretic terms, these games may be categorized as prisoner's dilemmas, the dictator game, the hawk-and-dove, and Bach or Stravinsky.




What Are Some of the Assumptions About These Games?
Like many economic models, game theory also contains a set of strict assumptions that must hold for the theory to make good predictions in practice. First, all players are utility-maximizing rational actors that have full information about the game, the rules, and the consequences. Players are not allowed to communicate or interact with one another. Possible outcomes are not only known in advance but also cannot be changed. The number of players in a game can theoretically be infinite, but most games will be put into the context of only two players.




What Is a Nash Equilibrium?
The Nash equilibrium is an important concept referring to a stable state in a game where no player can gain an advantage by unilaterally changing a strategy, assuming the other participants also do not change their strategies. The Nash equilibrium provides the solution concept in a non-cooperative (adversarial) game. It is named after John Nash who received the Nobel Prize in 1994 for his work.




Who Came Up with Game Theory?
Game theory is largely attributed to the work of mathematician John von Neumann and economist Oskar Morgenstern in the 1940s and was developed extensively by many other researchers and scholars in the 1950s. It remains an area of active research and applied science to this day.


   The Bottom Line  

Game theory is the study of how competitive strategies and participant actions can influence the outcome of a situation. Relevant to war, biology, and many facets of life, game theory is used in business to represent strategic interactions in which the outcome of one company or product depends on actions taken by other companies or products.
What Is Gamification?  

Gamification describes the incentivization of people's engagement in non-game contexts and activities by using game-style mechanics.





Key Takeaways

Gamification is the use of game elements in non-game activities.Employing gamification can enhance customer and employee engagement, boost sales, and cut costs.Gamification may have some pitfalls, depending on how it is implemented.


   Understanding Gamification  

Gamification leverages people's natural tendencies for competition, achievement, collaboration, and charity. Tools employed in game design, such as rewarding users for achievements, "leveling-up," and earning badges, are carried into the real world to help motivate individuals to achieve their goals or boost performance. There are many examples of gamification, the most well-known perhaps being frequent flyer rewards programs offered by airlines. The important measurable metrics of success from gamification include the level of engagement, influence, brand loyalty, time spent on an activity, and the game's ability to go viral.



Gamification describes the incorporation of game-style incentives into everyday or non-game activities. Any time game-like features or aspects of game design are introduced to non-game contexts, gamification is taking place. In other words, real-world activities are made game-like in order to motivate people to achieve their goals. Frequent flyer programs, loyalty rewards points, and frequent shopper points are all good examples of the everyday use of gamification. In all of these examples, customers are incentivized to keep "playing" and racking up points by rewarding ongoing consumption.



Not all examples of gamification encourage people to spend. Nike+ is an app that encourages users to exercise by turning personal fitness into a game. Various nonprofits sponsor friendly competitive events (-a-thons) in order to increase charitable giving. Biological science has been advanced by encouraging gamers to fold proteins.






Educational platforms can encourage learning through gamification, unlocking various levels and badges based on successful completion of learning outcomes.



One important avenue of gamification is in the workplace. By introducing game elements to a job, employers can help workers track their own performance, set goals, and engage in friendly competition that can enhance the working environment and improve business performance. It can encourage employees to give their best effort and provide them with rewards that are directly tied to their effort level.


   Risks of Gamification  

Gamification is useful and successful because it takes advantage of the same human psychology that causes people to enjoy winning at games and to dislike or even fear losing. As a result, it can also have some downsides too. 



Choosing the right mechanisms and metrics can be a challenge. Since these are what participants will focus on, it is important that the game elements actually encourage the desired behavior. Poorly designed or implemented gamification can become a distraction from other priorities, encourage people to literally game the system, or result in players engaging in zero-sum or even negative-sum competition against one another. Any of these outcomes can mean wasted time and money.



Games can also sometimes become notoriously addictive, as has been seen with immersive video gaming and compulsive gambling. This raises possible risks when using gamification for commercial purposes. From the point of view of a commercial entity that benefits from employees or customers developing an addictive compulsion to work or consume (and pay for) a product, this is a positive feature. But for workers and consumers it can easily be seen as manipulative or exploitative and raise potential ethical issues.
What Is Gamma?  

Gamma (Γ) is an options risk metric that describes the rate of change in an option's delta per one-point move in the underlying asset's price. Delta is how much an option's premium (price) will change given a one-point move in the underlying asset's price. Therefore, gamma is a measure of how the rate of change of an option's price will change with fluctuations in the underlying price. The higher the gamma, the more volatile the price of the option is.



Gamma is an important measure of the convexity of a derivative's value in relation to the underlying asset. It is one of the "options Greeks" along with delta, rho, theta, and vega. These are used to assess the different types of risk in options portfolios.





Key Takeaways

Gamma is the rate of change for an option's delta based on a single-point move in the delta's price.It is a second-order risk factor, sometimes known as the delta of the delta.Gamma is at its highest when an option is at the money and is at its lowest when it is further away from the money.Gamma is also highest for options closer to expiration than farther-dated ones, all else equal.Gamma is used when trying to gauge how movements in the underlying asset will affect an option's moneyness.Delta-gamma hedging immunizes an options position against moves in the underlying asset.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Gamma  

Gamma is the first derivative of delta and is used when trying to gauge the price movement of an option, relative to the amount it is in the money or out of the money. It describes how the delta will change as the underlying asset changes. So if an option's delta is +40 and the gamma is 10, a $1 increase in the underlying price would result in that option's delta becoming +50.



When the option being measured is deep in or out of the money, gamma is small. When the option is near or at the money, gamma is at its largest. Gamma is also largest for options with near-term expirations relative to longer-dated options.



Gamma is an important metric because it accounts for convexity issues when engaging in options hedging strategies. Some portfolio managers or traders may be involved with portfolios of such large values that even more precision is needed when engaged in hedging. A third-order derivative named "color" can be used. Color measures the rate of change of gamma and is important for maintaining a gamma-hedged portfolio.






As an analogy to physics, the delta of an option is its "speed," while the gamma of an option is its "acceleration."


   What Is Gamma Used for?  

Since an option's delta measure is only valid for a short period of time, gamma gives traders a more precise picture of how the option's delta will change over time as the underlying price changes. Delta is how much the option price changes with respect to a change in the underlying asset's price.



Gamma decreases, approaching zero, as an option gets deeper in the money and delta approaches one. Gamma also approaches zero the deeper an option gets out of the money. Gamma is at its highest when the price is at the money.



The calculation of gamma is complex and requires financial software or spreadsheets to find a precise value. However, the following demonstrates an approximate calculation of gamma. Consider a call option on an underlying stock that currently has a delta of 0.40. If the stock value increases by $1.00, the option will increase in value by 40 cents, and its delta will also change. After the $1 increase, assume the option's delta is now 0.53. The 0.13 difference in deltas can be considered an approximate value of gamma.






All options that are a long position have a positive gamma, while all short options have a negative gamma.


   Example of Gamma  

Suppose a stock is trading at $10 and its option has a delta of 0.5 and a gamma of 0.10. Then, for every $1 move in the stock's price, the delta will be adjusted by a corresponding 0.10. This means that a $1.00 increase will mean that the option's delta will increase to 0.60. Likewise, a $1.00 decrease will result in a corresponding decline in delta to 0.40.




How Do Traders Hedge Gamma?
Gamma hedging is a strategy that tries to maintain a constant delta in an options position. This is done by buying and selling options in such a way as to offset each other, resulting in a net gamma of just around zero. At such a point, the position is said to be gamma-neutral. Often, a trader will want to maintain zero gamma around a delta-neutral (zero-delta) position as well. This is done via delta-gamma hedging, where both net delta and net gamma are close to zero. In such a case, an options position's value is immunized against price changes in the underlying asset.




What Is a Long Gamma Strategy?
If traders are long gamma, the delta of their options position increases with price movements in the underlying asset. For example, a long gamma position will see an ever-increasing delta as the underlying price rises—or ever-decreasing deltas as the price falls. If the trader can sell deltas as prices rise and then buy deltas as prices fall, the long-gamma exposure can lead to net profits by incentivizing the trader to consistently buy low and sell high.




What Is Gamma Risk?
For options positions that are short gamma, there is a risk that price movements in the underlying will cause compounding losses. For instance, if such a position begins delta-neutral and the stock rises, it will produce increasingly short deltas for the position, so that as the underlying rises, the options will lose more and more money. The risk, however, is that if the deltas are bought at these ever higher prices, the underlying asset can reverse direction and fall, creating long deltas on the way down, compounding those earlier losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Gamma measures the rate of change in the delta for each one-point increase in the underlying asset. It is a valuable tool in helping traders forecast changes in the delta of an option or an overall position. Gamma will be larger for at-the-money options and goes progressively lower for both in- and out-of-the-money options. Unlike delta, gamma is always positive for being long both calls and puts.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Gamma Hedging?  

Gamma hedging is a trading strategy that tries to maintain a constant delta in an options position, often one that is delta-neutral, as the underlying asset changes price. It is used to reduce the risk created when the underlying security makes strong up or down moves, particularly during the last days before expiration.



An option position's gamma is the rate of change in its delta for every 1-point move in the underlying asset's price. Gamma is an important measure of the convexity of a derivative's value, in relation to the underlying asset. A delta hedge strategy, in comparison, only reduces the effect of relatively small underlying price changes on the options price.





Key Takeaways

Gamma hedging is a sophisticated options strategy used to reduce an option position's exposure to large movements in the underlying security.Gamma hedging is also employed at an option's expiration to immunize the effect of rapid changes in the underlying asset's price that can occur as the time to expiry nears.Gamma hedging is often used in conjunction with delta hedging.


   How Gamma Hedging Works  

A gamma neutral options position is one that has been immunized to large moves in an underlying security. Achieving a gamma neutral position is a method of managing risk in options trading by establishing an asset portfolio whose delta's rate of change is close to zero, even as the underlying rises or falls. This is known as gamma hedging. A gamma-neutral portfolio is thus hedged against second-order time price sensitivity.



Gamma hedging consists of adding additional option contracts to a portfolio, usually in contrast to the current position. For example, if a large number of calls were being held in a position, then a trader might add a small put-option position to offset an unexpected drop in price during the next 24 to 48 hours, or sell a carefully chosen number of call options at a different strike price. Gamma hedging is a sophisticated activity that requires careful calculation in order to be done correctly.


   Gamma vs. Delta  

Gamma is the Greek-alphabet inspired name of a standard variable from the Black-Scholes Model, the first formula recognized as a standard for pricing options. Within this formula are two particular variables that help traders understand the way option prices change in relation to the price moves of the underlying security: delta and gamma.



Delta tells a trader how much an option's price is expected to change because of a small change in the underlying stock or asset—specifically a one-dollar change in price.



Gamma refers to the rate of change of an option's delta with respect to the change in the price of an underlying stock or other asset's price. Essentially, gamma is the rate of change of the price of an option. However, some traders also think of gamma as the expected change resulting from the second consecutive one-dollar change in the price of the underlying. So that by adding gamma and delta to the original delta, you'd get the expected move from a two-dollar move in the underlying security.


   Delta-Gamma Hedging  

Delta-gamma hedging is an options strategy that combines both delta and gamma hedges to mitigate the risk of changes in the underlying asset—and also in the delta itself—as the underlying asset moves. With delta hedging alone, a position has protection from small changes in the underlying asset. However, large changes will change the hedge (change the delta), leaving the position vulnerable. By adding a gamma hedge, the delta hedge remains intact.



Using a gamma hedge in conjunction with a delta hedge requires an investor to create new hedges when the underlying asset’s delta changes. The number of underlying shares that are bought or sold under a delta-gamma hedge depends on whether the underlying asset price is increasing or decreasing, and by how much.



A trader who is trying to be delta-hedged or delta-neutral is usually making a trade that has very little change based on the short-term price fluctuation of a smaller magnitude. Such a trade is often a bet that volatility, or in other words, demand for the options of that security, will trend towards a significant rise or fall in the future. But even delta hedging will not protect an options trader very well on the day before expiration. On this day, because so little time remains before expiration, the impact of even a normal price fluctuation in the underlying security can cause very significant price changes in the option. Delta hedging is therefore not enough under these circumstances.



Gamma hedging is added to a delta-hedged strategy as a way of protecting the trader from larger than expected changes to a security, or even an entire portfolio, but most often to protect from the effects of rapid price change in the option when time value has almost completely eroded.






While many times a trader will seek a delta-gamma hedge that is delta-neutral; alternatively, a trader may want to maintain a specific delta position, which could be delta positive (or negative) but at the same time gamma neutral.


   Gamma Hedging vs. Delta Hedging  

As we have seen above, delta- and gamma-hedging are often used together. A simple delta hedge can be created by purchasing call options and shorting a certain number of shares of the underlying stock at the same time. If the stock's price remains the same, but volatility rises, the trader may profit unless time value erosion destroys those profits. A trader could add a short call with a different strike price to the strategy to offset time value decay and protect against a large move in the delta; adding that second call to the position is a gamma hedge.



As the underlying stock rises and falls in value, an investor may buy or sell shares in the stock if they wish to keep the position neutral. This can increase the trade's volatility and costs. Delta and gamma hedging don't have to be completely neutral, and traders may adjust how much positive or negative gamma they are exposed to over time.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Gamma Neutral?  

A gamma neutral options position is one that has been immunized to large moves in an underlying security. Achieving a gamma neutral position is a method of managing risk in options trading by establishing an asset portfolio whose delta's rate of change is close to zero even as the underlying rises or falls. This is known as gamma hedging. A gamma-neutral portfolio is thus hedged against second-order time price sensitivity.



Gamma is one of the "options Greeks" along with delta, rho, theta, and vega. These are used to assess the different types of risk in options portfolios.





Key Takeaways

A gamma neutral portfolio is an options position that does not change its delta even if the underlying security moves significantly up or down.Gamma neutral is achieved by adding additional options contracts to a portfolio, usually in contrast to the current position in a process known as gamma hedging.Delta-gamma hedging is often used to lock in profits by creating a gamma-neutral position that is also delta-neutral.


   Understanding Gamma Neutrality  

The directional risk of an options portfolio can be managed through delta hedging, creating a delta neutral, or directionally ambivalent portfolio. The issue is that an option's delta itself will change as the price of the underlying moves, meaning that a delta neutral position could gain or lose deltas and become a directional bet, especially if the underlying moves substantially. Gamma hedging tries to neutralize such a change in the delta.



A gamma neutral portfolio can be created by taking positions with offsetting gamma values. This helps to reduce variations due to changing market prices and conditions. A gamma neutral portfolio is still subject to risk, however. For example, if the assumptions used to establish the portfolio turn out to be incorrect, a position that is supposed to be neutral may turn out to be risky. Furthermore, the position has to be re-balanced as prices change and time passes.



Gamma neutral options strategies can be used to create new security positions or to adjust an existing one. The goal is to use a combination of options leaving the overall gamma value as close to zero as possible. At a value near zero, the delta value should not move when the price of the underlying security moves.



Note that if the goal is to achieve a durable, delta neutral strategy, one would employ delta-gamma hedging. But, alternatively, a trader may want to maintain a specific delta position, in which it could be delta positive (or negative) but gamma neutral.



Locking in profits is a popular use for gamma neutral positions. If a period of high volatility is expected and an options trading position has made a good profit to date, instead of locking in the profits by selling the position and reaping no further rewards, a delta neutral or gamma neutral hedge can effectively seal in the profits.


   Gamma Neutral vs. Delta Neutral  

A simple delta hedge could be created by purchasing call options and shorting a certain number of shares of the underlying stock at the same time. If the stock's price remains the same but volatility rises, the trader may profit unless time value erosion destroys those profits. A trader could add a short call with a different strike price to the strategy to offset time value decay and protect against a large move in delta. Adding that second call to the position is a gamma hedge.



As the underlying stock rises and falls in value, an investor may buy or sell shares in the stock if they wish to keep the position neutral. This can increase the trade's volatility and costs. Delta and gamma hedging don't have to be completely neutral, and traders may adjust how much positive or negative gamma they are exposed to over time.
What Are Gann Angles?  

Gann angles are named after their creator W.D. Gann. Gann believed the angles could predict future price movements based on geometric angles of time versus price. Gann was a 20th-century market theorist. The validity and usefulness of his theories, however, are subject to debate.



Several Gann angles used together make up the Gann fan.





Key Takeaways

Gann angles are based on the 45-degree angle, known as the 1:1 angle. Gann believed the 45-degree angle is important and trends above it are strong and trends below it weaker.Gann angles are applied from price bottoms extending upwards or from price tops extending downwards.Other Gann angles include 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 8:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:8. The theory is that as price moves through one angle, it will gravitate toward the next.


   What Do Gann Angles Tell You?  

According to Gann, the ideal balance between time and price is 45 degrees. In total, there are nine different Gann angles for identifying trends and market actions. When one of these angles is broken, the price is expected to move to the next angle.



According to Gann, the most important angle is a line representing one unit of price for one unit of time, now widely regarded as the 1:1 (sometimes denoted as 1x1) and is the 45° angle. In this instance, the value of a commodity or stock which conforms to a 1:1 angle is said to increase by one point per day or price bar.



In reality, a trader can fix the ratio to whatever they want, as long as they remain consistent. With the S&P 500 at 3,000, one point a day is a minuscule movement. So instead, the trader could fix the ratio at 10 points per day, or 30, and that would be the 1:1. Alternatively, open a chart, draw an angle at 45 degrees on that chart then overlay the Gann angles with 1:1 aligning with the 45-degree angle.



When using Gann angles, it is important to lock the scale on the price chart. Most charting platforms adjust the scale when zooming in or out. That changes the angle. Locking the scale prevents this.



The other Gann angles are 2:1 (moving up two points per time unit), 3:1, 4:1, 8:1, and 16:1, as well as 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, and 1:8. These movements are not limited to up moves. These are also applied to downtrends. 1:8 means that the price is moving up eight price units each period; 3:1 means it takes three time periods to move one price unit.


   Example of How to Use Gann Angles  

The application begins with tracking and waiting for tops and bottoms to form on a chart. The Gann angles are then applied. A Gann fan or Gann angles indicator is available in most charting and trading platforms, with the above-mentioned angles included.



When the trend is up, and the price stays in the space above an ascending angle without breaking below it, the market is regarded as strong. When the trend is down, and the price remains below a descending angle without breaking above it, the market is considered weak. Depending on which angle it is respecting shows the overall strength or weakness of the trend.



The idea is that if the price passes through one angle, the price may be heading toward the next.












 TradingView



Gann fans have been applied to a chart of the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF (DIA). The first angles were drawn off the late-2018 low. Angle 1:1 is drawn at a 45-degree angle. Over time, the uptrend gradually began respecting the 3:1 angle.



The price then dropped further. As the price declines, it eventually breaks through all the up-trending angles. At any time during the decline, Gann angles can also be applied to the high price point, descending lower. 1:1 is once again aligned with 45 degrees. An angle tool may be used to make sure that 1:1 is at 45 degrees.


   The Difference Between Gann Angles and Trendlines  

Gann angles are drawn at specific angles, regardless of how the price moves. Trendlines connect swing lows to swing lows, and swing highs in price to swing highs. The indicators are providing different information. Gann angles were not meant to be drawn along price action; they are independent of it.


   Limitations of Using Gann Angles  

Gann created his own charts, creating his own scales for time and price movements. Most charting platforms today auto-scale data to fit the screen provided. While a 45-degree can be drawn on any chart, if someone has a different scale (numbers showing) on the x- or y-axis, their angles will intersect at different time and price points. Therefore, every trader, unless their charts are identically scaled, will have different angles. This means the indicator is subject to great subjectivity.



This indicator is not particularly useful for actual trade signals. Indeed, the price often does not proceed directly, if at all, to the next Gann angle once an angle is broken.
What Are Gann Fans?  

Gann fans are a form of technical analysis based on the idea that the market is geometric and cyclical in nature. A Gann fan consists of a series of lines called Gann angles. These angles are superimposed over a price chart to show potential support and resistance levels. The resulting image is supposed to help technical analysts predict price changes.















TradingView.





Key Takeaways

The Gann fan, created by early market technician W.D. Gann, consists of a series of angled lines. The trader selects the starting point and the lines extend out into the future.Gann believed the 45-degree angle to be most important, but the Gann fan also draws angles at 82.5, 75, 71.25, 63.75, 26.25, 18.75, 15, and 7.5 degrees.The Gann fan originates at a low or high point. The resulting lines show areas of potential future support and resistance.


   How to Calculate Gann Fans  

Gann fans don't require a formula although they do require an understanding of slope degrees.



Think of a piece of graph paper with lots of little squares or grids on it. If the price ascends the height of the square, within a one square time frame, a line can be drawn from the bottom left to the top right of the square. That line's slope degree will be 45.



If it takes two time boxes to ascend the height of one box (2:1), the angle of ascent will be flatter than 45 degrees. If the price ascends two box heights within the time frame of one box (1:2), that angle is steeper than 45 degrees. The Gann fan incorporates angles based on price-to-time moves in the following ratios: 1:8, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, and 8:1.






W.D. Gann, the creator of Gann fans, found the 45-degree angle to be the ideal angle for charting based on his theories regarding the balance of time and price.


   How Gann Fans Work  

Angled lines are drawn above and below a central 45-degree line to help determine trend direction and strength. Gann fans are drawn from a central 45-degree angle line that extends out from a specified trend reversal level. Traders will draw a Gann fan at a reversal point to see support and resistance levels extended into the future.



The 45-degree line is known as the 1:1 line because the price will rise or fall at a 45-degree angle when the price moves up/down one unit for each unit of time. All other lines in the Gann fan are drawn above and below the 1:1 line. Traders can use a varying number of lines above and below the 1:1 line in a Gann fan chart. The other angles are associated with 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 8:1 and 1:8, 1:4, 1:3, and 1:2 time-to-price moves.






The 45-degree angle line of the Gann fan should be aligned with a 45-degree angle on the chart. To find the 45-degree angle, use the degree angle tool on your charting platform.



The 1:1 line is the primary indicator. However, chartists have choices for adding additional lines at their discretion. In both an uptrend and a downtrend, the 1:1 line can help to detect a reversal. In a downtrend, a price that stays below the 1:1 line is considered bearish. In an uptrend, a price that stays above the 1:1 line is considered bullish. Thus the 1:1 line can serve as a resistance and support line.



Additional lines drawn in a Gann fan diagram are also used as resistance and support lines. Gann believed that if the price moved through one angle, it would likely head to the next angle. For example, if the price dropped below the 45-degree angle (1:1), it would drop to the 26.25-degree angle (2:1).



A price that drops below 1:1 doesn't necessarily mean the overall uptrend is over. The price may find support at 2:1 and then keep rising. That said, the fall below 1:1 could indicate at least short-term weakness if the price drops to the 2:1 line.















Gann Fan.


   Gann Fan vs. Trendlines  

The Gann fan is a series of lines drawn at specific angles. The 45-degree line should extend out 45-degrees from the starting point. A hand-drawn trendline connects a swing low to a swing low, or a swing high to swing high, and then extends out the right. The trendline is matched to recent price action and is not drawn at a specific angle.



A Gann angle is thus a diagonal line that moves at a uniform rate of speed. A trendline is created by connecting bottoms to bottoms, in the case of an uptrend, and tops to tops, in the case of a downtrend. The benefit of drawing a Gann angle compared to a trendline is that it moves at a uniform rate of speed. This allows the analyst to forecast where the price is going to be on a particular date in the future.



This is not to say that a Gann angle always predicts where the market will be. Rather, the analyst will know where the Gann angle will be, which will help gauge the strength and direction of the trend.



A trendline, on the other hand, does have some predictive value. However, because of the constant adjustments that usually take place, it's unreliable for making long-term forecasts.


   Limitations of Using the Gann Fan  

While some charting platforms may provide the Gann fan, they may not provide an angle tool in order to set the 45-degree line at a true 45-degree angle for that chart. Since different assets have different prices, they may not be scaled at 1:1 ($1 for one day, for example). They could be scaled quite differently.



Upon placing the Gann fan on multiple charts, it is evident that the Gann fan isn't always useful. The price may stay between the levels, but not reach them, or the price may continue to rise even though it is below the 1:1 line, for example. The lines may not mark important support or resistance areas, and the price may seemingly disregard the fan levels.



The lines continually spread out over time, making the distance between the lines extremely large. The distance between the lines may become so large that the indicator does not function for trading purposes since the price would need to move a considerable distance before reaching the next level/trading signal.



Gann fans should be used in conjunction with other technical indicators, price action, and other forms of analysis.
What Is a Gantt Chart?  

A Gantt chart is a commonly used graphical depiction of a project schedule. It's a type of bar chart showing the start and finish dates of a project's elements such as resources, planning, and dependencies.



Henry Gantt (1861-1919), an American mechanical engineer, designed the Gantt chart.





Key Takeaways

A Gantt chart is a visualization that helps in scheduling, managing, and monitoring specific tasks and resources in a project.It consists of a list of tasks and bars depicting each task's progress.The horizontal bars of different lengths represent the project timeline, which can include task sequences, duration, and the start and end dates for each taskIt's the most widely used chart in project management.Gantt charts are used in heavy industries for projects like building dams, bridges, and highways, as well as software development and building out of other goods and services.


   Understanding Gantt Charts  

The Gantt chart is the most widely used chart in project management. These charts are useful in planning a project and defining the sequence of tasks that require completion. In most instances, the chart is displayed as a horizontal bar chart.



Horizontal bars of different lengths represent the project timeline, which can include task sequences, duration, and the start and end dates for each task. The horizontal bar also shows how much of a task requires completion.






The length of the bar is proportional to the time necessary for a task’s completion. The project tasks are represented on the vertical axis.



A Gantt chart helps in scheduling, managing, and monitoring specific tasks and resources in a project. The chart shows the project timeline, which includes scheduled and completed work over a period of time. The Gantt chart aids project managers in communicating project status and completion rate of specific tasks within a project, and also helps ensure the project remains on track. By convention, it is a standard tool that makes communication unified among the engineering and project management community.


   Benefits of a Gantt Chart  

The chart identifies tasks that may be executed in parallel and those that can't be started or finished until others are complete. It can help detect potential bottlenecks and identify tasks that may have been excluded from the project timeline.



The chart depicts things like task slack time or additional time for completion of a task that shouldn't delay the project; noncritical activities that may be delayed; and critical activities that must be executed on time.



Gantt charts can be used in managing projects of all sizes and types. These may include building infrastructures like dams, bridges, and highways. They may also include software development and other technologies. Project management tools, such as Microsoft Visio, Project, SharePoint, and Excel, or specialized software, such as Gantto or Matchware, can help in designing Gantt charts.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Example of a Gantt Chart  

Company A is taking on a project to install new software on the servers of a large investment bank. Company A decides to create a Gantt chart to help manage the project and its different components.



The project's tasks that require completion include conducting research, selecting a software product, testing the software, and installing it. These tasks appear as vertical lines on the Gantt chart. A milestone of the project is selecting the software.



The project's duration is 40 days as agreed upon between Company A and the investment bank. Each task takes 10 days to complete, and each task is dependent on the previous task. A critical activity is testing the software in the development and test environments.



The task start and end dates, duration, and milestones appear as horizontal bars on the Gantt chart. The percentage of work completed for each task also is displayed on the horizontal bars. Using the Gantt chart will help Company A map out the tasks along a timeline to reach full completion in 40 days.




What Are Gantt Charts Used for?
Gantt charts help visualize various tasks and projects that occur simultaneously within an organization, and how far along they have progressed. They are used by management to plan and schedule such projects so that resources can be allocated in an optimal way and that projects that are prioritized can finish before less important ones begin.




Who Was Henry Gantt?
Henry Gantt was a social scientist and management consultant who also held a degree in mechanical engineering. He worked in the field of scientific management, developing methods to streamline and increase the productivity of corporations and their workforce. He created the Gantt chart in the 1910s to help supervisors understand the progress of their labor force and to ensure tasks were on schedule.




What Are the Components of a Gantt Chart?
A Gantt chart can vary in complexity and depth, but will always have three key components: activities or tasks that are to be done, running along the y-axis; milestones or progress stages indicated along the x-axis (either on the top or bottom of the chart); and progress bars, denoted as horizontal bars, denoting how far along each task is at any given point.


   The Bottom Line  

A Gantt chart is a visual description of a project's timeline. The chart shows the start and end dates of a project's components, such as resources and planning. If you are involved in a project, it is recommended to use a Gantt chart to help organize the various tasks within the project.
What Is a Gap?  

A gap is an area discontinuity in a security's chart where its price either rises or falls from the previous day’s close with no trading occurring in between. Gaps are common when news causes market fundamentals to change during hours when markets are typically closed, for instance an earnings call after-hours.





Key Takeaways

A gap is a discontinuous space in the price chart of an asset or security, often occurring between trading hours.There four different types of gaps – Common Gaps, Breakaway Gaps, Runaway Gaps, and Exhaustion Gaps - each with its own signal to traders.Gaps are easy to spot, but determining the type of gap is much harder to figure out. 


   What Does A Gap Tell You?  

Gaps typically occur when a piece of news or an event causes a flood of buyers or sellers into the security. It results in the price opening significantly higher or lower than the previous day’s closing price. Depending on the kind of gap, it could indicate either the start of a new trend or a reversal of a previous trend.



Gapping occurs when the price of a security or asset opens well above or below the previous day’s close with no trading activity in between. Partial gapping occurs when the opening price is higher or lower than the previous day’s close but within the previous day’s price range. Full gapping occurs when the open is outside of the previous day’s range. Gapping, especially a full gap, shows a strong shift in sentiment occurred overnight.



Some traders make it a strategy to profit from playing the gap when such a situation occurs.


   The Difference Between Different Types of Gaps  

There are some fundamental differences between the different types of gaps: – Common Gaps, Breakaway Gaps, Runaway Gaps, and Exhaustion Gaps.



In general, there is no major event that precedes this type of gap. Common gaps generally get filled relatively quickly (usually within a couple of days) when compared to other types of gaps. Common gaps are also known as "area gaps" or "trading gaps" and tend to be accompanied by normal average trading volume.
A breakaway gap occurs when the price gaps above a support or resistance area, like those established during a trading range. When the price breaks out of a well-established trading range via a gap, that is a breakaway gap. A breakaway gap could also occur out of another type of chart pattern, such as a triangle, wedge, cup and handle, rounded bottom or top, or head and shoulders pattern.
A runaway gap, typically seen on charts, occurs when trading activity skips sequential price points, usually driven by intense investor interest. In other words, there was no trading, defined as an exchange of ownership in a security, between the price point where the runaway gap began and where it ended.
An exhaustion gap is a technical signal marked by a break lower in prices (usually on a daily chart) that occurs after a rapid rise in a stock's price over several weeks prior. This signal reflects a significant shift from buying to selling activity that usually coincides with falling demand for a stock. The implication of the signal is that an upward trend may be about to end soon.



Each type of gap has certain consequences for traders. For example, reversal or breakaway gaps are typically accompanied by a sharp rise in trading volume, while common and runaway gaps are not. Additionally, most gaps occur due to news, or an event such as earnings or an analyst's upgrade/downgrade.



Common gaps happen more regularly and do not always need a reason to occur. Also, common gaps tend to get filled, whereas the other two gaps may signal a reversal or continuation of a trend.


   Example of a Gap  

In the historical example below, Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) stock gaps higher on October 27, 2017, rising sharply from the previous days close after months of sideways consolidation. The stock's gain is accompanied by a massive increase in volume, confirming a breakaway gap. It is the start of a new trend higher in Amazon’s stock, which goes on to rally from $985 to $2,050 by September 2018.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In the next example, Alphabet Inc.’s (GOOGL) chart shows a runaway gap. Alphabet’s stock was already increasing in April 2017 when it gapped sharply higher, continuing its previous uptrend.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Limitations of Gaps  

There are limitations despite gaps being easy to spot. The glaring flaw is one's own ability to identify the different types of gap that occur. If a gap is misinterpreted, it could be a disastrous mistake causing one to miss an opportunity to either buy or sell a security, which could weigh heavily on one's profits and losses.
What Is a Gap Analysis?  

A gap analysis is the process that companies use to compare their current performance with their desired, expected performance. This analysis is used to determine whether a company is meeting expectations and using its resources effectively.



A gap analysis is the means by which a company can recognize its current state—by measuring time, money, and labor—and compare it with its target state. By defining and analyzing these gaps, the management team can create an action plan to move the organization forward and fill in the performance gaps.





Key Takeaways

Through gap analysis, an organization examines its current performance vs. its target performance.A gap analysis can be useful when companies aren’t using their resources, capital, or technology to their full potential.By defining the gap, a firm’s management team can create a plan of action to move the organization forward and fill in the performance gaps.There are four steps to a gap analysis: defining organizational goals, benchmarking the current state, analyzing the gap data, and compiling a gap report.Gap analysis can also be used to assess the difference between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities.


   Understanding Gap Analysis  

When organizations aren’t making the best use of their resources, capital, and technology, they may not be able to reach their full potential. This is where a gap analysis can help.



A gap analysis, which is also referred to as a needs analysis, is important for any type of organizational performance. It allows companies to determine where they are today and where they want to be in the future. Companies can reexamine their goals through a gap analysis to figure out whether they are on the right track to accomplishing them.



Gap analyses were widely used in the 1980s, typically in tandem with duration analyses. A gap analysis is considered harder to use and less widely implemented than a duration analysis, but it can still be used to assess exposure to a variety of term structure movements.



There are four steps in a gap analysis, ending in a compilation report that identifies areas of improvement and outlines an action plan to achieve increased company performance.






The “gap” in a gap analysis is the space between where an organization is and where it wants to be in the future.


   How to Conduct a Gap Analysis  

Some gap analysis models break the following steps into four processes. Others are a little more elaborate and expand the analysis into a few additional steps. In either case, a gap analysis entails understanding your current position, determining where you want to end up, and devising a plan on how to arrive at the desired endpoint.


  Step 1: Identify Your Current State  

A gap analysis starts by focusing on where your organization is currently operating at. This includes researching the products it offers, customers it serves, geographical locations it reaches, and benefits it offers to its employees. This information can be quantitative (i.e., financial records as part of required filings) or qualitative (i.e., surveys or feedback from key stakeholders). 



Often, a company will perform a gap analysis because it is already aware of an issue. For example, customer feedback surveys have generated poor results, and a company wants to investigate why and implement remedies. Before it can dream of what it wants to become, it must understand why these errors are happening, when issues are arising, and who the change management leaders must be.


  Step 2: Identify Your Future State  

The crux of gap analysis resides in this step, where a company must identify what it wants to become. This stage must be done with great care, as the identity that a company wants to have will dictate the strategic steps that it must make to obtain those goals.



In gap analysis, a company must make specific, measurable goals to yield the greatest long-term success. For example, in the situation above, it would do the company little good to set the goal of “becoming better at customer service.” Instead, the company must identify more trackable metrics, such as “achieve customer satisfaction of 90% within 12 months.”



Another way of identifying the desired outcome is to analyze what competitors or other market participants are doing. It may be easier to identify when another company is doing something well and attempt to emulate that.


  Step 3: Identify the Gaps  

With the current state and future state defined, it’s time to bridge the two and understand where the most critical differences lie. In our running example, it’s in this stage that a company realizes it may be woefully understaffed, has not provided enough staff training, or does not have the technical capability to keep up with customer inquiries.


  Step 4: Evaluate Solutions  

Now that a company has defined its deficiencies, it’s time to come up with plans on how it will reach its target state. Sometimes, there may only be one solution; other times, the gap analysis may call for several simultaneous changes that must work in tandem.



To gauge whether a solution will work, it must often be quantifiable with ways to measure change. Our example of improving customer service may have an easy metric, such as customer satisfaction percentage. Other gap analysis findings such as deficiencies in brand recognition may require more creative, thoughtful solutions that can still be evaluated.


  Step 5: Implement Change  

Once the best ideas from Step 4 are chosen, it’s time to put them into action. In this stage, the company attempts to close the gap identified in the analysis. By putting the solutions in place, the company attempts to become better at a targeted area of business or overcome a deficiency.



This implementation stage often entails following a detailed set of processes at a specific cadence. As part of the gap analysis, the company has a defined outcome, and careful steps must be taken to ensure that more damage isn’t caused instead of cured. For example, consider employees feeling overwhelmed and discouraged from laborious training. An effort of making workers more proficient may lead to loss or productivity or decreased morale.


  Step 6: Monitor Changes  

For this reason, the company must also conclude its gap analysis by monitoring any changes. Sometimes, the company took exactly the right steps. Other times, the gap might have been wider than the company thought or the company failed to adequately assess its current position. In any case, gap analysis can be a circular process where after changes have been made, the company can reevaluate its current position and where it compares against regarding other future states.






A gap analysis often contains sensitive information; therefore, companies will often not disclose their gap analysis model. In addition, the analysis would tip off competitors about the direction of the company.


   Types of Gap Analysis  
  Market Gap Analysis  

Also called product gap analysis, market gap analysis entails making considerations about the market and how customer needs may be going unmet. If a company is able to identify areas where product supply is not meeting consumer demand, then the company can take measures to personally fill that market gap. This type of analysis may be performed by external consultants who have more expertise in these areas of business in which the company may not currently be operating.


  Strategic Gap Analysis  

Also called performance gap analysis, strategic gap analysis is a more formal internal review of how a company is performing. The analysis often entails comparing how a company has done against long-term benchmarks such as a five-year plan or a strategic plan.



A strategic gap analysis may also be performed to compare how a company is faring against its competitors. This type of analysis may unearth ways that other companies are utilizing personnel or capital in more strategic, resourceful ways. This type of information may be hard to come by, especially if departed employees have signed nondisclosure agreements and the company does not publicly disclose much information about processes. 


  Financial/Profit Gap Analysis  

A company may choose to directly analyze where its company may be falling short compared to competitors by looking specifically at financial metrics. This may include pricing comparisons, margin percentages, overhead costs, revenue per labor, or fixed vs. variable components. The ultimate goal of a profit gap analysis is to determine areas in which a competitor is being more financially efficient. This information can then be used in further, broader gap analysis types.


  Skill Gap Analysis  

Instead of looking at the financial aspects of a company, a business may choose to look at the human element instead. A skill gap analysis helps determine if there is a shortfall in knowledge and expertise with current personnel. A skill gap analysis must clearly define the goals of the company, then map how current laborers may fit into that design. A skill gap analysis may lead to the recommendation of simply training existing staff to incur new skills or seeking outside expertise to bring in new personnel. 



This type of analysis is especially important for innovative companies that must rely on having direct skill sets to continue to be competitors (or leaders) in their industry. In addition, skill gap analysis is critical for small companies that must rely on a smaller staff to operate. In this case, individuals must often have diverse, flexible talents that can be useful in many different aspects of the business.


  Compliance Gap Analysis  

Often leveraging internal audit functions, a compliance gap analysis evaluates how a company is faring against a set of external regulations that dictate how something should be getting done. For example, a company may internally evaluate its accounting and reporting functions in advance of seeking an external auditor to provide an opinion on its financial statements.



Compliance gap analysis tends to be preventative and defensive as opposed to more strategic forms of gap analysis. For example, instead of performing a gap analysis to attempt to gain a greater percentage of market share, compliance gap analysis often has the intention of meeting regulations, avoiding fines, meeting reporting requirements, and ensuring that external deadlines can be met successfully.


  Product Development Gap Analysis  

As a company builds new products, gap analysis can also be performed to analyze which functions of the products will meet market demand and where the product will fall short. This type of gap analysis is often associated with the development of software products or items that take a long time to develop (in which the market demand may have shifted).



During product development gap analysis, a company may also evaluate which aspects of the product or service have been successfully implemented, delayed, intentionally eliminated, or still in progress. With a blend of multiple types of gap analysis above, the company can then perpetually evaluate how its product plan is changing and whether it has the internal resources to meet the internal gaps needed for product development completion. 


   Gap Analysis Tools  

To assist with the gap analysis process, companies have an assortment of tools at their disposal. The tools listed below have an intended use that is best suited for a specific aspect of a gap analysis.


  SWOT Analysis  

One of the more recognizable analysis tools, SWOT analysis determines a company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. As a gap analysis tool, a company can evaluate both internal and external factors that it can improve upon or realize its lead on.



In a SWOT analysis, a company evaluates its strengths and weaknesses as part of internal analysis. During a gap analysis, a company may choose to divert resources from its strengths, especially if it feels comfortable with its current market lead. On the other hand, companies may be more interested in what its weaknesses are and how far behind it may be from outside parties. In some cases, companies may decide that its weaknesses cannot be overcome due to barriers of entry, massive capital investment requirements, or consumer preferences.



The other half of a SWOT analysis relates to external forces often outside of the control of a company. The opportunities and threats that a company faces are often the uncontrollable forces that pose risk of the findings of a gap analysis not materializing. For example, a company may outline the plan to capture greater market share by releasing a new product. Should the threat of a government tariff on the product increase the per-unit cost, the company’s gap may be more difficult to close. 


  Fishbone Diagram  

A fishbone diagram, also called a cause-and-effect diagram or an Ishikawa diagram, is useful to identify what might be causing problems. It is also helpful to encourage creative thinking when sleuthing through a business constraint.



A fishbone diagram is created by determining the problem at hand and writing that at the center of an area. Then, major categories are written on branches that expand away from the main problem. Eventually, additional branches are added to these branches that identify why problems within each category exist. In the end, the fishbone diagram attempts to break a large, complex problem into various aspects that can be more easily approached and solved.


  McKinsey 7S  

The McKinsey 7S framework identifies seven elements that are key to determining how well a company performs and what has an impact on how it operates. The model contains three “hard elements” of strategy, structure, and systems, along with four “soft elements” of shared values, skills, style, and staff.



Using the McKinsey 7S model, a company can identify how each area fits into prevailing gaps and how the company can influence each aspect to better conform to long-term objectives. As adjustments are made, it’s often recommended to iteratively monitor and review company performance.


  Nadler-Tushman Model  

The Nadler-Tushman model is used specifically to identify problems, understand how a company may be underperforming, and determine how to address that performance. The core of the Nadler-Tushman model is based around the concept that aspects within a company should be aligned and work together; otherwise, the company will not be as successful.



The model is centered around different components, including culture, work, structure, and people. These four core principles receive data that is input (a company’s strategy) as well as output (a company’s performance). The end goal is to determine how each of the four components are working together.


  PEST Analysis  

A PEST analysis entails gauging external factors and how they may impact the profitability of a company. PEST stands for political, economic, social, and technological. A common variation of PEST analysis is PESTLE analysis, which also incorporates legal and environmental concerns.



PEST analysis can help with a gap analysis, as a company may not be considering external factors that may cause, exacerbate, or solve current gaps. For example, government legislation may cause a company’s product to become much more expensive to export. In this case, a company may have a potential gap should external forces shift in a way that adversely impacts the company.






Companies often use a combination of these tools, as findings from one tool may contribute to the analysis in another.


   When to Use a Gap Analysis  

Companies should perpetually evaluate the products it offers, the customers it serves, the market need it fills, and the efficiency of its operations. However, there may be certain times when a more formal gap analysis is warranted. These times include:



During project management. As a company moves from the starting phase to the ending phase of a project, it may continually evaluate that the project has sufficient resources, knowledge, talent, and information to be completed successfully. Because some products with multiyear development cycles face risk of changing external situations, company are well-suited to perform gap analysis during a long-term project.
Planning for strategic endeavors. Whether forming long-term budgets, contemplating corporate restructurings, or lining up a potential acquisition, gap analysis is informative when attempting to make strategic decisions. This ensures that proper resources are allocated to the right areas to ensure long-term success. For example, expansion into a new geographical area may pose political risk, geographical risk, currency risk, and culture risk. A company should perform gap analysis to understand how severe these risks are and what additional resources (if any) are needed to handle each area.
Wanting to understand performance deficiencies. In addition to strategic benefits, gap analysis can unearth areas of operations where shorter-term, day-to-day functions can improve. Although this type of use is more reactionary, companies can choose to preemptively attempt to better understand areas of operation. For example, a specific cost center may come in substantially over budget; the company may simply want to better understand what happened and what steps need to be taken to become more successful.
Marketing to external parties. Though gap analysis holds most benefit to internal parties, it may also be used to communicate plans to external investors. For example, private companies can identify where its shortfalls occur. After forging an internal plan, this plan can then be revealed to outside parties as part of a capital investment request or seed funding round. By being open, transparent, and strategic about its shortfalls, a company may find outside parties more willing to partner and invest in its growth. 


   Benefits of Gap Analysis  

Because gap analysis can be used in an assortment of ways, it carries with it a wide variety of benefits. Each benefit listed below may pertain to only one specific type of gap analysis. Still, companies performing gap analysis may experience:



Improved profitability. Companies that assess gaps and preemptively determine shortfalls can be better prepared to incur spending at optimal times, have resources on hand (instead of having to pay extra capital to secure later), and run more efficiently.
Better manufacturing processes. Realizing and preventing gaps from building in the manufacturing process leads to stronger production, more efficient delivery logistics, raw materials being on-site at the correct location when they are needed, and the avoidance of bottlenecks due to any shortfall along the process.
Increased market share. By combining the first two benefits, a company can have an improved presence in the market by having increased sales, revenue dollars, customers, and market share.
Happier employees and customers. Instead of being reactionary to employee or customer needs, companies that perform gap analysis can address these potential issues before they strain relationships or cause individuals to turn to competitors.
Operational efficiency. By better understanding where it may not be operating well, a company can make changes to improve day-to-day functions. 
Decreased risk for long-term endeavors. By identifying the resources needed and potential shortfalls, companies can plan for gaps and identify problems before they occur.


   Gap Analysis in Finance/Asset Management  

Gap analysis is also a method of asset liability management that can be used to assess interest rate risk (IRR) or liquidity risk, excluding credit risk. It is a simple IRR measurement method that conveys the difference between rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over a given period of time. This type of analysis works well if assets and liabilities are composed of fixed cash flows. Because of this, a significant shortcoming of gap analysis is that it cannot handle options, as options have uncertain cash flows.



Consider a situation where a company wants to make an investment but wants to ensure that it has enough capital on hand to cover contingent situations. The company can review cash flows, determine risks, and assess where potential cash flow shortfalls may occur. This is especially prevalent in long-term projects, high-risk projects, or projects sensitive to macroeconomic or external forces.


   Example of Gap Analysis  

For years, GameStop Corp. held its place in the market as a competitor in the video gaming industry. Customers could enter a physical location to either trade in video games from their existing collection or buy games, consoles, or gaming merchandise.



There is little public disclosure regarding the analysis or strategy performed by company management. However, in July 2022, the company released its non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace, allowing gamers, creators, collectors, and community members to buy and sell NFTs. Though this business endeavor was launched primarily relating to artwork, the marketplace is expected to expand into gaming endeavors with a variety of NFT usages.



To have made this business decision, GameStop could have performed a gap analysis. It could have:



Analyzed its current position in the market. Realizing how digital transformation has reshaped many industries, it may have realized that its existing business model of in-store business may not be sustainable (although the company also has a website to buy goods).
Analyzed where it would like to be. The company may have determined that it wanted to maintain its presence as industry leader in the video game distribution industry. This likely would have resulted in the company realizing that the shift to digital gaming, including the rise of NFTs in a gaming context, could be the next potential market disruptor.
Determined a plan to get from today to the future. This would have entailed the release of the NFT marketplace in addition to other, potentially not yet disclosed strategic endeavors.
Execution of the plan. In addition to releasing the NFT marketplace, GameStop announced relationships with several Ethereum Layer 2-based entities in addition to bringing on a variety of staff with experience relating to digital assets and blockchain.



Though the ultimate internal discussions around the NFT marketplace are not known, one can infer that GameStop performed a gap analysis to understand that its existing position as a brick-and-mortar store could be enhanced with a new, digital marketplace.




Why is a gap analysis performed?
A gap analysis is performed to understand where a company may be lagging against its goals or objectives. It’s a form of analysis that evaluates what it will take for a company to get from its current position to its future dream state.




What are the types of gap analysis?
Gap analysis can be performed in an assortment of business situations. Most often more strategic in nature, gap analysis can be performed to better understand market positioning, product success, labor needs, or long-term financial positioning. Gap analysis can also be used to analyze more operational aspects such as short-term budget deficiencies or current employee satisfaction. 




What are the fundamental components of a gap analysis?
Gap analysis must always start with an analysis of a company’s current position. Without understanding where it currently is, a company can’t adequately make a plan to get to where it wants to go. In addition to identifying where it is today and where it wants to be in the future, gap analysis entails crafting a plan with implementation steps that can be tracked and measured to hold change managers accountable.




How do gap analysis and SWOT analysis differ?
SWOT analysis is a tool that is often used as part of gap analysis. As part of SWOT analysis, a company identifies its strengths and weaknesses. Then, the company should understand whether those strengths and weaknesses are suitable to where the company wants to be. Gap analysis is the plan that attempts to change a company’s strengths and weaknesses. In addition, the opportunities and threats identified as part of a SWOT analysis are the risks that the plan outlined as part of a gap analysis will not be successfully carried out.




What is static vs. dynamic gap analysis?
These two terms often refer to analyzing the performance and risks associated with banks or financial firms. Static gap analysis looks at the firm’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Dynamic gap analysis looks at the firm’s discrepancy between its assets and liabilities.


   The Bottom Line  

A gap analysis is a technique that companies can use to evaluate their current position, decide their dream position, and formulate a plan on how to bridge the gap. A company may choose to perform a gap analysis if it is struggling operationally or if it simply wants to become more strategic. In either case, there are several tools, such as SWOT analysis, PEST(LE) analysis, or a fishbone diagram, that can help the company formulate and execute a long-term plan.
Gap insurance is a type of auto insurance that car owners can purchase to protect themselves against losses that can arise when the amount of compensation received from a total loss does not fully cover the amount the insured owes on the vehicle's financing or lease agreement. This situation arises when the balance owed on a car loan is greater than the book value of the vehicle.


   Breaking Down Gap Insurance  

As an example of gap insurance at work, consider John's car, which is worth $15,000. However, he still owes a total of $20,000 worth of car payments. If John's car is completely written off as a result of an accident or theft, John's car insurance policy will reimburse him with $15,000. Because John owes the car financing company $20,000, however, he will still be $5,000 short, even though he no longer has a car.



If John purchases gap insurance, the gap insurance policy would cover the $5,000 "gap," or the difference between the money received from reimbursement and the amount still owed on the car.


   Situations for Gap Insurance  

You financed a car and made little or no down payment: Without making a significant down payment, you'll be upside down in your auto loan the moment you drive off the lot. It may be several years before the loan amount and the car's actual value amount begin to balance.You've traded in an upside-down car: When trading in an upside-down car, the dealership will add what you still owe to the loan balance of the new car unless you pay that difference up front. This extra balance could come back to haunt you if your car is totaled or stolen.You bought a car with bad resale value: If you bought a car that quickly loses value, you'd probably be upside down without a substantial down payment. When we say substantial, think 25% or more.You plan to put miles on quickly: Very few things reduce a car's value faster than lots of driving. The faster you rack up the miles, the faster you depreciate your car's value, and it's likely that you'll be dropping the value of your car more quickly than your payments can keep pace.You've taken out a car loan with a long term (more than 60 months): A long-term loan takes longer than usual to hit the break-even point, which is when your loan balance and the car's value begin to equalize.
What Is Gapping?  

Gapping occurs when the price of a stock, or another asset, opens above or below the previous day's close with no trading activity in between. A gap is the area discontinuity in a security's price chart. Gaps may materialize when headlines cause market fundamentals to change rapidly during hours when markets are typically closed; for instance, the result of an earnings call after-hours.



Gapping may also refer to the difference or spread in rates at which banks borrow and lend. The dynamic gap measures how assets (money held) and liabilities (money loaned) change over time.





Key Takeaways

A gap occurs when the opening price of a security is far above or below the previous closing price, with no trading activity in between.Common gaps tend to be partial gaps, while breakaway, runaway, and exhaustion gaps tend to be full gaps.A full gap occurs when the open is fully outside the previous day's price range.Each type of gap provides certain signals for traders.Because common gaps are relatively small and somewhat regular events, they tend to provide little real analytical insight. 


   Understanding Gapping  

Gapping can occur in any instrument where the trading action closes and then reopens. Stocks do this on a daily basis. Currencies trade continuously throughout the week but can still experience gaps between when the market closes before the weekend and reopens after.



Gapping may be partial or full in nature. Partial gapping occurs when the opening price is higher or lower than the previous day’s close but within the previous day’s price range. Full gapping occurs when the open is outside of the previous day’s range. Gapping, especially a full gap, shows a strong shift in sentiment occurred overnight.


   Types of Gapping  

There are different types of gaps, depending on the size of the gap and where they occur within the overall trend of the asset. Each of these types of gaps can be full or partial gaps. Common gaps are typically partial gaps, as the price doesn't move significantly. However, in some cases, the price may not move much yet and still end up as a full gap. Meanwhile, breakaway, runaway, and exhaustion gaps tend to be full gaps.


  Common Gaps  

Common gaps occur frequently, have little significance, and are when the opening price is slightly different from the prior closing price. The lack of a significant price move on the gap, or after, shows the gap is common.















Common Gap.


  Breakaway Gaps  

A breakaway gap occurs when the price moves above a significant resistance area or below a significant support area on the gap. It can also occur after the price has been in a tight trading range or when it moves out of a chart pattern. The breakaway gap indicates the start of a strong trending move, is typically a large gap, and the price tends to follow through in the gap direction over the next few weeks.


  Runaway Gaps  

Runaway gaps occur during a strong trend and show that the trend is still strong enough to cause a gap in the trend direction. In hindsight, these are gaps that occur mid-trend as the trend is picking up steam. They are typically large, and the price tends to follow through, moving in the gap direction over the next few weeks.















runaway gaps.
 TradingView


  Exhaustion Gaps  

Exhaustion gaps occur near the end of the trend. They are typically caused by stragglers jumping onboard late in a trend after having regretted not getting in earlier. Once the price gaps are higher on this last push of demand, there are very few traders left to keep pushing the price in the trending direction. A reversal tends to follow within a few weeks.















Exhaustion Gap - courtesy Tradingview.com.


   Gapping and Stop Loss Orders  

A trader can have a stop-loss order filled significantly below their stop-loss price (for a long position) due to gapping.



For example, a trader may buy a stock on the close at $50 and place a stop-loss order at $45. The next day before the market opens, the company issues an unexpected profit warning, and the stock opens at $38. The trader’s stop-loss order now becomes a market order because the stock’s price is below $45 and gets filled at the next available price, which is the $38 open.



Traders can reduce gapping risk by not trading directly before company earnings and news announcements that are likely to have a material impact on a stock’s price. During periods of high volatility, reducing position size helps minimize losses caused by gapping.



A trader in a short position can also get caught in a gap, resulting in more significant losses than expected. A trader may be short at $20 with a stop loss at $22. The stock closes at $18, in a profitable position for the trader, but overnight another company expresses its interest in buying the company, and the price opens up the next day at $25. The trader is punched out of their position at $25, not $22, resulting in an extra $3 per share loss.


   Gapping Trading Strategies  

Some traders use gaps for analytical insight. For example, if a gap occurs relatively early in a trend, then it is probably a breakaway gap or a runaway gap, which lets the trader know the price likely has further to run.



Other traders use gaps for trading purposes. They may enter positions after a gap occurs. These strategies are called "playing the gap."


  Buying the Gap (Up)  

Day traders often refer to this strategy as the "gap and go." A position could be taken on the day the stock gaps with a stop-loss order usually placed beneath the low of the gap bar. The gap should occur above a significant resistance level and trade on heavy volume to increase the chances of a profitable trade. Alternatively, traders could wait for prices to fill the gap and place a limit order to buy the stock near the previous day's close.


  Selling the Gap (Down)  

A similar strategy to the one above, except in this case the trader enters a short position following a gap down.


  Fading the Gap  

Contrarians may use a fading strategy to exploit gapping. Traders could take a trade in the opposite direction of the gap under the premise that most gaps tend to be filled over time. A stop-loss order is placed above the gap bar's high, following a gap up, with a profit target set near the previous day's close. For a gap down, the trader buys, places a stop loss below the gap bar's low, and sets a profit target near the previous day's close.


  Gaps as an Investing Signal  

Breakaway and runaway gaps can signal that there is more trend left to take advantage of for trading opportunities. Therefore, following one of these gaps, a longer-term trader may initiate a position in the direction of the gap (typically looking for gaps higher). They may hold onto the trade until an exhaustion gap occurs or a trailing stop is hit, letting them know to get out.






Gapping often plays into candlestick technical patterns as well, such as with the Up/Down Gap Side-by-Side White Lines Pattern or the Upside Gap Two Crows Pattern.


   Example of Gapping  

Some stocks have frequent gaps, while others have fewer. Nearly all stocks are susceptible to experiencing a gap following earnings or other major corporate announcements, such as a takeover bid. A stock may also gap because the overall market moves sharply. For example, if the S&P 500 experiences a volatile move lower one morning, many stocks will gap down as a result.



In analyzing the chart of Meta (formerly Facebook), which is shown below, the stock had a number of significantly large price gaps following earnings announcements. It also had other gaps over the period shown, which are marked on the chart.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The chart also illustrates that a breakaway gap doesn't always need to be in the trending direction. A strong gap against the current trend could signal a break or reversal in the other direction.



Take, for example, the $217.50 close (high point on the chart, just under $220). The following day the stock opened at $174.89 (just below the 2nd arrow from the left) after a worse-than-expected earnings announcement. In other words, investors who had purchased META at $217 would have lost nearly 20% overnight, showing how devastating a gap can be, even if using a stop loss.




What Volume Should a Gapping Stock Have?
A volume increase on a gap helps confirm that the price is likely to continue in the gapped direction. A breakaway gap with higher than average volume, for instance, indicates strong conviction in the gap direction. On the other hand, exhaustion gaps should be associated with relatively low volume.




What Is a "Gap and Go" Strategy?
This strategy involves buying into a gap up and is a bullish position. With this strategy, stop-loss orders may be placed at a level below the gap's bottom.




How Do You Know If a Stock Will Gap Up?
Nobody can see the future of stock prices, but a gap up may occur after a positive news announcement, especially if that news is unexpected or better than expected. Positive earnings surprises, news that a stock is a takeover target, or the release or approval of a new product can all result in a gap up.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Garage Liability Insurance?  

Garage liability insurance is specialty insurance targeted to the automotive industry. Automobile dealerships, parking lots or parking garages operators, tow-truck operators, service stations, and customization and repair shops will add garage liability insurance to their business liability coverage. The policy protects property damage and bodily injury resulting from operations.



This insurance is not the same thing as garage-keepers coverage.


   How Garage Liability Insurance Works  

​​​​​​​Garage liability insurance is a type of umbrella policy that provides coverage for the day-to-day operations of the businesses in the automotive industry. This insurance will add a layer of protection to the business' general liability policy. Coverage includes bodily injury and property damage from direct garage operations, not covered under most commercial or business liability insurance. 



Before buying a policy, the business owner should verify that the garage liability coverage will add to, and not merely replace, their basic business liability coverage.



Coverage will include injuries to customers while on the business grounds up to the chosen limits of the policy. Also, most garage insurance will consist of an employee dishonesty provision for theft or vandalism done by an employee of a customer's car. For an added premium, any autos used in the conducting of business, such as courtesy vans and parts delivery trucks, may be added. Additional protections can include damages from parts or products sold by the company and coverage for loss from faulty parts installed on a client's vehicle. 



Garage liability insurance will not cover the tools, building, personal, or business property of the policyholder. It does not provide coverage for vandalism, stolen vehicles, or damage from events such as hail. The policy does not cover accidents or damage to the customer's cars on-site for service. Also, all policy basic and additional items will have a listed maximum liability coverage amount and may have aggregate limits by claim or by year. 



Commercial general liability (CGL) insurance policies have varying levels of coverage. This insurance may include coverage for the premises, which protects the business from claims on location during regular business operations. It may also include coverage for bodily injury and property damage resulting from finished products.


   Garage Liability Is Not Garage-Keeper Coverage  

Garage-keepers insurance is a separate policy that covers the property damage to a client's car while it is in the care of the policyholder. This can include damage during road test drives and while storing the vehicle during non-working hours. The keeper's insurance will cover vandalism and theft of a customer's car. Businesses with multiple locations require policies for each site. 


   Other Business Insurance Products  

Businesses may purchase coverage for other business risks as well.



Employment practices liability insurance covers claims associated with sexual harassment and discrimination.
Professional liability coverage insures against negligence claims that result from mistakes or failure to perform. 
Property insurance covers equipment, signage, inventory, and furniture in the event of a fire, storm, or theft. However, additional coverage is needed to cover events such as floods or earthquakes. 
Business interruption insurance compensates for lost income during events that prevent normal business operations, such as an extended power outage.
Workers' compensation insurance is mandatory for employers to protect employees and to cover an injured employee’s medical care. It also provides lost wages and death benefits to a deceased worker’s immediate family.
A company may name other companies or individuals as additional insured under its commercial liability insurance policy. For example, if an automobile repair garage enters into a contract with another company to provide car washing services, that company may require the garage owners to add it as additional insured on their garage liability coverage.
What Is the GARCH Process?  

The generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) process is an econometric term developed in 1982 by Robert F. Engle, an economist and 2003 winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize for Economics. GARCH describes an approach to estimate volatility in financial markets.



There are several forms of GARCH modeling. Financial professionals often prefer the GARCH process because it provides a more real-world context than other models when trying to predict the prices and rates of financial instruments.





Key Takeaways:

The generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) process is an approach to estimating the volatility of financial markets.Financial institutions use the model to estimate the return volatility of stocks, bonds, and other investment vehicles.The GARCH process provides a more real-world context than other models when predicting the prices and rates of financial instruments.


   Understanding the GARCH Process  

Heteroskedasticity describes the irregular pattern of variation of an error term, or variable, in a statistical model. Essentially, where there is heteroskedasticity, observations do not conform to a linear pattern. Instead, they tend to cluster.



The result is that the conclusions and predictive value drawn from the model will not be reliable. GARCH is a statistical model that can be used to analyze a number of different types of financial data, for instance, macroeconomic data. Financial institutions typically use this model to estimate the volatility of returns for stocks, bonds, and market indices. They use the resulting information to determine pricing, judge which assets will potentially provide higher returns, and forecast the returns of current investments to help in their asset allocation, hedging, risk management, and portfolio optimization decisions.



The general process for a GARCH model involves three steps. The first is to estimate a best-fitting autoregressive model. The second is to compute autocorrelations of the error term. The third step is to test for significance.



Two other widely used approaches to estimating and predicting financial volatility are the classic historical volatility (VolSD) method and the exponentially weighted moving average volatility (VolEWMA) method.


   GARCH Models Best for Asset Returns  

GARCH processes differ from homoskedastic models, which assume constant volatility and are used in basic ordinary least squares (OLS) analysis. OLS aims to minimize the deviations between data points and a regression line to fit those points. With asset returns, volatility seems to vary during certain periods and depend on past variance, making a homoskedastic model suboptimal.



GARCH processes, because they are autoregressive, depend on past squared observations and past variances to model for current variance. GARCH processes are widely used in finance due to their effectiveness in modeling asset returns and inflation. GARCH aims to minimize errors in forecasting by accounting for errors in prior forecasting and enhancing the accuracy of ongoing predictions.


   Example of the GARCH Process  

GARCH models describe financial markets in which volatility can change, becoming more volatile during periods of financial crises or world events and less volatile during periods of relative calm and steady economic growth. On a plot of returns, for example, stock returns may look relatively uniform for the years leading up to a financial crisis such as that of 2007.



In the period following the onset of a crisis, however, returns may swing wildly from negative to positive territory. Moreover, the increased volatility may be predictive of volatility going forward. Volatility may then return to levels resembling that of pre-crisis levels or be more uniform going forward. A simple regression model does not account for this variation in volatility exhibited in financial markets. It is not representative of the "black swan" events that occur more often than predicted.
What Is Garden Leave?  

A garden leave refers to the period of time during which an employee stays away from the workplace, or works remotely during the notice period. The employee remains on the payroll and is in the process of terminating their employment, but is neither permitted to go to work nor to commence any other employment during the garden leave.





Key Takeaways

Garden leave is a transition period for employees who give or are given notice of termination, keeping them on the payroll but away from the workplace.Under the leave, employees are prohibited from working for the competition or themselves.A protectionist measure, the garden leave prevents the employee from sabotaging the work environment and from taking proprietary information to a competitor.During a garden leave, an employee is often cut-off from physically entering corporate offices, having access to confidential documents, or communicating with certain coworkers.The garden leave is primarily used in the U.K., Australia, and New Zealand, but was also introduced in Massachusetts in mid-2018.


   Understanding Garden Leaves  

Garden is a term most commonly used in the financial industry in the U.K., Australia, and New Zealand. Massachusetts passed a garden leave clause into law in 2018, making it the first state to do so in the U.S.



While the name garden leave may sound pleasant—and in fact, an employee may sometimes prefer to serve their notice time relaxing at home rather than being in the workplace—the restrictive nature and negative implications of this leave can make it less than ideal.



Garden leave is a protectionist measure used by an employer when an employee is terminated or when they tender their resignation. Once in effect, it often prevents the employee from being involved in any work activity for their current employer, and typically restricts them from either taking on another job or working for themselves. An employee is generally likely to spend their time pursuing hobbies such as gardening—hence, the term garden leave. Salaries and benefits continue until the end of the leave period.



Garden leave is sometimes considered to be a euphemism for being suspended and can be perceived to have negative connotations such as the employee being unfit for anything other than tending to their garden. Garden leave is also similar to a non-compete clause. Under this type of clause, an employee promises not to work for their current employer's competition for a specific period of time after their employment period is over.






The garden leave helps protect an employer's interests when an employee tenders a resignation or is given a dismissal notice.


   Reasons for Instigating a Garden Leave  

Following the resignation or dismissal of an employee, an employer may decide to place the employee on garden leave. The primary reason for doing so is to safeguard against possible detrimental actions or behavior that the employee might indulge in during their notice period.



The employer may fear that the employee could become uncooperative, or that they may negatively influence the working environment and other employees. The employer may also prefer that the employee limit contact with clients for fear the employee may persuade clients to follow them to their new employer.



Another reason for implementing a garden leave is that the employee may have access to up-to-date information that could be beneficial to the employer’s competitors. Placing an employee on garden leave could help ensure that by the time the employee is contractually free, they would have been out of the loop long enough to reduce any possible threat.



Garden leave can be an employer’s way of taking the employee off the market for a period of time, which is why some employers may opt for this method, rather than ending the employment abruptly with a cash settlement in lieu of notice.


   When and When Not to Use Garden Leave  

There are times to consider a garden leave, and there are times it is not suitable. A garden leave is to be used when a worker's employment term is being brought to an end for any reason. The first step in evaluating whether to use a garden leave is to consider the implications of the employee's departure. Questions to ask include:



Will the employee's departure expose the business to risk?
What will the transition period look like as the employee leaves the company?
Are there legal restrictions in place preventing a garden leave? 
What will the garden period duration be, and why should it be this long? 



Due to the expense of carrying an important employee that is not working, companies should be mindful when imposing a garden leave. In addition, companies may find themselves legally unable to impose a garden leave. Therefore, when determining whether or not to place an employee on a garden leave, a company must analyze the financial implications, legal restrictions, and business usefulness of temporarily retaining the employee.


   Rights and Obligations  

An employee is entitled to their salary and benefits during garden leave, but depending on their employment contract, may not be eligible for bonuses or accrual payments.



During a garden leave, it is typical for an employee to be prevented from accessing the employer’s data and computer system, and to be prohibited from contacting clients, suppliers, or fellow employees. The employee will usually be required to return company property such as laptops, smartphones, or vehicles during this period.



While on garden leave, the employee is required to be available if the employer requires information, support, or even to resume working. For this reason, an employee should not plan to travel during garden leave, unless approved by the current employer. An employer may also compel the employee to take any accrued holiday time during the period of garden leave.






Garden leave is also commonly referred to as a "garden leave period" or "gardening leave".


   Garden Leave Clauses  

An employer does not need to put a garden leave clause in a contract during the on-boarding process when a new employee is hired, but they are recommended in certain cases. Some contracts, especially those for senior management and other executives, often come with a well-drafted garden leave clause. If a company decides to put the leave in effect without one, it opens itself up to a breach of contract dispute.



Signing a contractual clause may be problematic in some cases. Employees who don't receive a regular salary, and work on a bonus or commission basis may be able to dispute a clause since their incentive is based on their work activities. These cases may result in disputes—even lawsuits—between both parties.


   Pros and Cons of Garden Leave  
  Employer  

There's a number of reasons why a company may consider implementing a garden leave. It is ultimately a defensive mechanism that makes sure an employee is still available during a transition period. It can also be used to manage the goodwill and relationships with clients as an employee departures.



During a garden leave, the departing employee often has restricted physical access to the building, files, or confidential company information. This protects a company if it is concerned about illicit use of this information as an employee leaves.



The downside to this is primarily the cost. An employer must continue to pay an employee during garden leave; if that worker is a C-suite executive, the company is paying very high salary costs to retain someone who is producing little to no work. There are also legal considerations to balance, public perception to manage, and ongoing risk of employee retaliation even when still under contract.




Garden Leave - Employers

Pros

Ensures that an employee will be available for queries prior to their departure
Prevents a customer from stealing customers prior to their departure
Ensures proper transition of responsibilities
Prevents an outgoing employee access to certain sensitive aspects of a company
May prevent an employee from leaving to work for a competitor



Cons

Is often expensive, especially when putting an executive on garden leave
Yields little to no productive work in exchange for actual salary paid
Requires adherence to complicated, changing laws that may restrict some aspects of garden leave
May negatively impact perception of future prospective employees





  Employee  

From an employee's standpoint, much of the opposite is true. The employee has meaningful, paying employment via the terms of employment through a specific contract date. During this employment period, the employee's responsibilities are often decreased. An employee is often allowed to search for a new job during this period, though there are limitations on starting a new job while on garden leave. An employee is often still entitled to commissions and bonuses during garden leave.



On the downside, employees may be restricted on what they do such as start a new job or work for a competitor. An employee may not find personal satisfaction in getting paid but not being able to contribute to the success of an organization. An employee may end up leaving a company with a bad taste in their mouth if they are cutoff from socializing with peers in which they have developed relationships with.




Garden Leave - Employees

Pros

Receives paychecks for a defined period of time
Is often required to work little to no hours in exchange for ongoing compensation
May still pursue (but not start) other job opportunities while on garden leave
May still be entitled to bonuses and commission while on garden leave



Cons

Faces restrictions on what they can do for a specific amount of time
May not find personal satisfaction for technically not "earning" their paycheck
May stagnate career development if put on a lengthy (90 day) garden leave
May be seen as negative should the employee be getting let go or terminated against their will.





   Garden Leave in the U.S.  

Massachusetts passed the garden clause provision into law in mid-2018, making it the first state in the United States to give workers paid leave after leaving a job, according to the Associated Press. The new law states employees are entitled to at least 50% of their base salary during the garden leave.



In 2021, Illniois passed the Illinois Freedom to Work Act (IFWA). Though the IFWA never mentions the phrase "garden leave", it does restrict Illinois employers regarding their ability to bind employees to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements. In turn, this legislature would impact the limitations that can be placed on an employee while on garden leave.



Though present in New York financial industries, garden law is still explicitly prohibited in many cases. For example, the New York Rules of Professional Conduct published by the New York State Bar Association outlaws garden leaves. This rule prevents an agreement that prohibits a departed lawyer from practicing law for any given period of time following his or her withdrawal from the firm.


   Example of Garden Leave  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) publicly posted Exhibit 10.3 related to the separation agreement between uniQuire, Inc. and its former Chief Operating Officer. In August 2019, it decided to part ways with its employee. In the cited agreement, the separation letter called for several items including:



A garden leave period between Aug. 19, 2019 and Aug. 31, 2019 (the official date of resignation).The garden leave period will result in the COO not having access to the company's facilities or electronic systems.The garden leave period will call for reasonable consultation and assistance as needed in support of the Chief Executive Officer.All business transacted on behalf of the company during the garden leave period should be with company officers only.




What Do People Do During Garden Leave?
During a garden leave, most employees are required to produce little to no work. They will remain on the company's payroll for a designated amount of time. However, they may not be contractually obligated to fulfill all previous aspects of their job. When placed on a garden leave, the expectations of the employee are often outlined.




Can I Start a New Job While on Garden Leave?
A garden leave is often a mutually agreed upon, contractual obligation between a company and an employee. An employee is often allowed to pursue other jobs, but courts have found there to be a breach of contract should the employee leave to begin a new job during a garden leave.




Does Garden Leave Exist in the United States?
Yes, garden leave exists in the United States. The concept was passed into law in 2018 in Massachusetts, while it has been widely adopted in New York while also gaining traction in Illinois.




What Are the Rules Around Garden Leave?
Garden leave laws will vary across jurisdictions. In general, most garden leave laws require advanced notice of resignation and last between 30 and 90 days. During this time, the employee remains on the company's payroll but are generally relieved of most (if not all) of their duties. An employee can often not return to the physical workplace, and the employee may be required to communicate with only select co-workers during the garden leave period.


   The Bottom Line  

To protect company assets and preserve business interests during an employee departure, a company may place an outgoing worker on a garden leave. This paid recuse from work often reduces the employee's scope of work prior to their pre-planned resignation. In addition, the employee will face many restrictions on what they can do, what they can access, and who they communicate with prior to their departure.
What Was the Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act?  

The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act was enacted by Congress in 1982. The primary purpose was to ease pressures on banks and savings and loans which increased after the Federal Reserve raised rates in an effort to combat inflation. Financial institutions that had taken on interest rate risk by lending at low rates in earlier years were faced with negative spreads when the Fed drove deposit interest rates higher in the early 1980s.



The act followed the establishment of the Depository Institutions Deregulation Committee by the Monetary Control Act (MCA), which had begun phasing out interest rate ceilings on bank deposit accounts. Together, these acts are today widely understood to have contributed to the subsequent Savings & Loan Crisis of the 1980s and 90s.





Key Takeaways

The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act eased bank pressure and was intended to combat inflation.This act was named after Congressman Fernand St. Germain and Senator Jake Garn. Congressman Steny Hoyer and Senator Charles Schumer were cosponsors.Title VIII of the Garn-St. Germain Depository Act allowed banks to offer adjustable-rate mortgages.


   Understanding the Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act  

Inflation in the United States had spiked significantly in the mid-1970s after the last links between the U.S. dollar and gold were severed under the Nixon administration, and again in the late 1970s, breaking above 10% by early 1980. After the Federal Reserve, under Chairman Paul Volcker aggressively began raising rates into the 1980s the trend finally reversed, with inflation hovering between 2.5-5.0% for most of the 1980s.



Traditional banks were caught in the middle as they were paying more for their deposits than they were earning on mortgage loans which had been made in earlier years at much lower interest rates. They had taken on enormous interest rate risk through maturity mismatching, lending long-term at low rates for home mortgages, and borrowing very short-term at variable rates on bank deposits. Unable to get out from under lower rates of interest on their fixed-rate, long-term holdings, banks were becoming illiquid.



At the same time, Fed Regulation Q, which had previously restricted banks and savings and loans (known as S&L or thrifts) from raising their deposit interest rates, was phased out for deposit accounts other than checking accounts under the MCA. Investors and depositors flocked to money market mutual fund accounts, CD's, and savings accounts to obtain higher interest rates, and corporations developed alternatives such as repurchase agreements. As the deposit rates that they paid out rose, while the interest they were receiving from existing mortgages remained fixed, banks were caught in a squeeze.



On the lending side, Title VIII of the Garn-St. Germain Depository Act, "Alternative Mortgage Transactions," authorized banks to offer adjustable-rate mortgages. However, the act also had substantial benefits for consumer real estate owners, because it allowed consumers to place their mortgaged real estate in inter-vivos trusts without triggering the due-on-sale clause that allows banks to foreclose and collect the balance due on a mortgaged property when ownership of that property is transferred. This made it easier for property owners to pass real estate to minors and heirs, and also allowed the wealthy to protect their real estate holdings from creditors or lawsuit settlements.






Many analysts believe that the act was one of the contributing factors to the Savings and Loan (S&L) Crisis, which resulted in one of the largest government bailouts in U.S. history, costing approximately $124 billion.


   Passage of the Act  

The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act was named after sponsors Congressman Fernand St. Germain, a Democrat from Rhode Island, and Senator Jake Garn, a Republican from Utah. Co-sponsors of the bill included Congressman Steny Hoyer and Senator Charles Schumer. The bill passed the House with a substantial margin of 272-91. The bill also passed the Senate and was signed by President Reagan in October 1982.


   Unintended Consequences  

The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act removed the interest rate ceiling for banks and thrifts, authorized them to make commercial loans, and gave the federal agencies the ability to approve bank acquisitions. Once regulations were loosened, however, S&Ls began engaging in high-risk activities to cover losses, such as commercial real estate lending and investments in junk bonds.



Depositors in S&Ls continued to funnel money into these risky endeavors because their deposits were insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC).



Ultimately, many analysts believe that the act was one of the contributing factors to the Savings and Loan Crisis, which resulted in one of the largest government bailouts in U.S. history, costing approximately $124 billion. Long-term consequences included the preponderance of 2/28 adjustable-rate mortgages, which may have ultimately contributed to the sub-prime loan crisis and the Great Recession of 2008.
What Is Garnishment?  

Garnishment, or wage garnishment, is when money is legally withheld from your paycheck and sent to another party. It refers to a legal process that instructs a third party to deduct payments directly from a debtor’s wage or bank account. 



Typically, the third party is the debtor’s employer and is known as the garnishee. Federal law prohibits employers from firing a worker to avoid processing a garnishment payment. Garnishments are used for debts such as unpaid taxes, monetary fines, child support payments, and defaulted student loans. 





Key Takeaways

A garnishment is an order directing a third party to seize assets, usually wages from employment or money in a bank account, to settle an unpaid debt.The IRS may garnish wages without a court order.The Consumer Credit Protection Act sets the limits for what can be garnished from wages, except for unpaid taxes, delinquent child support, bankruptcy orders, defaulted student loans, and voluntary wage assignments.The debtor may be entitled to relief if facing financial hardship.


   How Garnishment Works  

For a debtor’s wage to be garnished, a creditor must typically obtain a court order proving that the debtor owes money and has defaulted on payment. If the debt is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) levy, a court order is not required.﻿﻿ For example, if John Smith owes $10,000 in overdue, unpaid taxes, the IRS can resort to garnishing his wages.



The IRS would then direct Smith's employer to remit a portion of his salary for a certain amount of time until Smith's tax obligation is fully paid. Because garnishments are usually the last resort to collect debts and show a debtor's unfavorable repayment history, they can harm an individual’s credit rating.


   Wage Garnishment  

The Consumer Credit Protection Act stipulates the amount of income that can be garnished from an individual's wage. The garnishment amount is the lower of the following:



Twenty-five percent of weekly disposable income if the individual’s disposable income is greater than $290.Any amount greater than 30 times the weekly minimum wage, which is $217.50 ($7.25 x 30).﻿﻿



Individuals who earn disposable income under $217.50 per week do not receive any wage garnishment. Individuals who receive a disposable income of between $217.50 and $290 per week can have any amount above $217.50 garnished. For weekly disposable earnings above $290, a maximum of 25% can be garnished.﻿﻿



Disposable income is defined as gross income minus legally required deductions, such as federal, state, and local taxes and social security deductions.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Garnishment limits set by the Consumer Credit Protection Act do not apply to unpaid tax debt, child support, bankruptcy orders, student loans, or voluntary wage allocations. Federal agencies and federal student loan holders can garnish up to 15% of an individual’s wage.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Sixty percent of wages can be garnished for child support payments if an individual has no other dependents to support. Federal and state garnishment limits may differ, in which case the lower garnishment limit applies. If an individual faces financial hardship due to wage garnishment, they may be eligible to file a claim to reduce the garnishment amount.﻿﻿
What Is the Gartley Pattern?  

The Gartley pattern is a harmonic chart pattern, based on Fibonacci numbers and ratios, that helps traders identify reaction highs and lows. In his book Profits in the Stock Market, H.M. Gartley laid down the foundation for harmonic chart patterns in 1935. The Gartley pattern is the most commonly used harmonic chart pattern. Larry Pesavento later applied Fibonacci ratios to the pattern in his book Fibonacci Ratios with Pattern Recognition.





Key Takeaways

Gartley patterns are the most common harmonic chart pattern.The stop-loss point is often positioned at Point 0 or X and the take-profit is often set at point C.Gartley patterns should be used in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis that can act as confirmation.


   Gartley Patterns Explained  

The Gartley pattern is the most common harmonic chart pattern. Harmonic patterns operate on the premise that Fibonacci sequences can be used to build geometric structures, such as breakouts and retracements, in prices. The Fibonacci ratio is common in nature and has become a popular area of focus among technical analysts that use tools like Fibonacci retracements, extensions, fans, clusters, and time zones.



Many technical analysts use the Gartley pattern in conjunction with other chart patterns or technical indicators. For example, the pattern may provide a big-picture overview of where the price is likely to go over the long term, while traders focus on executing short-term trades in the direction of the predicted trend. The breakout and breakdown price targets may also be used as support and resistance levels by traders.



The key benefit of these types of chart patterns is that they provide specific insights into both the timing and magnitude of price movements rather than just looking at one or the other.



Other popular geometric chart patterns used by traders include Elliott Waves, which makes similar predictions of trends in the future based on the appearance of the price movements and their relation to each other.


   Identifying Gartley Patterns  

Here's how the Gartley pattern is structured:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



The Gartley pattern above shows an uptrend from point 0 to point 1 with a price reversal at point 1. Using Fibonacci ratios, the retracement between point 0 and point 2 should be 61.8%. At point 2, the price reverses again toward point 3, which should be a 38.2% retracement from point 1. At point 3, the price reverses to point 4. At point 4, the pattern is complete and buy signals are generated with an upside target that matches point 3, point 1, and a 161.8% increase from point 1 as the final price target. Oftentimes, point 0 is used as a stop loss level for the overall trade. These Fibonacci levels do not need to be exact, but the closer they are, the more reliable the pattern.



The bearish version of the Gartley pattern is simply the inverse of the bullish pattern and predicts a bearish downtrend with several price targets when the pattern reaches completion by the fourth point.


   Real World Example of a Gartley Pattern  

Here's an example of a Gartley pattern appearing in the AUD/USD currency pair:













In the chart above, the Gartley pattern is followed by a bullish move higher. Point X, or 0.70550 could be used as a stop-loss point for the trade. The take-profit point could be set at Point C, or about 0.71300.
What Is Gas (Ethereum)?  

Gas is the fee required to successfully conduct a transaction or execute a contract on the Ethereum blockchain platform. Fees are priced in tiny fractions of the cryptocurrency ether (ETH)—denominations called gwei (10-9 ETH). Gas is used to pay validators for the resources needed to conduct transactions.



The exact price of the gas is determined by supply, demand, and network capacity at the time of the transaction.





Key Takeaways

On the Ethereum blockchain, gas refers to the cost necessary to perform a transaction on the network.Gas prices are based on supply and demand for the network's validation requests.Transaction prices are based on the gas limit and gas price.Transaction prices are denoted in tiny fractions of ether called gwei or in ETH.


   Understanding Gas in Ethereum  

The concept of gas was introduced to compensate miners for their work done on maintaining and securing the blockchain. Ater the proof of stake algorithm was rolled out in September 2022, gas fees became the reward for staking ETH and participating in validation—the more a user has staked, the more they can earn.



"Gas limit" is the maximum amount of work you're estimating a validator will do on a particular transaction. A higher gas limit usually means the user believes the transaction will require more work. "Gas price" is the price per unit of work done. So, a transaction cost is the gas limit multiplied by the gas price. Many transactions also include tips, which are added to the gas price (the more you pay, the faster your transaction is completed). The lower a user estimates their gas limit, the lower the priority in the queue they will be.






A transaction fee is similar to the fee you pay for a money wire transfer. You're paying the service provider for using their network.



Ethereum validators, who perform the essential tasks of verifying and processing transactions on the network, are awarded this fee in return for staking their ether and verifying blocks.



Another factor to consider is that supply and demand for transactions dictate gas prices—if the network is congested, gas prices might be high. On the other hand, they could be low if there is not much traffic.


   Gas and the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)  

Etherium, as platform and system, is designed to be used by others to create more use cases for blockchain and cryptocurrency. For this reason, it is commonly called the Ethereum Virtual Machine, because applications can be created that run on it. The EVM is essentially a large virtual computer, like an application in the cloud, that runs other blockchain-based applications within it.



Many decentralized application, cryptocurrencies, and tokens have been created using the EVM. Because the Ethereum blockchain is part of the EVM, the cryptocurrencies built on that blockchain require gas fees. For example, a popular token built on Ethereum's blockchain is DAI. Because it uses the Ethereum blockchain, users need to pay gas fees in gwei to conduct transactions on the chain.




What Is Ethereum's Gas Fee Now?
Ethereum's transaction fees continue to fluctuate, but they haven't changed much since proof of stake rolled out—the update was not intended to change fees.




What Is a Gas Fee on NFTs?
A gas fee is a blockchain transaction fee, paid to network validators for their services to the blockchain. Without the fees, there would be no incentive for anyone to stake their ETH and help secure the network.




Why Do I Have to Pay a Gas Fee?
The Ethereum gas fee exists to pay network validators for their work securing the blockchain and network. Without the fees, there would be few reasons to stake ETH and become a validator. The network would be at risk without validators and the work they do.




How Is the Gas Fee Calculated?
The gas fee is calculated using Gas Limit * Gas Price per Unit. So if the gas limit was 20,000 and the price per unit was 200 gwei, the calculation would be 20,000 * 200 = 4,000,000 gwei or 0.004 ETH.


   The Bottom Line  

Gas fees are used on the Ethereum blockchain and network as incentives for users to stake their ETH. Staking works to secure the blackchain because it discourages dishonest behavior. For staking their ETH, owners are given small payments as a reward for helping to secure the blockchain and help it function.



Fees are determined by the amount of network traffic, supply of validators, and demand for transaction verification. The higher the demand and traffic, the higher the fees. When traffic and demand is lower, fees become lower.
What Is the Gas Guzzler Tax?  

The gas guzzler tax is a surcharge added to the sales or lease price of cars in the U.S. that have poor fuel economy ratings. The tax, which is paid by the manufacturer or importer of the vehicle, varies depending on the miles-per-gallon efficiency of the vehicle and ranges from $1,000 to $7,700.



The gas guzzler tax is imposed on passenger cars but not on trucks, sports utility vehicles, or minivans. This is because the law was passed in 1978 when such models were rarely used as passenger vehicles.



Congress established the gas guzzler tax provision in the Energy Tax Act of 1978 to discourage the production and purchase of fuel-inefficient vehicles.





Key Takeaways

A gas guzzler tax is imposed on passenger cars that don't meet minimum federal fuel efficiency standards.The tax is paid by manufacturers and importers of gas guzzlers.SUVS, minivans, and trucks are not subject to the tax.The gas guzzler tax was introduced in the Energy Tax Act of 1978.


   How Does the Gas Guzzler Tax Work?  

In order to escape the gas guzzler tax, a car must get at least 22.5 miles per gallon (mpg) in combined city and highway driving.



The amount of the tax due is based on just how much gas the car guzzles. That is, the worse the fuel economy, the higher the tax. Cars that fall just below 22.5 mpg are taxed $1,000, while cars that get less than 12.5 mpg are taxed at $7,000, the top of the range. The tax is reported on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 6197. It is reported after the end of the production year when the total number of vehicles produced is known.



Shoppers for a new car will see the amount of the tax posted on the window sticker of the car if it is subject to the gas guzzler tax.


  Which Cars Are Subject to Gas Guzzler Tax?  

The EPA published a list of new car models that were subject to the gas guzzler tax up until 2016. It has not published one since, but the 2016 list of gas guzzlers gives a sense of the kind of cars that are subject to the tax.



The majority are high-end luxury and sports cars, including models from Aston Martin, BMW, Ferrari, and Rolls-Royce. A few American muscle cars were on the list, too, including the Chevrolet Corvette and one iteration of the Ford Mustang.


  How Fuel Efficiency Is Tested  

Anyone interested in the fuel economy of any vehicle sold in the U.S. can check the Fuel Economy Guide that has been published by the U.S. government for every model year since 1984.



Manufacturers are required to use the same test as the EPA when they measure vehicle fuel economy for the gas guzzler tax and new car fuel economy labels. However, the calculation procedures are different. According to the EPA, an adjustment factor is applied to the fuel economy test results for the purposes of the label, but not for the tax.



The adjustment is meant to reflect the differences between real-world driving and laboratory testing conditions. This difference is referred to as in-use shortfall. To calculate the shortfall, mpg values listed in the Fuel Economy Guide and shown on fuel economy labels are based on three tests in addition to the standard fuel-economy test.



The combined city and highway fuel economy that is used to determine tax liability is not adjusted to account for in-use shortfall, so it is higher than the mpg values provided in the Fuel Economy Guide and posted on the window stickers of new vehicles.


   Problems With the Gas Guzzler Tax  

When the gas guzzler tax was imposed in 1978, prices at the pump had increased 75% from six years earlier. Meanwhile, U.S. oil production peaked in 1970 and was falling steadily through the decade as demand increased.



The OPEC oil embargo of 1973 added additional pain for consumers in the U.S. and abroad. The decade is famous for its gas shortages and skyrocketing prices.



This is the environment in which the gas guzzler tax was passed. Its purpose was to incentivize more fuel-conscious spending on the part of consumers and fuel efficiency on the part of manufacturers.


  Vehicles that are Exempt from the Gas-Guzzler Tax  

In 1984, Jeep introduced the Cherokee XJ, which is widely credited as the first sport utility vehicle (SUV). The SUV didn't exist when the gas guzzler tax was passed, but over the next 30 years, it became the most popular type of vehicle sold in the U.S.



In 2019, American consumers continued to favor trucks and SUVs over cars. Nonseasonally adjusted passenger car sales in the U.S. for 2019 declined 10.9% to 4.7 million units, versus 5.3 million units in 2018. Sales of trucks, minivans and SUVs for the year totaled 12.2 million units, up 2.8% from the 2018 figure of 11.9 million units, according to an S&P Global Market Intelligence analysis.



Auto manufacturers were keen to take advantage of a loophole in the gas guzzler tax and its interpretation through regulatory agencies like the EPA that exempted "light-duty trucks" from the law. Consequently, the amount of gas guzzler tax collected by the U.S. in the fiscal year 2019 was under $43 million.
What Is a Gate Provision?  

A gate provision refers to a statement in a fund's offering documents that establishes the fund manager’s right to limit or halt redemptions. The prospectus or offering documents may provide more detail on a gate provision, such as scenarios where redemptions would be restricted or halted entirely.



Gate provisions are intended to stop a run on a fund, particularly when the assets a fund holds are illiquid and difficult to turn to cash for redemption in a timely manner. Even with scenarios and guidelines, the decision to exercise the gate provision is the fund managers.


   Understanding Gate Provisions  

Gate provisions restrict redemptions and help to prevent runs on the fund. When a fund, particularly a hedge fund, is holding complex investment products, unwinding positions can take time. The gate provision is built into the fund offering to prevent a situation where redemption requests cost the fund further by forcing liquidation in an adverse market situation.


   The Gate Provision in Practice  

Fund managers usually need to inform investors in writing when invoking the gate provision. The notification will usually state the need for the provision and outline how much, if any, investors will be able to receive when they request a redemption. Even though they are part of most fund documents, invoking the gate provision is a serious business and usually involves a consultation with an attorney. Because a gate provision is invoked at the discretion of the fund manager, investors who find their money locked in understandably question the fund manager’s judgment.



Interestingly, a gate provision doesn't always affect all investors equally. Institutional investors and preferred clients may have a side letter—a separate agreement with the fund—stating that their money will never be locked in. As a result, some hedge funds have eliminated gate provisions altogether because it doesn't actually cover the majority of the capital in the fund.


   A Famous Example of a Gate Provision  

When a fund enacts a gate provision, it is generally seen as a negative event. There have been cases, however, where a fund manager has used the gate provision to make certain that the capital is intact to carry out a critical phase of the strategy.



One such situation was popularized in the film "The Big Short," when Michael Burry invoked a gate provision to halt redemptions so that his bet against the housing market wouldn't be liquidated until the mortgage meltdown occurred. His investors enjoyed massive profits after the gate provision was invoked. However, by all accounts, it was extremely unpleasant for all involved when the gate provision was announced.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
Gatekeepers are necessary in many industries. They're people or policies that act as go-betweens, controlling access from one point to another. They may refuse, control, or delay access to services or they may be used to oversee how work is being done and whether it meets certain standards.



The healthcare industry is one area in which gatekeepers are commonly used.





Key Takeaways

Gatekeepers are used in health insurance as well as in long-term care plans.Primary care physicians are generally considered to be gatekeepers of patient treatment in health insurance.In long-term care, gatekeepers are requirements that must be met before an individual can receive payouts from their insurance plans.


   What Is a Gatekeeper?  

There are two definitions of the term gatekeeper. One is used to describe the role of people in the health insurance sector. The other refers to long-term care plans.



The term gatekeeper describes the person in charge of a patient’s treatment when it's used in relation to health insurance. Anyone who receives health insurance coverage in the form of a managed care plan, specifically a health maintenance organization (HMO) plan, is assigned a gatekeeper or allowed to choose one. The insured party is instructed to choose a primary care physician from a list in some cases, and that doctor becomes the patient’s gatekeeper.



A gatekeeper’s duty is primarily to manage a patient’s treatment. The gatekeeper is in charge of authorizing the patient’s referrals, hospitalizations, and lab studies. The patient contacts the gatekeeper who in turn refers the patient to doctors and specialists within the plan network when the patient falls ill or needs a referral to a specialist, 


   Gatekeepers in Healthcare  

The concept of a primary care physician as a gatekeeper to specialists and other medical resources is considered to be a managed care innovation in the United States. Its introduction has been accompanied by government-sponsored research in the United Kingdom into primary care referrals. This research could inform how the U.K.’s National Health Service shapes the gatekeeping function of general practitioners.



Many consider gatekeeping to be an effective way to contain costs by reducing unnecessary medical care interventions. Primary-level healthcare and affiliated tests and diagnoses are, on average, less expensive than secondary and specialty care services. Primary care physicians are considered to be better informed than their patients when it comes to knowing where and how to seek specialist care.






This knowledge benefits the patient care path by making a more efficient search for an adequate and qualitative secondary care provider.



A 2015 report compared Austria, which lacks gatekeeping, to the United States where gatekeeping is practiced. It found that Austrian patients more frequently sought help from specialists compared with U.S. patients. The study revealed that the lack of a system for governing primary to secondary and tertiary care referrals led to the overutilization of secondary and tertiary care facilities.



Austrian patients consistently reported a high satisfaction rate with their healthcare system. The country has also increased its hospital capacity to accommodate the high influx of primary care needs.


   Gatekeepers Aren’t Always Welcome  

A study of the healthcare system in the Netherlands reported that many primary care physicians felt that they were relegated to administrators when they were placed in the position of gatekeeper.



This presented an issue because the average age of patients seen by primary care physicians was increasing and elderly and aged patients are more likely to present a plurality of medical ailments and require more robust medical care.



An elderly individual would be sent to several specialists in a traditional gatekeeping mechanism and this can be tiring, time consuming, and a potentially fragmented approach to their healthcare. An ideal gatekeeping system would embrace innovative solutions, multiple competence centers, clinics with multiple care options on site, and ambulatory care improvements.



General practitioners in the British healthcare system who are comparable to primary care physicians in the United States are compensated for their services via capitation rates and/or fee-for-service. This creates competition in the market for patients. It also creates a situation where a general practitioner could lose part of their funding if they hand patients over to a specialist too quickly.



On the other hand, a patient may feel that they've been denied access to secondary healthcare if their family doctor is too careful or too reserved with forwarding patients to specialists.






Primary care physicians feel as though being a gatekeeper reduces them to administrators of health insurance policies, according to a Dutch study.


   Long-Term Care Insurance  

Gatekeepers are not people when it comes to long-term care. They're the requirements that must be met before an individual can receive any payouts from their long-term care insurance plan.



Most long-term care insurance policies require this type of care to be medically necessary for sickness or injury. Many companies conduct their own evaluations of whether this standard is met as a result, and they sometimes overrule patients’ doctors. Some policies require that the patient be unable to complete a certain number of daily activities on their own, such as bathing, walking, dressing, and eating.




What Is an Example of Gatekeeping?
Primary care doctors and long-term insurance companies are two examples of gatekeeping. They function in an administrative capacity in both cases, limiting a patient’s ability to seek specialist care independently.




Why Is Gatekeeping in Healthcare Important?
Gatekeeping can limit spending by both the patient and the hospital by potentially reducing the number of unnecessary visits to specialists.




What Other Industries Use Gatekeepers?
Financial gatekeepers are individuals and institutions that are charged with monitoring activities in capital markets. Credit rating agencies are considered gatekeepers in this industry because they keep tabs on the financial health and responsibilities of consumers, countries, businesses, and financial institutions.


   The Bottom Line  

There are both positive and negative aspects to gatekeeping for both the healthcare system and individual patients. Improvements must be made to enable flexible and easy communication between the care providers of distinct entry points. A family doctor should be able to quickly consult with a specialist to confirm or eliminate clinical concerns, and a specialist should be able to pass detailed instructions to the doctor for potential follow-ups.
What Is a Gazelle Company?  

According to the original technical definition, a gazelle company is a high-growth company that has been increasing its revenues by at least 20% annually for four years or more, starting from a revenue base of at least $100,000.



The rapid growth pace means that the company has more than doubled its revenues over a four-year period. As gazelle companies are characterized by fast sales growth, rather than their absolute size, they can range in size from small companies to very large enterprises, though a majority of them are on the smaller end of the scale. Many gazelles are publicly-traded companies, meaning investors can buy and sell their shares.





Key Takeaways

A gazelle company is a young fast-growing enterprise with base revenues of at least $100,000 and four years of sustained revenue growth.Gazelle companies are often found in the technology industry, but also in retail, apparel, or food and beverage.Gazelles in extremely competitive markets eventually see their sales pace decline below 20% and into the single digits.Gazelle companies are also known for jobs creation and are credited for being among the best sources of new employment for the economy.


   How a Gazelle Company Works  

Author and economist David Birch developed the idea of gazelle companies in some of his early studies on employment and introduced the concept to a wider audience in his 1987 book, Job Creation in America: How Our Smallest Companies Put the Most People to Work. Birch contended that small companies were the biggest creators of new jobs in the economy, estimating that gazelles comprised only 4% of all U.S. companies, but accounted for 70% of all new jobs.



Birch noted that the job-creation pace of gazelle companies far outstripped that of the Fortune 500 "elephants" (large enterprises) and Main Street "mice" (mom-and-pop type businesses). The pace of job creation eventually slows, however, as most gazelle companies struggle to maintain the rapid rate of growth beyond five years.



In a more recent business landscape, a gazelle refers to any fast-growing company and has lost some of its strict Birchian definition. What is still generally true, based on recent studies and empirical observations, is that gazelles are good job creators for open, entrepreneurial economies such as that of the United States. Many are in the technology sector, but numerous others are in food and beverage, retail, apparel, and other growth industries.


   Examples of Gazelle Companies  

Some gazelles keep bounding along, some get tired and slow down, and some get eaten by big cats. Gazelle companies like Apple (AAPL), Meta, formerly Facebook, (META), and Amazon (AMZN) seem like they won't get caught by competitors. Perhaps this is because they have become too large to be acquired. Or they became so big they have eliminated true business competitors. The natural maturation process of their businesses also makes it difficult for them to remain gazelles as they grow larger in size.



Other gazelles, with their rapid and flashy strides in the open field, may attract the attention of big predatory cats. These larger cats could jump on them and eat them, literally, through an acquisition, or they could enter their markets and claim market share for themselves, using their existing infrastructure to shake up the landscape. Social media giant Instagram makes a good example, having been acquired by Meta. Mobile-messaging provider Whatsapp and the virtual reality company Oculus shared the same fate.
What Is the GBP?  

GBP is the abbreviation for the British pound sterling, the official currency of the United Kingdom, the British Overseas Territories of South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands, and British Antarctic Territory and the U.K. crown dependencies the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.



The British pound sterling is symbolized by the pound sign (£) and is sometimes referred to as “sterling” or by the nickname “quid.”





Key Takeaways

GBP is the abbreviation for the British pound sterling, the official currency of the United Kingdom.The British pound sterling is symbolized by the pound sign (£) and referred to as “sterling” or by the nickname “quid.”The most common trading pairs involving the British pound are the euro (EUR/GBP) and the U.S. dollar (GBP/USD).






   Trading the GBP  

The British pound competes with the U.S. dollar (USD), euro (EUR), and Japanese yen (JPY) in daily volume trading. The most common currency pairs involving the British pound are the euro (EUR/GBP) and the U.S. dollar (GBP/USD). GBP/USD is referred to as cable by foreign exchange traders.



The penny sterling or pence is 1/100th of a pound. Many stocks are traded in pence rather than in pounds. Stock exchanges may use GBX to indicate pence. Though the official name of GBP is pound sterling, “sterling” or STG may be used more commonly in accounting or foreign exchange (forex) settings.



Currencies pegged to the British pound include the Falkland Islands pound, Gibraltar pound, Saint Helena pound, Jersey pound (JEP), Guernsey pound (GGP), Manx pound, Scotland notes, and Northern Ireland notes.






The GBP, or British pound sterling, is the oldest active legal tender in the world.


   History of the GBP  

The British pound became the official currency of the United Kingdom when England and Scotland united to form a single country in 1707, but the pound was used as a form of money in the year 760. Until 1855, when printing began, the Bank of England wrote all banknotes by hand.



The British pound served as currency in the colonies of the British Empire, including Australia, New Zealand, and Canada. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many countries tied the value of their currencies to the price of gold. The gold standard offered a uniform way to determine value among world currencies. Before World War I, the United Kingdom used the gold standard to set the value of the British pound.



At the outbreak of World War I, the country abandoned the gold standard, then reinstated it in post-war 1925, only to abandon it again during the Great Depression. In 1971, the United Kingdom allowed the British pound to float freely, allowing market forces to determine its value. In 2002, when the euro became the common currency of most European Union (EU) member nations, the U.K. kept the GBP as its official currency.


   Legislation and the GBP  

In a June 2016 referendum, British voters supported a measure to leave the European Union through a process called Brexit. The GBP declined significantly upon the U.K.’s split from the EU, and the value fluctuated in response to trade negotiations.



The pound sterling declined again in Sept. 2022 after Prime Minister Liz Truss announced economic policies on tax cuts. Although the Truss government aimed to boost U.K. economic productivity, investors and forex traders were concerned that tax cuts would increase already-high inflation and debt. The GBP/USD sank to an all-time low of 1.03 on Sept. 26, 2022.




How Can Investors Trade the GBP?
Individuals can trade GBP and other foreign currencies through a foreign exchange (forex) broker. A forex broker focuses on foreign exchange products.




What Is the Difference Between GBP and GBX?
GBP refers to the pound sterling, while GBX is an abbreviation for the penny sterling (plural: pence)⁠—⁠or 1/100th of a pound. Since many stocks are traded in pence rather than pounds, stock exchanges may use GBX to indicate the distinction between pence and pounds.




Is the GBP Still Considered a Reserve Currency?
The British pound was a dominant currency and considered the primary reserve currency in which other nations held excess cash. However, with the declining influence of the British Empire following World War I and World War II, the U.S. dollar (USD) assumed the reserve currency status that the pound previously held. By the early 21st century, the dollar was the world’s leading reserve currency, followed by the euro (EUR). According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the pound has settled into fourth place, trailing the Japanese yen (JPY).


   The Bottom Line  

The GBP⁠, or British pound sterling, is the official currency of the United Kingdom. The GBP is the oldest currency in the world that is still used as legal tender. Symbolized by the pound sign (£), the GBP has one of the highest trading volumes in the world.
What Was GDAX?  

GDAX is the former name of the cryptocurrency exchange run by Coinbase, a popular broker for bitcoin and other digital assets. Unlike the in-app purchases available through the Coinbase wallet, GDAX was aimed at professional traders, with tools to track price movements and set complex buy and sell orders.



The exchange was launched in 2015 under the name Coinbase Exchange and later rebranded to GDAX, standing for Global Digital Asset Exchange. In 2018, GDAX was again rebranded to Coinbase Pro but kept its original functionality. Although GDAX was launched with only a handful of major cryptocurrencies, Coinbase Pro now allows trading in hundreds of different virtual assets.





Key Takeaways

GDAX was the name of a cryptocurrency exchange launched by Coinbase in 2015. It is now known as Coinbase Pro.GDAX was popular as one of the few reliable exchanges where U.S. traders could trade bitcoin directly for fiat currencies.Unlike the Coinbase wallet app, GDAX/Coinbase Pro is tailored for active traders, with sophisticated tools for tracking markets and setting buy/sell orders.Prices on GDAX/Coinbase Pro tend to be more favorable than buying directly from Coinbase.In 2016, Coinbase began adding new assets to GDAX that were not yet available on the Coinbase wallet app. The exchange now hosts hundreds of digital assets.


   Understanding GDAX  

In 2015, Coinbase, one of the leading bitcoin companies in the United States, began to consider ways to expand its offerings. While the Coinbase wallet offered a simple interface for buying bitcoin, it had much less functionality than more traditional exchanges. In addition, the company charged a wide bid/ask spread that made the Coinbase prices less favorable than market prices.



In order to appeal to both types of customers, the company set up two separate exchanges. Less experienced buyers could continue to buy bitcoin directly from Coinbase, with a user-friendly interface tailored for more "casual" users. There was also a new exchange for more active traders, with sophisticated features such as price charts and limit orders. Originally called Coinbase Exchange, this was later rebranded to GDAX.



In addition, GDAX also began offering new assets. Beginning in 2016, GDAX introduced new assets such as litecoin and ethereum that were not yet available on the older Coinbase wallet. The exchange was again rebranded to Coinbase Pro in 2018 but continued to offer the same functionality while serving as a testing ground for new assets before adding them to the Coinbase wallet. There are now hundreds of assets being traded on Coinbase Pro.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of GDAX  

While GDAX offered more advanced trading options than the Coinbase wallet, they came with high tradeoffs in ease of use. Many users prefer the simple interface of the Coinbase wallet, with only one price to buy and one price to sell.



On the other hand, Coinbase charges a widespread on wallet purchases, resulting in prices that are several percentage points worse than the open market. On the exchange, GDAX (now Coinbase Pro) operates on a maker-taker fee model, with the exchange charging up to half a percent from each buyer or seller. Assets can easily be moved from the wallet to the exchange, allowing traders to access much better prices on the exchange.






Coinbase charges higher than market prices for crypto purchased on the Coinbase app, but only a small fee for trades on the exchange. Since assets can easily be moved from the app to the exchange, you can generally get a better price on Coinbase Pro.



GDAX also provided Coinbase users with more advanced functionality, such as price charts, an open order book, and the ability to set market and limit orders. These functions made it possible for traders to predict trends through technical analysis, although they were likely to confuse less experienced buyers. In addition, the exchange is not available in certain jurisdictions.



Finally, GDAX also allowed trading in assets that were not yet available on the ordinary Coinbase wallet. Starting in 2018, Coinbase announced plans to integrate dozens or hundreds of digital assets. These were added to the exchange first, and many of them were later added to the wallet as well.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and Initial Coin Offerings ("ICOs") is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author owns bitcoin.
What Is a GDP Gap?  

A GDP gap is the difference between the actual gross domestic product (GDP) and the potential GDP of an economy as represented by the long-term trend. A negative GDP gap represents the forfeited output of a country's economy resulting from the failure to create sufficient jobs for all those willing to work. A large positive GDP gap, on the other hand, generally signifies that an economy is overheated and at risk of high inflation.



The difference between real GDP and potential GDP is also known as the output gap.





Key Takeaways

A GDP gap is represented as the difference between an economy's actual GDP and potential GDP.Negative GDP gaps are common after economic shocks or financial crises and are reflective of an underperforming economy.A large positive GDP gap may be a sign that the economy is overheated and poses an inflationary risk.The term GDP gap is also applied more simply to describe the difference in GDP between two national economies.


   Understanding a GDP Gap  

A GDP gap can be positive or negative and is calculated as:








(


A


c


t


u


a


l


G


D


P


−


P


o


t


e


n


t


i


a


l


G


D


P


)


/


P


o


t


e


n


t


i


a


l


G


D


P



(Actual GDP - Potential GDP)/Potential GDP


(ActualGDP−PotentialGDP)/PotentialGDP



From a macroeconomic perspective, you want the smallest possible GDP gap, and preferably no gap at all.



A negative gap shows that an economy is operating at less than its full potential. It's underperforming and essentially leaving money on the table from where it should be trend-wise. Here, production and value are irretrievably lost due to a shortage of employment opportunities.



Negative GDP gaps are common after economic shocks or financial crises. The negative GDP gap, in this case, is mostly a reflection of a hesitant business environment. Companies are unwilling to spend or commit to increased production schedules until stronger signs of a recovery are present. This, in turn, leads to less hiring and perhaps even continued layoffs in all sectors.



That said, a positive GDP gap is also problematic. A large positive GDP gap may be a sign that the economy is overheated and heading toward a correction. The larger the positive GDP gap, the more likely it is that an economy is at risk of a period of high inflation at the very least.


   Example of a GDP Gap  

According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the actual GDP in the United States for the fourth quarter of 2020 was $20.93 trillion. The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis has its own real potential GDP in 2012 dollars. Adjusted to 2020 dollars, it projected a potential GDP of $19.41 trillion.



Running this through the formula—($20.93-$19.41)/$19.41—we get a positive GDP gap of about 0.8%. That is near ideal from the perspective of sustainable economic growth. However, this represents just a moment in time. Policymakers watch the GDP gap closely and make adjustments to try and keep growth in line with the long-term trend.


   GDP Gaps Between Nations  

The term GDP gap is also applied more simply to describe the difference in GDP between two national economies.



In recent years, an increasing amount of attention has been paid to the GDP gap between the United States, the world's largest economy in terms of GDP, and China. In 2020, this GDP gap was estimated to be around $5.9 trillion, which while significant still represents a rapid closing in by China over the last decade.



China has been making up ground since the Great Recession with its huge infrastructure investments and also bounced back quicker than the U.S. from the 2020 economic crisis. Current projections anticipate that China could overtake the U.S. economy in GDP terms by 2028. However, other economists are less convinced, arguing that an aging population and growing debt pile could keep China confined to second place.
What Is the GDP Price Deflator?  

The GDP (gross domestic product) price deflator, also known as the GDP deflator or the implicit price deflator, measures the changes in prices for all the goods and services produced in an economy.





Key Takeaways

The GDP price deflator measures the changes in prices for all the goods and services produced in an economy.Using the GDP price deflator helps economists compare the levels of real economic activity from one year to another.The GDP price deflator is a more comprehensive inflation measure than the Consumer Price Index (CPI) index because it isn't based on a fixed basket of goods.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding the GDP Price Deflator  

Gross domestic product (GDP) represents the total output of goods and services. However, as GDP rises and falls, the metric doesn't factor in the impact of inflation or rising prices into its results. The GDP price deflator addresses this by showing the effect of price changes on GDP, first by establishing a base year, and, second, by comparing current prices to prices in the base year.



Simply put, the GDP price deflator shows how much a change in GDP relies on changes in the price level. It expresses the extent of price level changes, or inflation, within the economy by tracking the prices paid by businesses, the government, and consumers.


   Example of the GDP Price Deflator  

Typically GDP, expressed as nominal GDP, shows the total output of the country in whole dollar terms. Before exploring the GDP price deflator, it's best to first review how prices can impact the GDP figures from one year to another.



For instance, let's say the U.S. produced $10 million worth of goods and services in year one. In year two, the output or GDP then increased to $12 million. On the surface, it would appear that total output grew by 20% year-on-year. However, if prices rose by 10% from year one to year two, the $12 million GDP figure would be inflated when compared to year one.



In reality, the economy only grew by 10% from year one to year two, when considering the impact of inflation. The GDP measure that takes inflation into consideration is called the real GDP. So, in the example above, the nominal GDP for year two would be $12 million, while real GDP would be $11 million.






The GDP price deflator helps to measure the changes in prices when comparing nominal to real GDP over several periods. 


   GDP Price Deflator Calculation  

The following formula calculates the GDP price deflator:



GDP Price Deflator = (Nominal GDP ÷ Real GDP) × 100


   Benefits of the GDP Price Deflator  

The GDP price deflator helps identify how much prices have inflated over a specific time period. This is important because, as we saw in our previous example, comparing GDP from two different years can give a deceptive result if there's a change in the price level between the two years.



Without some way to account for the change in prices, an economy that's experiencing price inflation would appear to be growing in dollar terms. However, that same economy might be exhibiting little-to-no growth, but with prices rising, the total output figures would appear higher than what was really being produced.


   GDP Price Deflator vs. the Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

There are other indexes out there that also measure inflation. Many of these alternatives, such as the popular CPI, are based on a fixed basket of goods.



The CPI, which measures the level of retail prices of goods and services at a specific point in time, is one of the most commonly used inflation measures because it reflects changes to a consumer's cost of living. However, all calculations based on the CPI are direct, meaning the index is computed using prices of goods and services already included in the index.



The fixed basket used in CPI calculations is static and sometimes misses changes in prices of goods outside of the basket of goods. Since GDP isn't based on a fixed basket of goods and services, the GDP price deflator has an advantage over the CPI. For instance, changes in consumption patterns or the introduction of new goods and services are automatically reflected in the deflator, but not in the CPI.



What this means is that the GDP price deflator captures any changes in an economy's consumption or investment patterns. That said, it’s worth bearing in mind that the trends of the GDP price deflator are usually similar to the trends illustrated in the CPI.


   The Bottom Line  

The fixed basket of goods used in CPI calculations is static and sometimes misses changes in prices of goods outside of it. Since GDP isn't based on the basket of goods and services and the GDP price deflator automatically covers changes in consumption patterns or the introduction of new goods and services, it is a better indicator of where the economy stands than the CPI.




What is the gross domestic product (GDP)?
GDP is the total monetary or market value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country’s borders in a specific time period. As a broad measure of overall domestic production, it functions as a comprehensive scorecard of a given country’s economic health.Though GDP is typically calculated on an annual basis, it is sometimes calculated on a quarterly basis as well. In the U.S., for example, the government releases an annualized GDP estimate for each fiscal quarter and also for the calendar year. The individual data sets included in this report are given in real terms, so the data are adjusted for price changes and is, therefore, net of inflation.




What is deflation?
Deflation is a general decline in prices for goods and services, typically associated with a contraction in the supply of money and credit in the economy. During deflation, the purchasing power of currency rises over time.




What is the consumer price index (CPI)?
The CPI is a measure that examines the weighted average of prices of a basket of consumer goods and services, such as transportation, food, and medical care. It is calculated by taking price changes for each item in the predetermined basket of goods and averaging them. Changes in the CPI are used to assess price changes associated with the cost of living.The CPI is one of the most frequently used measures of inflation and deflation. It may be compared with the producer price index (PPI), which instead of considering prices paid by consumers looks at what businesses pay for inputs.
What Is Gearing?  

Gearing refers to the relationship, or ratio, of a company's debt-to-equity (D/E). Gearing shows the extent to which a firm's operations are funded by lenders versus shareholders—in other words, it measures a company’s financial leverage. When the proportion of debt-to-equity is great, then a business may be thought of as being highly geared, or highly leveraged.





Key Takeaways

Gearing can be thought of as leverage, where it's measured by various leverage ratios, such as the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio.If a company has high leverage ratios, it can be thought of as being highly geared.The appropriate level of gearing for a company depends on its sector and the degree of leverage of its corporate peers.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Gearing  

Gearing is measured by a number of ratios—including the D/E ratio, shareholders' equity ratio, and debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR)—which indicate the level of risk associated with a particular business. The appropriate level of gearing for a company depends on its sector and the degree of leverage of its corporate peers.



For example, a gearing ratio of 70% shows that a company’s debt levels are 70% of its equity. A gearing ratio of 70% might be very manageable for a utility company—as the business functions as a monopoly with support from local government channels—but it may be excessive for a technology company, with intense competition in a rapidly changing marketplace.


   Special Considerations  

Gearing, or leverage, helps to determine a company's creditworthiness. Lenders may consider a business’s gearing ratio when deciding whether to extend it credit; to which a lender might add factors like whether the loan would be supported with collateral, and if the lender would qualify as a "senior" lender. With this information, senior lenders might choose to remove short-term debt obligations when calculating the gearing ratio, as senior lenders receive priority in the event of a business’s bankruptcy.



In cases where a lender would be offering an unsecured loan, the gearing ratio could include information about the presence of senior lenders and preferred stockholders, who have certain payment guarantees. This allows the lender to adjust the calculation to reflect the higher level of risk than would be present with a secured loan.


   Gearing vs. Risk  

In general, a company with excessive leverage, demonstrated by its high gearing ratio, could be more vulnerable to economic downturns than a company that's not as leveraged, because a highly leveraged firm must make interest payments and service its debt via cash flows, which could decline during a downturn. On the other hand, the risk of being highly leveraged works well during good economic times, as all of the excess cash flows accrue to shareholders once the debt has been paid down.


   Example of Gearing  

As a simple illustration, in order to fund its expansion, XYZ Corporation cannot sell additional shares to investors at a reasonable price; so instead, it obtains a $10,000,000 short-term loan. Currently, XYZ Corporation has $2,000,000 of equity; so the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is 5x—[$10,000,000 (total liabilities) divided by $2,000,000 (shareholders' equity) equals 5x]. XYZ Corporation definitely would be considered highly geared.
What Is the Gearing Ratio?  

Gearing ratios are financial ratios that compare some form of owner's equity (or capital) to debt, or funds borrowed by the company. Gearing is a measurement of the entity’s financial leverage, which demonstrates the degree to which a firm's activities are funded by shareholders' funds versus creditors' funds.



The gearing ratio is a measure of financial leverage that demonstrates the degree to which a firm's operations are funded by equity capital versus debt financing.





Key Takeaways:

Gearing ratios are a group of financial metrics that compare shareholders' equity to company debt in various ways to assess the company's amount of leverage and financial stability.Gearing is a measure of how much of a company's operations are funded using debt versus the funding received from shareholders as equity.Gearing ratios have more meaning when they are compared against the gearing ratios of other companies in the same industry.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Gearing Ratios  

The best known examples of gearing ratios include:


















Debt-to-Equity Ratio


=



Total Debt


Total Equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt-to-Equity Ratio} = \frac { \text{Total Debt} }{ \text{Total Equity} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Debt-to-Equity Ratio=Total EquityTotal Debt​​


















Times Interest Earned*


=



EBIT


Total Interest








\begin{aligned} &\text{Times Interest Earned*} = \frac { \text{EBIT} }{ \text{Total Interest} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Times Interest Earned*=Total InterestEBIT​​


















Equity Ratio


=



Equity


Assets








\begin{aligned} &\text{Equity Ratio} = \frac { \text{Equity} }{ \text{Assets} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Equity Ratio=AssetsEquity​​


















Debt Ratio


=



Total Debt


Total Assets








\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt Ratio} = \frac { \text{Total Debt} }{ \text{Total Assets} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Debt Ratio=Total AssetsTotal Debt​​



* times interest earned



A higher gearing ratio indicates that a company has a higher degree of financial leverage and is more susceptible to downturns in the economy and the business cycle. This is because companies that have higher leverage have higher amounts of debt compared to shareholders' equity. Entities with a high gearing ratio have higher amounts of debt to service, while companies with lower gearing ratio calculations have more equity to rely on for financing.



Gearing ratios are useful for both internal and external parties. Financial institutions use gearing ratio calculations when deciding whether to issue loans. In addition, loan agreements may require companies to operate with specified guidelines regarding acceptable gearing ratio calculations. Alternatively, internal management uses gearing ratios to analyze future cash flows and leverage.


   Interpreting Gearing Ratios  

A high gearing ratio typically indicates a high degree of leverage, although this does not always indicate a company is in poor financial condition. Instead, a company with a high gearing ratio has a riskier financing structure than a company with a lower gearing ratio.



Regulated entities typically have higher gearing ratios as they can operate with higher levels of debt. In addition, companies in monopolistic situations often operate with higher gearing ratios as their strategic marketing position puts them at a lower risk of default. Finally, industries that use expensive fixed assets typically have higher gearing ratios, as these fixed assets are often financed with debt.






A firm's gearing ratio should be compared with the rations of other companies in the same industry.


   Example of How to Use Gearing Ratios  

Assume that a company has a debt ratio of 0.6. Although this figure alone provides some information as to the company’s financial structure, it is more meaningful to benchmark this figure against another company in the same industry.



For instance, assume the company's debt ratio last year was 0.3, the industry average is 0.8, and the company’s main competitor has a debt ratio of 0.9. More information is derived from the use of comparing gearing ratios to each other. When the industry average ratio result is 0.8, and the competition's gearing ratio result is 0.9, a company with a 0.3 ratio is, comparatively, performing well in its industry.
What Is the Gemini Exchange?  

Gemini is a global cryptocurrency exchange. Founded in 2014, the Gemini Exchange, also known as the Gemini Trust Company, is the brainchild of Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the famous investors, twins, and Harvard classmates of Mark Zuckerberg.





Key Takeaways

Gemini Exchange is a cryptocurrency trading service that combines an exchange, a fiduciary custodial service for digital assets, and an advanced trading platform.Gemini is unique for its custodial service that holds $200 million in insurance for its crypto holders.Gemini was founded by the Winklevoss twins, who were classmates of Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard.


   Understanding the Gemini Exchange  

The Winklevoss brothers announced the launch of Gemini in early 2014, although the exchange did not go live until October 2015.



As of Q2 2022, Gemini operates in more than 60 countries including the U.S., U.K., and Canada. Like other digital currency exchanges, Gemini allows users to buy and sell a variety of digital currencies, either with digital currency (for example, using bitcoin to buy litecoin) or using fiat currency like U.S. dollars to buy digital currencies.






Gemini is the astrological sign representing twins.


   Gemini Products  

Gemini boasts a diverse range of products for small investors and advanced traders, offering features like charting and instant trades. Gemini Exchange is Gemini's platform for buying and selling cryptocurrency. It is available both through web browsers and as an app. The mobile app also includes the Gemini Wallet, which allows users to pay for goods using their crypto holdings.



For advanced traders, Gemini offers its Active Trader Platform. According to its website, the platform features "advanced charting, multiple order types, auctions, and block trading." They also claim to be able to execute orders in "microseconds," but that may depend on how you define "execute" and what kind of cryptocurrency you're trading.



The Gemini Custody product is both a cold storage system for assets held by Gemini and a "crypto-native finance platform." The custody product is unique in that it provides insurance coverage of $200 million for crypto holdings and is a fiduciary and custodian licensed under New York Banking law, making Gemini arguably the most secure crypto exchange that has ever existed. Gemini also is a clearinghouse for off-exchange trades.






The Gemini dollar (GUSD) is Gemini's stablecoin based on the U.S. dollar. Users can spend GUSD or a few other select cryptocurrencies with Gemini Pay, a function built into the Gemini app.


   Gemini Exchange Plans  

The Gemini Exchange set itself apart in early May 2016 when it became the first licensed Ethereum exchange in the United States. In May 2018, Gemini became the world's first exchange to be licensed to offer Zcash trading as well. This announcement followed a report that Gemini began to offer block trading in April 2018, allowing users to buy and sell large orders of digital currencies outside of Gemini's usual order books. Block trading was implemented in order to create additional liquidity opportunities.



Gemini has expanded its partnerships with other organizations and companies. The most notable of these is Gemini's partnership with Nasdaq, announced in April 2018. Through this collaboration, Gemini can utilize Nasdaq's SMARTS technology in order to weed out fraudulent activity and manipulation of digital currency prices. Besides the Nasdaq partnership, Gemini also partnered with Caspian, the digital currency trading and risk-management service.



As with most digital currency exchanges, Gemini has seen its share of issues. In late November 2017, for instance, Gemini crashed for several hours in the wake of unusually high demands on its website. Rival exchange Coinbase also crashed around the same time. In response, Gemini representatives wrote on the company blog to indicate that "this is not the first scaling challenge we've encountered, and it won't be the last," adding that the exchange is "continuing to improve our performance and infrastructure monitoring so we can anticipate potential problems more quickly in the future."



Gemini has worked to ensure compliance with federal and state regulations regarding the sale and purchase of digital currencies. As such, the company markets itself as a "New York trust company regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services."



As of early 2021, the Winklevoss twins were considering taking the exchange public, whether it be via an initial public offering (IPO), direct listing, or special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) merger.
What Is Gemology?  

Gemology is the science of studying, cutting, and valuing precious stones, but the essence of gemology is in identifying the gemstones. One who works in the field of gemology is called a gemologist, and jewelers and goldsmiths also may be gemologists.



Some collectors and investors may be interested only in gems' monetary value, but to distinguish one gemstone from another, they will need to seek out a gemologist. Gemologists examine gemstones—both discovered raw and synthesized in the laboratory—using microscopes, computerized tools, and other grading instruments.





Key Takeaways

Gemology is the science of identifying gemstones. Gemologists examine gemstones—both discovered raw and synthesized in the laboratory—using microscopes, computerized tools, and other grading instruments.The field of gemology contains professionals such as appraisers, goldsmiths, jewelers, lapidaries, and scientists.Investing in gemstones may be risky, but the precious metals sector can be less speculative for inexperienced investors.Unlike other types of investments, gemstones may not be as easily liquidated if you have an urgent need for cash. 


   Understanding Gemology  

At its heart, gemology is about identifying gems. Gemologists identify a gemstone by its specific characteristics and properties, such as cut, color, quality, and clarity. Some rubies and garnets, for example, are impossible to distinguish by their appearance, but their underlying physical properties differ considerably. Many people are familiar with a group of criteria that is used in gemology to identify diamonds—the 4Cs of color, clarity, cut, and carat.


   Gemology and Its Professionals  

In addition to gemologists, the field of gemology contains numerous other professionals, including appraisers, jewelers, lapidaries, metalworkers, and scientists.



Gemologists may become certified as professional appraisers, whose expertise is useful in many other industries, including jewelry sales and investing. Jewelers need to understand gemology to answer their customers’ questions and identify any gems brought to them. Goldsmiths and other metalworkers need specific knowledge about the physical characteristics of gems to create appropriate settings. For example, a setting that would be ideal for a diamond could damage an opal, and the amount of pressure used to set the prongs on a garnet could break a stone of tanzanite.



Lapidaries, or gem cutters, also need special knowledge, as appropriate cutting and polishing techniques vary from gem to gem. What would work well for one gemstone would be a waste of time or even disastrous for another gem. Scientists with degrees in geology, chemistry, and even physics make up the smallest group of gemologists, although they are very influential. Scientists add to gemology's knowledge base by developing new testing techniques and researching new gemstones.






The International Gem Society offers an online Professional Gemologist certification course while The Gemological Institute of America offers a Graduate Gemologist program. 


   Gemstones as Investments  

When returns in the stock market decline, aggressive investors often seek out alternatives that may hold more promise of increasing returns on invested capital (ROIC) than traditional investment types. Or, some investors might want to consider tangible assets simply as a way to diversify their holdings even during good market conditions. Investing in gemstones—in particular, those that are rare or of exceptional quality—likely would at least retain, and probably increase in value.



However, unlike other types of investments, gemstones may not be as easily liquidated if you have an urgent need for cash. This drawback is especially founded for rare, precious stones and jewelry that would appeal to elite buyers only. Gemstone investing can seem exciting to those who want to make quick returns, but it is highly speculative and should only be undertaken by experienced professionals. Investing in the precious metals sector, however, is different because there are standards as well as specific investment vehicles for them in the financial markets.



The term "investment-grade" is often tossed around by those who want to sell gems or try to convince other people to invest in them. However, this practice is frowned upon in financial services because there are no formal standards for what constitutes investment-grade gemstones, as there are for investment-grade bonds, for example.


   Careers in Gemology  

With advances in gemstone synthesis, gemology has become an important field of study. A credential in gemology can offer numerous career paths:



Appraiser. Evaluate gemstones, antique and contemporary jewelry, and fine watches. Write detailed descriptions and determine valuation.Auction Specialist. Oversee buying and selling during the lively process of auctioning privately owned one-of-a-kind jewelry.Bench Jeweler. Manufacture and repair fine jewelry using craftsmanship skills and expert techniques.Buyer. Monitor industry and consumer trends and seek out gems and finished jewelry pieces to sell profitably.Designer. Create unique jewelry designs using precious gemstones.Lab and Research Professional. Investigate new gem finds, treatment processes, and detection methods in the field and laboratory.Retailer. A career in the fast-paced environment of retail jewelry sales can be rewarding, exciting, and lucrative. Wholesaler. Import and sell diamonds, colored stones, cultured pearls, finished jewelry, and watches from locations around the world. 


   How to Become a Gemologist  

In the field of gemology, there are many career opportunities. Some of the most common include appraisers, retail associates, lab gemologists, and jewelry designers. However, it can be tough to break into these fields; most require at least some formal training. In general, here are the steps you should follow if you want to break into a career in the field of gemology:


  Determine What Area of Gemology You Want to Work In  

As a professional gemologist, there are a number of different careers you can pursue. Before you can figure out the right educational path, you must first decide what area of gemology you want to pursue. You might consider reading about different career paths or speaking to people that already work in these professions.


  Assess Your Skills  

Any profession should utilize or enhance your current skills. The most general job requirements for a gemologist are being detail-oriented and having good interpersonal skills, hand-eye coordination, and finger dexterity. In addition, being a good salesperson may make you particularly successful in a retail outlet or as a gemstone wholesaler. If you are creative or have a special interest in fashion, pursuing a career as a gemstone designer might be a good fit. Finally, if you are very meticulous or pay close attention to detail, working as an appraiser or as someone who repairs jewelry might be a good fit for you.


  Consider Your Lifestyle  

It's important to keep in mind the salary, educational requirements, and job availability of the different professional opportunities within the field of gemology. Before you decide on any particular career, ask yourself these questions: What are my salary requirements? Am I willing to relocate for a job? Will I be happy working retail hours or would I prefer a more traditional 9-to-5 job?


  Obtain Gemological Training  

Your next step is matching your desired career path with a gemology school. While some jobs in gemology will require you to obtain a diploma, there are some areas of gemology that will only require you to obtain a certification. It is important to do the proper research to make sure you know what type of education your desired profession requires. Gemology schools usually offer a wide range of courses. However, it is important that you make sure the school you are looking at offers the program you are interested in, especially if it requires specialized courses.


  Enroll in a Diploma Program  

Most professions in gemology require you to receive your diploma from an accredited gemology school. Similar to enrolling in a traditional college, you'll need to make sure you complete all the necessary paperwork. A diploma from an accredited gemology school will give you the credential you need to work in jewelry stores, jewelry manufacturing, and gemological laboratories. You'll learn about the analysis, grading, buying, selling, and pricing of gems and precious metals.


  Enroll in a Gemologist Certificate Program  

Some jobs will only require you to have a certification. These programs focus more on practical training and less on academic coursework. Whether you decide to enroll in a diploma program or a certificate program, you'll need to make sure that you take the specific courses that are appropriate for your program. For a diploma program, you will be required to take a comprehensive final exam; this is not required for certificate programs.


  Look for an Apprenticeship  

Because most employers want their gemology employees to have at least a year of on-the-job training before hiring them in full-time positions, an apprenticeship is a good next step after completing a diploma or a certificate program. As an apprentice, you will get the crucial hands-on experience necessary for finding a job. Your school may even have a formalized apprenticeship program.


  Find Employment As a Gemologist  

Once you've completed your apprenticeship, it's likely they may offer you a full-time position. It's advisable to speak with your manager at your apprenticeship before you finish the position to discuss any possible opportunities. However, in order to be considered for full-time employment, you must have shown that you are reliable, trustworthy, and hard-working throughout your apprenticeship.


  Go to Career Fairs and Network With Industry Professionals  

Your school will typically hold career fairs throughout the year for those looking for jobs in the field. These events are free for anyone to attend, not just students. These fairs are a great opportunity to network, so make sure you bring multiple copies of your resume.



Networking with people in your industry is a great way to get a job because they often have heard of open positions or are willing to refer you to their friends and co-workers about job opportunities.



Aside from networking in person, using social media sites like LinkedIn and Facebook is a good way to connect with people in your field. There are also professional gemologist organizations, such as the American Gem Society, that you can join in order to meet other gemologists.
What Is a General Account?  

The general account is where an insurer deposits premiums from policies it underwrites and from which it funds day-to-day operations of the business. The general account does not dedicate collateral to a specific policy and instead treats all funds in aggregate.





Key Takeaways

The general account is where insurance companies place their collected premiums. The account is treated as an investable asset and is allocated accordingly. General accounts invest in less risky ventures in case they need to make a large payout to their policyholders, as was the case with the Fukushima disaster or during large wildfires.


   Understanding General Accounts  

When an insurance company underwrites a new policy, it is paid a premium by the policyholder. These premiums are deposited into the insurer’s general account. The insurer will use these funds in a variety of ways. It will set aside a portion as a loss reserve, which is used to cover the estimated losses it expects may occur over the course of the year. It will also use these funds to pay for operations, personnel, and other business expenses. In order to increase profitability, however, it will also invest some of these premiums in assets of various risk profiles and liquidities.






Insurers are less likely to invest in equities and options than they are to invest in fixed income or real estate. 



Assets held in the general account are “owned” by the general account and are not attributed to a specific policy but rather to all policies in aggregate. The insurer may choose, however, to create separate accounts to set aside assets for specific policies or liabilities. Assets in the separate accounts are designed to cover the policy risks associated with the separate account, though if the separate account’s assets are ultimately determined to be insufficient, the insurer may use general account funds to fill any gaps.


   General Account Investing Strategy  

Assets found in the general account may be managed internally, or the management may be provided by a third-party. Increased global competition and changing products with aggressive pricing and guarantees have forced many insurance company executives to reevaluate their traditional investing strategy for general account funds. The risk appetite for insurance companies tends to be relatively low because they have to guarantee that funds are available to cover liabilities.



The general account investment portfolio typically contains investment-grade bonds and mortgages. Due to volatility, common stock is less widely included in general account portfolios, and by year-end 2020 comprised 13.2% of overall investment portfolios for insurance carriers.
What Is the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)?  

The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), signed in 1947 by 23 countries, is a treaty minimizing barriers to international trade by eliminating or reducing quotas, tariffs, and subsidies. It was intended to boost economic recovery after World War II.



GATT was expanded and refined over the years, leading to the creation in 1995 of the World Trade Organization (WTO), which absorbed the organization created to implement GATT. By then, 125 nations were signatories to its agreements, which covered about 90% of global trade.



The Council for Trade in Goods (Goods Council) is now responsible for the GATT and consists of representatives from all WTO member countries. As of September 2022, the chair of the Goods Council is Etienne Oudot de Dainville. The council has 10 committees that address subjects including market access, agriculture, subsidies, and anti-dumping measures.





Key Takeaways

The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was signed by 23 countries in October 1947, after World War II, and became law on Jan. 1, 1948.The purpose of the GATT was to make international trade easier.The GATT held eight rounds in total, from April 1947 to December 1993, each with significant achievements and outcomes.In 1995, the GATT was absorbed into the World Trade Organization (WTO), which extended it.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)  

The GATT was created to form rules to end or restrict the most costly and undesirable features of the prewar protectionist period, namely quantitative trade barriers such as trade controls and quotas. The agreement also provided a system to arbitrate commercial disputes among nations, and the framework enabled a number of multilateral negotiations for the reduction of tariff barriers. The GATT was regarded as a significant success in the postwar years.



One of the key achievements of the GATT was that of trade without discrimination. Every signatory member of the GATT was to be treated as equal to any other. This is known as the most-favored-nation principle, and it has been carried through into the WTO. A practical outcome of this was that once a country had negotiated a tariff cut with some other countries (usually its most important trading partners), this same cut would automatically apply to all GATT signatories. Escape clauses did exist, whereby countries could negotiate exceptions if their domestic producers would be particularly harmed by tariff cuts.



Most nations adopted the most-favored-nation principle in setting tariffs, which largely replaced quotas. Tariffs (preferable to quotas but still a trade barrier) were, in turn, cut steadily in rounds of successive negotiations.






The GATT instituted the most-favored-nation principle in tariff agreements among members.


   History of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)  

The GATT held eight rounds of meetings—the first beginning in April 1947, the last ending in December 1993. Each of the conferences had significant achievements and outcomes.



The first meeting was in Geneva, Switzerland, and included 23 countries. The focus of this opening conference was on tariffs. The members established tax concessions touching more than US$10 billion of trade around the globe.The second series of meetings began in April 1949 and were held in Annecy, France. Again, tariffs were the primary topic. Thirteen countries were at the second meeting, and they accomplished an additional 5,000 tax concessions reducing tariffs.Starting in September 1950, the third series of GATT meetings occurred in Torquay, England. This time 38 countries were involved, and almost 9,000 tariff concessions passed, reducing tax levels by as much as 25%.Japan became involved in the GATT for the first time in 1956 at the fourth meeting along with 25 other countries. The meeting was in Geneva, and again the committee reduced worldwide tariffs, this time by US$2.5 billion.



This series of meetings and reduced tariffs would continue, adding new GATT provisions in the process. In 1964, the GATT began to work toward curbing predatory pricing policies. These policies are known as dumping. Then in the 1970s, an arrangement regarding international trade in textiles, known as the Multifibre Arrangement (MFA), came into force. The next big event was the Uruguay Round, which lasted from 1986 to 1993, with the agreements signed in 1994, and created the WTO.



The average tariff rate fell from around 22% when the GATT was first signed in Geneva in 1947 to around 5% by the end of the Uruguay Round. As the years have passed, the countries continued to attack global issues, including addressing agriculture disputes and working to protect intellectual property.






The latest round of negotiations among WTO members, known as the Doha Development Round, began in 2001 and is ongoing. Its aim is to improve the trading prospects of developing countries by introducing lower trade barriers and revised trade rules.




What is the purpose of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)?
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was set up to eliminate protectionism, get countries trading freely among themselves, and help restore economic prosperity following the devastation of World War II.




Is the GATT a free trade agreement?
That was essentially its goal. The GATT sought to push the world toward a reality where goods and services are exchanged among countries without tariffs, quotas, and so forth, and without favoritism and discrimination.




Why was the GATT replaced by the World Trade Organization (WTO)?
The GATT, though largely successful in its goal, was said to lack a coherent institutional structure. In short, it was a legal agreement acting as an international organization. The World Trade Organization (WTO) incorporates the principles of the GATT and is better positioned to carry them out because, among other things, it is better versed in issues like intellectual property, has a faster dispute settlement system, and wields more power.


   The Bottom Line  

The world would be a very different place without the GATT. Its free trade ethos put an end to a dark period of protectionism and economic hardship that led to World War II, paving the way for decades of economic growth and increased globalization.
What Was General Agreements to Borrow (GAB)?  

The term "General Agreements to Borrow" (GAB) refers to a terminated lending medium for members of the Group of Ten (G-10). The program was established in 1962, allowing the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to borrow funds from the central banks of these advanced countries. The capital was advanced as temporary loans to countries experiencing economic distress so they could avoid crisis situations. The GAB was phased out at the end of 2018 after member countries agreed its usefulness was "diminished and limited."





Key Takeaways

The General Agreements to Borrow was a lending medium offered through the International Monetary Fund by the G-10 countries.The program was established in 1962.G-10 member countries deposited funds into the IMF for a nation in economic distress to access.Participants agreed to allow the program to lapse at the end of 2018 because it was no longer useful.The New Arrangements to Borrow became the primary fundraising facility for IMF loans.


   Understanding the General Agreements to Borrow (GAB)  

The General Agreements to Borrow is a program that was established by the International Monetary Fund in 1962. It relied on the cooperation of the G-10, which is composed of 11 of the world's strongest economies, including Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States and Switzerland, which plays a minor role.



The GAB was a standing agreement that allowed the IMF to borrow money from these countries in order to assist other nations in economic distress. Countries that faced financial difficulties that threatened to stall economic growth or harm the international monetary system, were able to turn to the IMF for supplemental liquidity. The IMF, in turn, relied on funds offered through the GAB to help those in need of capital.



As of mid-2018, the GAB permitted the IMF to provide supplemental loans of up to $24 billion (this figure remained as such as of December 2017) to members in need. Under the IMF's arrangements, plenty more was made available to help stave off events posing a threat to the stability of the financial system. The need for programs like GAB arose from the balance of payments (BOP) issues that arose in the U.K. and the U.S. in the 1960s and more recently from hurdles faced by emerging market economies, notably those in Latin America and Asia.



The GAB was only activated ten times since it was first established. Its size didn't change since 1983. Although it was routinely renewed, its participants noted that the GAB's importance declined while the IMF's executive board indicated the program's usefulness diminished over the years. Given all of this, the executive board decided not to renew the GAB in 2017, allowing it to phase out on Dec. 25, 2018.






Only the 11 countries that formed the G-10 could take part in the GAB until 1983 when it was expanded to nonparticipating countries.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the GAB  

Proponents argued that all a small country needs from time to time is a shot of added liquidity to implement the right policies to jump-start its local economy back into expansion. Through the GAB, the IMF helped member countries restore exports after natural catastrophes and investor confidence, when necessary. It also enabled the IMF to restrict problems related to instability that might spread to other countries if left unchecked.



Not everyone agrees that IMF loans have a positive impact, though. Some argue the organization empowers poor policy decisions and serves as a backstop for incompetent governmental leadership. Another criticism is that the loans wind up flowing to financial institutions in industrialized countries, reimbursing bankers for their poor, risky bets in emerging markets.



The conditions attached to the loans have also been questioned. The IMF, as it did with its three bailouts for Greece, demands austerity measures that, at best, do not help citizens in struggling countries directly. Some argue that these terms prolong economic suffering, exacerbate poverty, and reproduce the structures of colonialism.





Pros

Gives smaller countries a boost of liquidity
Allows participating nations to jump-start their economies
Restricts instability, preventing it from spreading to other countries



Cons

Empowers poor policy decisions while enabling incompetent governmental leadership
Rewards bankers in developed nations for poor, risky bets
Accompanies terms and conditions that may prolong economic suffering





   GAB vs. NAB  

The New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) became the primary fundraising facility for IMF loans when it was introduced in the late 1990s. It was first proposed in 1995, following the Mexican financial crisis. There were growing concerns during this period that significantly more resources would be needed in the future to adequately respond to economic downturns.



As a result, the IMF got in contact with the G-10 and other financially strong countries about developing a new financing arrangement that would double the amount available under the GAB. The NAB was officially launched in 1998, the same year that the GAB was last activated. From that point forward, the GAB could only be activated if access to the better-funded NAB was refused.



Like the GAB, the NAB is a set of credit arrangements between the IMF and certain countries. What mainly sets them apart is the membership numbers. The GAB had a limited number of participants while the NAB has 40 that take part. The total amount of the NAB was set at $521 billion between 2021 and 2025.
What Are General and Administrative Expenses (G&A)?  

General and administrative (G&A) expenses are incurred in the day-to-day operations of a business and may not be directly tied to a specific function or department within the company. General expenses pertain to operational overhead expenses that impact the entire business. Administrative expenses are expenses that cannot be directly tied to a specific function within the company such as manufacturing, production, or sales. G&A expenses include rent, utilities, insurance, legal fees, and certain salaries.



G&A expenses are a subset of the company's operating expenses, excluding selling costs.





Key Takeaways

General and administrative (G&A) expenses are expenses unrelated to a specific business unit or function, which may be incurred as a benefit to the company as a whole.G&A expenses are displayed on the income statement below the cost of goods sold (COGS).A portion of G&A expenses is fixed, as they are incurred regardless of the level of production or sales in a given period.For the variable portion of G&A expenses, management will attempt to reduce G&A expenses to the greatest extent possible because they do not have a direct impact on the goods or services being provided to customers.


   Understanding General and Administrative Expenses (G&A)  

General and administrative (G&A) expenses are listed below cost of goods sold (COGS) on a company's income statement. The top section of an income statement always displays the company's revenues for the given accounting period. COGS is deducted from the net revenue figure to determine the gross margin. The general and administrative expenses are then deducted from the gross margin to arrive at net income. Not all general and administrative expenses are grouped as one line item. For example, fees and interest may be classified as their own line item when deducting expenses to arrive at net income.



Even in the absence of any production or sales, a portion of G&A expenses will still be incurred. Therefore, many G&A expenses are fixed dollar amounts that are not easily affected through cost-reduction strategies. Other G&A expenses are semi-variable. For example, some minimum level of electricity will always be used by a business just to keep the lights on and necessary machines running. Beyond that point, measures can be taken to reduce unnecessary spending on electricity.



Because G&A expenses may be eliminated without direct impact on the production or sale of goods and services, management has a strong incentive to minimize these types of expenses. Companies with centralized management typically experience higher G&A expenses compared to companies with decentralized management structures. The sales to administrative expense ratio compares a company's sales revenue to the amount of expenses incurred in supporting operations.



Most G&A expenses incurred can be deducted on the entity’s tax return provided the expenses are reasonable, ordinary, and necessary. These expenses typically must be deducted in the year they were incurred, and they must have been used during the usual course of business.






G&A expenses are those which are related to the day-to-day costs of running a business and may vary depending upon the industry or the individual company.


   Examples of General and Administrative Expenses (G&A)  

Examples of general and administrative (G&A) expenses include building rent, consultant fees, depreciation on office furniture and equipment, insurance, supplies, subscriptions, and utilities. Salary and benefits attributable to certain employees, such as corporate management as well as the legal, accounting, and information technology (IT) departments are also classified as G&A expenses.



To view the full costs associated with running certain business units, a company may allocate its G&A expenses out to each business unit based on a percentage of revenue, expense, square footage, or other measure. As a managerial accounting technique, reviewing this information with internal management allows for more informed decisions about expanding or reducing individual business units.



For example, if the total electricity bill at XYZ Company is $4,000 per month, and the business records the electricity bill under general and administrative expense, it can allocate out the electricity costs to individual departments based on square footage. Assume the production facility is 2,000 square feet, manufacturing is 1,500 square feet, accounting is 500 square feet, and sales is 500 square feet. The total square footage is 4,500, so the electric bill could be allocated out to each department as follows: production $1,777.78 (2,000 / 4,500 * $4,000), manufacturing $1,333.33 (1,500 / 4,500 * $4,000), and accounting and sales both receive $444.44 (500 / 4,500 * $4,000).
What Is the General Business Credit?  

The general business credit (GBC) is the aggregate value of individual tax credits a business claims during a tax year. It consists of carryforward credits from previous years plus the current year's total business credits. Because it's a tax credit—and not a tax deduction—the amount comes directly off your tax bill. If you claim multiple business tax credits on your tax return, you must attach Form 3800, General Business Credit, along with the IRS forms for the individual credits.





Key Takeaways

The general business credit is the total value of all tax credits a business claims for a tax year.If you claim more than one business credit, you must report the total on form Form 3800, General Business Credit, when filing your income tax return.Dozens of business tax credits may be included in Form 3800, including the investment credit, low-income housing credit, and the credit for small employer health insurance premiums.


   Understanding the General Business Credit  

The general business tax credit is unique in that it is not a single, separate credit. Instead, it's a collection of specific tax credits that promote various business activities, including research, oil recovery, reforestation, and starting a pension plan.






If you claim multiple business tax credits, fill out the appropriate IRS form for each tax credit and then carry over the total to Form 3800, General Business Credit.



Before filling out Form 3800, you must first claim the individual tax credits on their relevant tax forms, each calculated under its own set of rules. Next, carry over the resulting combined credit to the General Business Credit Form 3800 to determine the overall allowable credit. While there are dozens of business tax credits, some of the more common credits businesses claim include:



Investment credit (Form 3468)—this single credit consists of five different "sub" credits: rehabilitation, energy, qualifying advanced coal project, qualifying gasification project, and qualifying advanced energy project
Work opportunity credit (Form 5884-C)
Credit for small employer health insurance premiums (Form 8941)
Employer credit for paid family and medical leave (Form 8994)
Low-income housing tax credit (Form 8586)
Disabled access credit (Form 8826)
Energy efficient home credit (Form 9808)—don't claim the credit for homes sold or leased after 2021 unless the credit is extended again
Credit for employer-provided child care facilities and services (Form 8882)
Credit for small employer pension plan startup costs (Form 8881)
Credit for employer Social Security and Medicare taxes paid on certain employee tips (Form 8846)






Some tax credits have expiration dates. Be sure to check the instructions for each credit to make sure it's available for the applicable tax year.



The general business tax credit is a nonrefundable credit that directly reduces your tax bill. However, as a nonrefundable credit, it can only reduce your tax liability to zero. Any credit amount that remains beyond that is automatically forfeited.



If you can't use part or all of the general business credit because of the tax liability limit, you generally carry the unused credit back one year. Different rules apply for some credits, including oil and gas production credits. If you have an unused credit after carrying it back, carry it forward to each of the 20 tax years after the year of the credit.



General business credits are treated on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis. Therefore, the order you use credits in any tax year is:



Carryforwards to that year, the earliest ones first;The general business credit earned in that year; andThe carryback to that year.


   General Business Credit Limitations  

Like other tax credits, the general business credit has limitations. To calculate the limit that applies to you:



Add your net income tax and your alternative minimum tax.
From that sum, subtract the greater of 1) your tentative minimum tax for the tax year or 2) 25% of the amount of your regular tax liability that exceeds $25,000 ($12,500 for married taxpayers filing separately, but only if both of them qualify for the credit)



If one spouse has no current or unused credit, the other spouse may use the entire $25,000 in determining their credit for the tax year.




How Do I File the General Business Credit?
To claim the general business credit, start by completing the specific tax forms for each individual credit you are taking. Next, carry over the total of all these credits to Form 3800, General Business Credit.




Which Tax Credits Are Included in the General Business Credit?
Dozens of tax credits can be used on the general business credit, including the investment credit, work opportunity credit, low-income housing credit, empowerment zone employment credit, credit for small employer pension plan startup costs, credit for employer-provided childcare facilities and services, energy efficient home credit, alternative motor vehicle credit, credit for small employer health insurance premiums, and the employer credit for paid family and medical leave. Keep in mind that some credits have expiration dates. A complete list is available on the IRS website.




Which Businesses Are Eligible for the General Business Credit?
According to the IRS, an eligible small business is any of the following:A non-publicly traded corporationA partnershipA sole proprietorshipAdditionally, the entity's average annual gross receipts during the prior three tax years can't exceed $50 million. If the business is less than three years old, base the average annual gross receipts on the period the business has existed.
What Are General Collateral Financing Trades?  

General collateral financing (GCF) trades are a type of repurchase agreement (repo) that is executed without the designation of specific securities as collateral until the end of the trading day. GCF trades utilize several inter-dealer brokers, who act as intermediaries for the GCF trades. GCF trades allow both borrowers and lenders in the repo market to reduce their costs and decrease the complexity of handling securities and fund transfers for repo agreements.





Key Takeaways

GCF trades are collateralized repurchase agreements in which the assets used for collateral are not specified until the end of the day.These kinds of transactions are usually accomplished between banks or institutions that have a significant inventory of high-quality assets such as government bonds.In the event the trade can be opened and closed within one day, this kind of trade makes the transaction much more streamlined than standard repurchase agreements.


   Understanding General Collateral Financing Trades (GCF)  

Repurchase agreements, or repo trades, are essentially short-term loans usually made between banks or between banks and other corporations that hold a large amount of corporate bonds, government bonds, cash or both. The idea behind these trades is quite simple, though the execution of them can be complex.



In essence, a bank or other lending institution has a large amount of cash and would like to lend it out at whatever rates it can get. Because banks are able to lend on reserves, they can turn a minimal interest rate into something substantially better if they can make short-term loans on high quality assets. Corporations or banks who hold a substantial amount of high-quality bonds may be in a position to make a substantial profit, if only they can raise short-term cash.



Repurchase agreements allow both of these parties to benefit. The bondholders use the bonds as collateral to get cash through a repurchase agreement. It acts like a loan because the agreement stipulates that the bondholders will pay more to repurchase the assets than they sold them for. The counterparty (usually a bank) is guaranteed a profit so long as the transaction is not defaulted. The GCF trade is a version of this that streamlines the process.


   Special Considerations  

Since GCF trades are often between banks or banking institutions, the initiating party can assume the counterparty has a significant amount of high-quality assets on hand, and can enter into the transaction with little worry for the details of the assets being used for collateral. This is especially useful if the transaction is open and closed before the end of the day.



General collateral (GC) comprises high quality, liquid assets that are close substitutes to one another—hence, they are lumped together as "general" collateral. U.S. Treasury bills, notes, and bonds are accepted as GC, as are U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), mortgage-backed securities, and other securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises.



Because these forms of collateral are virtually cash, there is greater market liquidity and repo transactions are facilitated without the need to negotiate individual collateral agreements between lending and borrowing dealers. Moreover, participants benefit from lower costs, as GCF trades are based on rates close to money market benchmark rates such as LIBOR and EURIBOR.



The delay granted in specifying the exact collateral for the repo is advantageous for borrowers, who are then able to utilize the securities they have on hand to clear other, unrelated trades as necessary throughout the day. This avoids the time-consuming process of swapping collateral if it becomes needed by the borrower. GCF trades are also advantageous in that the use of the inter-dealer broker allows borrowers and lenders to net out all of their GCF repo obligations at the end of each trading day, greatly decreasing the number of costly securities and fund transfers that must take place.
What Is the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?  

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a legal framework that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information from individuals who live and outside of the European Union (EU). Approved in 2016, the GDPR went into full effect two years later. Its aim is to give consumers control over their own personal data by holding companies responsible for the way they handle and treat this information. The regulation applies regardless of where websites are based, which means it must be heeded by all sites that attract European visitors, even if they don't specifically market goods or services to EU residents.





Key Takeaways

The General Data Protection Regulation is a law that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information from individuals.The law was approved in 2016 but didn't go into effect until May 2018.The GDPR provides consumers with more control over how their personal data is handled and disseminated by companies.Companies must inform consumers about what they do with consumer data and every time it is breached. GDPR rules apply to any websites regardless of where they are based. 


   Understanding the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  

The General Data Protection Regulation (or GDPR for short) is a law that was approved by the European Union in April 2016 and went into effect on May 25, 2018. It replaced an earlier law, the Data Protection Directive, and was set up to regulate the way companies process and use the personal data they collect from consumers online. It also has rules in the way that information is moved, whether that's partly or entirely through automated means.



The law makes it difficult for companies to mislead consumers with confusing or vague language when they visit their websites. It also ensures:



Website visitors are notified of the data collected.
Visitors explicitly consent to that information-gathering by clicking on a button or some other action.
Sites notify visitors in a timely way if any of their personal data held by the site is ever breached
There is a mandated assessment of the site's data security.
Whether a dedicated data protection officer (DPO) needs to be hired or an existing staffer can carry out this function.



These requirements may be more stringent than those required in the jurisdiction in which the site is located.



Information on how to contact the DPO and other relevant staffers must be accessible so that visitors may exercise their EU data rights, which also includes the ability to have their presence on the site erased, among other measures. The site must also add staff and other resources to be capable of carrying out such requests.






The requirement of an Agree button largely explains the ubiquitous presence of disclosures that sites collect cookies, which are small files that hold personal information such as site settings and preferences.


   Special Considerations  

As further protection for consumers, the GDPR also calls for any personally identifiable information (PII) that sites collect to be either anonymized (rendered anonymous) or pseudonymized with the consumer's identity replaced with a pseudonym.



This allows firms to do more extensive data analysis, such as assessing the average debt ratios of their customers in a particular region—a calculation that might otherwise be beyond the original purposes of data collected for assessing creditworthiness for a loan.



The regulation applies to all 27 members of the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA), regardless of where websites and residents are based. As such, it must be heeded by all sites that attract European visitors, even if they don't specifically market goods or services to EU residents. So the regulation applies to the data of an EU citizen even if it is housed in the U.S. Similarly, a U.S. citizen who resides in the EU is covered whenever they visit sites based in the union.






The GDPR affects data beyond that collected from customers. Most notably, perhaps, the regulation applies to the human resources records of employees.


   Criticism of the GDPR  

The GDPR has attracted criticism in some quarters. Some say that the requirement to appoint DPOs, or simply to assess the need for them imposes an undue administrative burden on certain companies. Some complain that the guidelines are too vague on how best to deal with employee data.



In addition, data cannot be transferred to another country outside the EU, unless the receiving company guarantees the same degree of protection as the EU requires. This has led to complaints about costly disruption to business practices.



There's a further concern that the costs associated with GDPR will increase over time, in part because of the escalating need to educate customers and employees alike about data protection threats and solutions. There's also skepticism over how feasibly data protection agencies across the EU and beyond can align their enforcement and interpretation of the regulations, and so assure a level playing field as the GDPR goes into fuller effect.




How Do Companies Become Compliant Under the General Data Protection Regulation?
There are several ways for companies to become GDPR-compliant. Some of the key steps include auditing personal data and keeping a record of all the data they collect and process. Companies should also be sure to update privacy notices to all website visitors and fix any errors they find in their databases.




Who Is Covered Under the General Data Protection Regulation?
In theory, any individual who visits sites that are based in the European Union is protected. This includes anyone within the union itself and beyond its borders. The regulation also applies to a citizen of the EU whose data exists outside the union. And if you're a citizen of another country who lives in the EU, your data is also protected under the law.




When Did the GDPR Come Into Effect?
The GDPR was approved in April 2016. But it took two years for the framework to be established. As such, the regulation went into full effect on May 25, 2018.


   The Bottom Line  

Businesses collect personal data and they have often sold that information—sometimes without the consent of their consumers. But laws have been put into place in parts of the world to help protect individuals. Rules under the General Data Protection Regulation went into effect in the European Union in 2018. Under the law, companies must protect consumer data and inform them how their information is used. It has a broad reach, extending beyond the borders of the EU.
What Is General Equilibrium Theory?  

General equilibrium theory, or Walrasian general equilibrium, attempts to explain the functioning of the macroeconomy as a whole, rather than as collections of individual market phenomena.



The theory was first developed by the French economist Leon Walras in the late 19th century. It stands in contrast with partial equilibrium theory, or Marshallian partial equilibrium, which only analyzes specific markets or sectors.





Key Takeaways

General equilibrium analyzes the economy as a whole, rather than analyzing single markets like with partial equilibrium analysis.General equilibrium shows how supply and demand interact and tend toward a balance in an economy of multiple markets working at once.The balance of competing levels of supply and demand in different markets ultimately creates a price equilibrium.French economist Leon Walras introduced and developed the theory in the late 19th century.


   Understanding General Equilibrium Theory  

Walras developed the general equilibrium theory to solve a much-debated problem in economics. Up to that point, most economic analyses only demonstrated partial equilibrium—that is, the price at which supply equals demand and markets clear—in individual markets. It was not yet shown that equilibrium could exist for all markets at the same time in aggregate.



General equilibrium theory tried to show how and why all free markets tend toward equilibrium in the long run. The important fact was that markets didn't necessarily reach equilibrium, only that they tended toward it. As Walras wrote in 1889, “The market is like a lake agitated by the wind, where the water is incessantly seeking its level without ever reaching it.”



General equilibrium theory builds on the coordinating processes of a free market price system, first widely popularized by Adam Smith's "The Wealth of Nations" (1776). This system says traders, in a bidding process with other traders, create transactions by buying and selling goods. Those transaction prices act as signals to other producers and consumers to realign their resources and activities along more profitable lines.



Walras, a talented mathematician, believed he proved that any individual market was necessarily in equilibrium if all other markets were also in equilibrium. This became known as Walras’s Law.






The general equilibrium theory considers the economy as a network of interdependent markets and seeks to prove that all free markets eventually move towards general equilibrium.


   Special Considerations  

There are many assumptions, realistic and unrealistic, inside the general equilibrium framework. Each economy has a finite number of goods in a finite number of agents. Each agent has a continuous and strictly concave utility function, along with possession of a single pre-existing good (the “production good”). To increase his utility, each agent must trade his production good for other goods to be consumed.



There is a specified and limited set of market prices for the goods in this theoretical economy. Each agent relies on these prices to maximize his utility, thereby creating supply and demand for various goods. Like most equilibrium models, markets lack uncertainty, imperfect knowledge, or innovation.


   Alternatives to General Equilibrium Theory  

Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises developed an alternative to long-run general equilibrium with his so-called Evenly Rotating Economy (ERE). This was another imaginary construct and shared some simplifying assumptions with general equilibrium economics: no uncertainty, no monetary institutions, and no disrupting changes in resources or technology. The ERE illustrates the necessity of entrepreneurship by showing a system where none existed.



Another Austrian economist, Ludwig Lachmann, argued the economy is an ongoing, non-stable process replete with subjective knowledge and subjective expectations. He argued that equilibrium could never be mathematically proven in a general or non-partial market. Those influenced by Lachmann imagine the economy as an open-ended evolutionary process of spontaneous order.
What Is the General Depreciation System?  

The general depreciation system is the most commonly used modified accelerated cost recovery system (MACRS) for calculating depreciation. A general depreciation system uses the declining balance method to depreciate personal property.





Key Takeaways

A general depreciation system uses the declining-balance method to depreciate personal property.The declining-balance method applies the depreciation rate against the non-depreciated balance.For tax purposes, the MACRS is the primary method of depreciation and uses either the declining balance method or the straight-line method.


   Understanding the General Depreciation System (GDS)  

The declining balance method requires applying the depreciation rate against the non-depreciated balance. For example, if an asset that costs $1,000 is depreciated at 25% each year, the deduction is $250 in the first year and $187.50 in the second year, and so on.



The Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System or MACRS is the primary method of depreciation for federal income tax purposes allowed in the United States to determine depreciation deductions. The MACRS system of depreciation allows for larger depreciation deductions in the early years and lower deductions in the later years of ownership. Under MACRS, the deduction for depreciation is calculated by one of the following methods: the declining balance method and the straight line method.


  Depreciation and Taxes  

Under MACRS, a taxpayer must compute tax deductions for depreciation of tangible property using specified asset lives and methods. Assets are divided into classes by type of asset or by the business in which the asset is used. There are two sub-systems of MACRS: the general depreciation system (GDS) and alternate depreciation system (ADS). GDS is the most relevant and is used for most assets.


  The Alternate Depreciation System (ADS)  

Each depreciation system differs in terms of the number of years over which an asset can be depreciated. Typically, the GDS uses shorter recovery periods than the ADS. The ADS sets depreciation as an equal amount each year, except for the first and last year, which might not be a full 12 months. This method lowers the annual depreciation cost because there are more years over which to depreciate the asset. However, certain assets have the same recovery period under either system. For example, cars, some trucks, and computers are depreciated over five years regardless of the system employed.



You must use the ADS system for all assets in a specific class. If this system is selected for an asset, the GDS cannot be used at a later date.



IRS asset classes under the GDS and ADS systems will assign class lives based on varying estimates of asset life. For example, office furniture, fixtures, and equipment use a class life of 10 years under the ADS method and seven years under the GDS method. A natural gas production plant has an ADS class life of 14 years and a GDS class life of seven years.



Accelerated depreciation methodologies and the selection of GDS or ADS systems can have a material impact on reported financial results.
What Is a General Ledger?  

A general ledger represents the record-keeping system for a company’s financial data, with debit and credit account records validated by a trial balance. It provides a record of each financial transaction that takes place during the life of an operating company and holds account information that is needed to prepare the company’s financial statements. Transaction data is segregated, by type, into accounts for assets, liabilities, owners’ equity, revenues, and expenses.





Key Takeaways

The general ledger is the foundation of a company’s double-entry accounting system.General ledger accounts encompass all the transaction data needed to produce the income statement, balance sheet, and other financial reports.General ledger transactions are a summary of transactions made as journal entries to sub-ledger accounts.The trial balance is a report that lists every general ledger account and its balance, making adjustments easier to check and errors easier to locate.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   How a General Ledger Works  

A general ledger is the foundation of a system employed by accountants to store and organize financial data used to create the firm’s financial statements. Transactions are posted to individual sub-ledger accounts, as defined by the company’s chart of accounts.



The transactions are then closed out or summarized in the general ledger, and the accountant generates a trial balance, which serves as a report of each ledger account’s balance. The trial balance is checked for errors and adjusted by posting additional necessary entries, and then the adjusted trial balance is used to generate the financial statements.


   How a General Ledger Functions With Double-Entry Accounting  

A general ledger is used by businesses that employ the double-entry bookkeeping method, which means that each financial transaction affects at least two sub-ledger accounts, and each entry has at least one debit and one credit transaction. Double-entry transactions, called “journal entries,” are posted in two columns, with debit entries on the left and credit entries on the right, and the total of all debit and credit entries must balance.



The accounting equation, which underlies double-entry accounting, is as follows:








Assets


−


Liabilities


=


Stockholders’ Equity



\text{Assets} - \text{Liabilities} = \text{Stockholders' Equity}


Assets−Liabilities=Stockholders’ Equity



The balance sheet follows this format and shows information at a detailed account level. For example, the balance sheet shows several asset accounts, including cash and accounts receivable, in its short-term assets section.



The double-entry accounting method works based on the accounting equation’s requirement that transactions posted to the accounts on the left of the equal sign in the formula must equal the total of transactions posted to the account (or accounts) on the right. Even if the equation is presented differently (such as Assets = Liabilities + Stockholders’ Equity), the balancing rule always applies.


   What Does a General Ledger Tell You?  

The transaction details contained in the general ledger are compiled and summarized at various levels to produce a trial balance, income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows, and many other financial reports. This helps accountants, company management, analysts, investors, and other stakeholders assess the company’s performance on an ongoing basis.



When expenses spike in a given period, or a company records other transactions that affect its revenues, net income, or other key financial metrics, the financial statement data often doesn’t tell the whole story. In the case of certain types of accounting errors, it becomes necessary to go back to the general ledger and dig into the detail of each recorded transaction to locate the issue. At times this can involve reviewing dozens of journal entries, but it is imperative to maintain reliably error-free and credible company financial statements.


   A Balance Sheet Transaction Example  

If a company receives payment from a client for a $200 invoice, for example, the company accountant increases the cash account with a $200 debit and completes the entry with a credit, or reduction, of $200 to accounts receivable. The posted debit and credit amounts are equal.



In this instance, one asset account (cash) is increased by $200, while another asset account (accounts receivable) is reduced by $200. The net result is that both the increase and the decrease only affect one side of the accounting equation. Thus, the equation remains in balance.


   An Income Statement Transaction Example  

The income statement follows its own formula, which works as follows. When a company receives payment from a client for the sale of a product, the cash received is tabulated in net sales along with the receipts from other sales and returns. The cost of sales is subtracted from that sum to yield the gross profit for that reporting period.



The income statement will also account for other expenses, such as selling, general and administrative expenses, depreciation, interest, and income taxes. The difference between these inflows and outflows is the company's net income for the reporting period.




What Is the Purpose of a General Ledger?
In accounting, a general ledger is used to record a company’s ongoing transactions. Within a general ledger, transactional data is organized into assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and owner’s equity. After each sub-ledger has been closed out, the accountant prepares the trial balance. This data from the trial balance is then used to create the company’s financial statements, such as its balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows, and other financial reports. 




Is a General Ledger Part of the Double-Entry Bookkeeping Method?
Yes, a company that uses a double-entry bookkeeping method uses the general ledger method of storing company financial data. Specifically, double-entry bookkeeping is when each transaction impacts at least one debit and one credit transaction. In other words, each transaction appears in two columns, a debit column and a credit column, whose totals must balance. Under this balancing rule, the following equation applies:Assets - Liabilities = Stockholders’ Equity.




What Is an Example of a General Ledger Entry?
Consider the following example where a company receives a $1,000 payment from a client for its services. The accountant would then increase the asset column by $1,000 and subtract $1,000 from accounts receivable. The equation remains in balance, as the equivalent increase and decrease affect one side—the asset side—of the accounting equation.
What Is a General Manager (GM)?  

A general manager (GM) is responsible for all or part of a department's operations or the company's operations, including generating revenue and controlling costs. In small companies, the general manager may be one of the top executives.



In hierarchical organizations, GMs rank above most employees but below corporate-level executives. The responsibility and importance associated with the position may vary among companies and often depend on the organization's structure.





Key Takeaways:

A general manager is expected to improve efficiency and increase profits while managing the overall operations of a company or division.General manager duties include managing staff, overseeing the budget, employing marketing strategies, and many other facets of the business.General managers often report to higher-level managers or executives and supervise lower-level managers.General managers hold various titles, such as branch manager, brand manager, or operations manager.


   Understanding the Role of a General Manager (GM)  

The GM supervises lower-level managers. These lower-level managers may be in charge of several smaller divisions but report directly to the GM. The GM gives specific directions to each department head. As part of this supervision, a general manager oversees lower-level managers' hiring, training, and coaching. In addition, the GM may lay out incentives for workers and assess the departments' efficiency while offering strategic business plans based on company goals.



The general manager is responsible for all aspects of a business, including daily operations, administrative functions, and finances. Because of the enormity of the role, a big part of the job is effective delegation.



To achieve goals, GMs collaborate with higher-level managers and executives and with the employees that they supervise. This person is responsible for budgeting resources for marketing, supplies, equipment, and hiring. Because of their high level of responsibility, complex duties, and the need for extensive relevant experience, GMs earn more than entry-level employees.


   Requirements for a General Manager  

A GM typically gains experience in a lower-level management position before being hired or promoted to GM. GMs can advance by moving into top executive positions or to larger and more prestigious companies. They must thoroughly understand their departments or company's operations, be skilled at managing and leading employees, and make sound decisions for the company. They must also possess:



Budgeting, planning, and strategy skillsProblem-solving abilitiesBusiness processes and functions knowledgeCommunication skillsAnalytical abilityA college or graduate degree, which would vary by industry


   General Manager Responsibilities  

General managers are usually responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operations of the overall workforce. Other responsibilities can include:



Maintain budgets and identify areas to improve inSet policies and processesOversee recruitment and trainingEvaluate operational and financial performanceEnsure regulations are followedProvide solutions


   Types of General Managers  

A GM may hold various titles. But, overall, their role is the same: to oversee general operations and manage high-level functions, such as finances, marketing, and staffing. In the c-suite, the chief executive officer (CEO) is considered the GM overseeing the entire company. At the departmental level, the GM might oversee a specific process in a company or be in charge of a particular unit or segment.






The GM sits just below the CEO in the executive suite in terms of rank. A GM runs a line of business, whereas the CEO is the GM of all lines of business in a company.



For example, the GM is sometimes referred to as the product manager at technology companies. The GM of a bank at a specific location is called the branch manager. In a services company providing consulting or similar services, a GM might use the title of managing partner or managing director. Consumer-focused companies selling products tend to call their GMs brand managers.



Operations managers have a similar job to GMs. Like GMs, operations managers create strategies that increase efficiency and profit for a company. They also work with several departments to maintain the overall effectiveness of the business.


   Salaries and Job Outlook  

Pay for general managers varies by industry and company, but the Bureau of Labor Statistics has published data for average general manager pay for industries with the highest GM employment levels:










 Industry
Hourly Mean Wage 
Annual Mean Salary 




Restaurants
$31.10
$64,680


Management, Scientific, Technical Consulting
$69.91
$145,400 


Company and Enterprise Management 
$76.55 
$159,230 


Computer Systems Designs 
$70.65 
$146,950 


Merchant Wholesalers 
$57.91 
$120,440 






The wage estimates for general and operations managers by percentile are:



10%: $473,26025%: $60,69050%: $97,97075%: $151,75090%: < $208,000



General managers are found in many industries, so the outlook is fair. Overall, general manager employment is expected to increase by 6.7% through 2031, but significant changes are anticipated in several industries. Here are a few:



Coal Mining: -24.5%Tobacco Manufacturing: -53.4%Apparel Manufacturing: -36.9%Printing and Related Support Activities: -23.5%Manufacturing Magnetic and Optical Media: -50.8Book Stores and New Dealers: -47%Florists: -29%Misc. Store Retailers: -23.8%Newspaper, Book, Periodicals Publishers: -22.1%Cable and Subscription Programming: -21.2%



Fossil fuels, apparel, traditional printing, physical stores, and other traditional general manager employers are expected to reduce their number of GMs. This is likely due to the trends in technology, a switch to green energy, a focus on health and corporate social responsibility, and the large switch in consumer behavior to online shopping.



There is still plenty of employment opportunity as a general manager, however. Wind and solar power generation, electric component manufacturing, passenger transportation, and many others are expected to grow from a few percent to more than 30%.



Topping general manager employment expectations by 2031 are insurance and employee benefits company general managers, with an anticipated 66.7% increase in employment. In addition, general managers in arts and entertainment, performing arts, sports, event promoters, artists, writers, and amusement parks are expected to grow between 20% and 50% by 2031.


   General Manager vs. CEO  

General managers are people who manage several different departments within a company. One of their largest responsibilities is overseeing their departments, sections, or work site. They coordinate duties and ensure their departments are on track to accomplish the goals set by the executives.



A chief executive officer is the top leadership position in a company. CEOs are responsible for strategic planning, long-term decision-making, operational oversight, and fiscal oversight.


   General Manager vs. Operations Manager  

While a GM is responsible for all aspects of a business, an operations manager is only responsible for operations and production. A GM's responsibilities are broader in scope and include HR, marketing, and strategy.



An operations manager's role tends to be more specific, with experience in a particular niche industry.




What Does a General Manager Do?
A general manager oversees a workforce, budgets for the work that needs to be done, ensures the company is staffed, and many other higher-level business functions.




Is General Manager a High Position?
General managers usually have several lower-level managers reporting to them, so it can be a high position. They are not executive-level, but usually, they report to the executives.




What Is a General Manager vs. a Manager?
The level each manager is at varies by business structure and industry. For instance, in a company with divisions and departments, managers supervise employees at the division level, whereas a general manager would manage at the department level.


   The Bottom Line  

General managers oversee daily operations and budgets and ensure company goals are met. Most GMs require progressive management experience and a college-level degree in business or their field.



The job outlook for GMs is high in certain industries and low in others, but these highly skilled professionals will be in demand and remain very well paid for their work in the foreseeable future.
What Is a General Obligation Bond?  

A general obligation bond (GO bond) is a municipal bond backed solely by the credit and taxing power of the issuing jurisdiction rather than the revenue from a given project. General obligation bonds are issued with the belief that a municipality will be able to repay its debt obligation through taxation or revenue from projects. No assets are used as collateral.



A GO bond may be contrasted with a revenue bond in the context of munis.





Key Takeaways

A general obligation, or GO, bond is a type of municipal bond that is backed entirely by the issuers creditworthiness and ability to levy taxes on its residents.Unlike revenue bonds, GO bonds are not backed by collateral and do not pay creditors back on the basis of income generated from funded projectes.The amount of taxation available by a particular GO bond may be specified as either limited or unlimited. In the case of an unlimited GO bond, a municipality may increase property taxes accordingly to cover its payments and obligations. 


   Understanding General Obligation Bonds  

A general obligation (GO) bond is secured by an issuing government's pledge to use all available resources — even tax revenues — to repay holders of the bond.



At the local government level, pledges may include a pledge to levy property taxes to meet the local government's obligation on the bondholders. For example, since property owners avoid losing their stake on their respective properties because of unpaid property tax bills, credit rating agencies rate general obligation pledges with strong credit qualities and assign them high investment-grade ratings. If the property owners are not able to pay their property taxes on or before the designated due date, the government is legally allowed to increase the property tax rate to make up for any delinquencies. On the designated due date, the general obligation pledge requires the local government to cover the debt with its available resources.



General obligation bonds also serve as a way for local governments to raise funds for projects that create streams of income for things such as roads, parks, equipment, and bridges. General obligation bonds are usually used to fund government projects that will serve the public community.


   Types of General Obligation Pledges  

State law sets the grounds on which local governments can provide and issue general obligation bonds. A general obligation bond may either be a limited-tax general obligation pledge or an unlimited-tax general obligation pledge.



A limited-tax general obligation pledge asks the issuing local government to raise property taxes if necessary to meet existing debt service obligations. However, this increase is bound by a statutory limit. With limited-tax general obligation pledges, governments can still use a part of already-levied property taxes, use another stream of income, or raise property taxes to an amount equating to existing debt service payments to answer its debt obligations.



An unlimited-tax general obligation pledge is similar to the limited-tax pledge. The only difference is that the local government is asked to increase property tax rates to necessary levels — up to a maximum of 100% — to cover delinquencies from taxpayers. Residents must first agree to increase property taxes to the necessary amounts required for the bonds.
What Is a General Order (GO)?  

A general order (GO) is a status given to imported goods that are missing the proper documentation or cannot be quickly cleared through customs for other reasons. Merchandise may be held under general order if the proper duties, fees, or interest are not paid, if the owner fails to complete the required customs paperwork, or if it is not correctly or legally invoiced. Goods will be held under general order if they remain uncleared for more than 15 days.





Key Takeaways

Imported goods either missing proper paperwork or not claimed within 15 days are classified by U.S. Customs as General Order (GO).After the 15 days are up, the goods get moved to a class 11 general order warehouse, which is a type of bonded warehouse.If the items are under General Order for more than six months, they can be either seized by the government, donated to charity, or auctioned.The auctions are held by the U.S. Customs, take place monthly online on a nationwide basis, or locally at public spaces like hotels near the ports.


   Understanding General Orders (GOs)  

After 15 days, any general order merchandise will be moved to a Class 11 bonded warehouse under the authority set forth in Title 19, United States Code (U.S.C.), section 1555. The risk of transportation and storage of the goods remains with the owner of the merchandise.



If the goods remain under general order for more than six months, the merchandise will be confiscated by the government or put up for an auction run by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agency. Live auctions take place each month online (nationwide) or at public venues like a hotel located close to ports. Auctions are open to anyone except CBP employees and their immediate family members. Bidders must place down a $5,000 deposit to participate. Purchases are nonrefundable and the buyers are responsible for picking up the merchandise.






The port of entry or company that first receives the goods into the United States is responsible for letting U.S. Customs know within 20 days of arrival that unclaimed or incorrectly documented items are being held—subject to a fine of up to $1,000.


   Real-World Example of a General Order  

On February 16-17, 2017, the CBP held a nationwide online auction for general order merchandise abandoned at ports and moved to bonded warehouses. After six months, the merchandise became eligible for auction. The list of items included the following:



2011 Mercedes Benz ML3502011 Ford Fusion2010 Chevrolet CamaroWomen's and men's clothingQuiltsFramed mirrors, bathroom vanity with mirrors, and a table with a glass topToy carsLamps and lighting accessoriesCarbon steel pipeBackpacks
What Is General Partner?  

A general partner is one of two or more investors who jointly own a business that is structured as a partnership, and who assumes a day-to-day role in managing it.





Key Takeaways

A general partner is a part-owner of a partnership business and is involved with its operations and shares in its profits.A general partner is often a doctor, lawyer, or another professional who has joined a partnership in order to remain independent while being part of a larger business.The general partner may be held personally liable for the debts of the business.


   Understanding General Partner  

A general partner has the authority to act on behalf of the business without the knowledge or permission of the other partners. Unlike a limited or silent partner, the general partner may have unlimited liability for the debts of the business.



General partners typically bring specialized knowledge and skills to the partnership and contribute to its pool of contacts and clients. Since they share management responsibilities, each has more time to devote to their respective professional duties.



The main benefit of a partnership is that it isn't taxed separately. In other words, the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) doesn't require partnerships to pay corporate taxes on profits. Instead, each partner receives their share of the profits as income and file and pay their own taxes.



On the flip side, a general partner may be held personally responsible for the liabilities of the partnership. For example, a patient might sue a doctor for medical malpractice. In some cases, courts have allowed the client to proceed against all of the general partners in the medical practice.



If the court enters a judgment in favor of the client, all the general partners would be financially responsible. In fact, the general partner with the most money invested in the business could bear a larger proportion of the penalty than the general partner whose alleged malpractice caused the suit.



If a general partner is ever required to meet the partnership's financial obligations, their personal assets may be subject to liquidation.






The general partner shares the expenses and responsibilities of operating the business and shares in the profits if it is successful.


   Partnership Vs. Limited Partnership  

A partnership is any business entity that is formed by at least two people who agree to create a company and share in its expenses and profits. This type of arrangement is particularly appealing to legal, medical, and creative professionals who prefer to be their own bosses but want to expand their business reach.



A partnership also offers a pool of investment for building and maintaining a business on a scale that might be beyond the resources of a single individual. In such cases, each professional becomes a general partner under the terms of the partnership agreement. They share the expenses and responsibilities of operating the business and share in the profits if it is successful.



In the case of a limited partnership, only one of the partners will become the general partner while the others will have limited liability. That is, their responsibility for debts is restricted to the amount they invested in the business. A limited partner is primarily an investor in the business who does not take an active role in its operations.
What Is a General Partnership?  

A general partnership is a business arrangement by which two or more individuals agree to share responsibilities, assets, profits, and financial and legal liabilities of a jointly-owned business.



In a general partnership, partners agree to be personally responsible for potentially unlimited liability. Liabilities are not capped as they would be in, say, a partnership formed as a limited liability partnership or a limited liability company (LLC). Partners are responsible for the debts, and the seizure of an owner's assets is a possibility. Furthermore, any partner may be sued for the business's debts.



Since a general partnership is a pass-through entity where income flows straight to the owners, each partner reports their share of partnership profits or losses on their personal tax returns. The partnership itself is not taxed.





Key Takeaways

A general partnership is a business made up of two or more partners, each obligated for the business's debts, liabilities, and assets.Partners assume unlimited liability, potentially subjecting their personal assets to seizure if the partnership becomes insolvent.Partners should create a written partnership agreement.General partnerships are less expensive to form compared to a corporation.They are pass-through entities where profits or losses are passed directly to partners, who report them on their personal tax returns.


   Understanding General Partnerships  

General partnerships are unincorporated businesses. Those who form a general partnership don’t need to register their business with a state to function legally.



General partnerships offer the flexibility to structure businesses however partners see fit. This gives those partners the ability to control operations more closely.



In turn, this allows for more swift and decisive management action compared to corporations, which must often deal with multiple levels of bureaucracy and red tape, complicating and slowing down the implementation of new ideas.



A general partnership must satisfy the following conditions:



It must include a minimum of two people.All partners must agree to be personally liable for any and all liabilities that their partnership may incur.


   Aspects of a General Partnership  
  Partnership Agreement  

The partnership should have a formal, written partnership agreement, though oral agreements are valid. The partnership agreement details such things as the business's governing structure, the partners' rights and responsibilities, and how profits should be allocated.



It can also state what should happen when a partner leaves, dies, or otherwise becomes unable to function as a partner. For example, the agreement may stipulate that a deceased partner's interest is transferred to the surviving partners or a successor.


  Management  

Ideally, the partnership will have created its own agreement that addresses among other things, the topic of management and control.



However, if the partnership has no agreement that sets forth how the partnership should be managed and who should manage it, it can follow the directives in the Revised Uniform Partnership Act (RUPA), which most states have adopted. The act provides a standard of governance for partnerships. It defines:



How a partnership is createdThe rights and duties of partnersPartnership assets and liabilities Fiduciary duties of partners and the partnershipProfit allocations and voting rights


  Individual Decision-Making  

In a general partnership, each partner has the agency to unilaterally enter into binding agreements and business deals, and all other partners are bound by the terms.



Not surprisingly, such activities may lead to disagreements. As a result, many successful general partnerships build conflict resolution mechanisms into their partnership agreements.



In some cases, the partners agree only to proceed with major decisions if there's either a complete consensus or a majority vote. In other cases, the partners designate non-partner appointees to manage the partnerships, similar to a company's board of directors. In any case, broad agreement is essential because when all partners have unlimited liability, even innocent players can be fiscally on the hook for inappropriate or illegal actions.


  Compensation  

Rather than a salary, partners receive distributions from the partnership’s profits. These distributions should be in accord with the allocation of profits detailed in the partnership agreement. If the partnership has no agreement, profits should be equally distributed according to RUPA (mentioned above).



Money that the partnership does not distribute to partners can be used for other purposes (e.g., reinvested in the business).


  Joint Liability  

Partners in a general partnership have shared liability for the debts and obligations of the business. Every partner agrees to unlimited personal liability for their actions, the actions of all other partners, and those of any and all employees.



Therefore, partners have shared responsibility—also known as joint liability—for damages awarded in a legal action taken against the partnership.



Joint and several liability, where someone can sue any partner for actions taken by others, is also a possibility in certain states. Partners must then decide how much each owes.


  Fiduciary Duties  

Partners have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of their partnership. In fact, specific fiduciary duties are key to protecting partners and the business itself. A partner who breaches a fiduciary duty may be personally liable for any harm that breach causes the partnership.



While the partnership, in its agreement, can assert additional fiduciary duties, the main ones are:



Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing



Partners must act honestly and fairly in all dealings that pertain to the partnership.



Duty of Loyalty



Partners must not pursue personal activities that can harm the partnership. They must place the partnership’s best interests above personal interests. And they must forego all conflicts of interest that may exist with the partnership due to those personal interests.



Duty of Care



Partners must act prudently and competently when managing the affairs of the partnership. Importantly, if a partner acts with reasonable care and in good faith, they cannot be deemed liable should their activities cause unfavorable results.



Duty of Disclosure



Partners must disclose to other partners any facts and other information they have about risks and consequences that concern or may concern the well-being of the business. If any conflict of interest arises, they must disclose that, too.


  Taxes  

As mentioned previously, general partnerships do not pay business income taxes. As pass-through entities, they pass income (and losses) directly to individual partners. The partners must then report their shares of profits or losses on their personal tax returns and pay any taxes owed.



Partners also have to pay taxes on income earned by the partnership that is not distributed (otherwise known as retained earnings).



A general partnership must complete and provide IRS Form Schedule K-1 to each partner by March 15. A K-1 details each partner's share of business income, losses, credits and deductions. Each partner uses the information within the K-1 to complete their personal tax return. The K-1 does not need to be sent with the tax return to the IRS.



However, because partnership earnings are considered self-employment income, partners will need to include a Schedule SE with their tax return. It is the form used to determine the tax due on net earnings from self-employment. Information on Schedule SE is also used by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to figure your Social Security and Medicare benefits.



The general partnership itself must file Form 1065 with the IRS no later than April 15. Form 1065 is an informational return and involves no payments.


   Example of a General Partnership  

General partnerships have been the business entity of choice for individuals seeking to work together as well as various types of service providers. That's often due to their straightforward structure, low-cost, and ease of set-up.



For example, law firms, medical practices, and architectural firms often organize themselves as general partnerships. Spouses and other members of families who want to run a business together also set up general partnerships.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a General Partnership  
  Advantages  

A general partnership is less expensive and easier to set up than a corporation or limited liability partnership (LLP).
Less paperwork is involved. In the United States, filing partnership paperwork with a state is generally not required, though certain registration forms, permits, and licenses may be necessary at the local level.
As a pass-through entity, the partnership pays no taxes.
No external financial reporting/annual report is required.
A general partnership is simple to dissolve.


  Disadvantages  

Personal liability is unlimited. A partner's personal property can be seized to pay partnership debts.With shared liability, partners must deal with the financial and legal consequences of each other's (and employees') actions.Disputes may be difficult to address and disastrous for the business (unless properly planned for in the partnership agreement).Over time, a business can become complicated, encounter greater risks, increase potential personal liability, and outgrow the general partnership structure.




Is a General Partnership the Same As an LLP?
Not exactly. A general partnership and a limited liability partnership are both partnerships and pass-through entities. However, a general partnership involves the potential for the unlimited personal liability of partners for financial and legal obligations. A limited liability partnership (like a limited liability company) limits liability to just what the partner has invested in the business. Their personal assets are protected from seizure.




What Are the Advantages of a General Partnership?
General partnerships can be simple to set up. People can get together, declare that they're a partnership, and start working immediately. In most cases, a general partnership isn't required to register with the state it does business in. Incorporation isn't required, either. It can be dissolved automatically when one partner leaves. And it doesn't pay taxes (though the partners do).




Who Owns a General Partnership?
The partners own the partnership. Ideally, the partnership will create a partnership agreement that, among other things, states who the partners (owners) are as well as the profit allocation percentage for each.


   The Bottom Line  

A general partnership is a business with at least two owners, or partners, who agree to share the responsibilities involved in running the business. A partner has unlimited personal liability for any and all debts and obligations of the company. Each partner reports their share of business profits and losses on their individual tax return and pays any taxes due. The partnership itself isn't subject to taxation.



A general partnership is a common type of business due to the fact that it's easy to set up and dissolve. However, a general partnership may need to restructure at some point as it grows and encounters greater business risk so as to limit the exposure to personal financial liability that partners have.
What Are General Provisions?  

General provisions are balance sheet items representing funds set aside by a company as assets to pay for anticipated future losses. For banks, a general provision is considered to be supplementary capital under the first Basel Accord. General provisions on the balance sheets of financial firms are considered to be a higher risk asset because it is implicitly assumed that the underlying funds will be in default in the future.





Key Takeaways

General provisions are balance sheet items representing funds set aside by a company as assets to pay for anticipated future losses.The amounts set aside are based on estimates of future losses.Lenders are required to set up general provisions every time they make a loan in case borrowers default.The act of creating general provisions has been declining since regulators prohibited basing provision level estimates on past experiences.


   Understanding General Provisions  

In the business world, future losses are inevitable, whether it be for the falling resale value of an asset, malfunctioning products, lawsuits, or a customer that can no longer pay what it owes. To account for these risks, companies must ensure they have enough money set aside.



Companies cannot, however, simply recognize a provision whenever they see fit. Instead, they must follow certain criteria laid out by regulators. Both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) layout guidelines for contingencies and provisions. GAAP lays out its information in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 410, 420, and 450, and IFRS lays out its information in International Accounting Standard (IAS) 37.


   Recording General Provisions  

Provisions are created by recording an expense in the income statement and then establishing a corresponding liability in the balance sheet. Account names for general provisions either vary with the type of account or may be listed as a consolidated figure in parentheses next to accounts receivable, the balance of money due to a firm for goods or services delivered or used but not yet paid for by customers.



A company that records transactions and works with customers through accounts receivables may show a general provision on the balance sheet for bad debts or for doubtful accounts. The amount is uncertain, since the default has not yet occurred, but is estimated with reasonable accuracy.



In the past, a company might have analyzed write-offs from the prior accounting year when establishing general provisions for doubtful accounts in the current year. However, IAS 39 now prohibits creating general provisions based on past experiences, due to the subjectivity involved in creating the estimates. Instead, the reporting entity is required to carry out an impairment review to determine the recoverability of the receivables and any associated provisions.



Companies providing pension plans may also set aside a portion of business capital for meeting future obligations. If recorded on the balance sheet, general provisions for estimated future liability amounts may be reported only as footnotes on the balance sheet.


   Banks and Lenders Requirements  

Because of international standards, banks and other lending institutions are required to carry enough capital to offset risks. The standard may be met by indicating on the balance sheet either an allowance for bad debts or a general provision. The reserve funds provide backup capital for risky loans that may default.


   General Provisions vs. Specific Provisions  

As the name suggests, specific provisions are created when specific future losses are identified. Receivables may be logged as such if a certain customer faces serious financial problems or has a trade dispute with the entity.



The balances may be noted by examining an aged receivable analysis detailing the time elapsed since creating the document. Long-outstanding balances may be included in the specific provision for doubtful debts.



However, specific provisions may not be created for the entire amount of the doubtful receivable. For example, if there is a 50% chance of recovering a doubtful debt for a certain receivable, a specific provision of 50% may be required.



For banks, generic provisions are allocated at the time a loan is approved, while specific provisions are created to cover loan defaults.


   Special Considerations  

Provisions have often created a lot of controversies. In the past, creative accountants have used them to smooth out profits, adding more provisions in a successful year and limiting them when earnings were down.



Accounting regulators have been cracking down on this. New requirements prohibiting subjective estimates have led to a decline in the number of general provisions created.
What Is a General Public Distribution?  

In finance, the term general public distribution refers to the process by which a private company becomes a publicly traded company by selling its shares to the public at large. This is in contrast to a conventional public distribution, in which the shares are sold largely to institutional investors.





Key Takeaways

A general public distribution is the process of selling privately held shares to public stockholders for the first time.It allows privately owned companies to become publicly traded, which can help them raise capital and generate liquidity for their early investors.Once sold, the newly issued shares are then actively traded among investors in the secondary market.


   How General Public Distributions Work  

The transaction whereby a private company's shares are sold to the public for the first time is known as its initial public offering (IPO). If the IPO involves directly selling to a large pool of investors, regardless of whether they are small retail investors or large funds, then that IPO would be referred to as a general public distribution. If on the other hand the IPO catered primarily to large and sophisticated investors—such as investment banks, hedge funds, and pension funds—then that would be considered a conventional public distribution.



When investors buy shares through an IPO, they are participating in what is known as the primary market. In the primary market, the securities you purchase come directly from the company issuing them. By comparison, the secondary market is one where you purchase securities from other owners of that security who either previously purchased them from the issuer or else purchased them from another owner entirely. The vast majority of transactions that take place are done in the secondary market, making IPOs relatively rare and closely watched events.



From the perspective of the company, there are many potential reasons to undertake an IPO. To begin, they may wish to raise funds for expansion, such as by building new facilities, hiring new employees, funding increased research and development (R&D) initiatives, or even acquiring a competitor. In this case, the IPO would represent a form of equity financing.



In other cases, a company may wish to IPO in order to increase the liquidity available to its early investors, some of whom may wish to cash out their investment. Additional advantages may also exist, such as the increased prestige, credibility, and creditworthiness that is often associated with publicly traded companies.


   Real World Example of a General Public Distribution  

XYZ Corporation is a prominent technology company that is contemplating how best to fund its expansion plans. Its managers feel that by opening new offices abroad and hiring new employees, they can effectively expand their customer base outside of the United States. Moreover, they see opportunities to acquire several small competitors they feel could add intellectual property and human resources to their portfolio.



In considering their options for fundraising, XYZ decides to opt for equity financing through an IPO. To finalize their decision, they must decide between a general public distribution or a conventional public distribution. In the former, a greater percentage of their issued shares are likely to be held by retail investors, whereas the latter will generally tend toward more institutional ownership.



In practice, however, the two different types of IPOs will likely lead to similar medium and long-term results. This is because once the shares are sold in the primary market, investors will then trade them among themselves in the secondary market. 



For example, suppose the shares are issued to institutional investors but there is unmet market demand from retail investors. In that scenario, there would be nothing stopping those retail investors from making offers to purchase those shares from the institutional investors in the secondary market. 



Likewise, if the shares are sold mostly to retail investors, but demand for the shares then rises among institutional investors, retail investors will be free to sell their shares. In this manner, the secondary market should ensure that XYZ's stock is ultimately held by those owners who value it most highly, regardless of who receives the shares in the IPO.
What Are the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)?  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) refer to a common set of accounting rules, standards, and procedures issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Public companies in the U.S. must follow GAAP when their accountants compile their financial statements.



GAAP is guided by ten key tenets and is a rules-based set of standards. It is often compared with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which is considered more of a principles-based standard. IFRS is a more international standard, and there have been recent efforts to transition GAAP reporting to IFRS.





Key Takeaways 

GAAP is the set of accounting rules set forth by the FASB that U.S. companies must follow when putting together financial statements.GAAP aims to improve the clarity, consistency, and comparability of the communication of financial information.GAAP may be contrasted with pro forma accounting, which is a non-GAAP financial reporting method.The ultimate goal of GAAP is to ensure a company's financial statements are complete, consistent, and comparable.GAAP is used mainly in the U.S., while most other jurisdictions use the IFRS standards.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding GAAP  

GAAP is a combination of authoritative standards (set by policy boards) and the commonly accepted ways of recording and reporting accounting information. GAAP aims to improve the clarity, consistency, and comparability of the communication of financial information.



GAAP may be contrasted with pro forma accounting, which is a non-GAAP financial reporting method. Internationally, the equivalent to GAAP in the U.S. is referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). IFRS is currently used in 166 jurisdictions.



GAAP helps govern the world of accounting according to general rules and guidelines. It attempts to standardize and regulate the definitions, assumptions, and methods used in accounting across all industries. GAAP covers such topics as revenue recognition, balance sheet classification, and materiality.



The ultimate goal of GAAP is to ensure a company's financial statements are complete, consistent, and comparable. This makes it easier for investors to analyze and extract useful information from the company's financial statements, including trend data over a period of time. It also facilitates the comparison of financial information across different companies.


   The 10 Key Principles of GAAP  

There are 10 general concepts that lay out the main mission of GAAP.


  1. Principle of Regularity  

The accountant has adhered to GAAP rules and regulations as a standard.


  2. Principle of Consistency  

Accountants commit to applying the same standards throughout the reporting process, from one period to the next, to ensure financial comparability between periods. Accountants are expected to fully disclose and explain the reasons behind any changed or updated standards in the footnotes to the financial statements.


  3. Principle of Sincerity  

The accountant strives to provide an accurate and impartial depiction of a company’s financial situation.


  4. Principle of Permanence of Methods  

The procedures used in financial reporting should be consistent, allowing a comparison of the company's financial information.


  5. Principle of Non-Compensation  

Both negatives and positives should be reported with full transparency and without the expectation of debt compensation.


  6. Principle of Prudence  

This refers to emphasizing fact-based financial data representation that is not clouded by speculation.


  7. Principle of Continuity  

While valuing assets, it should be assumed the business will continue to operate.


  8. Principle of Periodicity  

Entries should be distributed across the appropriate periods of time. For example, revenue should be reported in its relevant accounting period.


  9. Principle of Materiality  

Accountants must strive to fully disclose all financial data and accounting information in financial reports.


  10. Principle of Utmost Good Faith  

Derived from the Latin phrase uberrimae fidei used within the insurance industry. It presupposes that parties remain honest in all transactions.


   Compliance With GAAP  

If a corporation's stock is publicly traded, its financial statements must adhere to rules established by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC requires that publicly traded companies in the U.S. regularly file GAAP-compliant financial statements in order to remain publicly listed on the stock exchanges. GAAP compliance is ensured through an appropriate auditor's opinion, resulting from an external audit by a certified public accounting (CPA) firm.



Although it is not required for non-publicly traded companies, GAAP is viewed favorably by lenders and creditors. Most financial institutions will require annual GAAP-compliant financial statements as a part of their debt covenants when issuing business loans. As a result, most companies in the United States do follow GAAP.



If a financial statement is not prepared using GAAP, investors should be cautious. Without GAAP, comparing financial statements of different companies would be extremely difficult, even within the same industry, making an apples-to-apples comparison hard. Some companies may report both GAAP and non-GAAP measures when reporting their financial results. GAAP regulations require that non-GAAP measures be identified in financial statements and other public disclosures, such as press releases.






   Selecting GAAP Principles  

The hierarchy of GAAP is designed to improve financial reporting. It consists of a framework for selecting the principles that public accountants should use in preparing financial statements in line with U.S. GAAP. The hierarchy is broken down as follows:



Statements by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and Accounting Research Bulletins and Accounting Principles Board opinions by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
FASB Technical Bulletins and AICPA Industry Audit and Accounting Guides and Statements of Position
AICPA Accounting Standards Executive Committee Practice Bulletins, positions of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), and topics discussed in Appendix D of EITF Abstracts
FASB implementation guides, AICPA Accounting Interpretations, AICPA Industry Audit, and Accounting Guides, Statements of Position not cleared by the FASB, and accounting practices that are widely accepted and followed



Accountants are directed to first consult sources at the top of the hierarchy and then proceed to lower levels only if there is no relevant pronouncement at a higher level. The FASB's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 162 provides a detailed explanation of the hierarchy.


   GAAP vs. IFRS  

GAAP is focused on the accounting and financial reporting of U.S. companies. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), an independent nonprofit organization, is responsible for establishing these accounting and financial reporting standards. The international alternative to GAAP is the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), set by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).



The IASB and the FASB have been working on the convergence of IFRS and GAAP since 2002. Due to the progress achieved in this partnership, the SEC, in 2007, removed the requirement for non-U.S. companies registered in America to reconcile their financial reports with GAAP if their accounts already complied with IFRS. This was a big achievement because prior to the ruling, non-U.S. companies trading on U.S. exchanges had to provide GAAP-compliant financial statements.



Some differences that still exist between both accounting rules include:



LIFO Inventory: While GAAP allows companies to use the Last In First Out (LIFO) as an inventory cost method, it is prohibited under IFRS.
Research and Development Costs: These costs are to be charged to expense as they are incurred under GAAP. Under IFRS, the costs can be capitalized and amortized over multiple periods if certain conditions are met.
Reversing Write-Downs: GAAP specifies that the amount of write-down of an inventory or fixed asset cannot be reversed if the market value of the asset subsequently increases. The write-down can be reversed under IFRS.



As corporations increasingly need to navigate global markets and conduct operations worldwide, international standards are becoming increasingly popular at the expense of GAAP, even in the U.S. Almost all S&P 500 companies report at least one non-GAAP measure of earnings as of 2019.












  Key Differences  

There are some important differences in how accounting entries are treated in GAAP vs. IFRS. One major issue is the treatment of inventory. IFRS rules ban the use of last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory accounting methods. GAAP rules allow for LIFO. Both systems allow for the first-in, first-out method (FIFO) and the weighted average-cost method. GAAP does not allow for inventory reversals, while IFRS permits them under certain conditions.



When a company holds investments such as shares, bonds, or derivatives on its balance sheet, it must account for them and their changes in value. Both GAAP and IFRS require investments to be segregated into discrete categories based on asset type. The main differences come in recognizing income or profits from an investment: under GAAP it's largely dependent on the legal form of the asset or contract; under IFRS the legal form is irrelevant and only depends on when cash flows are received.



Other differences appear in the treatment of extraordinary items and discontinued operations. In practice, since much of the world uses the IFRS standard, a convergence to IFRS could have advantages for international corporations and investors alike.






GAAP is only a set of standards. Although these principles work to improve the transparency in financial statements, they do not provide any guarantee that a company's financial statements are free from errors or omissions that are intended to mislead investors. There is plenty of room within GAAP for unscrupulous accountants to distort figures. So even when a company uses GAAP, you still need to scrutinize its financial statements.







Some Key Differences Between IFRS and GAAP







Where Are Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Used?
GAAP is a set of procedures and guidelines used by companies to prepare their financial statements and other accounting disclosures. The standards are prepared by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which is an independent non-profit organization. The purpose of GAAP standards is to help ensure that the financial information provided to investors and regulators is accurate, reliable, and consistent with one another.




Why Is GAAP Important?
GAAP is important because it helps maintain trust in the financial markets. If not for GAAP, investors would be more reluctant to trust the information presented to them by companies because they would have less confidence in its integrity. Without that trust, we might see fewer transactions, potentially leading to higher transaction costs and a less robust economy. GAAP also helps investors analyze companies by making it easier to perform “apples to apples” comparisons between one company and another.




What Are Non-GAAP Measures?
Companies are still allowed to present certain figures without abiding by GAAP guidelines, provided that they clearly identify those figures as not conforming to GAAP. Companies sometimes do so when they believe that the GAAP rules are not flexible enough to capture certain nuances about their operations. In that situation, they might provide specially-designed non-GAAP metrics, in addition to the other disclosures required under GAAP. Investors should be skeptical about non-GAAP measures, however, as they can sometimes be used in a misleading manner.




What Is the Difference between IFRS and GAAP?
Conceptually, GAAP is more rules-based while IFRS is more guided by principles. GAAP is used mainly in the U.S. and IFRS is an international standard. The two standards treat inventories, investments, long-lived assets, extraordinary items, and discontinued operations, among others.
What Are Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS)?  

Generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) are a set of systematic guidelines used by auditors when conducting audits of companies' financial records. GAAS helps to ensure the accuracy, consistency, and verifiability of auditors' actions and reports. The Auditing Standards Board (ASB) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) created GAAS. Its members agree to adhere to the standards.





Key Takeaways

Generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) are principles that auditors follow when reviewing a company's financial records.GAAS helps to ensure the accuracy, consistency, and verifiability of an auditors' actions and reports.Generally accepted auditing standards are detailed in three sections labeled General Standards, Standards of Fieldwork, and Standards of Reporting.Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are standards followed by company accountants when recording and reporting financial activities.While GAAP applies to accounting for financial activities, GAAS involves the auditing of that accounting.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS)  

GAAS are the auditing standards that help measure and ensure the quality of audits. Auditors review and report on the financial records of companies according to the generally accepted auditing standards.



Auditors are tasked with determining whether the financial statements of public companies follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP is a set of accounting standards that public companies must follow when reporting their true and accurate financial results.



Auditors review a company's financial records and accounting practices to ensure that they're consistent and comply with GAAP. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires that the financial statements of public companies be examined by external, independent auditors.






While GAAP outlines the accounting standards that accountants must follow, GAAS provides the auditing standards that auditors must follow.


   Requirements for GAAS  

Generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) comprise 10 standards, divided into the following three sections:


  General Standards  

The auditor must have adequate technical training and proficiency to perform the audit.
The auditor must maintain independence in mental attitude in all matters relating to the audit.
The auditor must exercise due professional care in the performance of the audit and the preparation of the auditor's report.


  Standards of Field Work  

The auditor must adequately plan the work and must properly supervise any assistants.The auditor must obtain a sufficient understanding of the entity and its environment, including its internal control, to assess the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to error or fraud, and to design the nature, timing, and extent of further audit procedures.The auditor must obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing audit procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.﻿﻿


  Standards of Reporting  

The auditor must state in the auditor's report whether the financial statements are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.The auditor must identify in the auditor's report those circumstances in which such principles have not been consistently observed in the current period in relation to the preceding period.If the auditor determines that informative disclosures in the financial statements are not reasonably adequate, the auditor must so state in the auditor's report.The auditor's report must either express an opinion regarding the financial statements, taken as a whole, or state that an opinion cannot be expressed. When the auditor cannot express an overall opinion, the auditor should state the reasons in the auditor's report. In all cases where an auditor's name is associated with financial statements, the auditor should clearly indicate the character of the auditor's work, if any, and the degree of responsibility the auditor is taking, in the auditor's report.﻿﻿


   GAAS vs. GAAP  
  GAAS  

While GAAS refers to the auditing standards that auditors follow to produce a reliable and transparent audit report, GAAP relates to accounting standards that companies follow when recording and reporting financial activities/events.



Auditors use GAAS when reviewing the financial records of companies (that most likely use GAAP) and producing audit reports.



GAAS auditing standards were issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).


  GAAP  

The accounting principles enumerated by GAAP were issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).



GAAP is intended to ensure consistency among financial records, financial transparency, and protection from fraud or misleading company reports.



Use of GAAP provides investors and creditors with the assurance of a reliable standard of accounting. It simplifies the examining of financials of individual companies as well as comparisons with others.




What Are the 3 Types of GAAS?
The three sections of generally accepted auditing standards are General Standards, Standards of Field Work, and Standards of Reporting.




What Is GAAP in Auditing?
GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles. These are the accounting standards and rules by which companies record and report their financial activities. These financials are examined subsequently by auditors who can then attest to their veracity (or report inadequacies).




Does an Auditor Have to Follow GAAS?
If an auditor is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (whose Accounting Standard Board issues GAAS), the auditor is required to follow GAAS.




What Happens if an Auditor Doesn't Follow GAAS?
If an auditor fails to adhere to GAAS, they could be held liable for negligence regarding losses suffered by a company.


   The Bottom Line  

Generally accepted auditing standards are a set of guidelines that auditors follow when they examine and report on companies' financial records. These guidelines are important because they underscore appropriate actions and activities of auditors.



Generally accepted accounting standards (GAAP) relate to standards of accounting. They are different from GAAS. However, auditors review corporate financial records for adherence to GAAP.
Definition of Generally Accepted Principles And Practices (GAPP)  

The generally accepted principles and practices (GAPP), which are also known as the Santiago principles, are standardized business procedures related to the operation of sovereign wealth funds (SWFs), which have agreed to pursue financial rather than political agendas and maintain a stable global financial system.


   Understanding Generally Accepted Principles And Practices (GAPP)  

The generally accepted principles and practices (GAPP), were agreed upon by the International Working Group of the Sovereign Wealth Funds (IWG)—23 countries with SWFs—in October 2008. In response to the concern of investors and regulators about the inadequate transparency, independence, and governance of the industry, the IWG resolved that SWFs demonstrate that their arrangements are properly set up and investments are made on an economic and financial basis—instead of pursuing political agendas.



GAPP is underpinned by the following guiding objectives for SWFs, defined as "special purpose investment funds or arrangements, owned by the general government":



To help maintain a stable global financial system and free flow of capital and investment;
To comply with all applicable regulatory and disclosure requirements in the countries in which they invest;
To invest on the basis of economic and financial risk and return-related considerations; and
To have in place a transparent and sound governance structure that provides for adequate operational controls, risk management, and accountability."



The 24 voluntary Santiago Principles simply provide a framework for these guiding principles in three key areas: legal, institutional, and investment and risk. The principles are maintained and promoted by the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF), whose members voluntarily endorse the principles and seek to implement them in their governance and investment practices. As of 2021, the forum represented more than 30 sovereign wealth funds from all corners of the globe.
What Is a Generation Gap?  

A generation gap refers to the chasm that separates the beliefs and behaviors belonging to members of two different generations. More specifically, a generation gap can be used to describe the differences in thoughts, actions, and tastes exhibited by members of younger generations versus older ones.



The differences may be in politics, values, pop culture, and other areas. While generation gaps have been prevalent throughout all periods of history, the breadth of differences of these gaps has widened in the 20th and 21st centuries.





Key Takeaways

A generation gap is defined as the different thoughts and worldviews held by different generational cohorts.The generation gap between individuals can be used to explain differences in the worldviews and actions observed among those of different age groups.The current living generations are the Greatest Generation, the silent generation, baby boomers, Generation X, millennials, and Generation Z.Businesses often aim to understand the different characteristics of each generation to better create and market their products and services.Employers seek to reduce the generational gap within the workplace by employing a variety of techniques.


   Understanding Generation Gaps  

Generation gaps play big roles in businesses. This is because in order to sell to different groups companies must find ways to balance the needs and views of individuals from those groups. Businesses must be aware of the changing demographics and genders of their client base, which can affect their business cycles and bottom lines.



The term "generation gap" was first used in the 1960s. During that time, the baby boomers, those born between 1946 and 1964, were growing apart from their parents in their beliefs and opinions.



Sociologists use nomenclature to refer to different generational segments. For example, members of Gen Z, born between 1996 and 2012, are called “digital natives” because they have lived with digital technology their entire lives.



By contrast, older generational members are termed “digital immigrants” and tend to be less comfortable with the personal usage of technologies. Consequently, technology companies market products differently to each age group.






Generational segments go by other handles: the greatest generation is also known as "radio babies"; the silent generation has also been called "traditionalists." Baby boomers are also known as the “me” generation.


   How Generations Are Distinguished  

The current living generations have been divided into the following six major groups:



Greatest generation
Silent generation
Baby boomers
Generation X
Millennials
Generation Z



Each generation has its own characteristics regarding vernacular, technological influences, workplace attitudes, general consciousness, and ways of life.


  Greatest generation  

As Great Depression and World War II survivors, they were instrumental in shaping the United States into an economic and military power. This group is defined by patriotism, teamwork, and drive. They were born from 1901 to 1927.


  Silent generation  

Born 1928 to 1945, older members of the silent generation fought in Korea, while younger ones danced to Elvis and early rock 'n' roll, and formed the leadership of the civil rights movement. More traditional and rules-following than the baby boomers, they are also called the traditionalist generation, although that may be a misnomer for this group.


  Baby boomers  

They witnessed increasing social and economic equality and came of age as the country was split by differing views on politics, war, and social justice. The boomers participated in some of the greatest social changes in the country’s history, during the 1960s and 1970s, with the Civil Rights Movement and the Women’s Movement.


  Generation X  

Born between 1965 and 1980, Gen-Xers grew up with emerging technologies and political and institutional incompetence. They witnessed Watergate, Three Mile Island, and the Iranian hostage crisis. But they also observed major technological advancements. Mimeograph machines evolved into high-speed copiers, and fax machines gave way to email. Heavy adding machines were replaced by handheld calculators, and computers shrank in size and processing speed.


  Millennials  

Born between 1981 and 1996, millennials have always known cable TV, pagers, answering machines, laptop computers, and video games. Technological advancements in real-time media and communication have driven their expectation for immediacy. They are the generation that bridges the gap of growing up in a world before and after the Internet.



They have also seen untold tragedy in their youth, with events like the Columbine High School shootings of 1999 and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Millennials were hit hard by the 2008 Great Recession, hurting the long-term outlook of their finances.






Those born on the edge of the Gen-X and Millennials are sometimes referred to as X-ennials.


  Generation Z  

Generation Z is the generation after the millennials, born between 1997 and 2012. This generation consists of individuals in young adulthood, teenagers, and children. This is the first generation that grew up with the Internet as a fact of life, not knowing a world without email, immediate access to information, or mobile phones.






The cohorts of Gen Z are more likely to be the children of immigrants than millennials are: 22% versus 14%, respectively.



Generation Z was expected to do well financially, coming of age in a strong economy. The economic crisis of 2020 upended that stability and what comes next is still to be determined. This generation is racially and ethnically diverse and is similar to millennials in terms of its social and policy beliefs. Both generations are progressive and believe in social equality and the importance of climate change.


   Special Considerations  

Understanding the different generations is critical for businesses to know who they should market to and how. The first step is understanding the product or service offered by your business and who its target audience is. From there, learning the best way to market to them, without involving stereotypes, is an important step to success.



Businesses must stay true to their identity. If a company is not perceived as hip or young, then using hip or young lingo to market to Generation Z, for example, will be seen as inauthentic and may backfire.



Millennials and baby boomers are the largest generations.



Baby boomers are also the wealthiest while millennials are reaching middle age and will have more wealth to spend. Understanding these types of characteristics of a generation will help in marketing. Also, knowing what these generations need at a certain point will help.



For example, baby boomers are nearing retirement or are retired, so aspects of retirement in marketing a product may be helpful. Millennials are fairly young, in their mid-twenties to forties, so addressing topics such as buying a house or first car or starting a family may appeal to them.



In addition, a business needs to know where to market. Baby boomers grew up in an age without smartphones or the Internet. Though many are tech-savvy, many also still read physical newspapers and watch cable TV. If you are marketing to baby boomers, that might be an area to consider.



On the other hand, Generation Z grew up with smartphones and tablets in hand, so marketing digitally to them would be the smart move.


   Generation Gap FAQs  
  What Is Generation Gap?  

A generation gap is the thoughts, beliefs, and ideologies that separate one generation from the next. These can encompass beliefs on politics, business, race, and pop culture.


  What Causes Generational Gaps?  

Generational gaps are simply caused by age and the situation of the world at the time one generation has grown up. For example, the beliefs and perceptions of those who grew up during World War II may be different from those who grew up in the 1960s—though to be sure, similarities will remain.


  What Are the Generation Gaps Called?  

Some of the different generation gaps are the traditionalists, the baby boomers, Generation X, millennials, and Generation Z.


  Is the Generation Gap No Longer a Gap?  

There are many studies conducted on this topic. There will always be different generations, simply because people are born at different times. Similarly, the world and society are always changing, which will inadvertently change the perception of individuals depending on the period they grew up in. Studies do also show that the differences in generational gaps are minimal. Individual differences also play a role, as do socio-economic factors.


  How Can We Bridge the Generation Gap?  

There are ways to bridge the generational gap in certain situations in the workplace. Encouraging multi-generational teamwork is one tactic. Creating clear cultural values, such as highlighting the importance of the quality of the work rather than where the work is done (office versus remotely), is another. Incorporating many communication channels that work for all individuals, organizing mentorship programs, and emphasizing respect above all else are also useful tools.


   The Bottom Line  

A generation gap consists of the differing beliefs on politics, religion, society, pop culture, that exist between different generations. These beliefs are shaped by the state of the world in which the individuals belonging to each generation grew up.



Businesses often try to understand the different generations so that they can create and market products successfully. Businesses also try and understand these differences to close the generation gap among employees, hopefully building cohesive and efficient workplace.
What Is the Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax (GSTT)?  

The generation-skipping transfer tax is a federal tax on a gift or inheritance that prevents the donor from avoiding estate taxes by skipping children in favor of grandchildren. With the generation-skipping transfer tax, grandchildren receive the same amount as if the inheritance were coming from their parents.



Before the generation-skipping transfer tax was introduced in 1976, wealthy individuals were legally able to gift money and bequeath property to their grandchildren, without paying federal estate taxes. The legislation effectively closed the loophole where inheritances could skip a generation to avoid double estate taxation.





Key Takeaways

The generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT) is a federal tax that results when there is a transfer of property by gift or inheritance to a beneficiary (other than a spouse) who is at least 37½ years younger than the donor.The GSTT effectively closed the loophole that allowed wealthy individuals to legally gift money and bequeath property to their grandchildren without paying federal estate taxes. The GSTT tax rate is a flat 40%.Most people will never encounter the GSTT because of the high threshold: the tax only applies when the transferred amount exceeds $12.06 million per individual for 2022 and $12.92 million for 2023.


   Understanding the Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax  

The generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT) is an additional tax on a transfer of property that skips a generation, known as a generation-skipping transfer (GST) for short. The GSTT was implemented to prevent families from avoiding the estate tax for one or more generations by making gifts or bequests directly to grandchildren or great-grandchildren.



The parent's generation is skipped to avoid an inheritance being subject to estate taxes twice. The GSTT ensures that grandchildren end up with the same value of assets that they would have had if the inheritance was transferred to them directly from their parents, rather than their grandparents.



The person giving the gift is referred to as the transferor and the recipient is known as the skip person. Many people use a grandchild as a skip person, but a skip person does not have to be a family member. Any individual is eligible to receive a generation-skipping transfer as long as they are at least 37½ years younger than the transferor.



The generation-skipping transfer tax is imposed only if the transfer avoids incurring a gift or estate tax at each generation level. To make up for the taxes that may be avoided by skipping one generation, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) imposes a second layer of tax on gifts and bequests above the estate and lifetime gift exclusion. It means that the GSTT is only due when a beneficiary receives amounts in excess of the GST estate tax credit.


   Direct vs. Indirect Skips With the GSTT  

The taxation of a GST depends on whether the transfer is a direct or an indirect skip. A direct skip is a property transfer that's subject to an estate or gift tax. An example of a direct skip would be a grandmother gifting property to a grandchild. The transferor or their estate is responsible for paying the GST tax for direct skips.



An indirect skip involves a transfer that has intermediate steps before reaching a skip person. There are two types of indirect skips: the taxable termination and the taxable distribution.



A taxable termination involves a skip person and a non-skip person. A non-skip person is the primary beneficiary who will receive property before it is transferred to the skip person. The transfer to the skip person occurs upon the death of a non-skip person—typically the child of the transferor.



As an example of a taxable termination, consider a transferor who establishes an income-producing trust for his son. Upon the son's death, the remaining property would be passed on to the transferor's grandchild, at which time those assets would be subject to the GST tax.



A taxable distribution refers to any distribution of income or property, from a trust to a skip person that is not otherwise subject to estate or gift tax. If a grandmother established a trust that made payments to her grandson, those payments would be subject to GST taxes, which the recipient is responsible for paying.


   How Much Is the Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax?  

In the past, the GSTT has been hefty, ranging from 35% to 77%. The current rate, which has been in effect since 2014, is 40%; however, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act dramatically lessened the estates that might be affected by it. For 2022, the federal estate, gift, and GSTT exemption is $12.06 million for each individual ($12.92 million in 2023) and $24.12 million for married couples ($25.84 million in 2023), more than doubling the pre-TCJA limit of $5.49 million (for individuals).






Some states also collect generation-skipping transfer taxes, generally the ones that impose their own estate taxes.



Only the value of a person’s estate that is in excess of the applicable exemption is subject to an estate tax at death or the GSTT, at that flat rate of 40%. So only aggregate gifts and bequests to a skip person in excess of $12.06 million in 2022 ($12.92 million in 2023) would be subject to the 40% flat generation-skipping transfer tax.



The GSTT is assessed when the gift or property transfer is made; GSTs can occur before or after the death of the transferor. While still alive, the transferor can give the gift directly to the skip person. But upon death, the transferor's will may either stipulate that property is bequeathed to a skip person, or it may call for the establishment of a trust from which distributions will be made. Form 709 is used to report both GST taxes and transfers whereby federal gift taxes are due.


   GSTT Strategies  

Most beneficiaries will avoid the GST tax because the estates they inherit will be worth less than the government-provided estate tax credit. The GSTT exemption is very high (as noted above).



However, in cases where the tax could apply, transferors can create dynasty trusts, which are designed to avoid or minimize estate taxes with each generational transfer. By parking assets in the trust and making specified distributions to each generation, the corpus of the trust isn’t subject to estate taxes with the transfer.




What Triggers the Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax?
The generation-skipping transfer tax is triggered when a person gifts another person an asset but skips a generation in doing so. For example, when a person gifts a home to their grandchild and skips their child.




Who Pays the Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax?
The generation-skipping transfer tax is paid by either the grantor or the skipped beneficiary. The grantor pays the direct generation-skipping tax while an indirect generation-skipping tax is paid by the skipped beneficiary. The former is the most common scenario.




How Much Can a Parent Gift a Child Tax-Free in 2022?
A parent can gift a child tax-free $16,000 in 2022. In 2023, the amount is $17,000. This is per parent and per recipient.
What Is a Generation-Skipping Trust (GST)?  

A generation-skipping trust (GST) is a type of legally binding trust agreement in which the contributed assets are passed down to the grantor's grandchildren, thus "skipping" the next generation, the grantor's children. By passing over the grantor's children, the assets avoid the estate taxes—taxes on an individual's property upon his or her death—that would apply if the children directly inherited them.



Generation-skipping trusts are effective wealth-preservation tools for individuals with significant assets and savings.





Key Takeaways

A generation-skipping trust (GST) is a legally binding agreement in which assets are passed down to the grantor's grandchildren—or anyone at least 37½ years younger—bypassing the next generation of the grantor's children.By skipping the opportunity to receive the assets, the children of the grantor avoid the estate taxes that would otherwise be due.Generation-skipping trusts are liable for taxation if the amount transferred exceeds a certain annually adjusted threshold ($11.7 million in 2021).﻿﻿


   Understanding a Generation-Skipping Trust (GST)  

Because a generation-skipping trust effectively transfers assets from the grantor's estate to grandchildren, the grantor's children never take title to the assets. This is what allows the grantor to avoid the estate taxes that would apply if the assets came into the possession of the next generation first.



Though grandchildren are the most common beneficiaries, the recipient of a generation-skipping transfer doesn't necessarily have to be a family member. The beneficiary can be anybody who is at least 37½ years younger than the grantor and not a spouse or ex-spouse.






Generation-skipping trusts can still provide some financial benefits to the next generation because the grantor can give children access to any income the trust's assets generate while still leaving the assets themselves in trust for grandchildren.


   Taxing the Generation-Skipping Transfer Trust (GST)  

Due to the generation-skipping trust's viability as a loophole to avoid federal estate taxes, changes were made to the tax code in 1986 that created a generation-skipping transfer tax. Generation-skipping transfer tax rates have risen and fallen over the years, with a recent high of 55% in 2001 and a low of 0% in 2010—due to an exemption awarded by the 2010 Tax Relief Act.



Intended to ensure that people transferring modest sums of wealth to younger generations don't have to bear the brunt of the tax burden, these exemptions were secured by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. This legislation established a permanent $5 million tax exemption on generation-skipping transfers, which meant the federal tax on a generation-skipping transfer of wealth would apply only if the amount exceeded $5 million.



However, the GSTT truly applies to the very wealthy because the transferred amount is astronomical. Most people will never encounter the GSTT because of the high threshold: the tax only applies when the transferred amount exceeds $11.4 million per individual (for 2019), and in 2021 is $11.7 million.





$11.7 million

The generation-skipping tax exemption amount for 2021.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   Increasing the Generation-Skipping Trust Tax Exemption  

Even with the installment of taxes on generation-skipping transfers, GSTs still serve as tools for high-net-worth individuals to transfer wealth at a lower tax rate. And they became even sharper tools on Dec. 22, 2017, when President Donald Trump signed into effect the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which doubled the generation-skipping tax exemption.



Starting on Jan. 1, 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) doubled the estate tax exemption to $11.2 million for singles and $22.4 million for married couples, but only for 2018 through 2025. The exemption level is indexed for inflation. The 40% top tax rate remains in place.



This act expires on Jan 1, 2026, pushing the exemptions back to their pre-Act amounts unless Congress extends them.
What Is Generation X (Gen X)?  

Generation X, which is sometimes shortened to Gen X, is the name given to the generation of Americans born between the mid-1960s and the early-1980s.



The exact years that comprise Gen X vary. Some researchers—demographers William Strauss and Neil Howe, for example—place the exact birth years from 1961 to 1981, whereas Gallup places the birth years between 1965 and 1979. But all agree that Gen X follows the baby boom generation and precedes Generation Y or the millennial generation.





Key Takeaways

Generation X, or Gen X, refers to the generation of Americans born between the mid-1960s and the early-1980s.Gen Xers, which fall between baby boomers and millennials, number around 65 million.Members of this group are approaching the middle of their working careers and potential peak-earning years.The generation is on track to become the first generation to be worse off in terms of being prepared for retirement than their parents.


   Understanding Generation X  

The name "Generation X" comes from a novel by Douglas Coupland, Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture, published in 1991. Though it's more useful for marketing than sociology, generational theory—the assumption that people born within the same time frame can be considered a group with similar views, values, tastes, and habits—and the idea of a generation gap has gained broad acceptance in the U.S.



The American generations covered in the theory are:



Greatest Generation (born circa 1901 to 1924)
Silent Generation (circa 1925 to 1945)
Baby Boomers (circa 1946 to 1964)
Generation X (circa 1965 to 1980)
Millennial Generation (circa 1981 to 1996)
Gen Z (post-Millennial) (circa 1997 to 2012)



Gen X numbers around 65 million, while the baby boomers and the millennials each have around 72 million members. Gen X is also sometimes referred to as the “latchkey generation” as they were often left unsupervised at home after school until their parents came home from work.



Like the silent generation, Generation X has been defined as an "in-between" generation. The group's earning power and savings were compromised first by the dotcom bust, and second by the financial crisis of 2008 and the Great Recession. In terms of social and political power, Generation X is sandwiched between the baby boomers, who came of age during the Vietnam and Reagan eras and the millennials of the Obama era.






Gen X overlaps with another group called the sandwich generation. Each modern generation has gotten its time in this slot, which is used to characterize middle-aged individuals who—due to longer life spans and having children later in life—find themselves supporting both aging parents and growing children simultaneously.


   Gen X vs. Baby Boomers and Millennials  

The 22nd Annual Transamerica Retirement Survey of Workers, published in 2022, compares Gen X, baby boomers, and millennials. Among its findings:



24% of baby boomers have taken a loan or early withdrawal from a retirement account, compared with 33% of Gen X savers and 46% of millennials.As of 2021, baby boomers had an estimated median retirement savings per household of $162,000, compared with $87,000 for Gen X and $50,000 for millennials.Among those offered a 401(k) or similar plan, 93% of baby boomers saved for retirement, while 91% of Gen X and 89% of millennials did.However, among those not offered a 401(k), 63% of baby boomers still saved for retirement, compared with 50% for Gen X and only 42% of millennials.


   Gen X's Financial Situation  

Over the next two decades there will be a major transfer of wealth—collectively, around $84 trillion—from baby boomers to younger generations including their Gen X children. And they're going to need it.



Gen X accounts for just 28% of the nation’s wealth, while baby boomers hold just over half (52%), according to the latest data from the Federal Reserve. In 2008, at a median age of 35, Gen Xers owned just 7.4% of the nation’s wealth, less than half of what baby boomers had when they were 35.






Notable members of Generation X include Jeff Bezos, Tiger Woods, and the late Kurt Cobain.


   Retirement Savings  

Almost 60% of Gen X respondents to the Transamerica survey “strongly agree” or “somewhat agree” that they are creating a sizable enough nest egg. Gen X has an average of $64,000 in retirement savings. Not surprisingly baby boomers have the most, $144,000, and millennials the least, $23,000. Nine percent of Gen Xers have no retirement savings at all.



This falls far short of what the generations each expect they will need to retire. Gen X and baby boomers estimate that to feel financially secure they will need $500,000, and millennials $300,000.


   Effects of Market Timing on Gen X  

On average, Gen X households began working, saving, and investing during a period of lower investment returns than the baby boomers. Many Gen X households began building their savings in periods of high market valuations, such as the technology bubble and dotcom bubble of the late-1990s and in the run-up to the global financial crisis of 2008. The effects of the ensuing bear markets still weigh heavily on their portfolios.



Only 44% of Gen X workers said they have fully recovered or were not impacted by the Great Recession, compared to 50% of baby boomers, according to the Transamerica survey.



Additionally, Gen Xer's have experienced an especially low-interest-rate environment which has had an adverse impact on their ability to increase the value of their financial assets. Meanwhile, the early experiences of Gen X investors with major market declines seem to have made them more risk averse.


   Other Challenges Faced by Gen X  

Gen Xers' relatively lower levels of wealth will make it difficult for them to maintain their parents' consumption patterns, rising costs of education, healthcare, and property. And then there's the sandwich syndrome—the fact that this generation has reached the age when they are supporting and educating children while also providing care for aging parents.



Gen Xers now have the highest average debt of any generation, according to research by Experian. They increased their average debt by about 3.5%, or $4,802, between 2019 and 2020 reaching $140,643. Mortgage debt accounted for the highest proportion, followed by HELOC loans, student loans, car loans, personal loans, and credit card debt.


   Reinventing Retirement for Gen X  

The retirement landscape is different for Gen X than for their parents. Once common, pension plans in the private sector are rare and have been replaced by defined-contribution plans, such as a 401(k). And Gen Xers aren’t counting on Social Security to fund their retirement either.



Baby boomers (37%) are much more likely to expect Social Security to be their primary source of retirement income, compared with just 26% of Gen X, according to the Transamerica survey. In fact, 41% of Gen X "strongly agree" that Social Security might not be around when they retire, while 26% of baby boomers feel the same.”



Transamerica found that, overall, workers across the three generations share financial and healthy aging-related reasons for working past age 65. But baby boomers are more likely than the other generations to do so because they want the income. Generation X will continue working as they can’t afford to retire because they haven’t saved enough.


   Financial Planning for Gen X  

The potential for financial duress can be substantial, but steps can be taken to reduce stress, balance budgets, and mitigate the effects of unplanned life events. Here are some recommendations for Gen X to get their financial lives in order and deal with all layers of that generational sandwich: Children, parents, and themselves.


  Make an Estate Plan  

This is vitally important if you have dependent children and do not yet have a will or other necessary documents. You do not want the fate of your dependents or your belongings to be decided by a judge in probate court. So, now is the time to make an appointment with an estate planning attorney to get your will, living will, medical, and durable powers of attorney—and perhaps a living trust—created to ensure the smooth and quick transference of all of your dependents, possessions, and responsibilities to your heirs.



And because estate settlement can be an emotionally delicate process, doing this now can allow you and your family to think through how this should be done from a calm, logical perspective.


  Get a Comprehensive Financial Plan  

When you were in your 20s, managing your finances was a fairly simple matter of getting into good financial habits, such as saving and budgeting. Now you are at the point where your finances are probably a bit more complicated and one financial variable, such as the amount that you contribute to your company’s 401(k) plan, can affect several other areas in ways that are becoming difficult to compute or predict with any accuracy.



This variable impact probably means that it is time to enlist a professional financial planner or financial advisor who can plug your cash flow, balance sheet, risk tolerance, investment objectives, time horizon, and tax bracket into a sophisticated financial-planning program. This can give you at least some idea of where you really are financially and what you need to do going forward to get where you want to be by retirement age. Just be prepared to see some unpleasant numbers at the end, numbers that may indicate that you will not be able to retire as soon as you hoped.


  Manage Your Debt  

If your debt load has become unmanageable, find one of the legitimate debt-management firms that will help you get it under control.


  Get a Head Start on College Planning  

Although most experts warn parents about diverting retirement savings into their kids’ college funds, this is the time to open a Coverdell Educational Savings Account or a 529 plan fund if none exists. Your kids can contribute to these funds as well as you, and money that you inherit from deceased parents or other relatives can also be college-funding sources. Opening an individual retirement account for them can be another good choice, as long as you’re confident that they will not withdraw the contributions for other purposes.


  Get a Financial Picture From Parents  

Granted, conversations about money between parents and their children can be awkward. But if you have not spoken with your parents about the state of their health and finances, then it’s probably time to get the ball rolling in this area. If your parents’ health is failing and they have no estate plan in place, then it may be wise to fork over the cash yourself to pay to have this done if they consent.



Consult an elder law attorney for advice if you need help dealing with managed-care issues and choose a designated sibling to be the point person for dealing with these matters. A common mistake the children of aging parents make is the overestimation of Medicare, Medigap, and Medicaid coverage. Having an understanding of what needs to be paid for out-of-pocket can determine if purchasing long-term care insurance (if that's still feasible) and supplemental insurance policies may be beneficial.


  Have Returning Children Contribute  

The pressure of caring for aging parents can be multiplied by the expense of supporting grown children. Requiring offspring who return home after college to help with household expenses— including paying rent, buying groceries, or assisting with the elders' care—can relieve some of the pressure associated with supporting multiple generations. It can also provide children with some life lessons in financial and fiscal responsibility.




Why Is Gen X Sometimes Called the Lost Generation?
Also known as the "lost generation," "forgotten generation," or "invisible generation," Gen X has been labeled these monikers because of the shifting societal values that occurred during their rise that witnessed a rise in divorces, single-parent households, and loneliness. Today, GenX is again considered “lost” because it is stuck between the Baby Boomers and the Millennials.




Is Gen Z or X Older?
Gen X is older than Gen Z by several decades.




What Does the "X" Stand for in Generation X?
The letter "X" refers to an unknown variable (as in mathematics), or to the generation's desire not to be defined.
What Is a Generic Brand?  

The term generic brand refers to a type of consumer product on the market that lacks a widely recognized name or logo because it typically isn't advertised. Generic brands are usually less expensive than their brand name counterparts due to their lack of promotion, which can inflate the cost of a good or service. These brands, which are designed as substitutes for more expensive brand name goods, are especially common in the food and pharmaceutical industry and tend to be more popular during a recession.





Key Takeaways

A generic brand is a consumer product without a widely recognized name or logo because it typically isn't advertised.Generic brands are known for their very basic packaging and labels, and lower prices.A generic drug or pharmaceutical brand may be created when the patent of a name brand drug expires.


   Understanding Generic Brands  

These brands are known for their trimmed-down packaging and plain labels. Rather than being known by a brand name, generic products are distinguished by their characteristics alone. All of this helps keep the product's price down significantly.



When comparing generic and brand-name products, consumers tend to pay close attention to and compare their lists of individual ingredients. Most consumers believe that generics are of a lesser quality compared to brand names. The quality of generic brands, though, is generally comparable to name brand products. Despite the difference in cost between name and generic brands, there is little taste or nutritional difference between them. Some consumers may prefer generics—as they're often called—over name brands, even if its price isn't a considering factor.



As noted above, generic brands can be found in the food and beverage industry as well as in pharmaceuticals. For example, a supermarket may offer its own generic product—say a dairy product like sour cream—next to a name brand product to appeal to a cost-conscious customer. Or a pharmacy may offer consumers a generic alternative to Advil's ibuprofen.






Generic brands may be manufactured in the same production facilities as name brand products.


   Special Considerations  

A generic drug or pharmaceutical may be created when a name-brand drug's patent expires. In the U.S, which is responsible for most drug patents, the patent term length is 20 years. There is also an exclusivity period—the length of which depends on the drug type and its use. Once a patent ends and exclusivity is satisfied, a single manufacturer is permitted to produce a generic, chemically identical version of the brand-name drug. At the end of the generic's period of exclusivity, any other manufacturer that can prove that it can achieve the same drug efficacy may make a generic version of that drug.



Some manufacturers may even create a generic version of their brand-name drug, either by manufacturing it themselves or contracting it out to another manufacturer. This strategy makes sense because insurance company policy often dictates that a generic, when available, must be prescribed. Generics are sold at a discount from brand name drugs, often about 80 to 85% less. Because of competition, margins on generic drugs can be very thin. In 2020 it was estimated that generic drugs had saved the health care system about $2.2 trillion over the previous decade.


  Private Label Brands  

A variation of a generic brand is a private brand label—also called a store brand, own brand, or private brand—in which an item carries the brand of a store. Some stores offer both value and premium versions of the same private label product.


   Types of Generic Brands  

Grocery and dollar stores are well known for their generic brands. Those commonly found on these retailers' shelves include:



Dairy productsSnacks such as cookies and potato chipsCanned products such as soup, fruit, and vegetablesDry goods including pasta and rice



Generic brands in pharmacies include but aren't limited to:



Pain relieversCough medicinesBaby productsPersonal hygiene products such as shampoo, conditioner, soap, and toothpasteMedical products such as cleansers, bandages,


   Generic Brands vs. Brand Name Generics  

Some well-known name brands have become genericized. This can happen when a company loses trademark protection or if a name becomes part of everyday jargon. Here are a few common examples:



Aspirin is a trademark in more than 80 countries, but is the name used by any company in the U.S. for any acetylsalicylic acid productDumpster was a trademarked type of mobile garbage bin, but it is now the general name for any product serving this purposeZipper was a trademark of rubber products maker B.F. Goodrich used in rubber bootsEscalator was a trademark of Otis Elevator, but now it refers to any such device
What Is a Genesis Block?  

A Genesis Block is the name given to the first block a cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin, ever mined. A blockchain consists of a series of so-called blocks that are used to store information related to transactions that occur on a blockchain network. Each of the blocks contains a unique header, and each such block is identified by its block header hash individually. 



These blocks get layered—one on top of the other, with the Genesis Block being the foundation—and they grow in height until the end of the blockchain is reached and the sequence is complete. The layers and deep history of each sequence is one of the things that makes a blockchain-based cryptocurrency so secure.  



Bitcoin's Genesis Block was the first instance of a proof-of-work blockchain system and is the template for all other blocks in its blockchain. In 2009, Bitcoin's pseudonymous developer, Satoshi Nakamoto, created the Genesis Block, which launched the cryptocurrency boom that is ongoing today.





Key Takeaways

Genesis Block is the name of the first block of Bitcoin ever mined.In 2009, a developer named Satoshi Nakamoto created the Genesis Block.The Genesis Block forms the foundation of the Bitcoin trading system and is the prototype of all other blocks in the Bitcoin blockchain. 


   Understanding the Genesis Block  

Blocks are effectively digital containers where data pertaining to the transactions on the network are permanently recorded. A block records some or all of the most recent Bitcoin transactions that have not yet entered any prior blocks. Thus, a block is like a page of a ledger or record book. Each time a block is "completed," it gives way to the next block in the blockchain. A block is thus a permanent store of records that, once written, cannot be altered or removed.



The Genesis Block, also known as Block 0, is the very first block upon which additional blocks in a blockchain are added. It is effectively the ancestor that every other block can trace its lineage back to since every block references the one preceding it. This began the process of validating bitcoin transactions and introducing new bitcoins into existence.



The next block, known as Block 1, wasn't mined until six days after the Genesis Block. This is considered odd as the average timestamp gap between blocks is intended to be 10 minutes.



There are a few theories regarding the delay: Some have theorized that Nakamoto spent six days mining the original block to test out the Bitcoin system in order to make sure it was stable (then backdated the timestamp), while more some cultish followers believe Satoshi intended to recreate the story of God's rest after creating the world in six days. 


   Bitcoin Basics  

Bitcoin is a type of cryptocurrency, which is based on the peer-to-peer electronic cash system developed by Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin refers to the system and concept of the trading platform and "bitcoin"—small "b"—refers to the virtual coinage that is traded. There are no actual coins, hence the "bit"—or binary digit, the most basic unit of data in computing—before "coin."



In the world of digital currency, blocks are files where data about the Bitcoin network and its transactions are permanently recorded. Each time a block is completed—that is, filled with bitcoin transactions—it gives way to the next block in the blockchain. The only way to release new cryptocurrency into circulation is through mining. So, to "mine bitcoin" is to "mint currency."



Like gold, Bitcoin cannot be created arbitrarily. Gold must be mined out of the ground, and Bitcoin (BTC) must be mined via digital means.



Moreover, Bitcoin's founder stipulated that, like gold, the supply of bitcoin should be limited and finite. Only 21 million BTC can be mined in total. When miners have unlocked this many bitcoin, then the planet's supply will be tapped out, unless someone changes Bitcoin's protocol to allow for a larger supply.


   Mysteries of the Genesis Block  

Beginning with the fact that the name "Satoshi Nakamoto" itself is a pseudonym, the Genesis Block and the founding of Bitcoin remains riddled with mystery. Shortly after the launch of Bitcoin, the person called "Satoshi Nakamoto" vanished from the face of the earth, leaving barely a trace. This auspicious event paved the way for the continuous enigma surrounding what fans lovingly call "the Block."


  The First 50 BTC Could Not be Spent  

The Genesis Block's beginnings were shrouded in the debate about a fine point of its creation: Was the code that rendered the Genesis Block effectively untradeable an intention or a mistake on the part of Nakamoto?



Although the Genesis Block points to a web address—written into the Genesis Block's code—that link displayed an error message when activated. The system could not find the first 50-BTC transaction in its database, and the spending transaction was rejected. So, the Genesis Block's transaction is not considered a "real transaction" by the original Bitcoin client.



But why? Did Nakamoto mean for the first bitcoin to be non-tradeable? Or, was it a mistake? This became the subject of much debate among Bitcoin fans and insiders. Because of the precision of this developer, however, most believe that it was hardly an error. Nakamoto likely wrote the code for the Genesis Block exactly the way he wanted it. We just will never know why, as the quirk was not discovered until after Nakamoto disappeared.






Current versions of the Bitcoin system handle the block/transaction databases differently from the original system, so the Genesis Block's transaction is now just a weird special case in the code.


   Bitcoin's Genesis Block Secret Message  

Another puzzling aspect of the Genesis Block is the secret message that Nakamoto instilled within the Block's raw data: "The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks."



Although Nakamoto never commented on the meaning of this text, most believe that it serves as a mission statement for Bitcoin itself.



The text is a headline for an article in the January 3, 2009 edition of The [London] Times about the British government's failure to stimulate the economy following the 2007–08 financial crisis. Nakamoto famously hated the idea of too-big-to-fail financial institutions and wanted Bitcoin to be different in that regard. Most people think that Nakamoto's reference to the article in the Genesis Block's code was a hint as to how Bitcoin is different from the big investment banks that needed government bailouts in 2008.


   The True Legacy of the Genesis Block  

Bitcoin cannot be bailed out because its process eliminates the middleman; there is no third-party, no corporate entity to go between BTC and the consumer.



The Bitcoin network checks and double-checks itself continuously via complex mathematical problems that are first resolved by computers, then by human bitcoin miners. One cannot proceed with any bitcoin trade until the math puzzle is validated. Another failsafe is that, because all transactions are stored forever, the actions of miners can always be traced, which makes it impossible to hide any evidence of wrongdoing.



In November 2013, early protegees of Nakamoto formed the Satoshi Nakamoto Institute (SNI) to educate the public about the history and vision of Bitcoin’s creation. Among other interesting details, the SNI houses one of the biggest remnants of Nakamoto’s online existence: An extensive list of forum posts, broken into subject categories, that the Bitcoin creator penned while he still worked on the project.



Some Bitcoin fans hold the Genesis Block in a kind of cult-like reverence, as they do its anonymous creator. Fans are drawn to Bitcoin's arcane construct and idiosyncratic vocabulary with the fervor of one obsessed with a sophisticated arcade game.



Bitcoin devotees have been donating small amounts of BTC to the Genesis Block as a tribute to Satoshi Nakamoto. This is seen as a kind of sacrifice because once a coin is moved into the Genesis Block, it can never be moved again—sort of like throwing a quarter into a fountain.

Genetically Modified Foods (GMF) are produced from organisms that have had their genes altered to introduce traits not created through natural selection. Genetically modified foods (mostly fruits and vegetables) have been commercially available since the 1994.﻿﻿ Modifying the genetic code of a fruit, vegetable or animal involves introducing a gene from another organism.



In the United States, the U.S Food and Drug Administration, Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Department of Agriculture regulate genetically modified foods to ensure they are safe for human consumption.﻿﻿


   Breaking Down Genetically Modified Food (GMF)  

Proponents of genetically modified fruits and vegetables point to the benefits such as higher crop yields. Scientists genetically engineer fruits and vegetables to introduce resistance to diseases or pests. Other changes allow fruits and vegetables to withstand pesticides or herbicides.



The "green revolution" of the 20th century owed much of its success to the introduction of plants that could produce higher yields in adverse conditions, such as climates that receive less rainfall. Norman Borlaug won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for his work in developing a robust strain of wheat that drastically improved wheat yields in Mexico, India and Pakistan in the 1950s and 1960s.﻿﻿


   GMF Controversy and Critics  

Critics argue that genetically modified foods should be labeled differently from conventionally produced food. They argue there is uncertainty regarding the long-term health impacts on consumers, as well as the impact on the environment. For example, genetically modified organisms may squeeze out conventional fruits and vegetables from the environment. This in turn could impact animals, insects and other organisms that depend on those plants to survive. Critics also worry that genes from genetically modified organisms may move to conventional crops (cross-fertilization), or may be transferred from food to the consumer.



Several countries have passed or proposed legislation regulating the development and use of genetically modified organisms in the food supply. Others have taken steps to ban them outright. More than half the 28 countries in the European Union—including Germany and France—have banned farmers from growing genetically modified crops, though imports of GMF animal feed is still allowed. Several regions such as Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have also joined the anti-GMF movement, but the United Kingdom itself has no formal GMF ban.﻿﻿



Only one GM crop has been approved and grown in Europe: a type of maize that is resistant to a weevil called the European corn borer. The only farmers to grow the maize are primarily in Spain where weevils are a problem. The map below shows which countries around the world have full, partial or no restrictions on GMF.﻿﻿















Countries in Red have GMO Prohibitions as of 2016.
 Genetic Literacy Project
What Is a Gentlemen's Agreement?  

A gentlemen's agreement is an informal, often unwritten agreement or transaction backed only by the integrity of the counterparty to actually abide by its terms. An agreement such as this is generally informal, made orally, and is not legally binding.



Despite their more casual nature, a violation of a gentlemen's agreement could have a negative effect on business relationships if one party decides to renege on their promise. A gentlemen's agreement (also spelled "gentleman's agreement") may or may not be consummated by a handshake.





Key Takeaways

Gentlemen's agreements are informal, unwritten agreements between two parties to undertake a transaction or other commitment.These agreements are not legally binding but are instead backed by the integrity, social norms, and peer pressure of those involved and their social networks.Despite their unofficial status, gentlemen's agreements have been common in business and trade dating back centuries.


   Understanding Gentlemen's Agreements  

A gentleman's agreement, being more of a point of honor and etiquette, relies on the forbearance of two or more parties for the fulfillment of spoken or unspoken obligations. Unlike a binding contract or legal agreement, there is no court-administered redress if a gentlemen's agreement is broken.



Still, social pressures and norms help keep gentlemen's agreements in force. Indeed, the damage to one's reputation can be more harmful in the long run than any monetary gain that may result from going against such an agreement. Trust can quickly be eroded in such a case, and few people will want to enter into business with somebody with a reputation for reneging.


   How A Gentlemen's Agreement Works  

Gentlemen's agreements have been commonly made in international trade and relations, as well as in most industries. Gentlemen's agreements were especially prevalent at the birth of the industrial age and well into the first half of the 1900s, as regulation often lagged new business practices. Such agreements were found to be in use to control prices and limit competition in the steel, iron, water, and tobacco industries, among others.






A gentlemen's agreement is often (but not always) sealed with a handshake (or similar gesture) that is socially recognized by both parties to the agreement as well as to any witnesses or outsiders.


   Limitations of a Gentlemen's Agreement  

At its worst, a gentlemen's agreement may be made to engage in anti-competitive practices, such as price-fixing or trade quotas. Since a gentlemen's agreement is tacit—not committed to paper as a legal, binding contract—it may be used to create and impose rules that are illegal.



The end result, in many cases, may be higher costs or lower quality products for consumers. Worse yet, a gentlemen's agreement may be used as a means to promote discriminatory practices, such as in an "old boy's network."



Gentlemen's agreements, because they are informal and often not written down, do not have the same legal and regulatory protections in place that a formal contract has, and thus are more difficult to enforce.






The U.S. government placed a prohibition on gentlemen's agreements in trade and commercial relations between nations in 1890.


   History and Examples of Gentlemen's Agreements  

Gentlemen's agreements between industry and the U.S. government were common in the 1800s and early 1900s. This, however, led some regulators to believe that there was rampant collusion and unfair business dealings. The Bureau of Corporations, a predecessor to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), was thus formed in 1903 to investigate monopolistic practices.



What resulted, in some cases, were new gentlemen's agreements in which Wall Street financiers, such as J.P. Morgan and his "House of Morgan," would meet with the bureau itself to receive prior clearance on mergers and takeovers. One such example was the gentlemen's agreement that had regulators and the President overlook the Sherman Antitrust Act to allow United States Steel Corp. to become the world's first billion-dollar company.



In 1907, a stock market panic that hit several big investment banks led to a financial crisis. The panic led to President Theodore Roosevelt working closely with J.P. Morgan to consolidate banks under the argument that doing so would stave off a larger crisis.



Similarly, in 1907 Morgan again worked informally with Roosevelt to create a gentlemen's agreement that would allow U.S. Steel to acquire its largest competitor, Tennessee Coal and Iron, in an unwritten and unstated rule that violated the Sherman Act.


  Example: Gentlemen’s Agreement Between the U.S. and Japan  

Gentlemen's agreements may also be found in trade treaties and international relations. One example is the Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907 that saw the United States and the Empire of Japan address immigration from Japan and the poor treatment of Japanese immigrants already in America. The agreement, never ratified by Congress, saw Japan agree to no longer issue passports to individuals seeking to immigrate to America for work. The United States, in turn, would no longer allow discrimination and segregation of Japanese citizens residing in America.




What Is the Purpose of a Gentlemen's Agreement?
A gentlemen's agreement may be proposed to consummate a deal between two or more parties without the need for regulatory oversight or a trusted third-party enforcer such as a court or judge. This can reduce transaction costs and also make the reconciliation of the deal more flexible.




What Was the Gentlemen’s Agreement of 1907?
In 1907, U.S. negotiators settled on a gentlemen's agreement that restricted immigration to America by Japanese nationals. In return, President Roosevelt agreed to cancel a San Francisco statute whereby Japanese children were segregated from white students.




What Are Other Words to Describe A Gentlemen’s Agreement?
Other words to describe a gentlemen's (gentleman's) agreement are an "informal agreement," "unspoken agreement," "handshake agreement," "verbal agreement," "tacit agreement," or "unwritten agreement." Pactum (Latin for pact) is another way to describe it.




Does a Gentlemen's Agreement Stand Up In Court?
A gentleman's agreement can be enforceable when it meets the criteria of an "oral contract, although some types of contracts, such as for a real estate transaction, must always be in writing.
What Is Gentrification?  

Gentrification is the transformation of a city neighborhood from low value to high value. Gentrification is also viewed as a process of urban development in which a neighborhood or portion of a city develops rapidly in a short period of time, often as a result of urban-renewal programs. This process is often marked by inflated home prices and displacement of a neighborhood's previous residents.





Key Takeaways

Gentrification is a process of urban development in which a city neighborhood develops rapidly over a short time, changing from low to high value.A neighborhood's residents are often displaced by rising rents and living costs brought about by gentrification.Gentrification raises complex social issues and has both benefits and drawbacks; it is often politically charged.Causes of gentrification can include rapid job growth, tight housing markets, preference for city amenities, and increased traffic congestion.


   Understanding Gentrification  

Gentrification is derived from the word "gentry," which historically referred to people of an elevated social status. In the United Kingdom, the term "landed gentry" originally described landowners who could live off of the rental income from their properties. In its current context, gentrification was first popularized by the British sociologist Ruth Glass in 1964, when she used the term to describe the influx of middle-class people into London's working-class neighborhoods, displacing the former residents of those localities.



Numerous cities around the world experience the phenomenon of gentrification, which can have a direct impact on housing market dynamics. In most major cities, some neighborhoods that were previously less than desirable have morphed into vibrant districts with plush condominiums and offices, new coffee shops and restaurants, expensive retail storefronts, and various entertainment choices.


   Gentrification Poses Complex Issues  

Gentrification is a complex social issue with both benefits and drawbacks. Young families welcome the opportunity to buy reasonably priced homes in a safe community with sound infrastructure, and a wide choice of amenities and services. Local municipalities and governments also benefit from collecting higher taxes on rising property values and increased economic activity. However, the neighborhoods' original inhabitants—also families, as well as singles of various ages—are often displaced from the very community that they helped build because of rising rents and a higher cost of living.


   Why Gentrification Is Controversial  

Gentrification has become controversial because, historically, it has come with a significant component of discrimination against racial minorities, women and children, the poor, and older adults. Even as it may bring about a reversal in the decline of a city, displacement caused by gentrification can force prior residents into poorer and relatively unsafe areas, with limited access to affordable housing, healthy food choices, and social networks. In turn, this can trigger increased stress levels and decreased mental health.



According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), vulnerable segments of the population are at increased risk for negative health effects of gentrification, such as shorter life expectancies and increased rates of cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Displacement often leads to exclusion of the original residents, particularly people of color, and a lack of government support—for low-income housing assistance, for example—as well as weakened social and community ties.






A 2019 study by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition found that between 2000 and 2013, seven of the biggest U.S. cities—New York City, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Baltimore, San Diego, and Chicago—accounted for nearly half of the country's gentrification.


   The Causes of Gentrification  

An oft-cited study of the Brookings Institution Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy highlights some of the factors that contribute to gentrification.



Rapid job growth in both a city's downtown core and along its periphery can foster gentrification.
Tight housing market dynamics play a critical role in causing gentrification and can vary from one location to the next. In the gentrification wave of the 1980s, for example, constrained housing supply was a feature of the San Francisco Bay Area, and relative home affordability was an issue in Washington, D.C.
Preference for city amenities can play a factor because certain demographic groups have traditionally preferred to live in urban neighborhoods because of attractions like cultural venues, a plethora of appealing restaurants and shops, vibrant street life, and population diversity. The presence of such features can help city planners to identify which neighborhoods would tend to gentrify.
Increased traffic congestion can contribute because as metropolitan populations rise and infrastructure ages, the resultant increase in traffic congestion and commute times, along with the consequent decline in quality of life, can contribute to gentrification.
Targeted public-sector policies play a role because many cities pursue revitalization policies—including tax incentives, public-housing plans, and local economic development tools—that offer incentives for middle- and high-income families to move into distressed communities, or for original residents to upgrade their homes.






One way to combat pricing people out of affordable housing, a form of housing discrimination, is a community land trust (CLT). These are private, non-profit organizations that own land on behalf of a community, promoting housing affordability and sustainable development and mitigating historical inequities in homeownership and wealth-building. 


   Challenging Long-Held Views  

Recent research challenges some long-held views about the negative effects of gentrification. In a July 2019 paper, researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and the U.S. Census Bureau found that gentrification can create some important benefits for original residents, and few observable harms.



The study found no evidence that original residents who moved out—including the most disadvantaged residents—relocated to observably worse neighborhoods or experienced negative changes in employment, income, or commuting distance.Many adult original residents stayed in their gentrifying neighborhoods and benefited from declining exposure to poverty and rising home values. Children also benefited from increased economic opportunity; some were more apt to attend and complete college.The quantity and composition of people moving into the neighborhood, not the direct displacement of previous residents, drove the most visible changes associated with gentrification.
What Is Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI)?  

A genuine progress indicator (GPI) is a metric used to measure the economic growth of a country. It is often considered an alternative metric to the more well-known gross domestic product (GDP) economic indicator. The GPI indicator takes everything the GDP uses into account but adds other figures that represent the cost of the negative effects related to economic activity, such as the cost of crime, cost of ozone depletion, and cost of resource depletion, among others.



The GPI nets the positive and negative results of economic growth to examine whether or not it has benefited people overall.





Key Takeaways

The genuine progress indicator (GPI) is a national-level measure of economic growth and prosperity.GPI is an alternative metric to GDP but which accounts for externalities such as pollution.As such, GPI is considered to be a better measure of growth from the perspective of green or social economics.Proponents suggest that GPI is a better metric as it provides a full view of the health of a nation.Critics suggest that some GPI measures are too subjective, rendering it a less effective tool for measuring economic growth.


   How the Genuine Progress Indicator Works  

The Genuine Progress Indicator is an attempt to measure whether the environmental impact and social costs of economic production and consumption in a country are negative or positive factors in overall health and well-being.



The GPI metric was developed out of the theories of green economics (which sees the economic market as a piece within an ecosystem). Proponents of the GPI see it as a better measure of the sustainability of an economy when compared to the GDP measure. Since 1995, the GPI indicator has grown in stature and is used in Canada and the United States. However, both these countries still report their economic information in GDP to remain in line with the more widespread practice.


   History of Genuine Progress Indicator  

In the 1930s, the Roosevelt administration sought ways to measure the United States's economic output after instituting policies to address a failing economy using questionable data. The Department of Commerce enlisted National Bureau of Economic Research economist Simon Kuznets to establish more suitable economic metrics than what was previously used. In response, he presented to Congress his report "National Income 1929-1935", which gave birth to the concept of gross domestic product (GDP).






Prior to the 1930s, there was no way to measure national income and output.﻿﻿



However, Kuznets warned that the GDP would not be able to measure the welfare of a nation. So, some 30 years later in 1995, U.S.-based organization Redefining Progress built upon this notion, creating a pathway for Clifford Cobb, Ted Halstead, and Jonathan Rowe to create the Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI), which consists of 26 indicators. This new metric was designed to define a nation's welfare not only by its economic measures but also by the state of its social, environmental, and human conditions.



Because GPI is loosely defined, practitioners developed their own parameters for which to measure economic welfare. The inconsistencies made it difficult to compare one economy to another and, therefore, rendered some minimally useful.



Two GPI summits were held to address these inconsistencies, and, as a result, researchers and practitioners modified GPI—GPI 2.0—to streamline the accounting processes and replace antiquated methodologies that did not provide an accurate and complete picture of an economy. A pilot is underway in select U.S. states and Canada to test the efficacy of GPI 2.0.


   GPI vs. GDP  

GDP increases twice when pollution is created – once upon creation (as a side-effect of some valuable process) and again when the pollution is cleaned up. By contrast, GPI counts the initial pollution as a loss rather than a gain, generally equal to the amount it will cost to clean up later plus the cost of any negative impact the pollution will have in the meantime. Quantifying the costs and benefits of these environmental and social externalities is a difficult task.



By accounting for the costs borne by the society as a whole to repair or control pollution and poverty, GPI balances GDP spending against external costs. GPI advocates claim that it can more reliably measure economic progress as it distinguishes between the overall "shift in the 'value basis' of a product, adding its ecological impacts into the equation." 



The relationship between GDP and GPI mimics the relationship between the gross profit and net profit of a company. The net profit is the gross profit minus the costs incurred, while the GPI is the GDP (value of all goods and services produced) minus the environmental and social costs. Accordingly, the GPI will be zero if the financial costs of poverty and pollution equal the financial gains from the production of goods and services, all other factors being constant.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of GPI  

Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) measures the economy holistically by considering economic indicators that the GDP doesn't. For example, it accounts for negative externalities, such as pollution and crime, and other social breakdowns that compromise the economy and the welfare of the people it serves. These events create large societal costs from the resulting damages.



Benefits to society, such as volunteerism, housework, and higher education are significant contributions to society but were largely ignored because they were difficult to quantify. And as no consideration is given in exchange for these types of services, they are not included in the GDP. However, to account for their impact on the economy, the GPI prescribes values to each.



Accounting for these activities and events that ordinarily have no assigned values can be problematic. Including them requires values to be assigned, and these values can differ based on who is ascribing them. This level of subjectivity can make it difficult to compare GPIs.



Also, the broad definition of GPI allows for different interpretations and calculations. These inconsistencies can make it difficult to get an accurate accounting of factors and compare GPIs. They also make it difficult for GPI to be adopted as the economic standard of measurement.





Pros

Includes environmental and social factors not considered in the GDP
Assigns values to societal contributions, such as volunteering



Cons

Makes it difficult to compare GPIs due to subjectivity
Allows for different interpretations and calculations due to broad definition





   Genuine Progress Indicator FAQs  
  How Is GPI Different From GDP?  

Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) factors in all the components of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and includes environmental and social elements that impact the economy, such as pollution, volunteerism, crime, and climate change. Some economists suggest that GPI is a better metric than GDP as it gives a holistic view of the wellbeing of a nation's economy.


  How Is GPI Calculated?  

The GPI formula is GPI = Cadj + G + W - D - S - E - N



Where:



Cadj = personal consumption with income distribution adjustmentsG = capital growthW = unconventional contributions to welfare, such as volunteerismD = defensive private spendingS = activities that negatively impact social capitalE = costs associated with the deterioration of the environmentN = activities that negatively impact natural capital


  What Are the Component Indicators of the GPI?  

The GPI consists of 26 indicators, grouped into three categories (social, economic, and environmental). Each measures a different condition of the economy. Within the social category, you will find crime, family structure, academics, and more. In the environmental category, you will find pollution, climate change, and other factors that positively or negatively affect the environment.


  Who Created the Genuine Progress Indicator?  

Taking on Simon Kuznets's disclaimer that GDP could not adequately tell how a nation is faring overall, Clifford Cobb developed the Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) along with Ted Halstead and Jonathan Rowe in 1995.


   The Bottom Line  

Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) is an economic tool used to measure the health of a nation's economy. It incorporates environmental and social factors, such as family structure, benefits from higher education, crime, and pollution, not considered in the GDP. GPI determines whether these other factors negatively or positively the economy, and can provide a holistic view into how they affect the lives and welfare of society.
What Is Geographical Diversification?  

Diversification, generally speaking, is the practice of allocating money to a wide variety of investments so as to minimize risk. It's the financial equivalent of not putting all your eggs in one basket.



Geographical diversification means holding securities from different regions. You don't want all of your money in a single country or region for the same reason you don't want it all in a single stock. The failure of that stock would be a huge blow to your portfolio.



The term also refers to the practice by large companies of locating operations in different regions or countries in order to reduce business and operational risks.





Key Takeaways

Geographical diversification is a way of reducing portfolio risk by avoiding excessive concentration in any one market.Geographical diversification can involve investing in developing countries that offer greater growth potential than developed economies.There are risks, such as unfavorable currency fluctuations and unstable political systems.


   Understanding Geographical Diversification  

Like diversification in general, geographical diversification is based on the premise that financial markets in different parts of the world may not be highly correlated with one another. For example, if the U.S. and European stock markets are declining because their economies are in a recession, an investor may allocate part of a portfolio to emerging economies with higher growth rates, such as China and India.



Most large multinational corporations also have a high degree of geographic diversification. This enables them to reduce expenses by locating plants in low-cost regions and lowers the effect of currency volatility on their financial statements. In addition, geographic diversification may have a positive impact on a corporation's revenues, as high-growth regions offset the effects of lower-growth regions.


   Pros and Cons of Geographical Diversification  

Diversifying a portfolio across different geographic regions can help investors compensate for the volatility of a single economic region, in the long reducing risk relative to less-diversified portfolios. Exchange traded funds and mutual funds have made investing globally easier than ever before.



Diversifying away from developed economies also offers benefits. In advanced markets, many businesses offer similar products and services, making for stiff competition. Developing markets, however, can be less competitive and thus offer greater growth potential. A business may sell more wearable devices, for example, in an Asian country than in the entire U.S. market.



The counter-argument is that everything in the global economy is already interconnected so that spreading your money over different regions doesn't provide the diversification benefit it once did. Additionally, many of the large companies you would be buying in, say, a U.S.-registered mutual fund already operate as multinationals.



Faster-growing economies may also involve elevated political risk, currency risk, and general market risk compared with developed economies.



Exchange rates, for example, are always in flux and could move against you. An investment in Japan, for instance, could fall in dollar terms if the yen weakens (meaning it takes more yen to buy a dollar). However, investing in multiple currencies—another way of diversifying—can provide additional risk reduction.
What is Geographical Labor Mobility?  

Geographical labor mobility refers to the level of flexibility and freedom that workers have to move from one region or locale to another in order to find gainful employment in their field.





Key Takeaways

Geographic labor mobility refers to the ability of workers within a specific economy to relocate in order to find new or better employment.Workers' mobility is determined by several factors, from transportation options to standards of living and other government-related policies.The rate of geographic labor mobility within the United States has been consistently declining since the 1980s.Greater labor mobility is often associated with higher productivity and eocnomic output.


   Understanding Geographical Labor Mobility  

Geographic labor mobility refers to the ability of workers within a specific economy to relocate to find new or better employment. It can be compared to occupational labor mobility, which is workers' ability to change jobs or professions irrespective of geographical location. Geographical labor mobility can also be related to capital mobility or the mobility of economic goods.



There are several determinants of geographic labor mobility. The ease of movement and migration and the economic incentives to relocate are the main determinants of an economy’s fluidity of geographic labor mobility. Physical, geographic, and political barriers to movement are key factors that can make moving more difficult. At the economic level, a region's size, distance, and aggregate job opportunities determine the geographic labor mobility. At the personal level, however, determinants of the individual’s specific personal circumstances, such as family situation, housing issues, local infrastructure, and individual education affect geographic labor mobility. An economy's level of trade is also a direct factor in the geographic labor mobility of its workforce. For example, increasing the level of domestic and international trade requires that offices and other institutions be opened in various parts of a country, increasing job opportunities in these locations.


   Other Elements That Affect Geographic Mobility  

In addition to the major root factors, there are other, specific key factors that can make geographic labor mobility more or less available. First, the aggregate level of education influences the mobility of the labor force, with a higher education generally resulting in greater ability to move in order to find employment.



Personal and cultural attitudes also drive labor mobility. For example, if an individual employee has no motivation to seek employment elsewhere, they will not, which results in low geographic labor mobility. Agricultural developments can also affect labor mobility as they drive people from densely populated areas to less-densely populated areas during busy seasonal periods.



Another key determinant is industrialization. Highly industrialized economies provide more blue collar job opportunities, which increases the labor mobility of the economy. More specifically, an industrialized economy helps workers move from rural locations to larger cities where there are more job opportunities.



Government policies can also heavily influence geographic labor mobility. In global economic terms, the European Union actively tries to increase the geographic labor mobility of individuals by helping qualified workers find employment in other countries and cross national borders to spur individual, corporate, and national economic growth. If a government wants to increase geographic labor mobility, there are several actions it can take. The country can support transportation options, help raise the standard of living, and advance government policies that help with mobility within an economy.






One negative result of geographic labor mobility is the brain drain, or human capital flight, from developing regions and nations.


   Pros and Cons of Geographic Labor Mobility  

Geographic labor mobility provides several benefits to a nation's economy. Chief among them is better allocation of the supply of labor and productivity. When workers can move to where the jobs are, more workers find employment and businesses can obtain the labor they need, where they need it. An economic study published in The Yale Law Journal in 2017 points out that geographic labor mobility makes managing macroeconomic stability easier and that local barriers to mobility can make macroeconomic policy less effective.



On the other hand, while geographic labor mobility is promoted as an ideal situation in blackboard economic models, it also has its downside. Labor mobility is associated with the dissolution of local communities and extinction of indigenous cultures as members migrate to seek economic opportunities and resettle in areas in which they are culturally alien. This tends to erode social capital in both the locations that workers leave and in new areas they move into. Geographic labor mobility is also the direct cause of the brain drain, or human capital flight, from developing regions and nations.


   Geographic Labor Mobility In the United States  

The United States presents an interesting case study of geographic labor mobility during and after the development of economic systems.



When the country was expanding westward and new industries were being developed, geographic labor mobility was at its peak as new migrants and the existing population moved to places with economic promise. However, the rate of moving has declined consistently since the 1980s. According to U.S. Census data, the rate of movement between states has fallen by nearly half since 1989 while the rate of mobility between counties has declined by almost a third. Indeed, even during the COVID19 pandemic, labor mobility trends continued in the U.S., with just 8.4% of people living in a different residence one year ago in 2021, down from 9.3% in 2020.




What Is Occupational Labor Mobility?
Occupational labor mobility is how easily workers are able to switch jobs, often involving a new occupation or career path. Different from geographical labor mobility, occupational mobility does not have to involve people moving from one place to another.




Why Is Labor Mobility Important?
Increased labor mobility is generally thought to be a positive for the economy. More freedom to move tends to result in more productive and satisfied workers, lower unemployment, and rising GDP.




Why Is Cross-Broder Labor Mobility Controversial?
Opening up borders and encouraging geographic mobility for migrant workers is often a point of controversy. Critics claim that these lower-paid workers effectively steal jobs from exiting citizens and can lead, in extreme cases, to the overpopulation of certain areas, putting a strain on public services and pushing up the local cost of living. This can then fuel hatred and spur social unrest. Economists, on the other hand, often argue that migrant workers take low-paying, low-skilled work that nobody else wants or whom would require higher wages. A growing population also usually corresponds with economic growth and prosperity.
What Is Geographical Pricing?  

Geographical pricing is the practice of adjusting an item's sale price based on the location of the buyer. Sometimes the difference in the sale price is based on the cost to ship the item to that location. But the difference may also be based on what amount the people in that location are willing to pay. Companies will try to maximize revenue in the markets in which they operate, and geographical pricing contributes to that goal.





Key Takeaways

Geographical pricing is a practice in which the same goods and services are priced differently based on the buyer's geographic location.The difference in price might be based on the shipping cost, the taxes each location charges, or the amount people in the location are willing to pay.Prices are also varied based on demand, such as a product that is competing with many rivals in a market versus a product that is exclusive to a market.


   Understanding Geographical Pricing  

Most typically, geographical pricing is practiced by companies in order to reflect the different shipping costs accrued when transporting goods to different markets. If a market is closer to where the goods originate, the pricing may be lower than in a faraway market, where the expense to transport the goods is higher. Prices may be lower if the goods compete in a crowded market where consumers have a number of other quality options.



Charging higher prices to account for higher shipping charges to faraway locations can make a seller more competitive, as their products will be available to a larger number of customers. But higher shipping costs may make local customers avoid buying the product that is shipped from far away in favor of cheaper, local products.



Prices are also impacted by whether the manufacturer is a price taker instead of a price maker. A price taker is a company or individual that has to settle for whatever price the market has determined for the product, as they lack the market share or influence to determine the price. A price maker has the market share to set the price.


   Geographical Pricing Strategy  

It is always up to the seller of the goods to determine how they will price their product and based on that decision, the outcome will vary. For example, the seller may decide to sell their product in a location far away and absorb the cost of shipping, thereby pricing the product competitively in a foreign market. This may result in lower profit margins or no profits at all but may increase brand awareness in the new location for some benefit down the line.



Conversely, the seller may pass the cost of shipping onto the consumer via high prices for the product, which may have many different effects. The product may sell poorly as it sold at a higher price compared to competitors, or the seller could run a marketing campaign positioning the product as a higher quality luxury item, thereby justifying the higher price. In this case, it might only be bought by a small part of the population, but that might be profitable enough.


   Special Considerations  

Taxes can also be a consideration, even if shipping costs are not a factor. A product made in Massachusetts and sold in Washington may be priced differently than that same good in Oregon. While the shipping costs would be roughly equivalent, the fact that Oregon has no sales tax could lead the company to price the product higher in that state than in Washington, which has one of the highest sales tax rates in the country.



Also, where there may be a supply and demand imbalance in a market, even if a temporary phenomenon, a company may respond by pricing its product or service at a premium or discount in the market versus another geographical spot.


   Real-World Example  

A type of geographical pricing called "zone pricing" is common in the gasoline industry. This practice entails oil companies charging gas station owners different prices for the same gasoline depending on where their stations are located.



Aside from excise taxes, the wholesale price, and thus the retail price, is based on factors such as competition from other gas stations in the area, the amount of traffic the gas station receives, and average household incomes in the area—not on the cost of delivering gas to the area.
What Is Geolocation?  

Geolocation is the ability to track a device’s whereabouts using GPS, cell phone towers, WiFi access points or a combination of these. Since devices are used by individuals, geolocation uses positioning systems to track an individual’s whereabouts down to latitude and longitude coordinates, or more practically, a physical address. Both mobile and desktop devices can use geolocation.





Key Takeaways

Geolocation refers to the use of location technologies such as GPS or IP addresses to identify and track the whereabouts of connected electronic devices.Because these devices are often carried on an individual's person, geolocation is often used to track the movements and location of people and surveillance.Geolocation is used extensively in the financial services industry to help prevent fraud and give customers information about nearby services, but may also pose unwanted privacy issues.


   Understanding Geolocation  

Geolocation has a broad variety of uses and methods. IP addresses may be used to determine country, region, state, city or postal code. Geolocation can be used to determine time zone and exact positioning coordinates, such as for tracking wildlife or cargo shipments. If you have ever shopped online and wanted to find an item in a nearby store, ordered food online after searching for a local restaurant, or sought out the closest ATM, you have used geolocation services. 


   Examples: Geolocation in Financial Services  

Geolocation is especially useful when applied to financial services. For example:



Payments: Financial institutions with mobile apps whose users have enabled location tracking can match the location of a customer’s phone with the location where the customer’s payment card is being used to detect possible payment card theft. If the two locations do not match, the fraud can be detected immediately and the card shut down. If the two locations do match, the customer can avoid experiencing any service disruption that might normally happen when the payment card provider detects unusual card activity.



Insurance claims processing: An insurance claims adjusting app can use geolocation technology to substantiate a policyholder’s location and minimize the number of fraudulent or exaggerated claims the insurer receives. A visual claims platform allows policyholders to work with their insurance agents using a web-based real-time communications platform to evaluate the extent of loss and determine a fair amount for the claim. Customers use their phone cameras to engage in a live video call with their insurance agents to assess damage. The agent can take screen shots, zoom in, or use the phone’s flashlight to get additional details and create records of the damage for the customer’s file. This technology creates an environment where more customers are satisfied with the claims payments they receive and prevents them from filing complaints with regulators, resulting in better outcomes for both insurance companies and their customers.



Banking: Bluetooth beacons, the same type of geolocation technology that is placed throughout stores to offer users who have downloaded the store’s app to receive targeted discounts while giving the store data about the consumer’s shopping behavior, are providing new forms of convenience to bank customers. Geolocation is allowing bank customers to access branch ATMs with their mobile phones instead of with their ATM cards after business hours, offering convenience. Beacon technology also improves service inside smart bank branches by notifying bank employees when a customer has been waiting in a teller line too long so the customer can be directed to another bank employee at a desk who can help them.


   Geolocation and Privacy Issues  

With the upsides of geolocation come the downsides of safety and privacy issues. When using a device or app that allows for geolocation, it’s important for consumers to understand how that data is being used and with whom it’s being shared so they can protect their privacy and safety. And companies that use geolocation data must make sure that such information is protected so that employees cannot access the information inappropriately. Customers also don’t want geolocation data that they have shared for one purpose, such as banking convenience, to be reused for another purpose, such as advertising, without their knowledge and permission.



Financial services companies that want to maintain their customers’ trust need to make them aware of exactly how their geolocation data is being used. For example, an app can inform a user of how their geolocation data will be used when they open it for the first time after they install it, then allow them to opt out of sharing their location or using the app altogether if they aren’t happy with the company’s policy. Users should also be informed about whether an app will allow them to delete their geolocation history after the fact if they change their mind about what they’ve shared. Without this trust, further efforts to implement geolocation technology could stall.
What Is the Geometric Mean?  

The geometric mean is the average of a set of products, the calculation of which is commonly used to determine the performance results of an investment or portfolio. It is technically defined as "the nth root product of n numbers." The geometric mean must be used when working with percentages, which are derived from values, while the standard arithmetic mean works with the values themselves.





Key Takeaways

The geometric mean is the average rate of return of a set of values calculated using the products of the terms.The geometric mean is most appropriate for series that exhibit serial correlation—this is especially true for investment portfolios.Most returns in finance are correlated, including yields on bonds, stock returns, and market risk premiums.For volatile numbers, the geometric average provides a far more accurate measurement of the true return by taking into account year-over-year compounding that smooths the average.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Formula and Calculation of the Geometric Mean  

















μ


geometric



=


[


(


1


+



R


1



)


(


1


+



R


2



)


…


(


1


+



R


n



)



]



1


/


n




−


1
















where:
















∙



R


1



…



R


n



 are the returns of an asset (or other
















observations for averaging)


.







\begin{aligned} &\mu _{\text{geometric}} = [(1+R _1)(1+R _2)\ldots(1+R _n)]^{1/n} - 1\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\bullet R_1\ldots R_n \text{ are the returns of an asset (or other}\\ &\text{observations for averaging)}. \end{aligned}


​μgeometric​=[(1+R1​)(1+R2​)…(1+Rn​)]1/n−1where:∙R1​…Rn​ are the returns of an asset (or otherobservations for averaging).​
To calculate compounding interest using the geometric mean of an investment's return, an investor needs to first calculate the interest in year one, which is $10,000 multiplied by 10%, or $1,000. In year two, the new principal amount is $11,000, and 10% of $11,000 is $1,100. The new principal amount is now $11,000 plus $1,100, or $12,100.
In year three, the new principal amount is $12,100, and 10% of $12,100 is $1,210. At the end of 25 years, the $10,000 turns into $108,347.06, which is $98,347.05 more than the original investment. The shortcut is to multiply the current principal by one plus the interest rate, and then raise the factor to the number of years compounded. The calculation is $10,000 × (1+0.1) 25 = $108,347.06.


   Understanding the Geometric Mean  

The geometric mean, sometimes referred to as compounded annual growth rate or time-weighted rate of return, is the average rate of return of a set of values calculated using the products of the terms. What does that mean? The geometric mean takes several values and multiplies them together and sets them to the 1/nth power.



The geometric mean is an important tool for calculating portfolio performance for many reasons, but one of the most significant is it takes into account the effects of compounding.



For example, the geometric mean calculation can be easily understood with simple numbers, such as 2 and 8. If you multiply 2 and 8, then take the square root (the ½ power since there are only 2 numbers), the answer is 4. However, when there are many numbers, it is more difficult to calculate unless a calculator or computer program is used.






The longer the time horizon, the more critical compounding becomes, and the more appropriate the use of geometric mean.



The main benefit of using the geometric mean is the actual amounts invested do not need to be known; the calculation focuses entirely on the return figures themselves and presents an "apples-to-apples" comparison when looking at two investment options over more than one time period. Geometric means will always be slightly smaller than the arithmetic mean, which is a simple average.


   Example of the Geometric Mean  

If you have $10,000 and get paid 10% interest on that $10,000 every year for 25 years, the amount of interest is $1,000 every year for 25 years, or $25,000. However, this does not take the interest into consideration. That is, the calculation assumes you only get paid interest on the original $10,000, not the $1,000 added to it every year. If the investor gets paid interest on the interest, it is referred to as compounding interest, which is calculated using the geometric mean.



Using the geometric mean allows analysts to calculate the return on an investment that gets paid interest on interest. This is one reason portfolio managers advise clients to reinvest dividends and earnings.



The geometric mean is also used for present value and future value cash flow formulas. The geometric mean return is specifically used for investments that offer a compounding return. Going back to the example above, instead of only making $25,000 on a simple interest investment, the investor makes $108,347.06 on a compounding interest investment.



Simple interest or return is represented by the arithmetic mean while compounding interest or return is represented by the geometric mean.




How Do You Find the Geometric Mean in Excel?
The shortcut to calculating the geometric mean in Excel is “=GEOMEAN.” Specifically, enter the function into a cell and then list the numbers (or cells containing the numbers) that you would like to calculate the geometric mean for. 




Can You Calculate the Geometric Mean With Negative Values?
You cannot—it is impossible to calculate a geometric mean that includes negative numbers.




How Do You Find the Geometric Mean Between Two Numbers?
To calculate the geometric mean of two numbers, you would multiply the numbers together and take the square root of the result.


   The Bottom Line  

The geometric mean is a statistical metric that can help determine the performance results of an investment portfolio by taking into consideration the effects of compounding. It can help investors determine how their portfolio is performing and whether any adjustments need to be made.
George Soros is a legendary hedge fund manager who is widely considered one of the most successful investors of all time. Soros managed the Quantum Fund, a fund that achieved an average annual return of 30% from 1970 to 2000. He remains the chair of Soros Fund Management LLC.



The Hungarian-born Soros is also known for his vast philanthropic activities. He has donated billions of dollars to various causes through the Open Society Foundations. He is a longtime champion of liberal and progressive causes, making him a target of a variety of conservative conspiracy theories.



Soros is believed to be worth more than $8 billion as of May 2022 and has donated more than $30 billion to charitable causes. Much of that money has gone to fund education and health programs, human rights efforts, and the furtherance of democracy. In recent years, he has donated lavishly to the Democratic Party in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

George Soros rivals Warren Buffett for the title of most successful investor of all time.He has plowed most of his vast fortune into philanthropic activities.His support for progressive causes has made him a target of right-wing conspiracy theories.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Early Life and Education  

Soros, who is of Jewish descent, was born in Budapest in August 1930 and survived the Nazi occupation of Hungary, emigrating to England in 1947. He earned a doctorate from the London School of Economics before embarking on a career in banking. He founded his first hedge fund, then called Double Eagle, in 1969.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  "The man who broke the Bank of England"  

George Soros is most famous for a single-day gain of $1 billion on Sept. 16, 1992, which he made by short selling the British pound. At the time, England was part of the European exchange rate mechanism (ERM), a fixed-exchange-rate agreement among a number of European countries. The other countries were pressuring England to devalue its currency or leave the system. After resisting the devaluation for some time, England floated its currency and the value of the pound dropped.



Using leverage, Soros was able to take a $10 billion short position on the pound, earning him $1 billion. The trade is considered one of the greatest of all time, and Soros was declared "the man who broke the Bank of England."


  Soros and Brexit  

More recently, Soros has been vocal about the precarious future of the European Union in the wake of Britain's 2016 vote to leave the union and the continuing refugee crisis that has brought millions of Middle Eastern refugees to Europe.



Soros warned of an existential crisis facing Europe. He has set forth a plan to rescue Europe from a pending crisis by tackling three major issues: the refugee crisis, territorial breakups like Brexit, and the austerity crisis that has plagued countries like Italy and Spain. 



In particular, he has advocated that the European Union issue perpetual bonds, a method of financing that Britain used to finance the Napoleonic Wars.






Soros was "the man who broke the Bank of England" before he became "the man who broke the Bank of Thailand."


   Soros's Investment Style  

George Soros is unique among highly successful investors in admitting that instinct plays a large role in his investment decisions. Nonetheless, he is famously well-informed about economic trends on a regional and global level and is known to use this knowledge to exploit market inefficiencies with large, highly leveraged bets.



Soros has both the capital and the risk tolerance to ride out these bets for longer than most hedge fund managers can. In fact, Soros has cowed a number of national governments on currency issues with his perseverance and deep pockets. During the Asian financial crisis, Soros added to his growing list of nicknames and became "the man who broke the Bank of Thailand" when he bet almost $1 billion against the Thai currency, the baht.  



Despite Soros' deep knowledge of global markets and excellent sources of information, the decision to close out a bet is reportedly more a gut call than a response to a market signal. One popular theory is that Soros has internalized so much of the market and its workings that he instinctively knows when the time has come to close out for a profit long before he can rationalize the decision.



Whether that is true or not, whatever Soros is doing has made him a fortune that few investors in the world, with the exception of Warren Buffett, can match. 




What Is George Soros's Net Worth?
George Soros's net worth, as of May 2022, is $8.6 billion.




Does George Soros Give Any of His Money Away?
The Open Society Foundations, founded by George Soros, "are the world's largest private funder of independent groups working for justice, democratic governance, and human rights." Soros has given a total of $32 billion to the Foundations. He has also supported education, giving a $500 million endowment in 2021, for example, to Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.




How Did George Soros Make His Money?
George Soros founded his first hedge fund, Double Eagle, in 1969. With profits from this fund, he started Soros Fund Management, in 1973. Eventually, Double Eagle was renamed the Quantum Fund, and it became the primary hedge fund that Soros advised. His knowledge of regional and global economic trends combined with his deep pockets and tolerance for risk has allowed him to amass a fortune now valued in the billions.
What is Gharar?  

Gharar is an Arabic word that is associated with uncertainty, deception, and risk. It has been described as "the sale of what is not yet present," such as crops not yet harvested or fish not yet netted.





Key Takeaways


The word gharar means uncertainty, hazards, or risk.
In Islamic finance, gharar is prohibited because it runs counter to the notion of certainty and openness in business dealings.
Gharar can arise when the claim of ownership is unclear or suspicious.
Examples of gharar in modern finance include futures and options contracts, which have dates of delivery in the future.




Gharar is a significant concept in Islamic finance and is used to measure the legitimacy of a risky investment pertaining to short selling, gambling, the selling of goods or assets of uncertain quality, or to any contract that is not drawn out in clear terms.


   Understanding Gharar  

The word gharar has become somewhat of a general term in the modern lexicon. Sales or financial transactions considered as gharar are judged relative to the level of misunderstanding that might exist between parties and the level of uncertainty that the goods or payment can be delivered. Gharar is generally prohibited under Islam because there are a set of strict rules in Islamic finance against transactions that are highly uncertain or that may cause any injustice or deceit against any of the parties.



The justification and guidance for forbidding contracts or transactions considered as gharar comes from the hadith, a revered book in Islam. It contains the sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, who spoke against the selling of the birds in the sky, the fish in the water, or the unborn calf in the mother's womb, saying, "Sell not what is not with you." Therefore, questions of gharar arise when a claim of ownership is unclear or suspicious.



Clarity of the intended meaning of gharar also comes in the Quran, where it states, "And do not eat up your property among yourselves for vanities," which is interpreted as the prohibition of predatory business practices because such practices do not benefit the whole of society.


   Examples of Gharar  

In finance, gharar is observed within derivative transactions, such as forwards, futures and options, as well as in short selling and other forms of speculation. In Islamic finance, most derivative contracts are forbidden and considered invalid because of the uncertainty involved in the future delivery of the underlying asset.



Scholars differentiate between minor and substantial gharar, and while most derivative products are prohibited due to excessive uncertainty, other practices considered as gharar, such as commercial insurance, are vital parts of economic life. It is also permissible for a seller to short-sell fungible items, such as wheat and other commodities, to be delivered at a later date to a buyer.



Meanwhile, the sale without physical possession is not necessarily condemned, but the promise of delivery by either party without credibility is a violation. Also, transactions and contracts are considered as gharar when excessive risks or uncertainty are combined with one party taking advantage of the property of the other, or one party only benefiting by the other party's loss. For that reason, Islamic finance also strictly prohibits extending loans with interest, which it considers usury.
What Is a Ghetto?  

The term ghetto is a derogatory term for a neighborhood characterized by low property values and relatively little public or private investment. It is a slang term that is generally considered an offensive stereotype because ghettos have historically been inhabited by racial minorities.



The term is frequently used for communities with low incomes, high unemployment, inadequate municipal services, or high school drop-out rates from schools. Neighborhoods that are considered ghettos may be underpopulated with abandoned homes or they may be densely populated with large families living in small spaces.





Key Takeaways

A ghetto is an offensive term for a neighborhood with low property values and relatively little public or private investment.These areas are characterized by income and economic inequality, and very little development.Neighborhoods tend to be racially segregated in the United States as a result of a history of redlining, mortgage lending discrimination, and Jim Crow laws.Renewal policies and gentrification have rapidly changed some low-income neighborhoods.Urban renewal programs and policies are controversial for their effect of displacing minority and low-income residents.


   Understanding Ghettos  

The term ghetto comes from medieval Europe. Cities in Spain, Germany, Italy, and Portugal sought to segregate Jewish populations into one area upon the suggestion of Pope Pius V during this period. In 14th century Venice, Italy, Jews settled into an area of an old iron foundry, otherwise known as a ghetto. The term also has roots in the Greek word ghetonia (which means neighborhood) or the Italian borghetto (which means small neighborhood).



In contemporary usage, the word ghetto is a derogatory term for communities with minority populations. These areas may be generally characterized by a lack of resources, little development, or high crime rates. Real estate values in these communities are generally much lower than in other parts of the same city, as properties tend to be outdated and run down. Some of the homes and establishments in these areas may even be abandoned.



Jim Crow laws and income inequality contributed to the creation of many low-income, minority neighborhoods in the United States. Some were formed after the Civil War, while others were created in the late 20th century.






In contemporary usage, the word "ghetto" is considered offensive because it is often used as a derogatory term for communities of color. In 2016, director Quentin Tarantino aroused controversy by using the term at the Golden Globes awards ceremony.


   Special Considerations  

Areas that are considered ghettos in the United States statistically tend to be racially segregated. This reflects a history of segregation in the country as well as a history of inequality when it comes to access to income, wealth, property rights, and other resources.



Many of these neighborhoods lack adequate resources, good schools, and may even be heavily policed. Literacy and poverty rates tend to be fairly high while the level of education in many underdeveloped neighborhoods remains low when compared to other larger areas. Residents in these neighborhoods are also subject to predatory financial practices, such as mortgage lending discrimination and redlining.






Redlining is the illegal practice of denying financial services to residents of some areas based on their ethnicity or nationality. Although prohibited by the Fair Housing Act of 1968, informal discrimination and housing segregation continued for many decades afterward.


   Government Policies  

Many neighborhoods that were once considered ghettos have seen major changes through what is referred to as urban renewal policies, shifting racial demographics, or gentrification. Large investments come to these areas because of local or state policy, generally from private entities.



Governments create policies to entice real estate developers to purchase multiple properties in these areas. Companies often build new homes and commercial spaces, taking advantage of incentives, such as lucrative tax breaks and loose zoning laws. Changes often come quickly, drawing in new residents and businesses and pushing out those who can no longer afford to live and do business there.



These urban renewal policies remain a controversial topic. That's because they have been known to displace minority and low-income residents who generally struggle to find affordable housing in a market with increasingly high property values, not to mention small businesses that operate in these areas. Critics suggest policies should address and help shape the economic and social dynamics that led to the ghettoization of these neighborhoods.



Although some of these areas have gone through the process of gentrification, others may still show signs of inequality.




What Is the Origin of the Word "Ghetto"?
There are many possible origins for the term "ghetto." One theory holds that it originated in Venice, where the city's Jewish residents were mandated to live in a specific neighborhood near an iron foundry. This foundry, or gheto, became synonymous with the city's Jewish community. Other theories tie the word to the Greek ghetonia (neighborhood) or the Italian borghetto (small neighborhood).




What Is an Example of an Historical Ghetto?
One of the most famous ghettos was the Warsaw Ghetto in Poland, where the city's Jewish population was confined prior to their deportation during the Holocaust. In contemporary American usage, certain parts of Compton and Oakland in California, Flint, Michigan, Harlem, New York, and Montgomery, Alabama, had well-established minority populations that could have been considered ghetto neighborhoods.




Why Is the Term Ghetto Offensive?
Many people consider the term "ghetto" offensive because it evokes a long history of racial segregation and discrimination. In the United States, many such communities were created through deliberate policies that denied housing and financial services to ethnic minority groups. Some celebrities have stirred controversy by using the word in public.
What Is the GI Bill?  

The GI Bill, also known as the Serviceman's Readjustment Act of 1944, was enacted by Congress and signed into law by former President Franklin D. Roosevelt to provide various benefits to World War II veterans. Today, the GI Bill refers to any U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs education benefit, such as education grants and stipends, earned by active-duty service members, veterans, and their families. 





Key Takeaways


The GI Bill was a federal effort to provide financial and social benefits to World War II veterans after they returned home.
There have been several iterations of the bill since its inception, and today it provides education benefits to active service members and honorably discharged veterans.
These benefits have been extended to vocational and technical training programs.
Other military benefits, such as the Yellow Ribbon Program, are available for what the GI Bill does not cover.



   Understanding the GI Bill  

Although the GI Bill was purposed for WWII veterans, benefits are currently available to honorably discharged veterans and their dependents, under certain circumstances. Many types of training are covered under GI Bill benefits. College programs include associate, bachelor, and advanced degrees. Vocational and technical training, including non-college degree programs, also are covered. On-the-job training and apprenticeships, as well as licensing and certification reimbursement, are included. Flight training, correspondence training, work-study programs, tuition, and tutorial assistance also are covered. Survivors and Dependents Assistance provides education and job training for spouses and children of veterans.



The Yellow Ribbon Program can pay tuition costs not covered in the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Tuition Assistance Top-Up provides additional assistance with education costs. The $600 Buy-Up Program provides more money for monthly GI Bill payments. Tutorial Assistance will help pay for a tutor for those using VA educational benefits.


   History of the GI Bill  

The GI Bill in its original form, the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944, was designed to provide benefits, including small business loans, mortgages, and education grants, to veterans following WWII; however, it has since been updated. The GI Bill is considered one of the most significant pieces of 20th-century legislation passed by the U.S. Congress. Much of the impetus for the bill’s passage stemmed from the experience of veterans after WWI when returning service members were not aided in re-entering civilian life and the workforce. The lack of support and the advent of the Great Depression led to public protests, including the Bonus Army marchers in 1932. The GI Bill increased the number of college-educated Americans following the war, as many veterans who would have rejoined the workforce instead opted for degrees. In 1947, considered the peak of the GI Bill's use, roughly 49% of college admissions were for veterans.



The original GI Bill ended in 1956, at which point more than half of veterans had opted to receive technical training or attend college. The G.I. Bill has been updated several times since 1944, including the Montgomery GI Bill of 1984, the Post 9-11 G.I. Bill of 2008, and the Vocational Rehabilitation and Education Program. The Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty (MGIB-AD) provides benefits for veterans who served at least two years on active duty. The Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) covers benefits for members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard Reserve, Army National Guard or Air National Guard. The Post-9/11 GI Bill helps pay for school or job training for those who served on active duty after Sept. 10, 2001.
What Is a Giffen Good?  

A Giffen good is a low income, non-luxury product that defies standard economic and consumer demand theory. Demand for Giffen goods rises when the price rises and falls when the price falls. In econometrics, this results in an upward-sloping demand curve, contrary to the fundamental laws of demand which create a downward sloping demand curve.



 The term "Giffen goods" was coined in the late 1800s, named after noted Scottish economist, statistician, and journalist Sir Robert Giffen. The concept of Giffen goods focuses on a low income, non-luxury products that have very few close substitutes. Giffen goods can be compared to Veblen goods which similarly defy standard economic and consumer demand theory but focus on luxury goods.



Examples of Giffen goods can include bread, rice, and wheat. These goods are commonly essentials with few near-dimensional substitutes at the same price levels.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Giffen Goods  

Giffen goods are a rarity in economics because supply and demand for these goods are opposite of standard conventions. Giffen goods can be the result of multiple market variables including supply, demand, price, income, and substitution. All of these variables are central to the basic theories of supply and demand economics. Examples of Giffen goods are a study in the effects of these variables on low-income, non-luxury goods which result in an upward sloping demand curve.





Key Takeaways

A Giffen good is a low-income, non-luxury product for which demand increases as the price increases and vice versa.A Giffen good has an upward-sloping demand curve which is contrary to the fundamental laws of demand which are based on a downward sloping demand curve.Demand for Giffen goods is heavily influenced by a lack of close substitutes and income pressures.Veblen goods are similar to Giffen goods but with a focus on luxury items.


   Supply and Demand  

The laws of supply and demand govern macro and microeconomic theories. Economists have found that when prices rise, demand falls creating a downward sloping curve. When prices fall, demand is expected to increase creating an upward sloping curve. Income can slightly mitigate these results, flattening curves since more personal income can result in different behaviors. Substitution and the substitution effect can also be significant. Since there are typically substitutes for most goods, the substitution effect helps strengthen the case for standard supply and demand.



In the case of Giffen goods, the income effect can be substantial while the substitution effect is also impactful. With Giffen goods, the demand curve is upward sloping which shows more demand at higher prices. Since there are few substitutes for Giffen goods, consumers continue to remain willing to buy a Giffen good when the price rises. Giffen goods are usually essential items as well which then incorporates both the income effect and a higher price substitution effect. Since Giffen goods are essential, consumers are willing to pay more for them but this also limits disposable income which makes buying slightly higher options even more out of reach. Therefore, consumers buy even more of the Giffen good. Overall, both the income and substitution effects are at work to create unconventional supply and demand results.


   Historical Research and Giffen Good Examples  

In his textbook Principles of Economics, economist Alfred Marshall described Robert Giffen’s work in the context of bread rising in price because people lacked the income to buy meat. However, in 1947, the meat-bread example was challenged by George J. Stigler in his article "Notes on the History of the Giffen Paradox." Another example of the existence of a Giffen good was offered by a 2007 study authored by Harvard economists Robert Jensen and Nolan Miller, who conducted a field experiment in the Hunan province of China, where rice is a dietary staple, and in the Gansu province, where wheat is the staple. Randomly selected households in both provinces were given vouchers that subsidized the purchase of their respective staple foods.



Jensen and Miller found strong evidence of Giffen behavior exhibited by Hunan households with respect to rice. Lowering the price of rice through the subsidy caused reduced demand by households for the rice while increasing the price by removing the subsidy had the opposite effect. However, the evidence of wheat in Gansu was weaker.


   Giffen Goods vs. Veblen Goods  

Both Giffen goods and Veblen goods are nonordinary goods that defy standard supply and demand conventions. With both Giffen and Veblen goods, a product’s demand curve is upward sloping. Income and substitution are key factors in explaining the econometrics of the upward sloping demand curve for Giffen goods as discussed.



Veblen goods also have an upward sloping demand curve but with some slightly different influences. Veblen goods are premium product, luxury goods. Examples can include celebrity-endorsed perfumes or fine wines. With these goods, their high price is associated with a high social status symbol. As such, high-income consumers find these goods more desirable at a higher price. The income effect has little impact on these goods because income is not a factor. Substitution is also a minimal factor because the goods are generally status symbols and not cross-dimensional.
What Is a Gift Card?  

A gift card is a prepaid debit card that contains a specific amount of money available for use for a variety of purchases. Store gift cards are designed to be used at specific merchants or retailers, while general-use prepaid gift cards are not affiliated with any specific merchant and can also be used to withdraw cash at automated teller machines (ATMs).





Key Takeaways

A gift card is a prepaid debit card that is loaded with a specific amount, which can then be used to make purchases and other financial transactions.Store gift cards (closed loop) are designed to be used for purchases at specific retailers, while general-use prepaid gift cards (open loop) may be used at a wider variety of locations.Some gift cards may allow for cash withdrawals at an automated teller machine (ATM).Closed-loop gift cards are usually not reloadable.


   How a Gift Card Works  

Gift cards are a form of prepaid debit card that’s loaded with funds for future use. There are generally two types of gift cards: open loop and closed loop. Both types typically can be used online and in person.



Many gift cards will have a minimum and maximum initial loading amount. For example, there may be a minimum of $10 and a maximum of $500. In some situations, gift cards can be used to pay for a portion of a purchase, with cash, debit or credit used to balance the expense. As a precaution to mitigate the risk of losses, many gift cards can also be registered online—a procedure that allows the remaining balance to be tracked and frozen if a card is lost. In this way, some gift cards are safer than cash.






Depending on the card in question, a reload fee may apply to add money each time.


   Closed-Loop Gift Cards  

Closed-loop gift cards are often marketed by stores, allowing a cardholder to purchase anything from that specified retailer. Closed-loop cards generally can be used only with a single merchant, either at the store or on its website. However, if one company owns several different retailers, it might issue gift cards that can be used at any of them. Gap Inc. (GPS) is one such corporation: Its cards usually can be used interchangeably at any of its affiliated stores, including Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, and Athleta.



Closed-loop gift cards usually will not require any activation fees. Also, these gift cards will not include a processor’s logo (the financial services company that actually handles the transaction mechanics), though they do include the merchant’s logo; in a sense, they act as advertising for the store.



Closed-loop gift cards usually are not reloadable, so once the balance is spent, they have no further use. Also, funds on a closed-loop gift card may have a specified expiration date, which requires the user to use the card within a set time frame. Closed-loop cards are popular gifts for wedding and baby registries. Many merchants also offer closed-loop gift cards as a bonus for individuals who sign up for their registries.






The global gift card market is expected to achieve a compound annual growth rate of more than 12% through 2031, according to Persistence Market Research.


   Open-Loop Gift Cards  

Open-loop gift cards offer the equivalent of cash—or more precisely, a credit or debit card that can be used at any merchant where that card is accepted, as well as online. Many of the major charge or credit card issuers/processors, such as American Express, Visa, Discover, and MasterCard, offer open-loop gift cards. These cards will display the payment processor’s logo and can be used to make all types of electronic payments nearly anywhere.



Open-loop gift cards also have the advantage of serving as a standard prepaid card. These cards are usually reloadable, allowing the user to add funds on their own as well.






Open-loop cards will sometimes require an activation fee of approximately $5, which must be paid when the card is purchased.


   Digital Gift Cards  

Gift cards debuted in 1994, according to Mageplaza, an extension marketplace of the open source commerce platform Magento. Increasingly, merchants are opting to offer digital gift cards to customers as an incentive to encourage spending.



Upscale department stores, such as Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, send bonus gift cards to their loyalty program members (who have spent a certain amount during a promotion or over a certain time period). However, 75% of the volume in gift card program redemptions is still in physical cards vs. 25% for digital gift cards, according to a National Gift Card (NGC) industry survey.


   Gift Card Scams  

Gift cards are increasingly a target for scammers. According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), consumers reported gift card scam losses of $148 million in the first nine months of 2021.



These scams primarily revolved around scammers asking consumers to purchase gift cards as a form of payment. The consumer provides the gift card number to the scammer based on the assumption that they’re making a legitimate payment. The scammer then makes off with the money.



Another scam involves the compromise of physical cards in store. Scammers tamper with cards to obtain the gift card number. When a consumer purchases the card and loads money to it, the scammers are then able to steal those funds by using the card to make purchases.



Target gift cards are particularly popular among scammers, accounting for $35 million of the losses reported in 2021.






Avoid purchasing gift cards in store that look damaged or otherwise tampered with, and only use gift cards to make payments to people who you know and trust.




What is a gift card?
A gift card is a prepaid card that can be used to make purchases and execute other types of financial transactions. Gift cards be open loop or closed loop, which can determine where and how the card can be used.




Can I use a gift card to withdraw cash at an ATM?
Yes, it’s possible to use a gift card to withdraw cash at an ATM if the card allows it. Typically, this is only an option with open-loop cards, which are not affiliated with any store or merchant brand.




Do gift cards expire or have fees?
Depending on the card, it’s possible that a gift card may expire if the money loaded onto it is not used within a specific time period. You may also pay fees to activate a new gift card or reload money onto an existing gift card. Some prepaid gift cards may also charge monthly or dormant-account fees.


   The Bottom Line  

Gift cards can be useful for shopping online or in stores. You may purchase them to give as gifts to friends and family, or it’s possible that you might earn gift cards as a reward when shopping with a particular merchant. Understanding how gift cards work and where you can use them is important for avoiding fees or the risk of having a gift card expire. At the same time, it’s important to be on the lookout for gift card scams—especially during the holiday season, when more people are buying them and using them to shop.
What Is a Gift Causa Mortis?  

Gift causa mortis is a gift of personal property made with the expectation that the person giving the gift will soon die.





Key Takeaways

Gift causa mortis is when a person provides a gift to another because they believe that will soon die.This type of gift, unlike a transfer via will or gift inter vivos, is revocable by the grantor until they do pass away and may carry differential tax treatment.The term derives from the latin causa mortis, which means "contemplating death."


   Understanding Gift Causa Mortis  

Gift causa mortis only can come into action after the death of the donor. This is a form of a conditional gift, and the gift can only be made if the donor anticipates death. A gift causa mortis is known as the deathbed gift because it is the classic example of a gift being given by a donor at the time of death or on their deathbed.



A gift can be given causa mortis, in anticipation of the death of the grantor, or inter vivos, during the life of the grantor. A gift causa mortis is taxed under federal estate tax law in the same way as a gift bequeathed by a will. A will is a legal document that is used to transfer an estate to beneficiaries after the death of the person who makes the will, or the testator.


   Gift Causa Mortis Versus Gift Inter Vivos  

There are two differences between the effect of an inter vivos gift and a gift causa mortis. The first is that gifts causa mortis are revocable. An inter-vivos gift is irrevocable. Once the gift is given to the beneficiary, the donor has no rights in the property and cannot take back the gift. However, the donor can revoke a gift causa mortis at any time, for any reason as long as the donor is alive.



So while gifts causa mortis are completed upon delivery and acceptance, the beneficiary’s actual right to keep the gift is secured only once the donor dies. After the donor dies, the gift becomes irrevocable. Another difference between the two is that if the donor doesn't die, the gift causa mortis is automatically revoked.



Unlike a gift inter vivos, a gift between living people, gifts causa mortis are revocable and conditional. They also differ in tax implications. With a gift causa mortis, the donor may unilaterally choose to revoke the gift at any time while they are still alive.



Additionally, the gift is either revoked or revocable at the donor's discretion, if they survive the conditions that caused them to anticipate death. The gift is also conditional on the beneficiary surviving the donor. If the beneficiary dies before the donor, then the gift is revoked, and the beneficiary’s estate retains no interest in the property.



Gifts causa mortis also differ from other gifts in that they are taxed under federal estate tax law as if they were gifts bequeathed in a will. This is largely because a gift causa mortis is incomplete until the death of the donor. However, a gift inter vivos that is made within three years of death will also be taxed under the federal estate tax law.
What Is a Gift Letter?  

A gift letter is a piece of legal, written correspondence explicitly stating that money received from a friend or relative is a gift. Gift letters for tax purposes often come into play when a borrower has received assistance in making a down payment on a new home or other real estate property. Such letters state that the money received is not expected to be paid back in any way, shape, or form.





Key Takeaways

A gift letter is a piece of legal, written correspondence explicitly stating that money received from a friend or relative is a gift.Gift letters are important when it comes to paying a real estate down payment, for example, because lenders tend to frown upon borrowers using additional borrowed money for a down payment on a home or other property. However, gifts are acceptable.Gift letters may be required by a financial institution before they approve issuing a loan.For 2022, the estate and gift tax exemption is $12,060,000 per individual. For 2023, the estate and gift tax exemption is $12,920,000.Gift letters usually contain information about the donor, a statement that the funds given are not to be repaid, and the donor's signature.


   How Gift Letters Work  

Gift letters are important because, in general, lenders tend to frown upon borrowers using additional borrowed money for a down payment on a home or other property. "Gifted" money, however, is a different story. A gift letter specifically references the fact that money is a gift and not a loan. The gift-giver must directly write the letter for it to have any validity. The letter also often discloses the relationship between the gift giver and receiver.



A gift can be broadly defined to include a sale, exchange, or other transfer of property from one person (the donor) to another (the recipient). Common forms of gifts include:



Cash, check, or other tangible itemsTransferring a title to stocks or real property without receiving anything in exchange of valueForgiving debtBelow-market loans



All gifts that exceed an annually determined amount are subject to income taxes if they are made to someone other than a spouse or qualified charity.






Gift letters are legally binding and must be signed by at least the donor (who does not expect to be repaid).


   Gift Letter and Additional Gifting Strategies  

Several gifting strategies rest on gift letters. For example, inter vivos gifting occurs while an individual is still alive and can reduce the taxable estate since the individual no longer owns the property when they die (although inter vivos gifts may still be subject to taxes if made three years before that individual's death). For 2023, the estate and gift tax exemption is $12,920,000 per individual, up from $12,060,000 in 2022.



Many individuals choose to gift assets that will appreciate substantially in the future, such as real estate, particularly if it hasn't increased in value already. This excludes its present worth from the donor's estate and also eliminates future appreciation from the estate. In contrast, gifting assets that have already increased significantly in value is less advantageous, as the recipient will have the same tax basis (carryover basis) in the property as the donor.



If the recipient were to inherit that asset rather than receive it as a gift during the donor's life, the asset's tax basis would be stepped up to the fair market value of the property at the time of death.


   Gift Letters and Mortgages  

Gift letters often heavily relate to real estate transactions. Consider a situation where a parent provides $100,000 of capital to their child for a down payment for a house. In this situation, the lender will likely want security that this money is a one-sided transaction that is not to be repaid. As part of qualifying for a home loan, the lender may require both the donor and recipient to sign the letter agreeing that the funds are a gift.






A lender may request a gift letter if it recognizes abnormal or large transactions being deposited into a borrower's account.


   Contents of a Gift Letter  

There is no singular, universally accepted template for gift letters. In general, a party that requires a gift letter will often require the following contents:



The name of the donor.The name of the recipient.The contact information of the donor including the address, phone number, and relationship to you.The exact dollar amount of the gift. This may be an estimated value for non-cash transactions that must often be substantiated with supporting documentation.The date the gift was given and/or received.A statement designating that the funds are a gift, not to be repaid, with no additional remunerations. 




Do Gift Letters Get Reported to the IRS?
The IRS often requires written substantiation for charitable contributions. These letters are often issued relating to donations or items given away for free without any return considerations.




Why Do Lenders Require Gift Letters?
A lender for a home loan is in a position to evaluate the financial risk of the borrower. There is a substantial difference between a large gift or a large loan. A lender will require a gift letter as part of this evaluation to see what additional financial obligations the borrower has and what their extenuating financial position is.




Are Gift Letters Legally Binding?
Yes, a gift letter is legally binding. The information on the letter is used and relied upon by multiple parties, and both the donor and recipient are expected to be bound to the terms of the gift letter.


   The Bottom Line  

A gift letter is a written, signed document that outlines that a lump sum of given by one party does not need to be repaid. This letter is often required by lenders when issuing mortgages or home loans, as individuals may be more likely to receive large sums of money in advance of their real estate purchase.
What Is a Gift in Trust?  

A gift in trust is a special legal and fiduciary arrangement that allows for an indirect bequest of assets to a beneficiary. The purpose of a gift in trust is to avoid the tax on gifts that exceed the annual gift tax exclusion limit. This type of trust is commonly used to transfer wealth to the next generation.





Key Takeaways

Gifts in trust are commonly used to pass wealth from one generation to another by establishing a trust fund.Typically, the IRS taxes the value of a gift being transferred up to the annual gift tax exclusion amount.A gift in trust is a way to avoid taxes on gifts that exceed the annual gift tax exclusion amount.One type of gift in trust is a Crummey trust, which allows gifts to be given for a specific period, establishing the gifts as a present interest and eligible for the gift tax exclusion.A drawback to a gift in trust is when it's established without limitations, allowing a beneficiary, such as a child, to withdraw large amounts, jeopardizing the fund's financial viability. 


   Understanding a Gift in Trust  

Gifts in trust are commonly used by parents or grandparents who want to establish a trust fund for their children or grandchildren. Establishing a trust is an estate planning strategy that can be used to pass assets or wealth from the grantor—the owner of the assets creating the trust—to a beneficiary who receives the wealth.



The assets can be transferred based on the grantor's wishes, meaning limitations can be established so that the recipient can access the money only when the stipulated instructions outlined in the trust have been met. For example, a parent might establish a trust in which the funds can't be accessed by the child until their 21st birthday.


  Annual Gift Tax Exclusion Amount  

Typically, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) taxes the gifting of assets from one person to another. However, the gift tax is only triggered if the value of the asset being transferred is more than a specific amount called the annual gift tax exclusion amount. The annual exclusion amount for gifts is $16,000 for calendar year 2022 and $17,000 for 2023.


  Crummey Trust  

A gift in trust is a viable method to avoid taxes on gifts that exceed the annual gift tax exclusion limit. Gift givers can give gifts in excess of the annual exclusion without paying taxes by establishing a special type of trust, such as a Crummey trust. A gift to a Crummey trust allows the beneficiary to withdraw the gift assets for a limited time, which makes the gift considered to be a present interest and eligible for the gift tax exclusion. If the gift did not have these limited-time withdrawal rights, it would be considered a future interest and be subject to gift taxes.



For example, the trust could be set up so that the beneficiary can make withdrawals within a set time period, such as within 60 or 90 days. After that, the gift funds held in the trust fall under the stipulated withdrawal rules as set by the trust's grantor. In our example, let's say the parent designates that a child can't access trust money until they turn 21. Even if the child decides to tap into the trust immediately, they only have access to the most recent gift, as all previous gift funds remain protected within the trust account.






A Crummey provision can also be housed within another type of trust. For example, traditional life insurance trusts often contain a Crummey provision.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Gift in Trust  

In addition to tax benefits, a gift in trust is one method of establishing a financial cushion for future generations. Transferring wealth from one generation to the next via a will or other means of inheritance is a complicated endeavor, both logistically and emotionally. At the same time, these rules can bring enormous benefits to individuals, families, and communities. Understanding the nuances of gifting can bring added value to both grantors and beneficiaries.



One potential drawback to a gift in trust is that providing beneficiaries—in particular, children—with immediate access to sizable sums may jeopardize the fund's ability to accumulate long-term wealth. Some families bypass this by setting restrictions, such as limiting the amount or frequency of withdrawals or ending future gifts to recipients who withdraw funds immediately.
What Is Gift Inter Vivos?  

A gift inter vivos, a gift between the living in Latin, is the legal term that refers to a transfer or gift made during the grantor's life. Inter vivos gifts, which include property related to an estate, are not subject to probate taxes since they are not part of the donor's estate at death. An inter vivos transfer is one made during the grantor's lifetime.



Gifts that exceed $17,000 per year ($16,000 in 2022) are subject to gift taxes if they are made to someone other than a spouse or a qualified charity. The actual value of the gifted property is calculated at the time of the transfer. The person receiving the gift does not need to report the gift to the IRS or pay income tax on it, but the giver of the gift must pay gift taxes on it if it exceeds the $17,000 threshold.



However, there is a lifetime exclusion for the giver before gift taxes actually kick in, adjusted annually for inflation. In 2023, you can give $12.92 million in your lifetime without incurring any gift taxes (an increase from the 2022 limit of $12.06 million).





Key Takeaways

In Latin, gift inter vivos means gift between the living.Gifts inter vivos are transferred while the grantor is alive.These gifts can be added to a person's lifetime exclusion limit.


   Understanding Gift Inter Vivos  

A gift inter vivos is a useful estate planning strategy for several reasons. Giving a gift can help you reduce your taxable estate because it reduces your overall net worth. Additionally, if you give a gift to a charity, you can deduct the amount from your taxable income for the year.



Many people give inter vivos gifts simply because they want to oversee the gift during their lifetime, unlike gifts that are bequeathed through a will or a trust.



The reporting requirements on gift giving are minimal, so if gifts are used to reduce the value of an estate, the giver's property and affairs can retain a certain measure of confidentiality.






Most gifts that exceed the gift limit can be added to the giver's lifetime exclusion amount of $12.92 million.


   Making an Inter Vivos Gift  

The donor must be of legal capacity and be at least 18 years of age when making the gift. The intent to make a gift should be confirmed in writing, and there must be a present and irrevocable transfer of title or right of ownership. A donor cannot intend for the gift to transfer after his death. Delivery should be immediate, either physically or symbolically, particularly when the gift involves the transfer of property or something that is physically impractical to deliver.



Following the gift, the person making the gift relinquishes any rights to the property and can not get it back without the permission of the party that received it. Any attempt to control the gifted property or derive a benefit from it may void the gift's tax-exempt nature, thus putting the legal status of the transfer in question and making it susceptible to tax.



The recipient must accept the gift as well. Should the gift have actual value, the law assumes the recipient will accept it. However, it is customary for the person receiving the gift to indicate their acceptance in writing to avoid confusion and formally complete the transaction.


   Example of an Inter Vivos Gift  

Julia wants her grandson, Mike, to have her family home. Mike has recently married, has a baby on the way, and Julia is interested in moving to her second home in Florida to escape the cold winters.



Julia has just retired and is in good health, and she knows Mike could use the property, or the money from the sale of the property, right away to help support his growing family. So, rather than make Mike wait until she dies to inherit her property, she makes Mike an inter vivos gift of the home, after which he has full ownership and can do with it as she pleases.



Since Julia will no longer own the home at the time of her death, it will not pass through probate or be subject to estate tax. However, the gift exceeds the gift tax limits, so it might be subject to gift taxes. However, if Julia notified the IRS of the gift via her tax filing and added it to her lifetime gift exclusion, it is likely taxes would not need to be paid.




What Are Inter Vivos Gifts?
Inter vivos gifts are gifts given between people while they live. The term is used to refer to gift values for tax purposes.




What Is a Gift Causa Mortis?
Causa mortis is the term used for a gift given "because of death." When someone is contemplating their death, such as when they are dying, and give someone a gift with significant value, it is known as a gift causa mortis.




What Are the 3 Elements That Have to Be Present for a Gift to Be Properly Conveyed?
The three elements necessary for proper gift conveyance are donative intent, delivery or intended delivery, and acceptance.
What Is a Gift of Equity?  

A gift of equity is the sale of a residence to a family member or someone with whom the seller has a close relationship, at a price below the current market value as determined by a professional appraisal. The difference between the actual sales price and the market value of the home is the actual gift of equity. Most lenders allow the equity to be used toward a down payment.





Key Takeaways

A gift of equity involves the sale of a residence at a price below its current market value, but no physical money changes hands.A gift of equity usually involves family members—typically, parents selling their home to a child.Most lenders allow the gift to count as or toward a down payment on the home.Gifts of equity must be properly documented through a gift of equity letter, and the homebuyer must be able to qualify for a mortgage.Gifts of equity may have tax implications for both the giver and the recipient.


   How a Gift of Equity Works  

Gift of equity derives its name from the fact that the sales price is so much lower than the real market price of the home. The transfer counts as a gift due to the difference in value, even if no physical money changes hands. A common gift of equity occurs when parents wish to sell their home to a child for a favorable price; however, it can also involve other family members, such as grandparents, aunts and uncles, cousins, or siblings.



Most lenders allow the gift to count as, or toward, a down payment on the home. The residence that’s changing hands may be either a primary residence or a second home.






Gifts of equity help the buyer reduce or eliminate down payment requirements, making it easier for the recipient to secure a home mortgage.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Gift of Equity  

Families or interested parties can use a gift of equity instead of going through a real estate company that would charge a commission on the sale. The owners name a price and “sell” the house to their children for that amount, even though the house could be worth more on the open market.



Gifts of equity do not avoid closing costs or other necessary expenses when transferring the title of the property. A gift of equity could also trigger a gift tax. The person transferring the home is responsible for filing a gift tax return and paying any gift tax owed, rather than the person who’s receiving the gift of equity.



The gift will impact the property’s cost basis, causing capital gains to be higher when the recipient sells the home in the future. A gift of equity could also have broader implications and affect the local real estate market by recording a sale of a property at below market value.




Gift of Equity Pros and Cons

Pros

Lower or no down payment for the buyer
No real estate agent commissions
Family members can help with a home purchase without parting with cash out of pocket



Cons

Potential triggering of gift tax for the family provider giving the gift of equity
Impact on home’s cost basis
Legal fees to draw up contract





   Requirements for a Gift of Equity  

A gift of equity requires a gift of equity letter, which is a letter stating the facts of the sale and is signed by both the seller and the buyer. Specifically, the letter must note who is offering the gift, the amount of the gift of equity, the property in question, and attest to the fact that it is in fact a gift, not a loan. Along with the letter, other considerations must be met:



The seller must have an official, paid appraisal completed on the home
Appraisals must note the appraised value of the residence
The appraisal includes the price for which the gift of equity home will sell
Paperwork must include the difference between the appraised value and the gift sale price



At closing, a second letter will note the gift of equity. It’s up to the person making the gift to decide how much equity to give. For example, say that you own a home that you plan to sell to one of your adult children. The home is appraised at $400,000, but you agree to sell it for $200,000, making them a $200,000 gift of equity in the process.






A gift of equity can also help the new owner avoid the expense of private mortgage insurance (PMI).


   Special Considerations  

A gift of equity can have tax consequences for both the giver and the receiver of the gift. The home’s value can impact the asset’s cost basis for the new homeowner and have capital gains implications for the seller. Also, if not executed properly, a gift of equity could trigger a gift tax. The sellers must follow Internal Revenue Service (IRS) guidelines for gifts. For 2022, a married couple can gift up to $32,000 and a single person up to $16,000 to an individual per year without being subject to a gift tax. This increases to $34,000 per couple or $17,000 per single person for calendar year 2023.



Additionally, a considerable sale can affect the local real estate market. If a house sells for considerably less than others with comparable features, then it may negatively impact other home sales in that price point or area. However, it may be possible for the transaction to be done privately or off-market to avoid that complication.



Buyers still have to be able to qualify for a mortgage even with a gift of equity changing hands. This means that they’ll need to meet the lender’s requirements with regard to credit scores and income. They’ll also need to provide all the necessary documentation to get approved for a mortgage, including:



At least one year’s worth of tax returns
Up-to-date W-2 forms
Recent bank statements
Investment account statements



Gifts of equity can be used with different mortgage options, including conventional 15- or 30-year home loans, adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans, and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loans.



Sellers also need to consider what they’re walking away from when offering a gift of equity. They may be helping a relative to purchase a home who might be unable to otherwise. But the seller could be losing out on an opportunity to reap a sizable profit from the sale of the home if they’ve accumulated a significant amount of equity since they purchased it.


   Example of a Gift of Equity  

A lender can consider the gift of equity as all or part of the cash payment required to qualify for a mortgage. For example, say a bank requires 20% down (the standard amount needed in most conventional loans to avoid mortgage insurance). The gift of equity made by the seller equals 10% of the home’s value. The buyer now only needs to make a down payment of 10% of the property’s price tag.



Note that the amount that a buyer is required to make up for the down payment can be determined by the type of mortgage loan. For example, in the case of an FHA loan, a gift of equity is allowed from a family member to cover a minimum 3.5% down payment, as long as the home is their primary residence.




How Do You Include a Gift of Equity in a Purchase Agreement?
In order to grant a gift of equity, the sellers should include a gift letter signed by the sellers, stating their relationship to the buyer, the address of the property, and the value of the equity they are gifting. They should also conduct an appraisal to determine the full market value of the property.




How Does a Gift of Equity Affect the Seller?
Gifts of equity incur a tax burden to the seller, depending on the size of the gift. The seller may have to pay a gift tax, unless the gift of equity is valued lower than the annual exclusion. For 2022, that exclusion is $16,000, and it increases to $17,000 for 2023 to account for inflation.




How Does a Gift of Equity Affect Taxes?
A gift of equity is not directly taxable to the recipient, but it may incur higher capital gains taxes later on. This is because the gift of equity reduces the buyer's cost basis, thereby increasing the likelihood that they will earn a profit if they eventually sell the property.


   The Bottom Line  

A gift of equity is a way for a seller to help buyers, usually family members, purchase their home. The seller doesn't give the buyers money as they would when giving them cash for a down payment. Instead, they agree to sell their home below market value. This gives the buyer immediate access to more equity than they have paid for.
What Is Gift Splitting?  

The term gift splitting refers to an estate planning tool that married couples can use to double their allowed annual gift tax exclusion amount. The gift tax exclusion is the amount that someone can transfer to another person as a gift without having to pay the gift tax levied by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Couples can use gift splitting to provide financial help to family or friends and avoid paying the gift tax. Married couples who want to take advantage of gift splitting must file joint tax returns in order to qualify.





Key Takeaways

Gift splitting allows a married couple to gift twice as much as an individual without being subject to a gift tax.In order to qualify for gift splitting, couples must both agree to the gift and file joint tax returns.The annual gift exclusion is $34,000 for couples for 2023.Couples must file Form 709 if they decide to use the gift-splitting option or if their gift exceeds the threshold.Gifts of any amount to spouses or political organizations or to pay tuition and medical expenses on behalf of others are generally not taxable as gifts.


   How Gift Splitting Works  

Gifts of money or property are subject to a gift tax if the donor exceeds the annual or lifetime gift exemption. Gift splitting is an easy way for married couples to maximize their annual gift tax exclusion amount. The Internal Revenue Service allows married couples who file jointly to double the amount of their gift through gift splitting.



Here's how gift splitting works. Married couples combine their individual allowances as if each contributed half the amount of the gift. The thresholds are applied to each person who is the recipient of a gift. For all gifts over the annual threshold amount, Form 709: United States Gift (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return must be filed with the IRS.



This means that a couple could give up to $34,000 each to any number of people in 2023 without any tax consequences. Anything over the allowed $17,000 (per individual) is still not taxable as long as it's under the lifetime gift tax limit of $12.92 million for 2023.



To qualify for gift splitting in the eyes of the IRS, both spouses must agree to the gift and specify the situation in which the gift was given when filing their tax returns. The gift giver is responsible for paying any tax and filing the gift tax return, which means that recipients generally aren't required to report the gift as income.






For the 2023 tax year, the annual gift exclusion limit for a calendar year is $34,000 for a couple, which is twice as much as the $17,000 threshold for an individual.


   Special Considerations  

If a couple divorces prior to filing their taxes for the year the gift took place, neither spouse can be remarried for gift splitting to qualify. In addition, neither spouse can benefit from the gift, and it must be made to a third party.



Gifts of any amount made to spouses or political organizations and payments of tuition and medical expenses on behalf of others are generally not taxable as gifts. For gifts used for medical or educational expenses, the gifts must be paid directly to the hospital, school, or applicable provider in order for the tax exclusion limits to be inapplicable.






As with all complex tax matters, it's a good idea to consult with a tax professional prior to making large gifts.


   Example of Gift Splitting  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how gift splitting works. Let's consider the circumstances of Mallory and River. Their daughter and son-in-law found out that they are expecting a second child. The house where they currently live is too small and they need to build an addition to the property to accommodate the needs of their growing family. The McKays are thrilled by the prospect of becoming grandparents again and are eager to contribute to the cost of the addition.



They expect that the additional room will cost around $30,000. Knowing they would be subject to gift taxes on the funds if they wrote a $30,000 check, the McKays decide to gift-split. Mallory writes one check for $15,000 and River writes another for the same amount. Or they could write one check from a joint account for the total amount and still use the gift-splitting option.



This allows their daughter and son-in-law to complete the remodel without having to worry about taking out a loan. Since they are going to split the gift between the two of them, the McKays can avoid paying the gift tax but must file Form 709 with the IRS. Keep in mind that no taxes would be due if the amount is still under the lifetime gift tax amount.



Now consider the same example, but instead of a second baby, the McKays find out that their daughter is pregnant with twins. In this case, they need to add two rooms and a bathroom to their house, which means the cost will be closer to $34,000. If they split the gift again and this time Mallory writes a check for $17,000 and River writes a check for $17,000 (or a single check from a joint account for the full amount), they each must file Form 709 with the IRS. In any instance, both individuals must consent to the gift.




What Is the Annual Exclusion Amount for Gifts?
The annual exclusion amount for gifts in 2023 is $17,000. Any amount below this is not subject to a gift tax. Amounts over this are also not subject to tax as long as they are under the lifetime limit of $12.92 million in 2023.




What Are Some Ways to Avoid a Gift Tax?
One of the ways an individual can avoid a gift tax is by spreading out the gift over a number of years. This allows an individual to stay within the gift tax limit. The gift can be provided for education or medical expenses, given directly to the educational or medical facility. This would avoid the gift tax. Married couples can also gift-split, which increases the amount that can be given without incurring the gift tax.




What Qualifies As a Gift?
Most items, such as cash, real estate, and assets, qualify as a gift. The only items that don't qualify as a gift are those that are used for educational or medical purposes as well as gifts made to political organizations.


   The Bottom Line  

Taxpayers are allowed to give other individuals a gift of money or assets as long without incurring any taxes as long as the value of that gift doesn't exceed a certain amount. Couples can split gifts and avoid paying any gift taxes, too. If you're a married couple and decide to split the gift, make sure you file Form 709, which is the gift tax return.



Correction—May 8, 2023: A previous version of this article misstated that couples can avoid filing Form 709 if they decide to gift split. This has been corrected to indicate that couples must file the form if they decide to use the gift-splitting option.
What Is a Gift Tax?  

A gift tax is a federal tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on individual taxpayers who transfer property to someone else without receiving anything of substantial value in return. A gift can include cash, real estate, and other forms of property. The IRS limits how much you can transfer to someone as a gift. Any amount over this threshold must be reported and applied toward a lifetime gift tax exemption. Once you exceed this limit, the gift tax becomes payable. The gift tax can be imposed even if you never intended the transfer to be a gift.





Key Takeaways

The gift tax is a federal tax levied on a taxpayer who gives money or property to someone else.A gift is anything of substantial value, such as cash and real estate, for which the donor doesn't get anything substantial in return.The IRS sets limits on how much taxpayers can gift to others annually and over their lifetime without incurring the gift tax.All gifts must be reported regardless of whether they trigger the gift tax.Gift splitting and gifts given in trust are two strategies to avoid incurring the gift tax.


   How a Gift Tax Works  

A gift is anything of value that is transferred from one individual to another. According to the IRS, the transfer may occur "either directly or indirectly, where full consideration (measured in money or money's worth) is not received in return." In order to prevent people from avoiding paying income taxes, the federal government created the federal gift tax. This tax prevents undue hardship and obliges donors and recipients to honor their tax liability to the IRS.



Property is considered a gift if it has value and is transferred to another individual without any significant form of compensation. The following table shows what is considered a gift and what may not be, according to the IRS:









Gifts vs. Non-Gifts




Included as a Gift 
Excluded from Gifts


Cash 
Educational expenses for someone else 


Securities, such as stocks and bonds 
Medical expenses for someone else 


Real estate and vehicles
Gifts to a spouse


Art
Gifts and donations to political organizations






The IRS sets limits to how much people can gift annually and during their lifetime. The annual limit is $17,000 per individual in 2023 without being taxed. The lifetime limit is $12.92 million for 2023. So if you have three children, you can transfer as much as $17,000 per child in 2023 for a total of $51,000 tax-free. You are taxed if you go over your annual exclusion limit and that amount counts toward your lifetime limit.



As a donor, you are responsible for reporting any gifts you make by filling out Form 709: United States Gift (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return even if the gift falls under the annual limit. This form must be attached to your annual tax return by April 15 of the year after the gift was made. Keep in mind that you won't be liable to pay tax on it.



Gift tax rates are based on the size of the taxable gift and can range between 18% and 40%. In cases where the value is not immediately evident, such as art or stocks, you must use the fair market value (FMV) of the asset to assess your tax liability.






You can gift an unlimited amount tax-free if your spouse is a U.S. citizen. If the spouse is not a U.S. citizen, then tax-free gifts are limited to an annually adjusted value — $175,000 in 2023.






   Gift Tax Strategies  

There are strategies for avoiding or minimizing the gift tax. We've listed some of the key ways to avoid this tax below.


  Gift Splitting  

Being married allows you to double your gifts. Remember, the annual exclusion applies to the amount of gift that an individual can give someone else. This means that even if they file a joint tax return, spouses can each give $17,000 in 2023 to the same recipient. This effectively raises that gift to $34,000 in a year without triggering the gift tax.



This strategy is known as gift splitting and enables wealthy couples to give substantial annual gifts to children, grandchildren, and others. This gift can be on top of, say, tuition paid directly to a grandchild’s school or college, which is exempted outright from the gift tax.


  Gift in Trust  

The gift tax exclusion usually doesn’t apply to money distributed by gift in trust conveyances. But donors can give gifts in excess of the annual exclusion without paying taxes by establishing a special type of trust to receive and distribute the funds. The Crummey trust is the usual arrangement.



This type of trust allows the beneficiary to withdraw the assets within a limited time period — say, 90 days or six months. This gives the beneficiary what the IRS calls a present interest in the trust — and this sort of distribution can qualify as a nontaxable gift. Of course, the recipient can only take out a sum equal to the gift given to the trust.






You can gift more than the annual exclusion without reducing your lifetime gift tax exemption under certain 529 college savings plan contributions. In these cases, you report this single large gift as being spread over five years on your tax return and file the form each year. The only catch is that you can’t make any additional gifts to the same recipient during this period. If you do, then it will be applied to your lifetime exclusion.


   Examples of the Gift Tax  

Here are a couple of examples of how the gift tax works.



Let's say Taxpayer A gave $100,000 to five individuals in 2023 — $20,000 to each. Because the annual exclusion limit is $17,000 per person, $15,000 of the total amount given is not excluded and reduces the lifetime exemption amount. So, after making these gifts, Taxpayer A has $12.903 million remaining of the exemption to give before paying gift taxes.



Here's another example. In 2023, a grandmother who wants to encourage her granddaughter’s education paid $20,000 for a year’s tuition. That same year, she also gave the young woman $17,000 for books, supplies, and equipment. Neither payment is reportable for gift tax purposes — the tuition is excluded outright, and the $17,000 is the maximum allowed under the annual exclusion.



If Grandma sent the future physician $30,000 and the young woman already paid the school, then the grandmother would have made a reportable (but not taxable) gift of $13,000 ($30,000 less the annual exclusion of $17,000), which would reduce her $12.92 million lifetime exclusion by $17,000.




How Much Is the Gift Tax?
The gift tax is applied on a sliding scale, depending on the size of the gift. It only kicks in on gifts above and beyond a certain threshold established by the IRS. First, a flat amount is assessed; additional tax is then levied at a rate that ranges from 18% to 40%.




How Much Can I Gift Someone Tax-Free?
You can give someone up to $17,000 for the 2023 tax year. Anything above those amounts will eat into your lifetime gift allowance ($12.92 million in 2023), which, if exhausted, will trigger the gift tax.




Does the Receiver of a Gift Pay Tax?
The person receiving a gift usually is not required to pay gift tax. The recipient can opt to do so, though, especially if the amount would put the donor over their lifetime gift tax exclusion.




How Much Can I Gift My Child?
You can gift your child or grandchild the same amount that you can gift other relatives or friends without incurring the gift tax, namely:$17,000 in 2023 per recipient$12.92 million in 2023 over the course of your lifetimeThe IRS regularly adjusts these maximums for inflation. Since the $17,000 thresholds apply to one donor, a married couple can each give that amount to the same child, resulting in an annual gift of $34,000, respectively.


   The Bottom Line  

The gift tax is a federal levy that applies when you give to another individual or individuals, without charge, a sum of cash or assets — either tangible or intangible — that have intrinsic worth. It is imposed on the donor rather than on the receiver.



However, the gift tax has been devised in such a way that very few people end up actually paying it. Numerous types of gifts are exempted, including anything to a spouse. In addition, you can give an eight-figure sum over the course of your life before the gift tax is triggered — and even then, it applies to the amount above that threshold.
What Is a Gift Tax Return?  

A gift tax return is a federal tax return that must be filed under certain conditions by the giver of a gift. (It is not a tax on returning gifts.) The return is known as Form 709.﻿﻿ ﻿





Key Takeaways


Givers of gifts worth more than $16,000 for 2022 ($17,000 for 2023) to a single recipient must fill out a "gift tax return" with their annual tax return.
Some gifts are exempt from this rule, including gifts given to pay tuition and medical bills.
The gifts must exceed a lifetime amount of $12.06 million to a single recipient to be taxed as of 2022 ($12.92 million in 2023 to account for inflation).



   How the Gift Tax Return Works  

Individuals who give a gift that exceeds the annual or lifetime exempt gift limit established by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must fill out the form when filing their taxes. The annual exemption limit is $16,000 per gift for 2022 ($17,000 for 2023), and the lifetime exemption in 2022 is $12.06 million ($12.92 million for 2023). The lifetime exemption is inflation-indexed, so it will rise year-over-year.



For 2022, if an individual gifts anything over the limit, even $16,001, to a single recipient, that individual must fill out a gift tax return form. The return must be filled out because gifts above the exempt amount are subject to a gift tax.



The gift tax return is only used by those who have given over $16,000 in 2022 ($17,000 in 2023). As the regulations applied to gift taxes are very complicated, it is best to consult a professional as well as your local tax law. In order to avoid the gift tax, many people use estate planning, working with a financial planner, tax professional, or attorney to strategically choose when, how, and who gets the estate owner's money.


   Who Files the Gift Tax Return and Who Pays the Gift Tax?  

A gift tax is a federal tax applied to an individual giving anything of value to another person. For something to be considered a gift, the receiving party cannot pay the giver full value for the gift but may pay an amount less than its full value.



A gift tax return is a form that must be filed by a gift-giver if they give any amount over the gift tax exemption. Unless special arrangements have been made, it is always the gift-giver, not the recipient, who is responsible for paying the gift tax and for filing the gift tax return.



The gift tax return is IRS Form 709. The receiver of the gift may pay the gift tax, or a percentage of it, on the giver's behalf, in the event that the giver has exceeded their lifetime gift exclusion limit.



The federal government allows married couples who file together to double the amount of their gift tax through a process called gift splitting. Married couples combine their individual allowances as if each contributed half of the amount.



For gift splitting to be official, both spouses must agree to the gift and specify the situation in which the gift was given when filing their taxes. A couple filing a gift tax return in 2022 could gift $32,000 before the giver needed to pay taxes on the amount (that amount increases to $34,000 in 2023).
What Is a Gig Economy?  

A gig economy is a labor market that relies heavily on temporary and part-time positions filled by independent contractors and freelancers rather than full-time permanent employees.



Gig workers gain flexibility and independence but little or no job security. Many employers save money by avoiding paying benefits such as health coverage and paid vacation time. Others pay for some benefits to gig workers but outsource the benefits programs and other management tasks to external agencies.



The term is borrowed from the music world, where performers book "gigs" that are single or short-term engagements at various venues.





Key Takeaways

The gig economy is based on flexible, temporary, or freelance jobs, often involving connecting with clients or customers through an online platform.The gig economy can benefit workers, businesses, and consumers by making work more adaptable to the needs of the moment and the demand for flexible lifestyles.At the same time, the gig economy can have downsides due to the erosion of traditional economic relationships between workers, businesses, and clients.


   Understanding a Gig Economy  

In a gig economy, large numbers of people work in part-time or temporary positions or as independent contractors. The result of a gig economy is cheaper, more efficient services, such as Uber or Airbnb, for those willing to use them.



People who don't use technological services such as the Internet may be left behind by the benefits of the gig economy. Cities tend to have the most highly developed services and are the most entrenched in the gig economy.



A wide variety of positions fall into the category of a gig. The work can range from driving for Uber or delivering food to writing code or freelance articles. Adjunct and part-time professors, for example, are contracted employees as opposed to tenure-track or tenured professors. Colleges and universities can cut costs and match professors to their academic needs by hiring more adjunct and part-time professors.


   The Factors Behind a Gig Economy  

America is well on its way to establishing a gig economy, and estimates show as much as a third of the working population is already in some gig capacity as of 2021. Experts expect this working number to rise, as these types of positions facilitate independent contracting work, with many of them not requiring a freelancer to come into an office. Gig workers are much more likely to be part-time workers and to work from home.



Employers also have a wider range of applicants to choose from because they don't have to hire someone based on their proximity. Additionally, computers have developed to the point that they can either take the place of the jobs people previously had or allow people to work just as efficiently from home as they could in person.






In the modern digital world, it's becoming increasingly common for people to work remotely or from home. This trend accelerated during the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic.



Economic reasons also factor into the development of a gig economy. Employers who cannot afford to hire full-time employees to do all the work that needs to be done will often hire part-time or temporary employees to take care of busier times or specific projects.



On the employee's side of the equation, people often find they need to move or take multiple positions to afford the lifestyle they want. It's also common to change careers many times throughout a lifetime, so the gig economy can be viewed as a reflection of this occurring on a large scale.



In 2020, the gig economy experienced significant increases as gig workers delivered necessities to home-bound consumers, and those whose jobs had been eliminated turned to part-time and contract work for income. Employers will need to plan for changes to the world of work, including the gig economy, when the crisis has ended.


   Criticisms of the Gig Economy  

Despite its benefits, there are some downsides to the gig economy. While not all employers are inclined to hire contracted employees, the gig economy trend can make it harder for full-time employees to develop in their careers since temporary employees are often cheaper to hire and more flexible in their availability. Workers who prefer a traditional career path and the stability and security that come with it are being crowded out in some industries.



For some workers, the flexibility of working gigs can actually disrupt the work-life balance, sleep patterns, and activities of daily life. Flexibility in a gig economy often means that workers have to make themselves available any time gigs come up, regardless of their other needs, and must always be on the hunt for the next gig. Competition for gigs has increased, too. And unemployment insurance usually doesn't cover gig workers who can't find employment (2020's CARES Act made an exception).



In effect, workers in a gig economy are more like entrepreneurs than traditional workers. While this may mean greater freedom of choice for the individual worker, it also means that the security of a steady job with regular pay, benefits—including a retirement account—and a daily routine that has characterized work for generations are rapidly becoming a thing of the past.



Lastly, because of the fluid nature of gig economy transactions and relationships, long-term relationships between workers, employers, clients, and vendors can erode. This can eliminate the benefits that flow from building long-term trust, customary practice, and familiarity with clients and employers.



It could also discourage investment in relationship-specific assets that would otherwise be profitable to pursue since no party has an incentive to invest significantly in a relationship that only lasts until the next gig comes along.




What Is an Example of a Gig Economy?
Examples of a gig economy are those jobs that individuals discover and access through online platforms that list such jobs. These jobs are often one-time or short-term contract jobs. These include driving for a ride-sharing service, painting someone's house, freelance work, coaching, fitness training, and tutoring. The job is exchanged for cash and there are no other benefits, such as health insurance.




What Are the Benefits of the Gig Economy?
The gig economy has many benefits for both the employee and employer. An employer has access to a wide range of talent that they can hire. If the talent proves to be less than acceptable, there is no contract to keep the employee on or issues of letting them go. In addition, in a time when it has become difficult to attract full-time workers, employers can hire from the gig economy.In addition, hiring gig workers can be more affordable as companies don't have to pay for health insurance or other benefits. For employees, the gig economy's benefits include having the option to do multiple jobs, work from anywhere depending on the specific job, freedom, and flexibility in their daily routine.




Is the Gig Economy Worth It?
To the individuals working in the gig economy, it is worth it. Studies show that 79% of individuals who work in the gig economy are more satisfied than when they were working traditional jobs.
What Are Gilt-Edged Securities?  

Gilt-edged securities are high-grade bonds issued by certain national governments and private organizations. In the past, these instruments referred to the certificates issued by the Bank of England (BOE) on behalf of the Majesty's Treasury, so named because the paper they were printed on customarily featured gilded (golden) edges.



By nature, a gilt-edged denotes a high-quality item whose value remains fairly constant over time. As an investment vehicle, this equates to high-grade securities with relatively low yields compared to riskier, below-investment-grade securities.



For that reason, gilt-edge securities were once solely issued by blue-chip companies and national governments with proven track records of turning profits. Aside from conventional gilts, the British government issues index-linked gilts that offer semi-annual coupon payments adjusted for inflation. 



Government bonds in the U.K., India, and several other commonwealth countries are still known as gilts.





Key Takeaways

Gilt-edged securities refer to high-grade bonds that some national governments and private organizations issue in an effort to generate revenue.Also known as gilts, these securities were originally issued by the Bank of England.These instruments got their names because the certificates were printed on paper stock with gilded edges.Gilt-edged securities are favored by investors who seek predictable returns, with little risk of default.Gilt-edged investments have similar features to United States Treasury securities.


   Understanding Gilt-Edged Securities  

Gilt-edged securities are high-grade investment bonds offered by governments and large corporations as a method of borrowing funds. The issuing institutions typically boast strong track records of consistent earnings that can cover dividend or interest payments. In many ways, these are the next safest bonds to U.S. Treasury securities.



The United Kingdom and other Commonwealth nations still rely on these securities, in much the same way the U.S. uses Treasury bonds to raise revenue. A conventional gilt issued by the U.K. government pays the holder a fixed cash payment biannually until maturity, at which point the principal is returned in full. The coupon payment reflects the market interest rate at the time of issuance and indicates the cash payment that the holder will receive each year.



Similar to Treasury securities, the duration of gilt-edged assets can range from a few years up to 50 years. After the 2008 recession, large quantities of gilts were created and repurchased by the Bank of England in its campaign to jump-start economic relief efforts.






About 20% of all U.K. gilts are held by pension funds.


   Limitations of Gilt-Edged Securities  

Although gilt-edged securities are offered by reliable government bodies and large corporations, they present certain drawbacks. Primarily, the bonds tend to fluctuate with interest rates, where rate hikes will cause the price of a gilt to decline, and vice versa.



During periods when global economic conditions are improving, interest rates tend to rise, in which case gilt funds are likely to fall in value. For this reason, investors looking to generate substantial returns during periods of economic growth may source better value in index funds.



The greatest advantage of gilt-edge securities is the fact that these instruments are typically tied to interest rates. Consequently, they are ideal investments for retirees seeking reliable returns with minimal risk.




What Does Gilt-Edged Mean in Business?
In business or financial terms, "gilt-edged" refers to a financial product of high quality and low risk. Typically, these are securities of the highest value. They are most commonly associated with U.K. government bonds.




Why Is It Called "Gilt"?
U.K. government bonds, known as "gilts" are termed as such because the original bond certificates had gilded edges, hence the name of "gilt-edged" security.




What Are the Advantages of Gilt-Edged Securities?
The primary advantage of gilt-edged securities is their safety. They are low-risk investments with a better asset quality than equities, and as such, come with low yields, which can be seen as a disadvantage. To earn more yield, one would need to invest in higher-risk securities, such as stocks or high-yield bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

Gilt-edged securities are high-quality bonds issued by governments or blue-chip companies and are primarily associated with the U.K., as they are government bonds, similar to U.S. Treasuries. Investors looking for safe securities with low yields can consider investing in gilts.
What Are Gilt-Edged Securities?  

Gilt-edged securities are high-grade bonds issued by certain national governments and private organizations. In the past, these instruments referred to the certificates issued by the Bank of England (BOE) on behalf of the Majesty's Treasury, so named because the paper they were printed on customarily featured gilded (golden) edges.



By nature, a gilt-edged denotes a high-quality item whose value remains fairly constant over time. As an investment vehicle, this equates to high-grade securities with relatively low yields compared to riskier, below-investment-grade securities.



For that reason, gilt-edge securities were once solely issued by blue-chip companies and national governments with proven track records of turning profits. Aside from conventional gilts, the British government issues index-linked gilts that offer semi-annual coupon payments adjusted for inflation. 



Government bonds in the U.K., India, and several other commonwealth countries are still known as gilts.





Key Takeaways

Gilt-edged securities refer to high-grade bonds that some national governments and private organizations issue in an effort to generate revenue.Also known as gilts, these securities were originally issued by the Bank of England.These instruments got their names because the certificates were printed on paper stock with gilded edges.Gilt-edged securities are favored by investors who seek predictable returns, with little risk of default.Gilt-edged investments have similar features to United States Treasury securities.


   Understanding Gilt-Edged Securities  

Gilt-edged securities are high-grade investment bonds offered by governments and large corporations as a method of borrowing funds. The issuing institutions typically boast strong track records of consistent earnings that can cover dividend or interest payments. In many ways, these are the next safest bonds to U.S. Treasury securities.



The United Kingdom and other Commonwealth nations still rely on these securities, in much the same way the U.S. uses Treasury bonds to raise revenue. A conventional gilt issued by the U.K. government pays the holder a fixed cash payment biannually until maturity, at which point the principal is returned in full. The coupon payment reflects the market interest rate at the time of issuance and indicates the cash payment that the holder will receive each year.



Similar to Treasury securities, the duration of gilt-edged assets can range from a few years up to 50 years. After the 2008 recession, large quantities of gilts were created and repurchased by the Bank of England in its campaign to jump-start economic relief efforts.






About 20% of all U.K. gilts are held by pension funds.


   Limitations of Gilt-Edged Securities  

Although gilt-edged securities are offered by reliable government bodies and large corporations, they present certain drawbacks. Primarily, the bonds tend to fluctuate with interest rates, where rate hikes will cause the price of a gilt to decline, and vice versa.



During periods when global economic conditions are improving, interest rates tend to rise, in which case gilt funds are likely to fall in value. For this reason, investors looking to generate substantial returns during periods of economic growth may source better value in index funds.



The greatest advantage of gilt-edge securities is the fact that these instruments are typically tied to interest rates. Consequently, they are ideal investments for retirees seeking reliable returns with minimal risk.




What Does Gilt-Edged Mean in Business?
In business or financial terms, "gilt-edged" refers to a financial product of high quality and low risk. Typically, these are securities of the highest value. They are most commonly associated with U.K. government bonds.




Why Is It Called "Gilt"?
U.K. government bonds, known as "gilts" are termed as such because the original bond certificates had gilded edges, hence the name of "gilt-edged" security.




What Are the Advantages of Gilt-Edged Securities?
The primary advantage of gilt-edged securities is their safety. They are low-risk investments with a better asset quality than equities, and as such, come with low yields, which can be seen as a disadvantage. To earn more yield, one would need to invest in higher-risk securities, such as stocks or high-yield bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

Gilt-edged securities are high-quality bonds issued by governments or blue-chip companies and are primarily associated with the U.K., as they are government bonds, similar to U.S. Treasuries. Investors looking for safe securities with low yields can consider investing in gilts.
What Are Gilts?  

Gilts are government bonds in the U.K., India, and Commonwealth countries similar to U.S. Treasury securities. The term gilt describes a bond with a low risk of default and a low rate of return, and the name comes from historical certificates with gilded edges issued by the British government.



Gilts are sensitive to interest rate changes but provide diversification benefits because of their low or negative correlation with stock markets.





Key Takeaways

Government bonds in the U.K., India, and Commonwealth countries are known as gilts.Gilts may be conventional gilts issued in nominal terms or index-linked gilts tagged to inflation.Low-risk corporate bonds are commonly referred to as gilt-edged securities.Gilt funds are ETFs or mutual funds that invest primarily in U.K. government bonds.


   Conventional Gilts  

Governments issue conventional gilts, which represent the majority of government debt, in the national currency and do not make adjustments for inflation. Conventional gilts are nominal bonds that promise to pay a fixed coupon rate at set intervals, such as every six months. When a conventional gilt matures, its holder receives the last coupon and the principal.



When issued, the coupon rate of a conventional gilt approximates the market interest rate. Conventional gilts have prescribed maturities, which are often five, ten, or 30 years from the date of issuance.


   Index-Linked Gilts  

Index-linked gilts represent bonds with borrowing rates and principal payments linked to changes in the inflation rate. These gilts are similar to U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS). The U.K. was the first country to issue inflation-indexed bonds in 1981. Index-linked gilts were first introduced in India in 2013.



Index-linked gilts in the U.K. make coupon payments every six months, coupled with the principal at maturity. Coupon rates are adjusted to reflect changes in the U.K. retail price index. For gilts issued after September 2005, coupon rates are adjusted based on the inflation rate published three months ago. Securities issued before September 2005 use an eight-month lag.


   Corporate Bonds or Gilt-Edged Securities  

Low-risk corporate bonds and stocks may also be called gilts or gilt-edged securities. A gilt-edge denotes a high-quality item, the value of which remains relatively stable over time. Private sector gilts or gilts-edged securities should not be confused with government bonds. Corporate gilts in the U.K. or Commonwealth countries are considered the equivalent of blue-chip securities in the United States.



A bond described as gilt-edged has top ratings assigned by credit rating services such as Standard & Poor's or Moody's. Gilt-edged bonds have yields below those offered by more speculative bonds. These bonds often serve as the cornerstone of investment portfolios for conservative investors whose top priority is capital preservation.






Private investors can buy gilts on the primary market administered by the U.K. Debt Management Office or through the secondary market via authorized government brokers.


   Gilt Funds  

Gilt funds are ETFs or mutual funds that invest primarily in government bonds in the U.K. Gilt funds have the conservative objective of preserving capital. Gilt funds often invest in several different types of short-term, medium-term, and long-term government securities. Gilt funds examples include:



iShares Core U.K. Gilts UCITS ETF: invests in U.K. government securities. As of June 16, 2023, 99.92% of the portfolio was in U.K. Government bond investments. The fund's return in 2022 was -23.8% in British pound terms.Janus Henderson Institutional U.K. Gilt Fund: invests primarily in U.K. government Gilt securities. One-year performance in the fund’s investor share class was -17.26% in British pound terms as of June 16, 2023.




How Do Gilt Values Change With Interest Rates?
Gilts see their market values change as market rates change. Generally, when interest rates rise, the value of existing bonds falls. When rates fall, bond values rise.




Do Investors Have to Hold Gilts to Maturity?
No, investors do not have to hold a Gilt until it reaches its maturity date. They can sell Gilts to other investors on the secondary market.




What Are Clean and Dirty Prices?
Clean and dirty prices are used when discussing the Gilt price on the secondary market. The clean Gilt price is its price without accrued interest. The dirty price is the total price you must pay to buy a Gilt, equal to its clean price plus any accrued interest since its last interest payment date.


   The Bottom Line  

Gilts are government bonds in the U.K. and other Commonwealth countries, though the term commonly refers to high-quality corporate bonds. Gilts are considered safe investments, giving investors a consistent return, though their values can fluctuate with interest rate changes.
What Is the Gini Index?  

The Gini index, or Gini co-efficient, measures income distribution across a population. Developed by Italian statistician Corrado Gini in 1912, it often serves as a gauge of economic inequality, measuring income distribution or, less commonly, wealth distribution among a population.



The co-efficient ranges from 0 (or 0%) to 1 (or 100%), with 0 representing perfect equality and 1 representing perfect inequality. Values greater than 1 are theoretically possible due to negative income or wealth.





Key Takeaways

The Gini index is a measure of the distribution of income across a population.A higher Gini index indicates greater inequality, with high-income individuals receiving much larger percentages of the population’s total income.Global inequality, as measured by the Gini index, has steadily increased over the past few centuries and spiked during the COVID-19 pandemic.Because of data and other limitations, the Gini index may overstate income inequality and can obscure important information about income distribution.












Ellen Lindner / Investopedia


   Understanding the Gini Index  

A country in which every resident has the same income would have an income Gini co-efficient of 0. Conversely, a country in which one resident earned all the income, while everyone else earned nothing, would have an income Gini co-efficient of 1.



The same analysis can apply to wealth distribution (the wealth Gini co-efficient), but because wealth is more difficult to measure than income, Gini co-efficients usually refer to income and appear simply as the Gini co-efficient or Gini index, without specifying that they refer to income. Wealth Gini co-efficients tend to be much higher than those for income.



Even in affluent countries, the Gini index measures net income rather than net worth, so the majority of a nation’s wealth can still be concentrated in the hands of a small number of people even if income distribution is relatively equal.



The Gini co-efficient is an important tool for analyzing income or wealth distribution within a country or region, but it should not be mistaken for an absolute measurement of income or wealth. A high-income country and a low-income country can have the same Gini co-efficient, as long as incomes are distributed similarly within each. For example, Turkey and the United States both have income Gini co-efficients of around 0.39–0.40, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), despite Turkey’s vastly lower gross domestic product (GDP) per person.


   Graphical Representation of the Gini Index  

The Gini index is often represented graphically through the Lorenz curve, as depicted below, which shows income (or wealth) distribution by plotting the population percentile by income on the horizontal axis and cumulative income on the vertical axis. The Gini co-efficient is equal to the area below the line of perfect equality (0.5 by definition) minus the area below the Lorenz curve, divided by the area below the line of perfect equality. In other words, it is double the area between the Lorenz curve and the line of perfect equality.












   The Gini Index Around the World  
  Global Gini  

The Gini co-efficient experienced sustained growth during the 19th and 20th centuries. In 1820, the global Gini co-efficient stood at 0.50, while in 1980 and 1992, the figure was 0.657.













Source: The World Bank



COVID-19 is likely to have a further negative impact on income equality. According to The World Bank, the Gini co-efficient has increased about 1.5 points in the five years following major epidemics, such as Ebola and Zika. Economists believe COVID-19 triggered an annual 1.2- to 1.9-percentage-point increase in the Gini co-efficient for 2020 and 2021.


  Gini within Countries  

Below are the income Gini co-efficients of every country for which the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) World Factbook provides data:







Some of the world’s poorest countries have some of the world’s highest Gini coefficients, while many of the lowest Gini coefficients are found in wealthier European countries. However, the relationship between income inequality and GDP per capita is not one of perfect negative correlation, and the relationship has varied over time.



Michail Moatsos of Utrecht University and Joery Baten of Tuebingen University show that from 1820 to 1929, inequality rose slightly—then tapered off—as GDP per capita increased. From 1950 to 1970, inequality tended to fall as GDP per capita rose above a certain threshold. From 1980 to 2000, inequality fell with higher GDP per capita, then curved back up sharply.















Correlation between Gini co-efficients and GDP per capita in three time periods. Source: Michail Moatsos and Joery Baten.


   Limitations of the Gini Index  

Though useful for analyzing economic inequality, the Gini co-efficient has some shortcomings.



The metric’s accuracy is dependent on reliable GDP and income data. Shadow economies and informal economic activity are present in every country. Informal economic activity tends to represent a larger portion of true economic production in developing countries and at the lower end of the income distribution within countries. In both cases, this means that the Gini index of measured incomes will overstate true income inequality. Accurate wealth data is even more difficult to come by due to the popularity of tax havens.



Another flaw is that very different income distributions can result in identical Gini co-efficients. Because the Gini attempts to distill a two-dimensional area (the gap between the Lorenz curve and the equality line) down to a single number, it obscures information about the shape of inequality. In everyday terms, this would be similar to describing the contents of a photo solely by its length along one edge, or the simple average brightness value of the pixels.



Though using the Lorenz curve as a supplement can provide more information in this respect, it also does not show demographic variations among subgroups within the distribution, such as the distribution of incomes across age, race, or social groups. In that vein, understanding demographics can be important for understanding what a given Gini co-efficient represents. For example, a large retired population pushes the Gini higher.




What country has the highest Gini index?
South Africa, with a Gini co-efficient of 63.0, is currently recognized as the country with the highest income inequality. The World Population Review attributes this massive inequality to racial, gender, and geographic discrimination, with white males and urban workers in South Africa earning much better salaries than everyone else.




What does a Gini index of 50 mean?
The Gini index ranges from 0% to 100%, with 0 representing perfect equality and 100 representing perfect inequality. A Gini of 50 marks the halfway point and can generally be perceived as a place where income is not fairly distributed. Only 15 countries in the world have a Gini of 50 or more.




Is the U.S. Gini co-efficient high or low?
The United States has a Gini co-efficient of 41.1, which is a high reading for such a developed economy. Economists blame rising income inequality in the U.S. on factors such as technological change, globalization, the decline of unions, and the eroding value of the minimum wage.


   The Bottom Line  

If the gap between rich and poor continues to increase, the evaluation of the income gap can become more important. And the Gini index can provide a great starting point when it comes to measuring that income inequality. Knowing the Gini index numbers is no panacea, but this measure does provide a way to quantify and track the direction in which a society is moving, which may open the door for dialogue and potential solutions.



But keep in mind that there are limitations associated with using this measure. The co-efficient is only as reliable as the data used to calculate it, and it only provides a single-digit reading, which doesn’t take different groups in the sample into account.
What Is the Gibraltar Pound (GIP)?  

The Gibraltar pound (abbreviated as GIP) is the official currency for the country of Gibraltar. The Gibraltar pound is pegged at par value to the British pound sterling, at a fixed exchange rate.





Key Takeaways

The Gibraltar pound (abbreviated as GIP) is the official currency for the country of Gibraltar.The GIP is pegged at par value to the British pound. Gibraltar pounds and pence coins are legal tenders only in Gibraltar.Gibraltar began issuing its own banknotes in 1927, G and its own coins in 1988.Before the GIP, the Spanish real and then the British pound were Gibraltar's official money.


   Understanding the Gibraltar Pound (GIP)  

The Gibraltar pound is issued by the government of Gibraltar under the terms of the 1934 Currency Note Act. Its treasury mints coins in £1, £2, £5, 1 penny, 2 pence, 5 pence, 10 pence, 20 pence, and 50 pence. It prints banknotes in denominations of £5, £10, £20, £50, and £100. 



The notes and coins in circulation use British names but have different designs. They are only accepted in Gibraltar. The GIP is not recognized in the United Kingdom, although it can be exchanged for British pound sterling notes, at a one-to-one ratio.



British coins and notes issued by the Bank of England are legal tenders in Gibraltar, however. Most retail stores in Gibraltar unofficially also accept the euro (although the Royal Gibraltar Post Office does not).






Gibraltar decimalized its currency in 1971 at the same time as the U.K., replacing the system of 1 pound = 20 shillings = 240 pence with one of 1 pound = 100 (new) pence.


   Gibraltar's Economy   

Located in the south of the Iberian Peninsula, Gibraltar is officially a British overseas territory.



The British military has dominated the economy of Gibraltar, and its naval dockyard was historically the center of economic activity. However, military activities and business have declined over the last several decades: from 60% in 1984 to an estimated 7% currently.



Gibraltar's economy is now based on financial services, online gaming, navigation, and tourism. The country remains a significant port in the Mediterranean Sea, with bunkering—the supplying of fuel to ships—another important industry.  


   History of the Gibraltar Pound  

From 1825 to 1872, the currency situation in Gibraltar was complicated, with a system based on the Spanish real de plata but encompassing British, Spanish, and Gibraltarian coins. The real was tied to the pound at the rate of one Spanish dollar to four shillings, four pence (equivalent to 21.67 pence today). In 1872, however, the Spanish currency became the sole legal tender of the country.



Then, in 1898, the Spanish–American War made the Spanish currency drop dramatically in value. As a result, the pound was introduced as the official coin of the realm—initially in the form of British coins and banknotes, though Spanish money continued in circulation.



Gibraltar began issuing its own banknotes in 1927—the official birth of the Gibraltar pound—and its own coins in 1988. The coins were in denominations of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, and 50 pence and 1 pound coins with unique designs and the country's name.



In 2011 the Gibraltar government assumed sole responsibility for the design, printing, and production of banknotes, taking over responsibilities that until then had been the preserve of the British government.






In 2016, Gibraltar's government issued a new £100 banknote. Bearing the image of Sir Joshua Hassan, Gibraltar’s first Chief Minister and an architect of the territory's self-rule, the note was the first in the world to have a holographic foil on Safeguard polymer substrate.


  Gibraltar Currency Issues  

In 1975, £10 and £20 notes were introduced, followed by £50 notes in 1986. New series of notes were issued in 1995 and 2010-11.



Two-pound coins were introduced in 1999. The £2 coin has featured a new design every year since its introduction, depicting each of the 12 Labors of Hercules.



In 2004 the Government of Gibraltar minted a new edition of its coins to commemorate the tercentenary of British Gibraltar (1704-2004).



A new  £5 coin was issued in 2010 inscribed with "Elizabeth II • Queen of Gibraltar."
What Is Give-Up?  

Give-up is a procedure in securities or commodities trading where an executing broker places a trade on behalf of another broker. It is called a "give-up" because the broker executing the trade gives up credit for the transaction on the record books. A give-up usually occurs because a broker cannot place a trade for a client based on other workplace obligations. A give-up may also happen because the original broker is working on behalf of an interdealer broker or prime broker.





Key Takeaways

In a give-up agreement, an executing broker places a commodity or security trade on behalf of another broker.It is called a "give up" because the broker executing the trade gives up credit for the transaction on the record books.Give-up was common before electronic trading, but it is not generally practiced in modern financial markets.Acceptance of a give-up trade is sometimes called a give-in.Compensation for the give-up trades is not clearly defined by industry standards and usually involves prearranged agreements between brokers.


   Understanding Give-Up Trades  

Give-up is no longer a common trading practice in the financial markets. Give-up was more common before the development of electronic trading. In the floor trading era, a broker might not be able to make it to the floor and would have another broker place the trade as a sort of proxy. Overall, the act of performing a trade in the name of another broker is generally part of a prearranged give-up agreement. Prearranged agreements typically include provisions for the give-up trade procedures as well as compensation. Give-up trades are not standard practice, so payment is not clearly defined without a prearranged agreement.


   Give-Up vs. Give-In  

Acceptance of a give-up trade is sometimes called a give-in. After a give-up trade is actually executed, it can then be called a give-in. However, the use of the term "give in" is much less common.


   Parties Involved in the Trade  

There are three main parties involved in a give-up trade. These parties include the executing broker (Party A), the client's broker (Party B), and the broker taking the opposite side of the trade (Party C). A standard trade only involves two parties, the buying broker and the selling broker. A give-up also requires one other person who executes the trade (Party A).



In cases where both the original buying and selling brokers are otherwise obligated, a fourth party can become involved in a give-up trade. If the buying broker and the selling broker both ask separate traders to act on their behalf, then this scenario would result in a give-up on the selling side and the buying side.



A request is made of Party A to place the trade on behalf of Party B to ensure the timely execution of a trade. On the record books, also known as a trade log, a give-up trade shows the information for the client's broker (Party B). Party A executes the transaction on behalf of Party B and is not formally noted in the trade record.



Compensation agreements are typically created to manage the provisions of give-up trades. The executing broker (Party A) may or may not receive the standard trade spread. Executing brokers are often paid by the non-floor brokers either on retainer or with a per-trade commission. This comprehensive payment to the executing broker may or may not be part of the commission that Broker B charges his client.


   Example of a Give-Up Trade  

Broker B gets a buy order from a client to buy 100 shares of XYZ on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Broker B works upstairs at a large brokerage firm and needs to get the order down to the floor of the NYSE. To execute the trade in a timely fashion, Broker B asks Floor Broker A to place the order. Floor Broker A then buys the stock on behalf of the client of Broker B.



Although Floor Broker A places the trade, he must give up the transaction and record it as if Broker B made the trade. The transaction is recorded as if Broker B made the trade, even though Floor Broker A executed the trade.




What Is a Give-Up in Prime Brokerage?
Prime brokerages are a bundled group of services that certain banks offer to large clients like institutional investors and hedge funds. Those clients will use their prime brokerage to execute their trades. In a way, they outsource the trading so they can focus on their own investment strategy. Those prime brokerages will then themselves engage in give-up trades for their client: the fund or institutional investor.




What Does Trading Away Mean?
Trading away means executing a trade through another broker or dealer.One of the benefits of trading away is that the trader is able to place trades with multiple brokers but from one centralized account. This can be useful when one broker, usually the main broker, does not have access to certain markets or instruments.




What Is a Master Give-Up Agreement?
A Master Give-up agreement is an agreement entered into by two parties that facilitates authorized transactions between customers and dealer banks authorized in the agreement. The agreement will also come with a compensation agreement, which is meant to cover potential losses in the event the prime broker does not accept the give-up transaction.




What Is an AGU Agreement?
An AGU agreement stands for "Automatic Give-Up," and is an agreement that automatically locks in a transaction in the system where the transaction is logged. These agreements, like give-up agreements, are required by parties to be reported to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).




How Do Give-Up Trades Work?
Give-up trades work when one party is unable to place the trade, so they entrust the trade to a third party. If John wants to buy ABC stock but is unable to place the trade with Andy, who owns the stock, John may have Mary make the trade for him, delivering the stock from Andy to John after John has paid. There can be four total parties if in this example Andy is also unable to make the trade personally. Nowadays, this is done electronically.


   The Bottom Line  

Give-up trades were more common when brokers physically made trades. These days, computers will place the trade in the fastest way and at the best price. Sometimes this includes "giving up" a trade, but it is not as common as it once was.
What Is the Glass Ceiling?  

The term glass ceiling refers to a metaphorical invisible barrier that prevents certain individuals from being promoted to managerial- and executive-level positions within an organization or industry. The phrase is commonly used to describe the difficulties faced by women and minorities when trying to move to higher roles in a male-dominated corporate hierarchy. The barriers are most often unwritten, meaning that these individuals are more likely to be restricted from advancing through accepted norms and implicit biases rather than defined corporate policies.





Key Takeaways

The glass ceiling is a colloquial term for the social barrier preventing women from being promoted to top jobs in management.The term has been broadened to include discrimination against minorities.Marilyn Loden coined the phrase "glass ceiling" at a 1978 Women's Exposition.Women make up 56.8% of the labor force in the U.S but hold only 29.1% of executive positions.The U.S. Department of Labor launched the Glass Ceiling Commission in 1991 to address the glass ceiling.


   Understanding the Glass Ceiling  

Marilyn Loden first coined the phrase "glass ceiling" while speaking as a panelist at the 1978 Women's Exposition in New York. As a fill-in for her employer's only female executive, Loden was invited to discuss how women were to blame for the barriers preventing them from advancing in their careers. Instead, she spoke about deeper, ignored issues that historically kept women from occupying positions of authority: the glass ceiling.



This concept was later popularized in a 1986 Wall Street Journal article discussing the corporate hierarchy and how invisible barriers seemed to prevent women from advancing in their careers past a certain level. In 2015, the publication reported (quoting Gay Bryant, former editor of Working Woman magazine) that the concept goes back to the 1970s and may have originated with two women at Hewlett-Packard. The concept expanded in more contemporary times to include minorities in addition to women.



The equality gap varies between countries and may be driven by cultural stances against women and minority groups from participating in the workforce. Companies in the United States have responded to the equality gap by focusing on measures to increase diversity. This includes hiring personnel specifically tasked with ensuring that women and minorities see improved representation in management-level positions. By focusing on policies that reduce or eliminate the glass ceiling, companies can ensure that the most qualified candidates hold decision-making positions.



In 2021, women accounted for 56.8% of the labor force in the U.S. But when it came to chief executive positions, women held only 29.1% of these roles, and 85.7% of chief executives identified as white, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).






Research shows that diverse groups are more successful in making decisions than homogeneous ones, which has the effect of signaling to companies that eliminating the glass ceiling can positively affect their bottom line.


   History of the Glass Ceiling  

The U.S. Department of Labor launched the Glass Ceiling Commission in 1991 in response to the growing concern over barriers preventing women and minorities from advancing. It was charged with identifying the barriers that exist and policies that companies adopted or could undertake to increase diversity at managerial and executive levels.



The commission found that qualified women and minorities were being denied the opportunity to compete for or win decision-making positions. It also found that the perceptions of both employees and employers often included stereotypes that held women and minorities in a negative light.



When Hillary Clinton ran for president in 2008 and 2016, she repeatedly spoke of her goal of shattering the “highest, hardest glass ceiling” by becoming America’s first female president. Vice President Kamala Harris shattered the second-highest glass ceiling in the U.S. when she became the first female and first Black and South Asian Vice President on Jan. 20, 2021. She was also the first woman and first Black and South Asian attorney general of California, as well as the first Black woman to be elected district attorney of San Francisco.





41

The number of female chief executive officers leading Fortune 500 companies in 2021—the highest number ever—but still only 8.1% of the total list.


   The Glass Ceiling vs. The Glass Cliff  

The glass cliff is a closely related term, but refers to a phenomenon wherein women tend to be promoted to positions of power during times of crises, when failure is more likely. This could occur in fields as diverse as finance, politics, technology, and academia. 



While the more common glass ceiling presents a barrier to reaching the highest executive levels within their respective organizations, the glass cliff addresses the tendency to place women who have broken through it into precarious positions, making it likely their performance will falter, as if they are at risk of falling off a cliff.



Had Hillary Clinton won the presidential election in 2008, which was the height of the Great Recession, she might have been seen as the victim of the glass cliff. The term was coined by professors Michelle K. Ryan and Alexander Haslam of the University of Exeter, United Kingdom, in 2004. Ryan and Haslam documented this phenomenon extensively in a study of Great Britain’s FTSE 100 companies.


   Example of the Glass Ceiling  

There are numerous examples of instances where individuals encountered and have been able to shatter the glass ceiling. As noted above, Hillary Clinton became the first woman to secure the Democratic nomination when she ran for president during the 2016 election.



As noted above, Kamala Harris shattered the glass ceiling when she became the first woman to be elected as U.S. Vice President under President Joe Biden. She is also the first Black and South Asian person to be elected to the position as well. Harris was officially sworn in as Vice President on Jan. 20, 2021.



Janet Yellen became the first female Treasury secretary after being nominated by President Biden and sworn in on Jan. 26, 2021. This isn’t the first glass ceiling Yellen has broken either. She also served as the first woman to head the Federal Reserve, a role she held during President Barack Obama’s administration.




What Does the Phrase Glass Ceiling Mean?
The glass ceiling is a metaphor that refers to the barrier that marginalized people, such as women and minorities, encounter when seeking career advancements.




What Is an Example of the Glass Ceiling?
There are many examples where individuals have broken the glass ceiling. Kamala Harris shattered a glass ceiling when she became the first woman Vice President of the United States. She is also the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent to be elected to the role of Vice President.From the first U.S. presidential election in 1789 until the early 21st-century, no Black person served as president. It was not until the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that all Black people could vote. However, in 2008, Barack Obama became the first African American to be elected President of the United States.




What Does It Mean to Break the Glass Ceiling?
Breaking the glass ceiling means overcoming the barriers set to prevent access to advancement. Breaking the glass ceiling also includes removing barriers for others experiencing the same struggles.




Where Did the Saying "Break the Glass Ceiling" Come From?
The term glass ceiling was coined by Marilyn Loden, a New York telephone company manager, during a 1978 Women's Exposition.




Does the Glass Ceiling Still Exist?
The glass ceiling still exists across various industries for different groups of people. Men still occupy most of the executive positions in corporations and other positions of power. Although there is more attention given to these barriers, they are still very much present in the workforce.
What Is a Glass Cliff?  

The term "glass cliff" refers to a situation in which women are promoted to higher positions during times of crisis or duress, or during a recession when the chance of failure is more likely. Put simply, women in these situations are set up for failure. The term was coined by researchers at the University of Exeter, United Kingdom who published research on the 100 companies included in the Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 Index. These researchers found that promoting women to higher positions often comes with negative implications. and that being set up for failure is the equivalent of standing on the edge of a cliff. If they fail, they fall off.





Key Takeaways


A glass cliff refers to the fact that women are commonly promoted to leadership roles in certain industries during times of crisis or downturn and are, therefore, set up for failure.
The term is derived from the term glass ceiling, which refers to an unseen and unspoken limit on how high women can rise in an organization.
Promoting women gives companies someone to blame if she fails to pull the company out of its downward spiral.
Companies look good when they promote women to leadership roles so even if they fail, the company still earns a reputation of being progressive.
If women fail, companies are free to reappoint males to their positions without reproach.



   Understanding a Glass Cliff  

The glass cliff occurs in many different fields, including finance, politics, technology, and academia. it addresses the tendency to promote women into problematic situations, whether that's organizational or situational. This makes it more likely that their performance will falter. The metaphor of the glass cliff is that women in this position are at risk of falling off a cliff and failing.



There are many reasons why women are promoted to more precarious leadership roles than men. One is the notion that a struggling company will likely result in a shorter upper management tenure so the position itself is risky. Placing a woman in that position gives the company someone to blame if she fails to pull the company out of its downward spiral.



"In times of crisis, companies don't want to risk the loss of who they believe to be their most valuable, high-potential talent—white men. In tough times, they are more likely to sacrifice employees who they perceive as less valued and more dispensable—women and racial minorities," according to chief executive officer (CEO) of Pinsight and author Martin Lanik.



It also makes the company look good. If the woman fails, the company is labeled as being progressive and is free to replace her with a man. If she succeeds, the company is better off and may even take credit for appointing the right person for the job. Even with the high chance of failure, a glass cliff position can be difficult to turn down because leadership roles are so infrequently offered to women.






There is no link between leadership potential and gender. By keeping women out of top leadership positions, companies are missing out on some of the most qualified and talented leaders. Additionally, by allowing the glass cliff phenomenon to persist, organizations create an environment where these female leaders struggle to perform to the best of their ability.


   Special Considerations  

Women often struggle when they're placed on a glass cliff. That's because there is often a lack of mentors in the workforce. There may also be barriers for them to access what is commonly called the good old boys’ club, which is an informal network of connections through which men use their positions of influence by providing favors and information to help other men.



Strategic networking is one of the most common strategies for moving up in the world of business. This is where the phrase "It's now what you know, it's who you know" originates. Women cannot do this without networking with men and seeking out men as mentors. But women aren't always welcome in these informal social networks so they miss out on these connections.






Although the glass cliff typically refers to the obstacles that women face, the term is also commonly used to describe the challenges minorities and other marginalized groups face when they are promoted to leadership roles in the workplace.


   History of the Glass Cliff  

In 2004, University of Exeter researchers Michelle K. Ryan, Julie S. Ashby, and Alexander Haslam studied the 100 companies included in the FTSE 100 Index, which consists of the 100 companies listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) with the highest market capitalizations.



According to the researchers, companies that appointed women to their boards were more likely to perform poorly in the preceding five months. They claimed that sexism motivated those in power to appoint women to these precarious positions because they don't want to risk tarnishing a prominent man's reputation with failure.



Ryan, Ashby, and Haslam followed up their research with another study involving law students, which was published in an article called, "Legal Work and the Glass Cliff: Evidence that Women are Preferentially Selected to Lead Problematic Cases." They found that:



Male candidates were just as likely as females to be selected as lead counsel for low-risk casesThere was a strong preference for females to be appointed to high-risk cases and that they were typically assigned to cases that were bound for failure


  Other Research  

In 2013, Alison Cook and Christy Glass researched the likelihood of promotions and leadership tenure of women and racial/ethnic minority CEOs within American Fortune 500 companies. Using a dataset of all CEO transitions over a 15‐year period, their findings aligned with the glass cliff theory that occupational minorities (white women and men and women of color) are more likely than white men to be promoted as corporate CEOs that perform poorly.



In their paper, Cook and Glass wrote:



"Minority leaders face challenges that begin at the point of promotion and go beyond underrepresentation ... they are more likely to be appointed to struggling firms, creating greater obstacles to successful leadership than their white male peers."



Their research also revealed that performance declines under the tenure of white women and people of color lead to them being replaced by white men. A female CEO succeeded another female CEO in only four of the 608 transitions at Fortune 500 companies. The researchers coined this phenomenon the "savior effect."



Businesses led by female CEOs are more likely to be targeted by activist investors, according to University of Missouri research. These investors specifically buy shares with the intention of directing management decisions and must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), according to Vishal K. Gupta, Sandra Mortal, and Daniel B. Turban. Their findings revealed that:



"...firms in our sample led by male CEOs were targeted by an activist 6% of the time during the study period, versus 9.4% when the CEO was female. Wolf pack attacks occurred for male and female CEOs at 1% and 1.6%, respectively. Even though these differences appear small, this means that firms with female CEOs were 50% more likely to be targeted by activists and approximately 60% more likely to be targeted by multiple activists."


   Impact of a Glass Cliff  

Women already face many barriers when they are trying to scale the corporate ladder and enter leadership roles. The same scenario is also true for other minorities, such as people of color. The glass cliff creates an unfortunate and impossible situation where they are set up to fail in a workplace for individuals who surpass these obstacles.



"When an organization is in crisis, women are often seen as being able to come in and take care of a problem. They’re effectively handed the mess to clean up,” according to Anna Beninger, senior director of research and corporate engagement partner at Catalyst.



Not only is this phenomenon setting women and minorities up for failure, but it's also unsustainable for the businesses themselves. When a company is in the throes of an organizational crisis, it may not have the infrastructure and extra support to facilitate an effective leadership transition. If an individual is promoted without any kind of organizational support or development, it may result in the illusion of progressiveness or inclusivity for the company when, in reality, that individual is being tokenized as a minority.



When a female leader or a person of color ultimately does not save a failing company, they usually leave the company and create more disruption. And if these individuals fail, it further reinforces the stereotypes that exist about women and people of color in leadership.






If you feel as though you've been discriminated against in the workplace, you can file a complaint at your local Equal Employment Opportunity Commission office in person or by mail. Make sure you have all the pertinent details handy, including dates, as well as the contact names and numbers of your employer.


   How to Prevent a Glass Cliff  

The first step to prevent the glass cliff is to simply recognize and name it. According to Ryan, Ashby, and Haslam, acknowledging the biases that those in leadership may have, then providing education around those topics is a good first step.



Women and minorities should research and learn as much as they can about the financial health of their companies. Staying up-to-date on insights, including the company's stock information, and industry trends can help you calculate your risk level. Tapping into your network is also incredibly important. The researchers suggest asking for guidance and insight when assessing the risk of a new promotion.



During negotiations, it is a good idea to ask how success in the role will be defined. Here are some questions you might consider asking:



How will the board of directors (BoD) of the company evaluate my success?
What kinds of risks are board members willing to take to become a competitive force in this industry?
What is your ideal timeline for a turnaround?
Have you offered this position to anyone else? Why did they turn it down?



Make sure you include risk in your salary negotiations. In fact, men are four times more likely to negotiate their salaries than women. You should always ask for more than the initial offer and use the risk factor of the position as a negotiating point. If you decide to accept the position, you will likely find yourself in a male-dominated environment. At this point, you can use your unique skills and perspective to your advantage. In fact, women score better than men in 11 out of 12 emotional intelligence competencies.



Finally, it's okay to say no. Many women who face the glass cliff and are not successful do not get asked to lead another company after being ousted.






It is recommended to not accept a promotion if your research indicates that failure is highly probable and there are warning signs imminent.


   Glass Cliff vs. Glass Ceiling  

The idea that a glass cliff exists for women (and people of color) arose from another, similar concept: the glass ceiling, which is what most people commonly hear in the professional sphere. The glass ceiling refers to an invisible barrier or hurdle that women often face in their professional careers. It is also commonly used to describe what many people of color face in similar situations.



The concept of a glass ceiling was first used by Marilyn Loden, who spoke about the advancement of women in the workplace (or lack thereof) at the Women's Exposition in New York in 1978. It was popularized almost a decade later by The Wall Street Journal. The term came to prominence again when Hillary Clinton ran for U.S. president in the 2008 and 2016 elections.



This barrier is often set up to prevent certain women and others from reaching the highest executive or managerial levels within their respective organizations. These positions are dominated by men. These hurdles are unspoken and unwritten, which means implicit biases are what prevent promotion rather than corporate policies. Individuals who manage to beat the stereotypes and overcome their obstacles by securing leadership roles are said to have shattered the glass ceiling.


   Example of a Glass Cliff  

There are a number of examples where prominent women have faced glass cliffs.


  Marissa Mayer  

Yahoo! appointed Marissa Mayer as CEO in 2012 after it lost significant market share to Google. She was the company's third CEO in a period of less than a year. Mayer resigned in 2017 amidst mounting pressure after she failed to change the company's trajectory. She was only in the position for about five years. Critics attributed her performance to her effort, rather than to the environment of an underperforming company. Thomas McInerny, a white male, was tapped to replace Mayer.


  Jill Soltau  

JCPenney hired its first woman CEO in 2018. Jill Soltau was appointed following a series of consecutive losses, store closures, and difficulties adapting to the changing needs of its customers in the digital era, While only a handful of women have ever served as chief executives of Fortune 500 companies, she was qualified for the position. Prior to assuming the role, Soltau was the president and CEO of Joann Stores and was a 30-year veteran of the industry.



Soltau was coming into a challenging industry. JCPenney had enormous debt, leading experts to believe the company wouldn't be able to avoid bankruptcy. The COVID-19 pandemic proved to be disastrous. The company filed for bankruptcy in May 2020, which was sooner than expected. In December 2020, Soltau was asked to leave her position as CEO.




When Do Women Encounter a Glass Cliff?
Women in leadership roles, such as business executives in the corporate world and female candidates for political office, are more likely than men to be promoted to leadership roles during periods of crisis or downturn when the chance of failure is highest.




What Do Companies Hope to Gain From a Glass Cliff?
The glass cliff effectively maintains the status quo because it can reinforce the harmful idea that women and people of color can't lead. When women or minorities are promoted to leadership positions without the support they need and are not successful, the assumption is that women and minorities are not good leaders.




How Can Women Avoid a Glass Cliff?
Companies need to put measures in place to make sure that women and people of color in senior leadership positions have all of the resources they need to be successful. While there are things that women and minorities can do to make it less likely that they'll find themselves in an impossible glass cliff scenario, the onus is really on companies to prevent this phenomenon from happening. Companies can offer women-specific leadership development tracks and conduct blind hiring to lessen the effects of unconscious bias.
What Is the Glass-Steagall Act?  

The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 forced commercial banks to refrain from investment banking activities to protect depositors from potential losses through stock speculation. Glass-Steagall aimed to prevent a repeat of the 1929 stock market crash and the wave of commercial bank failures.



Signed into law by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt on June 16, 1933, the Act was part of the New Deal and became a permanent measure in 1945. Glass-Steagall was repealed in 1999, although some provisions remain, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which guarantees individual deposits.





Key Takeaways


The Glass-Steagall Act was passed in 1933 and separated investment and commercial banking activities in response to involvement in stock market investment.
Combining commercial and investment banking was considered too risky and speculative and widely considered a culprit that led to the Great Depression.
Banks were mandated to choose either commercial banking or investment banking activities.
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act eliminated the Glass-Steagall Act's restrictions against affiliations between commercial and investment banks in 1999, which some argue sparked the 2008 financial crisis.



   Provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act  

In the pre-Depression era, banks often diverted funds and took risks on speculative investments. The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 created a regulatory firewall between commercial and investment bank activities. The legislation is named for Senator Carter Glass, a former Treasury secretary and the founder of the United States Federal Reserve System, and Henry Bascom Steagall, a former member of the House of Representatives and chair of the House Banking and Currency Committee. Its provisions include:



Banks were forced to choose between specializing in commercial or investment banking. Ten percent of a commercial bank's total income could stem from securities; however, an exception allowed commercial banks to underwrite government-issued bonds.
An amendment to the Act created the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
The law enabled the Federal Reserve to regulate retail banks, 
Glass-Steagall introduced the Federal Open Market Committee and, ultimately, monetary policy.
The law encourages banks to use their funds for lending rather than investing those funds in the equity markets.


   Effects on the Banking Sector  

Financial giants such as JP Morgan and Company were directly targeted by the legislation and forced to cut their services and source of their income. By creating this barrier, the Glass-Steagall Act aimed to prevent the banks' use of deposits for speculation and prevent failed underwriting.



An extension of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 defined a bank holding company as any company with a stake in 25 percent or more of the shares of two or more banks. The Glass-Steagall Act provided for their regulation. By the mid-1950s, bank holding companies had surfaced to avoid the restrictions on bank branching or banks with multiple offices. The 1956 legislation allowed Congress to give the Federal Reserve more oversight.


   The 1999 Repeal and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  

The limitations imposed on the banking sector by the Glass-Steagall Act sparked debate over how restrictions are imposed. Many argue that banks that diversify their activities reduce risk to consumers. Some economists believe the law stifled the commercial banking sector until its repeal and prevented economic growth. Others believe that it prevented market volatility and aided the prosperity of the post-war years.



In 1999, Congress partially repealed the Glass-Steagall Act. The establishment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or the Financial Services Modernization Act, eliminated the Glass-Steagall Act's restrictions against affiliations between commercial and investment banks. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was not disabled during the repeal of Glass-Steagall.


   Financial Crisis After Repeal  

Many economists believe that speculative and risky activities followed the repeal of Glass-Steagall, including the rise in subprime lending, which led to the 2008 financial crisis. Proponents of the repeal argue that the Glass-Steagall Act was a minor contributor to the financial crisis. Instead, they claim that at the heart of the 2008 crisis was nearly $5 trillion worth of worthless mortgage loans, among other factors.



The repeal of Glass-Steagall was at issue during U.S. Senate Finance Committee hearings after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. The 16th largest U.S. bank failed in March 2023 after heavily relying on insured deposits for investment, and the massive withdrawal of deposits led to liquidity problems. The Federal Reserve intervened following the collapse to improve confidence in the banking system and prevent future failures, including establishing a Bank Term Funding Program.




What Was the Purpose of the Glass-Steagall Act?
The Glass-Steagall Act was intended to separate investment and commercial banking activities. It was established in the wake of the 1929 stock market crash.




Is the Glass-Steagall Act Still in Effect?
No. It was repealed in 1999, during the Clinton Administration, though some parts remain, including the FDIC.




Why Was the Glass-Steagall Act Repealed?
The Glass-Steagall Act was repealed in 1999 amid long-standing concern that the limitations it imposed on the banking sector were unhealthy and that allowing banks to diversify would reduce risk. 


   The Bottom Line  

The Glass-Steagall Act prevented commercial banks from speculative risk-taking to avoid a financial crisis experienced during the Great Depression. Banks were limited to earning 10% of their income from investments. The regulation was met with criticism and was repealed in 1999 under President Clinton.
What Is a Glide Path?  

Glide path refers to a formula that defines the asset allocation mix of a target-date fund, based on the number of years to the target date. The glide path creates an asset allocation that typically becomes more conservative (i.e., includes more fixed-income assets and fewer equities) as a fund gets closer to the target date.


   How Glide Path Works  

A target-date fund is a fund offered by an investment company that seeks to grow assets over a specified period of time for a targeted goal (e.g. retirement), becoming automatically more conservative as time passes. Each family of target-date funds has a different glide path, which determines how the asset mix changes as the target date approaches. Some have a very steep trajectory, becoming dramatically more conservative just a few years before the target date. Others take a more gradual approach.



The asset mix at the target date can be quite different as well. Some target-date funds assume that the investor desires a high degree of safety and liquidity because they might use the funds to purchase an annuity at retirement. Other target-date funds assume that the investor holds onto the funds, and therefore includes more equities in the asset mix, reflecting a longer time horizon.



Target date funds have become popular among those who are saving for retirement. They are based on the simple premise that the younger the investor, or the longer the time horizon before retirement, the greater the risk that one can take on, which increases expected returns accordingly. A young investor's portfolio, for example, should contain mostly equities. In contrast, an older investor would hold a more conservative portfolio, with fewer equities and more fixed-income investments.


   Types of Glide Paths  
  Declining Glide Path  

An investor who uses a declining glide path gradually reduces their allocation of equities each year they get closer to retirement. For example, at age 50, an investor who holds 40% equities in a portfolio may reduce their equity allocations by 1% each year. They would then increase their allocation of safer assets, such as Treasury bills.


  Static Glide Path  

A portfolio that uses a static glide path maintains the same allocations. For instance, an investor may hold 65% equities and 35% bonds. If these allocations deviate due to price changes in the assets, the portfolio is re-balanced.


  Rising Glide Path  

Portfolios that use this approach initially have a larger allocation of bonds compared to equities. The equity allocation increases as the bonds mature, as long as the stocks in the portfolio don’t decrease in value. For example, an investor’s portfolio might start with an allocation of 70% bonds and 30% equities. After a large portion of the bonds matures, the portfolio may hold 60% equities and 40% bonds.
What Is a Global Bond?  

A global bond, sometimes referred to as a Eurobond, is a type of bond issued and traded outside the country where the currency of the bond is denominated.





Key Takeaways

A global bond, sometimes referred to as a Eurobond, is a type of bond issued and traded outside the country where the currency of the bond is denominated. Global bonds may have a fixed or floating rate with maturities ranging from one to 30 years.Global bonds are grouped into developed country bonds and emerging market bonds.


   Understanding Global Bonds  

When multinational corporations and sovereign entities decide to raise large capital, they may choose to issue global bonds. Global bonds are international bonds that are offered simultaneously in various capital markets including Europe, Asia, and America. These bonds may have a fixed or floating rate with maturities ranging from one to 30 years.



Some global bonds are denominated in the currency of the company's country base, such as the yen for Japanese companies and the euro for a German corporation. Other global bonds are denominated in the currency of the country where the bond is issued. Returning to the earlier example the U.S. corporation could sell a bond on a Japanese marketplace and denominate it in yen.



Due to the fluctuation of exchange rates, investors typically invest in foreign fixed income that brings in modest returns and fluctuates slightly. Global bonds are seen as a way to diversify a portfolio that is limited to a specific denomination or one particular country's bond, such as a U.S. bond because this bond will have less correlation to the foreign fixed income bond.



Global bonds are grouped into developed country bonds and emerging market bonds. Bonds issued by corporations and governments from developed countries are issued with differing maturities and credit qualities. Some of these bonds are U.S. dollar-denominated. However, most are denominated in the currencies of their home countries.



Emerging market bonds are typically issued by a sovereign government, not corporations. These bonds are dollar-denominated and offer high-interest rates due to the perceived higher level of risk of a bond investment issued by an economically unstable country.


   Global Bond vs. Eurobond  

Global bonds are sometimes also called Eurobonds but they have additional features. A Eurobond is an international bond that is issued and traded in countries other than the country in which the bond’s currency or value is denominated. These bonds are issued in a currency that is not the domestic currency of the issuer.



A French company that issues bonds in Japan denominated in U.S. dollars has issued a Eurobond, more specifically, a Eurodollar bond. Other types of Eurobonds are the Euroyen and Euroswiss bonds.



A global bond is similar to the Eurobond but can also be traded and issued simultaneously in the country whose currency is used to value the bond. Drawing from our Eurobond example above, an example of a global bond will be one in which the French company issues bonds denominated in the U.S. dollar but offers the bonds in both Japan and U.S. markets.
What Is a Global Depositary Receipt (GDR)?  

A global depositary receipt (GDR) is a negotiable financial instrument issued by a depositary bank. It represents shares in a foreign company and trades on the local stock exchanges in investors' countries. GDRs make it possible for a company (the issuer) to access investors in capital markets beyond the borders of its own country.



GDRs are commonly used by issuers to raise capital from international investors through private placement or public stock offerings.



A global depositary receipt is very similar to an American depositary receipt (ADR) except that an ADR only lists shares of a foreign company in U.S. markets.





Key Takeaways

A global depositary receipt is a tradable financial security.It is a certificate that represents shares in a foreign company and trades on two or more global stock exchanges.GDRs typically trade on American stock exchanges as well as Eurozone or Asian exchanges.GDRs and their dividends are priced in the local currency of the exchanges where the GDRs are traded.GDRs represent an easy way for U.S. and international investors to own foreign stocks.


   Understanding Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs)  

A global depositary receipt is a type of bank certificate that represents shares of stock in an international company. The shares underlying the GDR remain on deposit with a depositary bank or custodial institution.



While shares of an international company trade as domestic shares in the country where the company is located, global investors located elsewhere can invest in those shares through GDRs.



Using GDRs, companies can raise capital from investors in countries around the world. For those investors, the GDRs will be denominated in their home country currencies. Since GDRs are negotiable certificates, they trade in multiple markets and can provide arbitrage opportunities to investors.



GDRs are generally referred to as European Depositary Receipts, or EDRs, when European investors wish to trade locally the shares of companies located outside of Europe.



GDR transactions tend to have lower costs than some other mechanisms that investors use to trade in foreign securities.


   Example of a GDR  

A U.S.-based company that wants its stock to be listed on the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges can accomplish this via a GDR. The U.S.-based company enters into a depositary receipt agreement with the respective foreign depositary banks. In turn, these banks package and issue shares to their respective stock exchanges. These activities follow the regulatory compliance regulations for both of the countries.






A depositary is an independent, third-party entity such as a bank that may act as a safekeeping facility and fiduciary. For instance, a depositary bank can provide stock related services for a depositary receipt program.


   GDR Characteristics  

GDRs are exchange-traded securities that are not directly backed by any underlying collateral (as shares of a company are backed by their assets). GDRs instead represent ownership of shares in a foreign company, where those actual shares are traded abroad.



Different GDRs may also have specific characteristics that differ from one to the next. These may include:



Conversion ratio: The conversion ratio is the number of shares of the underlying company that are represented by each GDR. This ratio can vary from one GDR to another, and it may be adjusted over time to reflect changes in the underlying shares.Denomination: GDRs can be denominated in different currencies, such as U.S. dollars, euros, or pounds sterling. The currency used for a GDR may impact its price and the risks associated with the investment, such as currency risk, as the price of its shares overseas are priced in local currency.Sponsorship: GDRs are issued by depository banks, and the specific bank that sponsors a GDR may vary from one GDR to another. Different banks may have different reputations, financial strength, and other characteristics that could impact the risks and potential returns of a GDR.Fees: GDRs may also vary in terms of the fees that are charged for issuing, trading, or holding the GDRs. These fees can impact the overall cost and potential returns of an investment in a GDR.


   Special Considerations  

A GDR distributed by a depositary bank represents a particular number of underlying shares—anywhere from a fraction to multiple shares—in a specific international company. The particular share makeup for a GDR depends on how attractive an investment it will make to local investors. For instance, in the U.S., a depositary bank would want to create GDRs with the number of shares, or fractions thereof, and associated U.S. dollar value that U.S. investors might be most comfortable with.



The depositary bank first buys the shares of the international company (or, receives them from an investor who already owns them). It then bundles a certain number of them. This bundle is represented by a GDR. The GDR is then issued by the depositary bank on a local stock exchange. The underlying shares remain on deposit with the depositary bank (or custodian bank in the international country).



The trading process involving GDRs is regulated by the exchange on which they trade. For example, in the U.S., global depositary receipts are quoted and trade in U.S. dollars. They also pay dividends with U.S. dollars. They're subject to the trading and settlement process and regulations of the exchange where their transactions take place.



Typically, GDRs are offered to institutional investors via a private offer, due to the fact that they can take advantage of exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. This makes GDRs an efficient and cost-effective way to access cross-border capital. In fact, because of their flexibility and efficiencies, issuers from regions such as the Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America as well as Europe have increased their use of GDR programs to help them achieve the objectives they have for raising capital.


   Trading GDRs  

International companies issue GDRs to attract capital from foreign investors. GDRs trade on the investors' local exchanges while offering exposure to an international marketplace. A custodian/depositary bank has possession of the GDRs underlying shares while trades take place, ensuring a level of protection and facilitating participation for all involved.



Brokers who represent buyers manage the purchase and sale of GDRs. Generally, the brokers are from the home country and operate within the foreign market. The actual purchase of the assets is multi-staged, involving a broker in the investor's country, a broker located within the market of the international company, a depositary bank representing the buyer, and a custodian bank.



Brokers can also sell GDRs on an investor's behalf. An investor can sell them as-is on the proper exchanges, or the investor can convert them into regular stock for the company. Additionally, they can be canceled and returned to the issuing company.



Traders dealing in GDRs often compare the, for example, U.S. dollar price of the GDR with the U.S. dollar equivalent price of the shares trading on the international company's domestic exchange. They'll typically buy the less expensive security and sell the other. Eventually, this arbitrage trading activity causes the underlying shares and the GDRs to reach parity.






Due to the trading activity called arbitrage, a GDR's price closely tracks that of the international company's stock on its home exchange.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of GDRs  
  Advantages  

GDRs help international companies reach a broader, more diverse audience of potential investors.They can potentially increase share liquidity.Companies can conduct an efficient and cost-effective private offering.Shares listed on major global exchanges can increase the status or legitimacy of an otherwise unknown foreign company.For investors, GDRs provide the opportunity to diversify portfolios internationally.GDRs are more convenient and less expensive than opening foreign brokerage accounts and purchasing stocks in foreign markets.Investors don't have to pay cross-border custody or safekeeping charges.GDRs trade, clear, and settle according to the investor's domestic process and procedures.U.S. holders of GDRs realize any dividends and capital gains in U.S. dollars.


  Disadvantages  

GDRs may have significant administrative fees.
Dividend payments are net of currency conversion expenses and foreign taxes.
The depositary bank automatically withholds the amount necessary to cover expenses and foreign taxes.
U.S. investors may need to seek a credit from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or a refund from the foreign government's taxing authority to avoid double taxation on capital gains realized.
GDRs have the potential to have low liquidity, making them difficult to sell.
In addition to liquidity risk, they can have currency risk and political risk.
This means that the value of GDR could fluctuate according to actual events in the foreign county, such as recession, financial collapse, or political upheaval.





Pros

Easy to track and trade
Denominated in local currency
Regulated by local exchanges
Offers international portfolio diversification



Cons

More complex taxation
Limited selection of companies offering GDRs
Investors exposed indirectly to currency and geopolitical risk
Potential lack of liquidity





   GDRs vs. ADRs  
  Global Depositary Receipts  

Global depositary receipts allow a company to list its shares in more than one country outside of its home country. For example, a Chinese company could create a GDR program that issues its shares through a depositary bank intermediary into the London market and the United States market. Each issuance must comply with all relevant laws in both the home country and foreign markets individually.


  American Depositary Receipts  

On the other hand, an American depositary receipt, which also represents shares of an international company, lists only on U.S. stock exchanges. To offer ADRs, a U.S. bank will purchase shares on a foreign exchange. The depositary bank will hold the underlying shares and issue an ADR for domestic trading.



Sponsored ADRs



A bank issues a sponsored ADR on behalf of a foreign company. The bank and the business enter into a legal arrangement. Usually, the foreign company pays the costs of issuing an ADR and retains control over it, while the bank handles the transactions with investors.



Sponsored ADRs are categorized by the degree the foreign company complies with SEC regulations and American accounting procedures.



Unsponsored ADRs



A bank may also issue an unsponsored ADR. This certificate represents no direct involvement, participation, or even permission from the foreign company.



Theoretically, there could be several unsponsored ADRs for the same foreign company, issued by different U.S. banks. These different ADRs could also offer varying dividends. With sponsored programs, there is only one ADR, issued by the depositary bank working with the foreign company.




What Is the Meaning of Global Depositary Receipt?
A global depositary receipt is a negotiable certificate issued by a bank. The certificate represents shares in a foreign company traded on a local stock exchange. GDRs give companies access to greater capital and investors the opportunity to invest in the equity of foreign companies.




What Are Some Features of GDRs?
GDRs can be listed on multiple global stock exchanges, They also provide investors with the benefits and rights of the underlying shares, which could include voting rights and dividends. GDRs trade like shares and can be bought and sold throughout the day via a standard brokerage account.




What Is the Difference Between an ADR and a GDR?
An American depositary receipt represents shares in a foreign company and is listed only on American exchanges. A GDR represents shares in a foreign company and is listed on various foreign stock exchanges.




What Is an Example of a GDR?
One example of a GDR is the American oil and gas company, Phillips 66 (NYSE: PSX). In addition to trading domestically, it has depositary receipts listed on exchanges in Brazil (P1SX34), France (R66), Vienna (PSXC), and London (0KHZ.L), among others.


   The Bottom Line  

For U.S. investors, global depositary receipts offer a way to own equity in foreign companies while trading its representative shares on a local stock exchange. Certainly, GDRs have their risks, including home country economic and political risk, currency risk, and liquidity risk.



However, GDRs also offer noteworthy benefits that include the potential for a globally diversified portfolio, the ability to trade, clear, and settle transactions according to local regulations, no cross-border custody/safekeeping charges, and dividend payments in U.S. dollars.
What Is the Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR)?  

The Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR) is a semiannual report by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that assesses the stability of global financial markets and emerging-market financing. It is released twice per year, in April and October.





Key Takeaways

The Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR) is a semiannual report by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that assesses the stability of global financial markets and emerging-market financing.GFSR focuses on current conditions, especially financial and structural imbalances, that could risk an upset in global financial stability and access to financing by emerging-market countries.GFSR replaced two previous reports by the IMF, the annual International Capital Markets Report and the quarterly Emerging Market Financing Report.


   Understanding the Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR)  

The GFSR focuses on current conditions, especially financial and structural imbalances, that could risk an upset in global financial stability and access to financing by emerging-market countries. It emphasizes the ramifications of financial and economic imbalances that are highlighted in one of the IMF's other publications, the World Economic Outlook. Topics covered in the GFSR usually include systemic risk assessments in worldwide financial markets, worldwide debt management, emerging economic markets, and current economic crises that could affect finances worldwide.



The Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR) replaced two previous reports by the IMF, the annual International Capital Markets Report and the quarterly Emerging Market Financing Report. The purpose of replacing them was to provide a more frequent assessment of the worldwide financial markets and to focus on emerging market financing in a global context. In addition to assessing the condition of worldwide markets, the GSFR also issues recommendations for central banks, policymakers, and others who supervise global financial markets.



The most recent GSFR, released in April 2021, warns that "there is a pressing need to act to avoid a legacy of vulnerabilities while avoiding a broad tightening of financial conditions." It goes on to state that the "actions taken during the pandemic may have unintended consequences such as stretched valuations and rising financial vulnerabilities" and that the "recovery is also expected to be asynchronous and divergent between advanced and emerging market economies." 


   GFSR Example—April 2019  

The April 2019 GFSR consisted of a front matter and two chapters. The first chapter discussed the growth of short-term and medium-term risks to global financial stability since the October 2018 GFSR. The vulnerabilities listed in the GSFR ranged from the financial sector nexus in the euro area to problems in the Chinese economy to the risks prevalent in the housing market.



The interconnected nature of the global economy meant that these vulnerabilities could present significant risks in the future. For example, China's economy remained a tightrope between supporting near-term growth and preventing excessive leverage within the economy through regulatory tightening. Given China's manufacturing prowess and the inclusion of its currency in IMF's global benchmark indices, these problems could reverberate throughout the world economy.



The second chapter of the GSFR report dealt with the risks prevalent in the housing market. According to the GSFR, the downside risks in the housing market at that time included the growth of excessive credit and tighter financial conditions in the years ahead.
What Is a Global Fund?  

A global fund is a fund that invests in companies located anywhere in the world including the investor’s own country. A global fund seeks to identify the best investments from a global universe of securities. Global funds may also be passively managed.



A global fund can be focused on a single asset class or allocated to multiple asset classes.





Key Takeaways

A global fund is a mutual fund or ETF that invests in companies located anywhere in the world including the investor’s own country.Global funds seek to identify the best investments from a global universe of securities. A global fund might be focused on a single asset class or allocated to multiple asset classes.


   Understanding Global Funds  

A global fund provides investors with a diversified portfolio of global investments. Investing in international securities can increase an investor’s potential return, with some additional risks. A global fund can help to mitigate some of the risks and fears investors may have when considering international investments.



Around the globe, investment regions are usually described as developed markets, emerging markets, and frontier markets. Each category includes countries with their own individual characteristics and risks.



Developed markets represent companies that have mature economies and efficient infrastructures, specifically for financial market transactions. Emerging markets often provide the greatest opportunity for return, as they are some of the largest and fastest-growing economies in the world. Frontier markets will offer the highest risk, as they are the least developed.



A global fund can invest in any region or country in the world. It may choose a specific concentration or it may invest broadly across asset classes and countries. Global funds can be offered as closed-end mutual funds, open-end mutual funds, or exchange-traded funds (ETF).


   Global Fund Investing  

Investors can expand their investable universe globally to seek out greater returns but investing in global securities can also increase risks. Therefore, global funds provide a leading investment option because their diversified investments can mitigate risk and also allow for the identification of top-performing investments.



To further manage risk while attempting to generate a higher return, investors can choose to invest in both global debt and equity funds or hybrid funds, which invest in both asset classes. Actively managed global funds are a popular choice for investors, however, passively managed index funds can also provide broad market exposure with diversification benefits.


  Global Debt  

While there are many funds in the global debt category, some high-profile representative funds include the Vanguard Total International Bond Index Fund (VTABX), which has over $91.9 billion in net assets as of late Q2 2022; the American Funds Capital World Bond Fund (CWBFX), which has over $14.7billion in net assets; and the PIMCO International Bond Fund (PFORX), with net assets of over $12.4 billion.



While each global debt fund has different features and allocations, each invests in various diversified portfolios of U.S. and non-U.S. fixed-income securities.


  Global Equity  

Major funds in the large-cap global equity space include the American Funds New Perspective Fund (ANWPX), with net assets of over $132.5 billion as of Q2 2022; American Funds Capital World Growth and Income Fund (CWGIZ) with net assets $117 billion; and First Eagle Global Fund (SGENX), which manages over $49 billion worth of assets.



Global equity funds buy stocks domestically and around the world, and come in hundreds of combinations of guiding philosophies, allocation strategies, and management styles.
What Is the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)?  

The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) is a method for assigning companies to a specific economic sector and industry group that best defines its business operations. It is one of two rival systems that are used by investors, analysts, and economists to compare competing companies.



GICS was developed jointly by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) and Standard & Poor's. The GICS methodology is used by the MSCI indexes, which include U.S. and international stocks, as well as by a large portion of the professional investment management community.





Key Takeaways

GICS systematically identifies every company by sector, industry group, industry, and sub-industry.GICS is used by investors and analysts to identify, compare, and contrast a firm's competitors.The GICS classification system consists of four levels. As of 2021, there were 11 sectors, 24 industry groups, 69 industries, and 158 sub-industries.﻿﻿


   Understanding GICS  

A company's industry classification is key to an investor whose aim is to create a diversified portfolio or to identify competitors of a company in the same industry. The top of the GICS hierarchy defines 11 economic sectors. These are further divided into 24 industry groups, then into 68 industries, and finally into 157 sub-industries. Each stock has a code to identify it at all four of these levels. The 11 sectors are:



Consumer DiscretionaryConsumer StaplesEnergyMaterialsIndustrialsHealthcareFinancialsInformation TechnologyReal EstateCommunication ServicesUtilities



A company is assigned GICS classification codes at the sub-industry levels by Standard & Poor's and MSCI according to their definition of the company's principal business.






A company's main source of revenue is the most important factor in determining its principal business activity. Other factors, such as earnings analysis and market perception, are also considered.



Since the GICS’s creation in 1999, a number of revisions have added, deleted, or refined industry groups, sub-industries, and industries. A real estate sector was added in 2016. The telecommunications sector was renamed the communication services sector in 2018. At the same time, the sector was expanded to include some media and entertainment interests previously classified under the consumer discretionary sector, as well as some interactive media and services interests previously classified under the information technology sector.


   How GICS Is Used  

All told, more than 26,000 stocks worldwide have been classified by GICS, accounting for more than 95% of the world's listed market capitalization. GICS is used by portfolio managers to identify and analyze stocks and their competitors.



It also is used for benchmarking the MSCI indexes. Morgan Stanley estimates that more than $14.5 trillion in assets under management are benchmarked to its MSCI indexes, many of which are sector-specific.



GICS competes with the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) system, which is maintained by Dow Jones and London's FTSE Group.


  The ICB and GICS Systems Are Not Really All that Different  

The largest difference between ICB and GICS lies in how consumer businesses are classified at the sector level. With the ICB, companies doing business with consumers are divided into providers of goods and providers of services. With the GICS, companies are labeled as cyclical or noncyclical, or between discretionary spending and staples.



At the lower levels, there are more differences, but their impact is not hugely significant. For example, in the ICB, coal companies are found in basic materials, but under the GICS these companies are classified in energy. Whether one of the systems is superior is a matter of preference. The end-user does not really have a choice anyway, as all of the major indexes associate their listed stocks with one or the other.






In practice, most of the same sector and industry designations exist in both GICS and ICB standards.


   Is Classification Out of Date?  

In recent years, the relevance of GICS and ICB classification has been questioned. Many of our current economic categories and measurements are products of the Industrial Age, when the companies that were growing and shaping the world were giants with huge physical plants and plenty of material products.



Today's giants cross boundaries between hardware and software and beyond. Apple makes phones and computers and sells entertainment products. Amazon creates hardware, produces entertainment programming, sells cloud services, and delivers just about everything. General Electric has interests in NBC, Telemundo, and Universal Pictures.



Critics argue that it’s time to move from a vertical industry emphasis to one centered on business models instead, by updating the Global Industry Classification Standard to reflect the wider scope of today’s corporate giants. New measures and standards would help investors, customers, and employees manage new strategic landscapes with greater insight.
What Are Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)?  

Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) are a set of voluntary standards used by investment managers throughout the world to ensure the full disclosure and fair representation of their investment performance. The goal of the standards is to make it possible for investors to compare one firm’s performance against that of another firm.



The Global Investment Performance Standards were created by the CFA Institute, a global association for investment management professionals, and are governed by the GIPS Executive Committee.






Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) are intended to enable investors to compare investment firms worldwide.


   How Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) Work  

The Global Investment Performance Standards are a "set of standardized, industry-wide ethical principles that guide investment firms on how to calculate and present their investment results to prospective clients," according to the CFA Institute. Because the standards are voluntary, investment firms can choose to comply with them or not. However, because the standards are in wide use worldwide, complying with them makes it easier for investment firms to do business in multiple countries, saving them the time of having to apply different performance calculation measures for investment presentations, depending on the locale.



The CFA Institute says the standards:



"Enable investors to directly compare one firm’s track record with another firm's record."Include composite presentation, improving transparency by eliminating survivorship biases, misrepresentations and historical data omissions."Evolve to address issues that arise in a dynamic investment industry."[Incentivize] firms to invest significant time and resources into internal risk-control mechanisms and setting performance benchmarks — the hallmarks of reliable long-term success. (To claim compliance, an investment firm must demonstrate adherence to comprehensive rules governing input data, calculation methodology, composite construction, disclosures, and presentation and reporting.)"



Investment management companies often make a point of indicating that they are "GIPS compliant." That can lend additional credibility to companies, especially those that do business outside the more mature markets of North America and Europe.





Key Takeaways

Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) are a set of voluntary guidelines used by investment management firms throughout the world.The goal of GIPS is to encourage full disclosure and fair representation of investment performance.A revised version of GIPS is due for release in 2020.


   History of Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)  

The forerunner of the Global Investment Performance Standards was the Association for Investment Management and Research–Performance Presentation Standards (AIMR–PPS). Created in 1987, this was a set of voluntary performance guidelines for investment management firms in the United States and Canada.



In response to the need for a more international set of guidelines, the Global Investment Performance Standards were first introduced in 1999. In 2005 the CFA Institute, as the Association for Investment Management and Research had been renamed, approved a revised set of guidelines to create a single global standard of investment performance and replace the previous country-specific performance standards.



The most recent edition of Global Investment Performance Standards was released on June 30, 2019 and goes into effect on Jan. 1, 2020.



According to the CFA Institute, the Global Investment Performance Standards are currently used in "more than 40 markets globally" and "84 of the top 100 asset management firms worldwide claim compliance with the GIPS standards for all or part of their business. Combined, the top 100 GIPS-compliant firms represent more than US$50 trillion of assets under management."
What Is a Global Macro Strategy?  

A global macro strategy is a hedge fund or mutual fund strategy that bases its holdings primarily on the overall economic and political views of various countries or their macroeconomic principles. Holdings may include long and short positions in various equity, fixed income, currency, commodities, and futures markets.



For example, if a manager believes the United States is headed into a recession, he may short sell stocks and futures contracts on major U.S. indices or the U.S. dollar. He may also see a big opportunity for growth in Singapore, taking long positions in that country's assets.






Global macro funds are normally actively managed, which means they have a higher investment threshold and higher fees.


   How the Global Macro Strategies Work  

Global macro funds build portfolios around predictions and projections of large-scale events on the country-wide, continental, and global scale, implementing opportunistic investment strategies to capitalize on macroeconomic and geopolitical trends. Global macro strategists make forecasts and analyze trends involving factors such as:



Interest ratesPoliticsDomestic and foreign policiesInternational tradeCurrency exchange ratesOther factors



Global macro funds are considered among the least-restricted funds as they generally place any type of trade they choose using almost any type of security.


   Types of Global Macro Strategy  

Global macro funds generally use a combination of currency-based, interest rate-based, and stock index-based trading strategies. Within the context of currency strategies, the funds typically seek opportunities based on the relative strength of one currency to another. Funds monitor and project economic and monetary policies around the world, and make highly leveraged currency trades using futures, forwards, options, and spot transactions.



Interest rate strategies usually invest in sovereign debt, making directional bets as well as relative value trades. A fund manager generally concentrates on monetary policy, its economy, and political situation. Some of the vehicles they may choose in this strategy include U.S. Treasury and European debt instruments. They may also invest in government debt from other developed and emerging countries.



Stock or equity index trading under a global macro strategy analyzes the equity or commodity index of a specific country using futures, options, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Fund managers generally try to create portfolios that outperform the index during lower interest rate environments. They mainly focus on liquid assets that can be easily traded when there is uncertainty. These assets only come with market risks, which are expected. This means there are no other risks—liquidity or credit risks—involved. Certain global macro funds employ strategies focused on only emerging market countries.


   General Types of Global Macro Funds  

There are a variety of generalized global macro fund types that exist, most of which aim to profit on systemic and market risk factors. Discretionary global macro funds construct portfolios at the asset-class level based on a top-level view of the global markets. This type of global macro fund is considered the most flexible as managers can go long or short with any type of asset anywhere in the world.



Commodity trading advisor (CTA) global macro funds use various investment products, But rather than creating portfolios based on top-level views, these funds use price-based and trend-following algorithms to help construct portfolios and execute the fund's trades.



Systematic global macro funds use fundamental analysis to build portfolios and execute trades using algorithms. This type of fund is essentially a hybrid of discretionary global macro and CTA funds.





Key Takeaways

A global macro strategy bases its holdings on the economics and politics of various countries or their macroeconomic principles.This strategy is used primarily by hedge funds and mutual funds.The three types of global macro strategies are currency-related, interest rate-related, and stock or equity index-related.Fund types include discretionary global macro funds, commodity trading advisor global macro funds, and systemic global macro funds.


   Global Macro Hedge Funds  

These funds are generally actively managed. As noted above, they try to profit off broad changes that result from both political and economic factors. They can be fairly diversified, offering exposure to different assets and instruments. Because they are actively managed, investors can expect higher investment thresholds and higher fees associated with these funds.



Institutional Investor announced its Hedge Fund Industry Award nominees for 2019, which included a few global macro funds. New York-based Element Capital Management, the report cited, jumped 17.3% since 2018. Under Jeffrey Talpins, the fund uses a multi-process investment approach by combining macro fundamental, systematic, and relative value analysis.



As of November 2018, Element Capital Management had $55.88 billion in assets under management.



Bridgewater Assets is another name cited by the publication, posting a jump of 14.6% in its Pure Alpha Strategy. The firm reported $124.7 billion in assets under management as of 2018.
What Is a Global Macro Hedge Fund?  

Global macro hedge funds are actively managed funds that attempt to profit from broad market swings caused by political or economic events. Global macro hedge funds are market bets around economic events. Investors use financial instruments to create short or long positions based on the outcomes they predict as a result of their research. A market bet on an event can cover a wide variety of assets and instruments including options, futures, currencies, index funds, bonds, and commodities. The goal is to find the right mix of assets to maximize returns if the predicted outcome occurs.





Key Takeaways


Global macro hedge funds make investment choices based on the broad economic and political outlook for various countries.
Holdings might be long or short positions in different equity, fixed income, currency, commodity, or futures markets.
The holdings in the funds are often positioned around a specific result of international economic or political issues, but the holdings can also be set up so the fund profits from general market volatility.
Global macro strategies are either related to currency, interest rates, or stock or equity indexes.
Global macro hedge funds include the discretionary, commodity trading advisor, and systemic categories.



   Understanding Global Macro Hedge Funds  

Global macro hedge funds may position themselves around a particular outcome, or they can simply set up positions to profit from global market volatility when they do not have confidence in a prediction but know that a binary outcome is imminent. Portfolio managers who use global macro strategies typically focus on currency, interest rate, and stock index strategies.


   Global Macro Hedge Fund Example  

Examples of global hedge fund activity were evident before the Brexit vote in 2016 when the United Kingdom voted to exit the European Union (EU). Global macro hedge funds that felt confident that Britain would vote to leave the EU took long positions in safe assets, such as gold, and chose short positions against European stocks and the British pound. Global macro hedge funds that were uncertain about the outcome took long positions in safe havens and other instruments that payout during market volatility. Some undoubtedly guessed wrong and took losses on the long position in European stock indexes as the British pound and other assets dipped immediately after the results were known.






Because the funds are typically actively-managed, they tend to require a bigger initial investment and bigger lifetime fees than passively-managed funds.


   Special Considerations  

Global macro hedge funds offer investors exposure to these high-level bets that span assets and instruments. They offer a form of diversification that is different from most equities making them attractive to investors who seek protection from global financial events that can drag down stock and bond returns in general. Typically, it has been difficult for an individual investor to recreate this type of strategy because of the capital required and the complexity involved in managing all the positions across asset classes and platforms. On the downside, global macro hedge funds have high investment thresholds and even higher fees. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have also made it possible for investors to create similarly broad market bets without paying the same level of fees.
What Is a Global Recession?  

A global recession is an extended period of economic decline around the world. A global recession involves more or less synchronized recessions across many national economies, as trade relations and international financial systems transmit economic shocks and the impact of recession from one country to another.



The International Monetary Fund (IMF) uses a broad set of criteria to identify global recessions, including a decrease in per capita gross domestic product (GDP) worldwide. According to the IMF’s definition, this drop in global output must coincide with a weakening of other macroeconomic indicators, such as trade, capital flows, and employment.





Key Takeaways

A global recession is an extended period of economic decline around the world.The IMF uses several criteria to analyze the occurrence, scale, and impact of global recessions.Global recessions involve synchronized recessions across many interconnected economies.The effect of a global recession on individual economies varies based on several factors, including their degree of connection to and dependence on the global economy.


   Understanding Global Recessions  

Macroeconomic indicators have to wane for a significant period of time to classify as a recession. In the United States, it is generally accepted that GDP must drop for two consecutive quarters for a true recession to take place, based on analysis by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), which is considered the national authority in declaring and dating business cycles. For global recessions, the IMF plays a role similar to the NBER.



While there is no official definition of a global recession, the criteria established by the IMF carry significant weight because of the organization’s stature across the globe. Unlike the NBER, the IMF does not specify a minimum length of time when examining global recessions. In contrast to some definitions of a recession, the IMF looks at additional factors beyond a decline in GDP. There must also be a deterioration of other economic factors, which include trade, capital flows, industrial production, oil consumption, the unemployment rate, per‑capita investment, and per-capita consumption.



Ideally, economists would be able to simply add the GDP figures for each country to arrive at a “global GDP.” The vast number of currencies used throughout the world makes the process considerably more difficult. Though some organizations use exchange rates to calculate the aggregate output, the IMF prefers to use purchasing power parity (PPP)—that is, the amount of local goods or services that one unit of currency can buy rather than the amount of foreign currency it can buy—in its analysis.


  History of Global Recessions  

Up until 2020, according to the IMF, there have been four global recessions since World War II, beginning in 1975, 1982, 1991, and 2009. In 2020, the IMF declared a new global recession, which it dubbed the Great Lockdown, caused by the widespread implementation of quarantines and social distancing measures during the COVID-19 outbreak. This is the worst global recession on record since the Great Depression.


  Contagion and Insulation  

The impact and severity of the effect of a global recession on a country vary based on several factors. For example, a country's trading relationships with the rest of the world determine the scale of impact on its manufacturing sector. On the other hand, the sophistication of its markets and investment efficiency determine how the financial services industry is affected.






The interconnection of trade relations and financial systems among countries can help to spread an economic shock in one region into a global recession. This process is known as contagion.


   Example of a Global Recession  

The Great Recession was an extended period of extreme economic distress observed around the world between 2007 and 2009. World trade plunged by over 15% between 2008 and 2009 during this recession. The scale, impact, and recovery of the downturn varied from country to country.



The U.S. experienced a major stock market correction in 2008 after the housing market collapsed and Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy. Economic conditions had already turned down by the end of 2007 and major indicators such as unemployment and inflation hit critical levels with the collapse of the housing bubble and ensuing financial crisis.



The situation improved a few years after the stock market bottomed in 2009, but other nations experienced much longer roads to recovery. Over a decade later, the effects can still be felt in many developed nations and emerging markets.



According to economic research conducted for the NBER, the United States would have suffered limited shocks to its economy if the 2008 recession had not originated within its borders. This is mainly because it has limited trading relationships with the rest of the world in comparison to the size of its domestic economy.



On the other hand, a manufacturing powerhouse such as Germany would have suffered regardless of the robustness of its internal economy because it has a vast number of trade linkages with the rest of the world.
What Is a Global Registered Share (GRS)?  

A global registered share (GRS), or a global share, is a security that is issued in the United States, but it is registered in multiple markets around the world and trades in multiple currencies. With global shares, identical shares may trade on different stock exchanges and in various currencies across country borders without needing to be converted into local currencies.



All holders of global shares, as with any other shareholder, have equal rights—such as voting, percentage of dividends, and so forth—in the issuing corporation.





Key Takeaways

A global registered share is issued in the U.S. and registered for trade in other markets (and currencies) where that company is listed.Global registered shares are different from the more popular American depository receipts (ADRs) because ADRs are issued by a bank representing ownership, whereas global registered shares are issued by the actual issuing company.Benefits of global registered shares include portability; drawbacks of global registered include a long and difficult regulatory process, in multiple markets, for setting them up.


   Understanding Global Registered Shares (GRSs)  

Global shares are similar to ordinary shares except that investors can trade them on stock exchanges around the world in different currencies. For example, if a publicly traded company issues shares in dollars on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and issues the same security in pounds on the London Stock Exchange (or vice versa), then it is issuing global shares.


   Global Registered Share (GRS) vs. International Depository Receipt (IDR) and American Depository Receipt (ADR)  

Global shares are different from the more popular international depositary receipts (IDRs). IDRs are negotiable certificates issued by a bank that represent ownership of stock in a foreign company held by the bank in trust.



In the U.S., IDRs are known as American depositary receipts (ADRs). The main difference between ADRs and global shares is that ADRs are issued only by U.S. banks for foreign stocks that are traded on a U.S. exchange. The underlying security of an ADR is held by an overseas branch of an American financial institution, rather than by a global institution.



ADRs have become known as an efficient way to buy shares in a foreign company and obtain dividends and capital gains in U.S. dollars. J.P. Morgan created and launched the first ADR for London’s famed department store Selfridges. (The founder of Selfridges, Harry Gordon Selfridge, was American.) This first-ever ADR was listed on the New York Curb Exchange—a precursor to the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)—on April 29, 1927.



In Europe, IDRs are known as global depositary receipts (GDRs). GDRs are bank certificates that are issued in multiple countries for shares in a foreign company. The shares of a GDR trade as domestic securities that represent a foreign (non-U.S.) interest. GDRs may be used by private markets to raise capital that is denominated in either American dollars or euros.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Global Registered Shares  

A global share allows for cross-market portability, while generally costing less than other instruments of its type. Because of increasing globalization, securities might trade in multiple markets going forward, which could make the concept of ADRs less valid, but would make global shares more attractive.



As trading moves toward an around-the-clock timetable, various stock markets and clearinghouses could consolidate, which would make global shares more convenient. Moreover, the regulatory structures of different markets could become more aligned, which would make it less necessary for securities to comply with different local regulations. Finally, a global fungible security is likely best suited to track liquidity around the world.



Even with their potential benefits, very few global shares have been launched since they appeared on the finance scene. Most companies that list securities in the U.S. want access to the broadest range of U.S. investors possible. Some securities experts believe that moving from an ADR to a global share would do just the opposite—reduce liquidity instead of enhance it.



Another potential problem is whether the global trading system would be able to handle widespread trading of global shares because trading is still influenced by regulatory bodies that are national, not international. Before a global share can be launched, operators of the home country's clearinghouses must work closely with a U.S. counterpart in order to harmonize their listing requirements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



New structures would need to be built one country at a time. Some critics believe that the cost of creating global shares programs would be too great, thus offsetting any benefits; and that too much would need to change too fast in order for global shares to work effectively in the near term.



Yet proponents of global shares say that it is only a matter of time before more businesses replace their ADRs with a single global security, mainly because of how cheap they are to trade.



There is always comfort in the familiar. ADRs have enjoyed a long, lucrative history, and they continue to be U.S.-based investors' tool of choice for listing foreign stock in America. Although no one knows what may come of GRSs as a trading tool going forward, the comfortable tradition of ADRs, combined with the problems of balancing local market regulations with U.S. rules, could well deter finance managers from issuing quantities of global shares any time soon.


   A History of Global Shares  

Foreign issuers have been keen to list securities on the NYSE from the exchanges earliest days, as well as registering them with the SEC). Listing stock in the U.S. makes sense for foreign companies because it offers enhanced scope and liquidity by increasing the number of potential purchasers of the shares being offered. For foreign companies that already have a large number of shareholders, substantial assets, or operations in the U.S., the need for a U.S. listing is even more pressing.



However, listing securities in the U.S. has never been stress-free for non-U.S. companies. To start, foreign companies incur huge initial—and extensive ongoing—costs when listing in the U.S. Then, they need to restate their financials in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP); or be prepared to discuss and quantify the material differences between the accounting principles of their home country and U.S. GAAP. Moreover, these issuers become subject to continual reporting requirements. They also are faced with certain rules about how they may conduct their business, including limitations in dealing with the press—even in their home countries.
What Is Globalization?  

Globalization refers to the spread of the flow of financial products, goods, technology, information, and jobs across national borders and cultures. In economic terms, it describes an interdependence of nations around the globe fostered through free trade.





Key Takeaways

Globalization is the spread of products, technology, information, and jobs across nations.Corporations in developed nations can gain a competitive edge through globalization.Developing countries also benefit through globalization as they tend to be more cost-effective and therefore attract jobs.The benefits of globalization have been questioned as the positive effects are not necessarily distributed equally.One clear result of globalization is that an economic downturn in one country can create a domino effect through its trade partners.












Alex Dos Diaz / Investopedia


   Understanding Globalization  

Corporations gain a competitive advantage on multiple fronts through globalization. They can reduce operating costs by manufacturing abroad, buy raw materials more cheaply because of the reduction or removal of tariffs, and most of all, they gain access to millions of new consumers.



Globalization is a social, cultural, political, and legal phenomenon. 



Socially, it leads to greater interaction among various populations.
Culturally, globalization represents the exchange of ideas, values, and artistic expression among cultures.
Globalization also represents a trend toward the development of a single world culture. 
Politically, globalization has shifted attention to intergovernmental organizations like the United Nations (UN) and the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Legally, globalization has altered how international law is created and enforced.



On one hand, globalization has created new jobs and economic growth through the cross-border flow of goods, capital, and labor. On the other hand, this growth and job creation are not distributed evenly across industries or countries.



Specific industries in certain countries, such as textile manufacturing in the U.S. or corn farming in Mexico, have suffered severe disruption or outright collapse as a result of increased international competition.



Globalization's motives are idealistic, as well as opportunistic, but the development of a global free market has benefited large corporations based in the Western world. Its impact remains mixed for workers, cultures, and small businesses around the globe, in both developed and emerging nations.


   The History of Globalization  

Globalization is not a new concept. Traders traveled vast distances in ancient times to buy commodities that were rare and expensive for sale in their homelands. The Industrial Revolution brought advances in transportation and communication in the 19th century that eased trade across borders.



The think tank, Peterson Institute for International Economics (PIIE), states globalization stalled after World War I, and nations' moved toward protectionism as they launched import taxes to more closely guard their industries in the aftermath of the conflict. This trend continued through the Great Depression and World War II until the U.S. took on an instrumental role in reviving international trade.






Globalization has sped up at an unprecedented pace, with public policy changes and communications technology innovations cited as the two main driving factors.



One of the critical steps in the path to globalization came with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), signed in 1993. One of NAFTA's many effects was to give American auto manufacturers the incentive to relocate a portion of their manufacturing to Mexico where they could save on the costs of labor. NAFTA was replaced in 2020 by the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMC).



Governments worldwide have integrated a free market economic system through fiscal policies and trade agreements over the last 20 years. The core of most trade agreements is the removal or reduction of tariffs.



This evolution of economic systems has increased industrialization and financial opportunities in many nations. Governments now focus on removing barriers to trade and promoting international commerce.




Pros and Cons of Globalization

Pros

A larger market for goods and services
Cheaper consumer prices
Outsourcing can benefit both domestic firms and foreign labor
Increased standard of living



Cons

Concentrates wealth in richer countries
Some poorer countries can be left behind
Poorer countries can be exploited of their labor and physical & intellectual resources
Cultures and the products consumed around the world can become homogenized





  Pros  

Proponents of globalization believe it allows developing countries to catch up to industrialized nations through increased manufacturing, diversification, economic expansion, and improvements in standards of living.



Outsourcing by companies brings jobs and technology to developing countries, which helps them to grow their economies. Trade initiatives increase cross-border trading by removing supply-side and trade-related constraints.



Globalization has advanced social justice on an international scale as well, and advocates report that it has focused attention on human rights worldwide that might have otherwise been ignored on a large scale.


  Cons  

One clear result of globalization is that an economic downturn in one country can create a domino effect through its trade partners. For example, the 2008 financial crisis had a severe impact on Portugal, Ireland, Greece, and Spain. All these countries were members of the European Union, which had to step in to bail out debt-laden nations, which were thereafter known by the acronym PIIGS.



Globalization detractors argue that it has created a concentration of wealth and power in the hands of a small corporate elite that can gobble up smaller competitors around the globe.



Globalization has become a polarizing issue in the U.S. with the disappearance of entire industries to new locations abroad. It's seen as a major factor in the economic squeeze on the middle class.



For better and worse, globalization has also increased homogenization. Starbucks, Nike, and Gap dominate commercial space in many nations. The sheer size and reach of the U.S. have made the cultural exchange among nations largely a one-sided affair.




What Is Globalization and Why Is it Important?
In essence, globalization is about the world becoming increasingly interconnected. Countries today are more connected than ever before, due to factors such as air travel, containerized sea shipping, international trade agreements and legal treaties, and the Internet. In the world of business, globalization is associated with trends such as outsourcing, free trade, and international supply chains. Globalization is important as it increases the size of the global market, and allows more and different goods to be produced and sold for cheaper prices.Globalization is also important because it is one of the most powerful forces affecting the modern world, so much so that it can be difficult to make sense of the world without understanding globalization. For example, many of the largest and most successful corporations in the world are in effect truly multinational organizations, with offices and supply chains stretched right across the world. These companies would not be able to exist if not for the complex network of trade routes, international legal agreements, and telecommunications infrastructure that were made possible through globalization. Important political developments, such as the ongoing trade conflict between the United States and China, are also directly related to globalization.




Is Globalization Good or Bad?
It depends. Proponents of globalization will point to the dramatic decline in poverty that has taken place throughout the world over the past several decades, which many economists attribute in part to increased trade and investment between nations. Similarly, they will argue that globalization has allowed products and services such as cellphones, airplanes, and information technology to be spread far more widely throughout the world. On the other hand, critics of globalization will point to the negative impact it has had on specific nations’ industries, which might face increased competition from international firms. Globalization can also have negative environmental impacts due to economic development, industrialization, and international travel.




How Does Globalization Impact Society?
Globalization has had a large impact on societies around the world, leading to massive migrations from rural to industrial or urban areas, leading to the rapid growth of cities and trade hubs. While this has led to an overall increase in incomes and a higher standard of living in general, it has also led to problems of urbanization including crime, domestic violence, homelessness, and poverty. Concepts of national identity, culture, and consumption patterns also change as goods from around the world become increasingly available and at low prices. The competitiveness of global capitalism may also lead to more individualistic ideals that contradict the cultural orientations of certain, more collectivist societies.




What Is an Example of Globalization?
A simple example of globalization would be a car manufactured in the U.S. that sources parts from China, Japan, S. Korea, Sri Lanka, and South Africa. The car is then exported to Europe, where it is sold to a driver who fills the car's gas tank with gasoline refined from Saudi oil.
What Is Globex?  

Globex is an electronic trading platform—the first of its kind when it launched in 1992—used for derivatives like futures, options, and commodity contracts across a wide range of asset classes. Developed for the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), CME Globex (as it is officially known) operates continuously, unrestricted by geographic borders or time zones.



Globex trades constitute 90% of CME Group's total volume—nine out of every 10 trades, in other words. The platform offers access from more than 150 countries and foreign territories.





Key Takeaways

Introduced in 1992, Globex is one of the original electronic trading platforms used for derivatives contracts.The system was developed for the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and is officially known as CME Globex, operating almost 24 hours a day, Sunday through Friday.The platform offers both unique products along with products traded traditionally via open-outcry.


   Understanding Globex  

Globex is an open-access marketplace, operating nearly 24 hours a day, from Sunday evening through late Friday afternoon, which allows participants to directly trade and view orders, prices, and other data in real-time.



To access Globex, customers must have a CME Group clearing firm relationship and CME Group-certified trading application. CME Group is the parent company of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), along with several other major commodity exchanges, including Commodity Exchange, Inc. (COMEX), the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT).



The start of the CME Globex session, which usually occurs in the afternoon or evening, generally marks the beginning of the next trading day. For example, orders entered during Monday's evening session are dated for and cleared on Tuesday. There are brief 30 to 60-minute breaks, depending on the asset class, in between the close and re-opening of each of the five daily sessions.















An Early Example of a CME Globex Terminal.





17+ million

More than 17 million contracts trade daily on Globex, on average.


   The Development of Globex  

According to "Twenty Years of CME Globex," a 2012 CME Group report, the idea for Globex first arose in 1987, as a “low-impact means of providing after-hours market coverage" for futures and options trading. The platform finally launched on June 25, 1992, running off of technology and network infrastructure used by the news and wire service Reuters. It began with three currency products and one Treasury note product, but quickly expanded into other assets—and even invented some.



For example, the E-mini S&P 500 futures contract debuted in 1997, an instrument intended to be traded exclusively on Globex. Other special “e-mini” contracts include the FORTUNE E-50 Index futures, an E-mini Currency contract, and an E-mini Nasdaq 100 contract.



CME Group instituted an open access policy for Globex in 2000, allowing customers to trade directly in the system, without having to go through a broker. As a result, business soared: In 2002, the Globex average daily volume exceeded 1 million contracts for the first time, and in 2004, Globex volume exceeded physical pit volume for the first time.






Globex is partnered with other global exchanges including the Dubai Mercantile Exchange and the Korea Exchange.



Notably, 2007 marked the first year the system's volume exceeded 1 billion contracts. By 2012, the platform's 20th anniversary, 84% of the volume of the CME Group's various markets was via electronic trading on Globex.



Globex is now also a site for trading in assets in the sectors of agriculture (in 2008, the Kansas City Board of Trade and Minneapolis Grain Exchange moved their products to it), energy, stock indices, foreign exchange, interest rates, metals, real estate, and even the weather. Some futures and options products are traded solely on Globex, while others are traded in the physical pits—via open-outcry—as well.
What Is Glocalization?  

Glocalization is a combination of the words "globalization" and "localization." The term is used to describe a product or service that is developed and distributed globally but is also adjusted to accommodate the user or consumer in a local market.



A common example would be cars that are sold worldwide but adjusted to meet local criteria such as emissions standards or what side the steering wheel is located. It could also focus on more cultural aspects, such as a global fast-food chain offering geographically specific menu items that cater to local tastes.



Often, glocalization campaigns involve culturally friendly media and ad campaigns to encourage the acceptance of foreign products among a local audience.





Key Takeaways

Glocalization is a combination of the words "globalization" and "localization."The term describes a product or service that is developed and distributed globally but is also adjusted to accommodate the user or consumer in a local market.Often, glocalization campaigns involve culturally friendly media and ad campaigns to encourage the acceptance of foreign products among a local audience.The process can be expensive and resource-intensive, but it often pays off for companies that practice it.


   Understanding Glocalization  

Glocalization is the adaptation of global and international products into the local contexts they're used and sold in. The term was coined in the Harvard Business Review, in 1980, by sociologist Roland Robertson, who wrote that glocalization meant "the simultaneity—the co-presence—of both universalizing and particularizing tendencies."



In regards to a particular product or service, this means the adaptation of globally marketed products and services into local markets. A global product or service, something everyone needs and can get use out of, may be tailored to conform to local laws, customs, or consumer preferences.



Products that are "glocalized" are, by definition, going to be of much greater interest to the end user, the person who ends up using the product. This is because, while it's something that everyone can use and has use for as a global product, its localization makes it more specific to an individual, their context, and their needs.






While glocalization helps customize an international corporation's products to a particular culture or geography, companies must also pay attention to the risk of perceived cultural appropriation.


   Special Considerations  

Glocalization works for companies with decentralized authority structures and for companies that exist and compete in multiple, different cultural contexts. The process can be expensive and resource intensive, but it often pays off for companies that practice it, as it allows for greater access to a larger, more culturally varied target market. It also makes those companies more effective competitors in those markets.



If globalization was charged with cultural homogenization, glocalization is something of an answer to it. Glocalization can be thought of as the opposite, or the inverse, of Americanization (sometimes called McDonaldization), too, which is the influence that American culture and business have on another country's culture. 




What Is Meant by Glocalization?
Glocalization is when an international corporation modifies some of its offerings in order to accommodate local consumer tastes or preferences. It is a portmanteau of the words "globalization" and "localization."




What Are Some Examples of Glocalization?
Glocalization comes in many forms. For instance, in the U.K., car producers must build vehicles with the steering wheel on the right side instead of the left. Food items are also changed in different countries to fit local tastes. McDonald's Corporation (MCD) and other fast-food chains will often serve up versions of local fare along with the core menu of hamburgers and chicken products. Brand image and marketing campaigns are also carried out in local languages and with local customs and cultural cues in mind.




What Is the Difference Between Globalization and Glocalization?
Globalization is the spread of products, ideas, and capital across international borders by corporations. One criticism of globalization is that it can result in the homogenization of cultures and consumers around the world. Glocalization pays attention to local practices, customs, and culture to have these products better fit regional wants and needs.


   The Bottom Line  

Glocalization efforts have produced mixed results for the larger economy. In making global companies more effective competitors against domestic players, glocalization should increase the quality of competition and drive down prices, making goods more accessible. However, since glocalization is generally the practice of large multinational corporations, driving the price down and taking a big share of the market, the process can hurt smaller, local businesses, which struggle to compete with these corporations' low costs of production. This can result in less competition, with the result of driving prices up.
What Is GmbH?  

GmbH is an abbreviation of the German phrase “Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,” which means “company with limited liability.” It’s a suffix used after a private limited company’s name in Germany (vs. AG, for aktiengesellschaft, which is used to indicate a public limited company). GmbH is the equivalent of LLC (limited liability company), used in the United States, or Ltd. (limited), used in the United Kingdom, and is the most common form of incorporation in Germany.





Key Takeaways

GmbH is a German abbreviation for “Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,” meaning “company with limited liability.”GmbH—equivalent to Ltd. (limited), used in the United Kingdom, or LLC (limited liability company) or Inc. (incorporated), used in the United States—is the most common form of incorporation in Germany.GmbH companies can be owned by various entities, including individuals, public companies, or partners.Before applying to Germany’s Company Register for registration, a GmbH must also appoint its first director and include a list of its shareholders.


   Understanding GmbH  

A limited company is one where shareholder liability is limited to the amount of their original investment, and the shareholders are not responsible for the company’s debts, thus protecting their personal assets if the company becomes insolvent. The difference between a private limited company and a public limited company is that the shares in a private limited company are not offered to the general public and are not traded on a public stock exchange.



The most common corporate legal entity in Germany and Austria is the limited liability company, or GmbH. Under German law, the minimum capital requirement for starting a private limited company is 25,000 euros (€25,000), half of which must be available before registering the firm in the Unternehmensregister or Company Register, the central platform for saving legally relevant company data. This way, the country ensures that only solvent entrepreneurs are able to start new companies.



During the period between the creation and the registration of the company, business activities may commence, making participating individuals personally liable. However, the company only becomes effective once it has been registered, which usually takes up to three weeks, at which point shareholders are protected from any personal liability.






The minimum capital requirement for starting a private limited company is 25,000 euros (€25,000), half of which must be available before registering the firm.


   Requirements for GmbH  

When a newly formed GmbH applies to Germany’s Company Register for registration of the firm’s incorporation, it must also appoint its first director and include a list of its shareholders. A supervisory board is required if the company has more than 500 employees; otherwise, the company is run only by the managing directors who have the unrestricted proxy for the company.



There is no central corporate registry in Germany; instead, a company is registered in a local court where the company’s registered office is located or where the GmbH has its legal seat.



In 2008, a “mini-Gmbh” called Unternehmergesellschaft (UG) was introduced to assist and encourage entrepreneurs with only a limited amount of capital. The minimum capital requirement for Unternehmergesellschaft is 1 euro (€1). Each year, a UG is required to put aside at least 25% of its yearly net profit, until its reserve capital reaches the statutory minimum of €25,000, at which point it may change its legal form to GmbH.


   Other Versions of GmbH  

Besides the lower-capital mini-GmbH, Germany also allows for a GmbH & Co. KG (kommanditgesellschaft, or limited partner) designation and a gGmbH.



GmbH & Co. KG: A combination of GmbH and KGgGmbH: A non-profit GmbH




What does GmbH stand for?
GmbH is an abbreviation of the German phrase “Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,” which means “company with limited liability.”




Is GmbH the same as LLC?
GmbH is considered an equivalent of LLC (limited liability company), which is used in the United States, or Ltd. (limited), which is used in the United Kingdom, and is the most common form of incorporation in Germany.




What countries use GmbH?
There are a few other countries besides Germany that use GmbH and some variations. Austria uses GesmbH as well as GmbH, both with the same meaning. Switzerland also uses the GmbH designation. Germany, Austria, and Switzerland all have their own legal provisions for the GmbH designation in their respective countries.
What Is a Go-Go Fund?  

Go-go fund is a slang name for a mutual fund that has an investment strategy focused on high-risk securities in an attempt to capture above-average returns. A go-go fund's aggressive approach usually involves holding large positions in growth stocks. Growth stocks offer higher risks, but also higher potential returns.





Key Takeaways

A go-go fund is a mutual fund with an investment strategy focused on growth stocks and other high-risk securities.These funds were at their popularity peak in the 1960s, appealing to investors drawn in by the promise of unusually high market returns. However, the funds were often fueled by speculative investments that were unreliable and lost their popularity following the stock market crashes of the 1970s.


   Understanding Go-Go Funds  

Go-go funds entice investors by promising large, abnormal returns created from shifting portfolio weights around speculative information. They came into prominence in the 1960s.



In that decade, investors flocked to the stock market in unprecedented numbers. Over the course of ten years, investments in mutual funds more than doubled. By the end of the decade, 31 million Americans owned some form of stock. Mutual funds had only recently become available to investors, and many people wanted to capture a piece of the new and exciting financial markets.



Enthusiastic investment in Wall Street contributed to a thriving bull market. Investors were extremely confident their investments would continue to grow. This sometimes misplaced confidence contributed to the appeal of so-called go-go funds. These funds may have provided some investors with superior profits, but they also came with a great deal of risk. In order to achieve high rates of return, these funds often made speculative investments that did not always pan out.


   Special Considerations  

While go-go funds were quite popular during the booming market atmosphere of the 1960s, they lost much of their shine in the years that followed. After reaching a peak of 985 in December 1968, the market plummeted to 631 by May 1970, a drop of about 36 percent.



The mutual fund crash was an expensive reminder that growth was not the only important metric in fund management. The prioritization of growth over risk created a sizeable dent in equity funds, which would not return to the same levels until the 1980s.



In his book The Go-Go Years: The Drama and Crashing Finale of Wall Street's Bullish 60s, financial journalist John Brooks argues the collapse was comparable to the stock market crash that ushered in the Great Depression, because the stocks that were hardest hit included many popular and high-profile offerings: "As measured by the performance of the stocks in which the novice investor was most likely to make his first plunges, the 1969-1970 crash was fully comparable to that of 1929."


   Consequences of Go-Go Funds  

Go-go funds grew less popular after the stock market crashes of the 1970s, as investors grew warier of speculative investments and promises of elevated returns. After some notable cases, the Securities and Exchange Commission clarified rules about fraud and stock valuation that made it more difficult for go-go funds to promise inflated returns. Furthermore, the shaky stock market following the go-go years also contributed to a growing interest in investment diversification.
What Is a Go-Shop Period?  

A go-shop period is a provision that allows a public company to seek out competing offers even after it has already received a firm purchase offer. The original offer then functions as a floor for possible better offers. The duration of a go-shop period is usually about one to two months. 





Key Takeaways

Go-shop periods are a timeframe, generally one to two months, where a company being acquired can shop itself for a better deal. Go-shop provisions generally allow the initial bidder to match any competing offers, and if the company is sold to another buyer they are generally paid a breakup fee.A no-shop provision means the company can't actively shop the deal, which includes offering information to potential buyers or soliciting other proposals. 


   How a Go-Shop Period Works  

A go-shop period is meant to help a board of directors fulfill its fiduciary duty to shareholders and find the best deal possible. Go-shop agreements usually give the initial bidder the opportunity to match any better offer the target company receives. They also pay the initial bidder a reduced breakup fee if the target company is purchased by another suitor.



In an active mergers and acquisitions (M&A) environment, it may be reasonable to believe that other bidders may come forward. However, critics say go-shop periods are cosmetic, designed to give the board of directors the appearance of acting in the best interests of shareholders. Critics note that go-shop periods rarely result in additional offers, because they don't give other potential buyers enough time to perform due diligence on the target company. Historical data suggests a very small fraction of initial bids are cast aside in favor of new bids during go-shop periods.﻿﻿


   Go-Shop vs. No-Shop   

A go-shop period allows the company being acquired to shop around for a better offer. The no-shop period affords the acquiree no such option. In the case of a no-shop provision, the company being acquired would have to pay a hefty breakup fee if it decides to sell to another company after the offer is made. 



In 2016, Microsoft announced it would buy LinkedIn for $26.2 billion.﻿﻿ The tentative agreement between the two had a no-shop provision. If LinkedIn found another buyer it would have to pay Microsoft a $725 million breakup fee.﻿﻿ 



No-shop provisions mean the company can't actively shop the deal—that is, the company cannot offer information to potential buyers, initiate conversations with buyers, or solicit proposals, among other things. However, companies can respond to unsolicited offers as part of their fiduciary duty. The status quo in many M&A deals is to have a no-shop provision. 


   Criticism of Go-Shop Periods   

A go-shop period generally appears when the selling company is private and the buyer is an investment firm, such as private equity. They are also becoming more popular with go-private transactions, where a public company will sell via a leveraged buyout (LBO). However, a go-shop period rarely leads to another buyer coming in.
What Is Goal-Based Investing?  

Goal-based investing is a relatively new approach to wealth management that emphasizes investing with the objective of attaining specific life goals. Goal-based investing (GBI) involves a wealth manager or investment firm’s clients measuring their progress towards specific life goals, such as saving for children’s education or building a retirement nest-egg, rather than focusing on generating the highest possible portfolio return or beating the market.





Key Takeaways

Goal-based investing emphasizes attaining life goals.Life goals including saving for college and building retirement are part of goal-based investing.Goal-based investing focuses on life goals rather than obtaining a high portfolio return.


   Understanding Goal-Based Investing  

Goal-based investing differs from traditional investing, in that its yardstick for success is how well the investor is able to meet their personal life goals, rather than how well their investments perform against the market average in a given period.



Consider an investor who is looking forward to retirement within a year, and who therefore cannot afford to lose even 10% of their portfolio. If the stock market plunges 30% in a given year and the investor’s portfolio is down “only” 20%, the fact that the portfolio has outperformed the market by 10 percentage points would offer scant comfort. That investor needs to focus more on maintaining, rather than growing, wealth in order to reach their personal goal of affording retirement within a year.



Goal-based investing re-frames success, based on clients’ needs and goals. If a client’s main goals are to save for imminent retirement and fund the college education of young grandchildren, an investment strategy would be more conservative for the former and relatively aggressive for the latter.



As an example, the asset allocation for the retirement assets might be 10% equities and 90% fixed-income, while the asset allocation for the education fund may be 50% equities and 50% fixed-income. Individual needs and goals, rather than risk tolerance, are what drive investing decisions made under the goal-based framework.



The advantages of goal-based investing include:



Clients’ increased commitment to their life goals by allowing them to observe and participate in tangible progressA reduction in impulsive decision-making and overreaction, based on market fluctuations


   Goal-Based Investing After the Great Recession  

Goal-based investing has grown in popularity in the years after the Great Recession of 2008–09 as investors realized the extent to which chasing high returns could negatively impact long-term wealth accumulation. Millions of hapless investors witnessed their net worth plunge dramatically, in correlation with declines across nearly all major markets, and a steep correction in U.S. housing prices.



Several teams have worked to develop more holistic investment approaches in recent years. The startup Ellevest, for example, focuses on goal-based investing strategies, tailored to women.



Ellevest has developed algorithms for wealth management over time that take into account fluctuations in women’s incomes as they progress through their careers, as well as the wage gap between men and women. Instead of aiming to outperform benchmarks like the S&P 500 or Russell 2000, Ellevest first asks its investors to explain their personalities and life goals; from there, the team works to develop specific investment portfolios for each goal.
What Is Goal Seeking?  

Goal seeking is the process of finding the correct input value when only the output is known. The function of goal seeking can be built into different kinds of computer software programs like Microsoft Excel. 





Key Takeaways

Goal seeking is finding the correct input when only the output is known. This is often done using the goal seek function in Microsoft Excel or what-if analysis via computer programs. Goal-seek software only works if there’s only one input value, however. 


   Understand Goal Seeking   

Goal seeking is a general term used to describe the process involved in figuring out your input value based on an already known output value. The process involves using a specific operator in a formula, which can be calculated using computer software. 



Goal seeking is one of the tools used in "what-if analysis" on computer software programs. A what-if analysis is a process of changing values in (Microsoft Excel) cells to see how these changes will affect formula outcomes on the worksheet. When you are goal seeking, you are performing what-if analysis on a given value, or the output. So, in essence, you would be creating a scenario by asking "what if the output was X"—or basically, a cause and effect situation. 



For some of the more complex problems, people will often use computer software. A spreadsheet program like Microsoft Excel has a goal seeking tool built-in. It allows the user to determine the desired input value for a formula when the output value is already known. This feature can help the user determine things like the interest rate a borrower needs to qualify for (the input) if she only knows how much she can afford to pay each month (the output). 



But there is one caveat to using goal seeking software: It only works if there is one input value. If you need to figure out two or more input values, then it won’t work. If we take the example from above, if you want to figure out the total amount of the loan and the monthly payment, goal seeking software won't work. You'd probably need an add-on in order to figure out multiple variables. 


  How Goal Seeking Work in Microsoft Excel  

As mentioned above, goal seeking software will only work if you already know the output value (or the result) but want to determine one input value. Here are some key steps you can follow if you want to use the goal seek feature in the program: 



Open up a new spreadsheet
Label your columns. This will make it easier for you to read everything in the worksheet. So, using the example from above, the first column will be “Loan Amount,” the second column would be “Term in Months,” the third would be “Interest Rate” and the final one would be “Payment.”
Type in the values that you know. 
Enter the formula to calculate the goal — in this case, the payment. You can ignore the interest rate for now, which the formula will assume is 0 percent. 



Now you will have to determine the interest rate. You can do this by using the Goal Seek function in Excel and enter the values you already have. 


   Example of Goal Seeking  

A goal-seeking entrepreneur is someone who uses goal seeking to determine how they can reach their ultimate goals. For example, an entrepreneur may ask how much they will need to make per hour to gross $100,000 in a year. They know their desired output value—$100,000—and will, therefore, have to work back in order to figure out the optimum input. That means they will have to determine how many hours they will be able to (or is willing to) work during the year, and therefore, how much they will earn for each hour to reach their goal.
What Is a Godfather Offer?  

A Godfather offer is an irrefutable takeover bid made to a target company by an acquirer. Typically, the offer is priced at an extremely generous premium compared with the target's prevailing share price, making it difficult for management to reject the bid without angering shareholders and being accused of breaching their fiduciary duty.



A Godfather offer is named after the Francis Ford Coppola movie of the same title. More specifically, the name refers to the film's famous line, "I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse." This line has gone on to become one of the most celebrated quotations in cinema.





Key Takeaways

A Godfather offer is an irrefutable takeover bid made to a target company by an acquirer.Typically, the offer is priced at an extremely generous premium compared with the company's prevailing share price, making it difficult for management to reject.If the bid is refused, shareholders may initiate lawsuits or other forms of revolt against the target company's board for not performing its fiduciary duty.


   How a Godfather Offer Works  

In essence, the idea of a Godfather offer isn't so much an offer as a sly, yet heavy-handed demand: do as I say, or else.



Of course, the acquiring company isn't insinuating it will kill somebody if it doesn't get its way, like Marlon Brando's character Don Corleone did in the movie. However, it is being aggressive and putting a targeted company that doesn't want to be purchased in an awkward, vulnerable position.



When a tender offer is made publicly inviting shareholders to sell their shares at a very favorable price, the target's board of directors might have trouble voicing its resistance. Put it this way: If management doesn't want to sell and snubs the bid, shareholders may initiate lawsuits or other forms of revolt against the target company for not performing its fiduciary duty of looking out for shareholders' interests.






Most Godfather offers are heavy-handed: "do as I say, or else," is cloaked in an offer.



A Godfather offer is even harder for the target company's management to reject when its stock price has been flat or declining for an extended period of time. In such scenarios, it is even more likely that long-time investors would jump at the opportunity to cash out at an elevated price.


   Example of a Godfather Offer  

Company A is a promising, up-and-coming developer of new, niche technologies. Its solutions could revolutionize how the world operates, leading some larger companies to sniff around and inquire about taking it over.



Company A's management team privately rebuffs all proposals, claiming it has no interest in selling and handing over all its potential to another firm. That strategy helps to keep the predators at bay for a few months until one of them turns hostile.



Company C, an industry juggernaut with significant financial resources, eventually gets tired of Company A's reluctance and responds by tabling a generous Godfather offer directly to shareholders. A bid of $70 per share is lodged, representing a 75% premium on Company A's current market price.



Company A's board is livid and maintains it does't want to sell at any cost, while the shareholders it is elected to represent voice support for the deal and refuse to take no for an answer. Suddenly, things turn messy. Disgruntled shareholders engage in a proxy fight, joining forces in an attempt to seize control and get the takeover approved. They also threaten to sue senior management for failing to act in their best interests.
What Is Going Concern?  

Going concern is an accounting term for a company that has the resources needed to continue operating indefinitely until it provides evidence to the contrary. This term also refers to a company's ability to make enough money to stay afloat or to avoid bankruptcy. If a business is not a going concern, it means it's gone bankrupt and its assets were liquidated. As an example, many dot-coms are no longer going concern companies after the tech bust in the late 1990s.





Key Takeaways

Going concern is an accounting term for a company that is financially stable enough to meet its obligations and continue its business for the foreseeable future.Certain expenses and assets may be deferred in financial reports if a company is assumed to be a going concern.If a company is no longer a going concern, it must start reporting certain information on its financial statements.Negative trends that lead to no longer being a going concern include denial of credit, continued losses, and lawsuits.An auditor can give a going concern opinion when they have doubts about the financial longevity of a company.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding Going Concern  

Accountants use going concern principles to decide what types of reporting should appear on financial statements. Companies that are a going concern may defer reporting long-term assets at current value or liquidating value, but rather at cost. A company remains a going concern when the sale of assets does not impair its ability to continue operation, such as the closure of a small branch office that reassigns the employees to other departments within the company.



Accountants who view a company as a going concern generally believe a firm uses its assets wisely and does not have to liquidate anything. Accountants may also employ going concern principles to determine how a company should proceed with any sales of assets, reduction of expenses, or shifts to other products.



Going concern is not included in the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) but is included in the generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS).






Going concern is an example of conservatism where entities must take a less aggressive approach to financial reporting.


   Red Flags Indicating a Business Is Not a Going Concern  

Certain red flags may appear on financial statements of publicly traded companies that may indicate a business will not be a going concern in the future. Listing of long-term assets normally does not appear in a company's quarterly statements or as a line item on balance sheets. Listing the value of long-term assets may indicate a company plans to sell these assets.



A firm's inability to meet its obligations without substantial restructuring or selling of assets may also indicate it is not a going concern. If a company acquires assets during a time of restructuring, it may plan to resell them later. Sometimes, one-time events are enough to cause a company to go bankrupt. Consider how a single substantial lawsuit, default on a loan, or defective product can jeopardize the future of a company.



A company may not be a going concern based on the financial position on either its income statement or balance sheet. For example, a company's annual expenses may so vastly outweigh its revenue that it can't reasonably make a profit. On the other hand, a company may be operating at a profit buts its long-term liabilities are coming due and not enough money is being made.



There are also a number of quantifiable, measurable indicators that auditors use to measure going concern. Companies with low liquidity ratios, high employee turnover, or decreasing market share are more likely to not be a going concern.






Companies can go bankrupt without ever having been a going concern issue.


   Going Concern Conditions  

Accounting standards try to determine what a company should disclose on its financial statements if there are doubts about its ability to continue as a going concern. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board determined financial statements should reveal the conditions that support an entity's substantial doubt that it can continue as a going concern. Statements should also show management's interpretation of the conditions and management's future plans.



In general, an auditor examines a company's financial statements to see if it can continue as a going concern for one year following the time of an audit. Conditions that lead to substantial doubt about a going concern include negative trends in operating results, continuous losses from one period to the next, loan defaults, lawsuits against a company, and denial of credit by suppliers.



In order for a company to be a going concern, it usually needs to be able to operate with a significant debt restructuring or massive financing overhaul. Therefore, it may be noted that companies that are not a going concern may need external financing, restructuring, asset liquidation, or be acquired by a more profitable entity.


   Implications of Going Concern  

If a company receives a negative audit and may not be a going concern, there are several implications. First, the company will now be seen as a declining investment opportunity. Companies that are not a going concern represent a significantly higher level of risk compared to other companies.



If a company is not a going concern, the company may be revalued at the request of investors, shareholders, or the board. This revaluation may be used to price the company for acquisition or to seek out a private investor. There are often certain accounting measures that must be taken to write down the value of the company on the business's financial reports.



One of larger repercussions of not being a going concern are potential credit challenges. If a company is not able to meet debt covenants, its debt may be callable. New lenders will likely be reluctant to issue new credit, or any new credit issued will be prohibitively expensive. This credit crunch may trickle down to suppliers who may be unwilling to sell raw materials or inventory goods on credit.




Is a Going Concern Good or Bad?
A going concern is often good as it means a company is more likely than not to survive for the next year. When a company does not meet the going concern criteria, it means that a company may not have the resources needed to operate over the next 12 months.




Why Is Going Concern So Important?
Going concern is important because it is a signal of trust about the longevity and future of a company. Without it, business would not offer nearly as much credit sales as suppliers, vendors, and other companies may not pay the company if there is little belief these companies will survive.




What Happens If a Company Is Not a Going Concern?
If a company is not a going concern, that means there is risk the company may not survive the next 12 months. Management is required to disclose this fact and must provide the reasons why they may not be a going concern. Management must also identify the basis in which the financial statements are prepared and often disclose these financial reports with an audit report with a going concern opinion.


   The Bottom Line  

Going concern is an accounting term used to identify whether a company is likely to survive the next year. Companies that are not a going concern may not have enough money to survive, and this fact must be publicly disclosed when an auditor audits their financial statements. A company may not be a going concern for a number of reasons, and management must disclose the reason why.
What Is Going-Concern Value?  

Going concern value is a value that assumes the company will remain in business indefinitely and continue to be profitable. Going concern value is also known as total value. This differs from the value that would be realized if its assets were liquidated—the liquidation value—because an ongoing operation has the ability to continue to earn a profit, which contributes to its value. A company should always be considered a going concern unless there is a good reason to believe that it will be going out of business.





Key Takeaways

Going-concern value is the idea that a company will continue to be in business and be profitable.Goodwill is the difference between going-concern value and liquidation value.Going-concern value is often higher than the liquidation value.


   How Going-Concern Value Works  

The difference between the going-concern value of a company and its liquidation value is known as goodwill. Goodwill consists of intangible assets, such as company brand names, trademarks, patents, and customer loyalty. Typically the going-concern value will be greater than the liquidation value. When a company is acquired, the purchase price is typically based on its going-concern value. This means that a company being acquired can charge a pricing premium that is higher than the value of its assets and takes into account the value of its future profitability, intangible assets, and goodwill.


   Going-Concern Value vs. Liquidation Value  

The going-concern value of a company is typically much higher than its liquidation value because it includes intangible assets and customer loyalty as well as any potential for future returns. The liquidation value of a company will even be lower than the value of the company’s tangible assets, because the company may have to sell off its tangible assets at a discount—often, a deep discount—in order to liquidate them before ceasing operations. Examples of tangible assets that might be sold at a loss include equipment, unsold inventory, real estate, vehicles, patents, and other intellectual property (IP), furniture, and fixtures.






Liquidating a going-concern company can result in a bad reputation for the investors.



Usually, liquidation value is applied when investors feel a company no longer has value as a going concern, and they want to know how much they can get by selling off the company’s tangible assets and such of its intangible assets as can be sold, such as IP. A company or investor that is acquiring a company may compare that company’s going-concern value to its liquidation value in order to decide whether it’s financially worthwhile to continue operating the company, or whether it is more profitable to liquidate it.



However, liquidating a company means laying off all of its employees, and if the company is viable, this can have negative ramifications not only for the laid-off workers but also for the investor who made the decision to liquidate a healthy company. Liquidating a going concern can give an investor a bad reputation among potential future takeover targets.


   Example of Going-Concern Value  

For example, suppose that the liquidation value of Widget Corp. is $10 million. This sum represents the current value of inventory, buildings, and other tangible assets that can be sold assuming that the company is completely liquidated. However, Widget Corp.'s going-concern value could very well be $60 million, as the company's reputation of being the world's leading widget producer and its ownership of patents and associated rights for widget production mean that the company should have a large and steady stream of future cash flows.
What Is Going Private?  

The term going private refers to a transaction or series of transactions that convert a publicly traded company into a private entity. Once a company goes private, its shareholders are no longer able to trade their shares in the open market.



There are several types of going private transactions, including private equity buyouts, management buyouts, and tender offers.





Key Takeaways

A going private transaction is one in which a public company is converted into private ownership.Common examples include private equity buyouts, management buyouts, and tender offers.Many going private transactions involve significant amounts of debt.The assets and cashflows of the acquired company are used to pay for those debts.


   How Going Private Works  

A company typically goes private when its shareholders decide that there are no longer significant benefits to being a public company.



One way for this transition to occur is for the company to be acquired through a private equity buyout. In this transaction, a private equity firm will buy a controlling share in the company, often leveraging significant amounts of debt. In doing so, the private equity firm secures these debts against the assets of the company being acquired. The interest and principal payments on the debt are then paid for using the cashflows from the business.



Another common method is the management buyout transaction, in which the company is taken private by its own management team. The structure of a management buyout is similar to that of a private equity buyout, in that both rely on large amounts of debt. However, unlike a private equity buyout, a management buyout is undertaken by “insiders” who are already intimately familiar with the business.



In some cases, going private transactions will also involve seller financing, in which the owners of the company (in this case, the shareholders of the publicly traded corporation) help the new buyers finance the purchase. In practice, this generally consists of allowing the buyer to delay payment of a portion of the purchase price for some period of time, such as five years.





Important

Many going private transactions involve significant amounts of debt. In these situations, the assets of the acquired company are used as collateral for the loans, and its cashflows are used to pay for debt servicing.



Another common example of going private transactions is a tender offer. This occurs when a company or individual makes a public offer to buy most or all of a company’s shares. At times, tender offers are made (and accepted) even when the current management team of the target company does not want the company to be sold. In this situation, the tender offer is referred to as a hostile takeover.



Because the entity putting forward the tender offer can be a public corporation, tender offers are often financed using a mixture of cash and shares. For example, Company A might make a tender offer to Company B in which the shareholders of Company B would receive 80% of the offer in cash and 20% in shares of Company A.


   Real-World Example of a Going Private Transaction  

In December 2015, the private-equity group JAB Holding Company announced its plans to acquire Keurig Green Mountain. Unlike many private-equity buyouts, this was an all-cash offer.



The offer priced the shares at $92, a nearly 80% premium over their market value prior to the announcement. Unsurprisingly, share prices rose dramatically following the announcement and the company accepted the offer shortly thereafter.



The transaction was completed in March of the following year. Accordingly, the company’s shares ceased trading on the stock market and Keurig Green Mountain became a private company.
What Is Going Public?  

Going public is the process of selling shares that were formerly held privately and are now available to new investors for the first time, otherwise known as an initial public offering (IPO).





Key Takeaways

The process of a company going public involves several important and sensitive steps that protect the company and potential investors.During the IPO process, many facets of the company will be reviewed, prepared, and presented to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as part of its draft prospectus. During the vetting process this document will change and grow.The original investment bank selected by the company will assemble a syndicate of other banks prior to presenting a roadshow to prospective investors.The final SEC approved prospectus is sent to print at an experienced financial printer familiar with the SEC's regulations.Offering price is based on several factors and determined by the investment banker the day before the registration becomes effective. 


   How Going Public Works  

When a company “goes public,” it is the first time the general public has the ability to buy shares. The process of going public presents unique challenges and is best accomplished with a knowledgeable and experienced team at the helm. An important member of said team is an experienced securities lawyer. However, every member of the team has important responsibilities in guiding the company through the IPO process.






The mandatory SEC S-1 filing does not necessarily include all previous financial information, which is why it is imperative to do additional research prior to investing in an IPO.


   Requirements for Going Public  
  1. Board Approval  

Going public starts with a proposal to the company's board of directors by the management of the company. The proposal includes details and discussion on the company's past performance, objectives, business plan, and financial projections. Management then recommends entrance into the public market. After careful consideration, the board of directors decides whether to move forward.


  2. Assemble Team  

Upon approval, management starts assembling the IPO team, which usually starts with a securities lawyer and an accounting firm.


  3. Review and Restate Financials  

After approval, the company's financial statements for the preceding five years are carefully reviewed and, if necessary, restated to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Certain transactions that are okay for private companies, such as some sale-leaseback arrangements, are then eliminated and financial statements are adjusted accordingly. The accounting firm takes the lead in this review and adjustment step.


  4. Letter of Intent With Investment Bank   

Now the company selects an investment bank and issues a letter of intent to formalize the relationship and outline the investment bank's fees, offering size, price ranges, and other parameters.


  5. Draft Prospectus  

With a signed letter of intent, the securities lawyers and accountants prepare the prospectus. A prospectus is written to present to investors as both a selling document and as a legal disclosure document. A prospectus requires:



Description of the businessExplanation of management structureDisclosure of management compensationDisclosure of transactions between the company and managementNames of principal shareholders and their holdings in the companyAudited financial statementsDiscussion on company operations and financial conditionInformation on the intended use of offering proceedsDiscussion on the effect of dilution on existing sharesBreakdown of the company's dividend policyDescription of the company's capitalizationDescription of the underwriting agreement


  6. Due Diligence  

The company's investment bank and accountants will examine the company's management, operations, financial condition, competitive position, performance, and business objectives and plan. They also review the company's labor force, suppliers, customers, and industry. Often, the results of the due diligence investigation will necessitate changes to the prospectus.


  7. Preliminary Prospectus  

A preliminary prospectus must be presented to the SEC and the relevant stock market regulators. State securities commissions may also be required to sign off. The SEC usually comments on the prospectus, normally in the form of requirements for additional disclosure or explanation.


  8. Syndication   

After the preliminary prospectus has been filed with the SEC, the investment bank should assemble a "syndicate" of other investment banks, which will attempt to sell portions of the offering to investors. Assembly of the syndicate often generates useful information that helps to narrow the share price range.


  9. Roadshow   

Company management and investment bankers often perform a series of meetings with potential investors and analysts. This roadshow is a formal presentation by management on the company's financial condition, operations, performance, markets, and products or services. The potential investors and analysts then ask questions about the company.


  10. Prospectus Finalization  

The prospectus must be revised in accordance with the comments of the SEC. When the SEC declares the registration effective, the company can "go to print" with the prospectus.


  11. Determining the Offer  

The day before registration becomes effective and sales begin, the offering is priced. The investment banker will recommend a price for the company's approval, taking into account company performance, pricing of competitive offerings, roadshow outcomes, and general market and industry conditions. The investment banker will also make recommendations on the size of the offering, in consideration of capital required, investor demand, and control over the corporation.


  12. Print  

An experienced financial printer, which has sufficient printing capacity and is familiar with the SEC's regulations regarding the use of graphics, receives the final prospectus for expedited printing.
What Is a Gold Bug?  

"Gold bug” is an expression used to refer to investors bullish on gold. Gold bugs promote investment in gold and commonly believe that the purchasing power of fiat currencies will decline due to inflation, expansionary monetary policy, and the rising national debt.





Key Takeaways

A gold bug is an individual who promotes gold as an investment.Gold bugs commonly believe that threats to fiat currencies make gold attractive.Gold bugs argue that as gold is priced relative to fiat currencies, gold will appreciate if fiat currency value decreases.


   Understanding Gold Bugs  

Most gold bugs believe the price of gold will rise if the value of fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar (USD), falls. Investors bearish on the long-term prospects of the USD may choose gold. The term "gold bug" does not hold a positive or negative connotation but refers to an investor convinced that gold will rise in value.


   Gold Bug Strategy  

Gold bugs see a decline in fiscal health as a sign that the U.S. government will respond to the rising debt burden by effectively devaluing the USD. If the government defaults on the national debt by failing to raise the debt ceiling, the value of the USD may decline in international currency exchange markets. The price of imported goods will rise for US consumers.



Alternatively, expansionary monetary policy may cause inflation to rise. This strategy may negatively affect the wealth and purchasing power of investors and citizens whose savings consist of USD-denominated assets. For gold bugs, investing in gold can be an attractive way to hedge against these risks and profit from potential USD devaluation.





1971

The year that the United States abandoned the gold standard to curb inflation and prevent foreign nations from overburdening the system by redeeming their dollars for gold.


   Example of a Gold Bug  

Gold bugs argue that the fiat currency system allows governments to engage in fiscally reckless behaviors such as relying on chronic government borrowing to finance persistent budget deficits.



In 2022, the United States had a budget deficit of $1.38 trillion. The U.S. has experienced a fiscal year-end budget surplus, where revenue exceeds spending, only five times in the last 50 years. The national debt exploded from roughly 40% of GDP in 1966 to over 100% of GDP in 2022.



The price of gold subsequently increased in the latter part of 2022. Gold pricing changes based on supply, demand, and investor behavior. When investors choose gold and hedge against inflation, they drive up the price of gold. In addition to the value of the USD and market volatility, factors that influence the price of gold include gold production, jewelry demand, and gold reserves.



When there is an economic slowdown, investors seek safe investment opportunities. During these periods, paper money loses value as more is printed, and the supply of gold remains constant. Because gold prices often increase when economic conditions worsen, gold is seen as a safe bet to diversify a portfolio.




What Is a Silverite?
The Silverites were members of a U.S. movement in the late-19th century that advocated that silver should continue to be a monetary standard along with gold.




Why Do Gold Bugs Invest in Gold?
Gold bugs argue that fiat money or government-issued currency not backed by a commodity such as gold, allows governments to engage in fiscally reckless behaviors such as relying on chronic government borrowing to finance persistent budget deficits.




How Do Gold Bugs Buy Gold?
Gold bugs buy gold in minted coins, bullion or bars, gold stocks, jewelry, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Gold investors buy gold online and can even use a 401K to purchase gold.


   The Bottom Line  

A gold bug is an investor who believes the price of gold will perpetually increase. As fear of a recession becomes widespread, gold bugs typically look to invest in gold to hedge against inflation and currency devaluation. The term “gold bug” refers to the most adamant and outspoken among these investors.
What Is a Gold Certificate?  

A gold certificate, issued as U.S. currency equivalents until 1934, proves ownership of a specific amount of gold.





Key Takeaways

The U.S. issued gold certificates that were identical in face value to their dollar denominations from 1879 until 1934 when the country abandoned the gold standard.U.S. gold certificates now have only collectible value.Gold certificates are still issued by some banks and other companies as proof of ownership of the stated amount of gold bullion.


   Understanding Gold Certificate  

When the U.S. dollar was tied to the gold standard, gold certificates were worth their face value in U.S. dollars and could be used as legal tender. Gold certificates are still issued to investors as proof of ownership of gold stored by a bank.



The U.S. abandoned the gold standard in 1933. Gold certificates issued by the U.S. Mint are now collectors' items. A gold certificate can be purchased on eBay for about $10-$200 or more depending on its age, rarity, and condition.



Gold certificates represent ownership of a quantity of gold, similar to the way that stock certificates represent an ownership share in a company. In the U.S., from about 1879 until they were phased out, the certificates were identical in value to the same denomination in U.S. currency.



Gold bullion is difficult to carry around or exchange for goods or services. Gold certificates made it practical to own and use gold. Today, gold certificates continue to be issued to investors as receipts that prove ownership of the stated amount of gold.



U.S. gold certificates resemble paper banknotes made in the same period with some distinguishing features. The designs varied over the years but most had bright orange-colored backs and a gold-colored U.S. seal on the front.



A $1,000 gold certificate printed in 1907, for example, has the denomination in all four corners on the face but is inscribed "IN GOLD COIN" below a portrait of Alexander Hamilton. It also has a gold seal and a gold serial number on the front, and the distinctive orange back.



Gold certificates were in general circulation in the U.S. until President Franklin D. Roosevelt removed the dollar from the gold standard in 1933. Since the value of the dollar itself was tied to the value of gold, between 1879 and the time they were phased out, the certificates were essentially a parallel currency and were technically exchangeable as such, although they were not often used in routine transactions.






A gold certificate proves ownership of a quantity of gold just like a stock certificate proves ownership of a share in a company.


   Gold Certificates Today  

Some banks and investment companies in the U.S. and abroad still issue gold certificates. These generally specify an amount in ounces. Their dollar value fluctuates with the market. That makes them an investment in precious metals rather than an investment in currency.



It is worth noting that this modern trade in gold certificates can be risky. If the company that issues the certificate goes under, the certificate is as worthless as a stock certificate for a bankrupt company.
What Is a Gold Option?  

A gold option is an options contract that utilizes either physical gold or gold futures as its underlying asset.



A gold call option would give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy bullion at a future date at a set price, while a put option would grant the holder the right to sell it at a predetermined price level. The option agreement terms will list details such as the delivery date, quantity, and strike price, which are all predetermined.





Key Takeaways

Gold options are options contracts that utilize either physical gold or gold futures as their underlying instrument.Call options on gold give the contract holder the right to buy the metal at a preset price before it expires.Put options work in the opposite way, granting the right to sell at a predetermined price level.Gold options trading in the U.S. are listed on the CME COMEX and use gold futures, which represent 100 troy ounces of gold, as the underlying asset.﻿﻿


   Understanding Gold Options  

A gold option is a derivative that has physical gold, or futures on physical gold, as the underlying asset.



The gold options contract is an agreement between two parties to facilitate a potential transaction on a quantity of gold. The contract lists a preset price, known as the strike price, and an expiration date.



There are two primary types of options contracts: put options and call options. However, there are four types of participants, as both the call and put can be either bought or sold.


   Types of Gold Options  

Call gold options: Give the holder the right, not the obligation, to buy a specific amount of gold at the strike price until the expiration date. A call option becomes more valuable as the price of gold increases because they locked in a buy at a lower price. When you buy the call, you have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the gold. If, on the other hand, you sell the call, you do not have a choice and must sell the gold at the predetermined price when the person holding the opposite side of the contract demands delivery up to the expiration date.
Put gold options: Give the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specific amount of gold at the strike price until the expiration date. A put option becomes more valuable as the price of gold decreases because they locked in a sell at a higher price. If you buy the put, you have the right, but not the obligation, to sell the gold. Meanwhile, when you sell a put, you do not have a choice and must purchase the gold at the predetermined price from the person holding the opposite side of the contract.



If the holders of call or put options do not exercise their rights, the contract will expire as worthless.


   Gold Options vs. Gold Future Contracts  

A gold option is similar in some ways to a gold futures contract in that the price, the expiration date, and the dollar amount are preset for both. However, with a futures contract, there is an obligation to uphold the agreement and either buy or sell the agreed-upon quantity of gold at the agreed-upon price.



Conversely, an investor who holds a gold option has the right, but not the obligation, to claim the relevant position, which will depend on if they hold the call option or the put option.


   Gold Options Contract Specifications  

Gold options contracts trade on various derivatives exchanges around the world. In the U.S., investors can find gold options listed on the COMEX exchange.



COMEX is the primary futures and options market for trading metals such as gold, silver, copper, and aluminum. Formerly known as the Commodity Exchange Inc., COMEX merged with the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) in 1994 and became the division responsible for metals trading. Today, COMEX—and the NYMEX more broadly—operates as a division of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).



COMEX gold options actually use gold futures, rather than physical gold directly, and so are cash-settled. These gold futures have a contract size of 100 troy ounces each and require physical delivery if not closed out.






It is possible to experience significant losses with gold options.


   The Condition for Exercising Gold Options  

As with other types of options, an investor would only want to exercise their gold option rights if the market conditions make it beneficial.



If at the time the buyer can use, or exercise, their call option, gold is trading at a price significantly higher than the strike price, the investor would benefit by exercising their option. The investor could then turn around and quickly sell that gold on the open market for a quick profit.



Should, on the other hand, gold be trading at or near the strike price, the investor may break even or perhaps even take a loss once their initial cost to purchase the option is factored in.




How Can I Buy Options on Gold?
Gold options are available the U.S. through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). These options contracts use gold futures as their underlying asset. To trade gold options, you will need a margin brokerage account with access to options markets. You could contact your current broker to see if they offer options trading or shop around for an options trading account.




What Are the Types of Gold Options?
Call options on gold give the contract holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy the metal at a preset price before the contract expires. A call option increases in value when the price of gold increases, as it locks in a lower buying price. Meanwhile, put options give the contract holder the right to sell gold at a predetermined level before the expiration date. As gold prices decline, a put option becomes more valuable, as it locks in a higher selling price.




What Are the Pros and Cons of Gold Options?
Gold options allow traders to take out a position on gold using less up-front capital than they would by trading the physical metal or gold futures contracts. However, if gold prices move in an unfavorable direction, options can result in significant losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Gold options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell gold at a specific price, up until the contract expires. With a call option, the contract holder reserves the right to buy gold at a specific price, while a put option holder reserves the right to sell at a predetermined level. To trade gold options, it is necessary to have a margin brokerage account offering access to options markets.
What Is the Gold Standard?  

The gold standard is a fixed monetary regime under which the government's currency is fixed and may be freely converted into gold. It can also refer to a freely competitive monetary system in which gold or bank receipts for gold act as the principal medium of exchange; or to a standard of international trade, wherein some or all countries fix their exchange rate based on the relative gold parity values between individual currencies.





Key Takeaways

The gold standard is a monetary system backed by the value of physical gold.Gold coins, as well as paper notes backed by or which can be redeemed for gold, are used as currency under this system.The gold standard was popular throughout human civilization, often part of a bi-metallic system that also utilized silver.Most of the world's economies have abandoned the gold standard since the 1930s and now have free-floating fiat currency regimes.


   How the Gold Standard Works  

The gold standard is a monetary system where a country's currency or paper money has a value directly linked to gold. With the gold standard, countries agreed to convert paper money into a fixed amount of gold.



A country that uses the gold standard sets a fixed price for gold and buys and sells gold at that price. That fixed price is used to determine the value of the currency. For example, if the U.S. sets the price of gold at $500 an ounce, the value of the dollar would be 1/500th of an ounce of gold.



The gold standard developed a nebulous definition over time but is generally used to describe any commodity-based monetary regime that does not rely on un-backed fiat money, or money that is only valuable because the government forces people to use it. Beyond that, however, there are major differences.



Some gold standards only rely on the actual circulation of physical gold coins and bars, or bullion, but others allow other commodities or paper currencies. Recent historical systems only granted the ability to convert the national currency into gold, thereby limiting the inflationary and deflationary ability of banks or governments.


   Why Gold?  

Most commodity-money advocates choose gold as a medium of exchange because of its intrinsic properties. Gold has non-monetary uses, especially in jewelry, electronics, and dentistry, so it should always retain a minimum level of real demand.



It is perfectly and evenly divisible without losing value, unlike diamonds, and does not spoil over time. It is impossible to counterfeit perfectly and has a fixed stock—there is only so much gold on Earth, and inflation is limited to the speed of mining.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Gold Standard  

There are many advantages to using the gold standard, including price stability. This is a long-term advantage that makes it harder for governments to inflate prices by expanding the money supply.



Inflation is rare and hyperinflation doesn't happen because the money supply can only grow if the supply of gold reserves increases. Similarly, the gold standard can provide fixed international rates between countries that participate and can also reduce the uncertainty in international trade. 



But it may cause an imbalance between countries that participate in the gold standard. Gold-producing nations may be at an advantage over those that don't produce the precious metal, thereby increasing their reserves.



The gold standard may also, according to some economists, prevent the mitigation of economic recessions because it hinders the ability of a government to increase its money supply—a tool many central banks have to help boost economic growth. 


   History of the Gold Standard  

Around 650 B.C., gold was made into coins for the first time, enhancing its usability as a monetary unit. Before this, gold had to be weighed and checked for purity when settling trades.



Gold coins were not a perfect solution, since a common practice for centuries to come was to clip these slightly irregular coins to accumulate enough gold that could be melted down into bullion. In 1696, the Great Recoinage in England introduced a technology that automated the production of coins and put an end to clipping.



The U.S. Constitution in 1789 gave Congress the sole right to coin money and the power to regulate its value. Creating a united national currency enabled the standardization of a monetary system that had up until then consisted of circulating foreign coins, mostly silver.



With silver in greater abundance relative to gold, a bimetallic standard was adopted in 1792. While the officially adopted silver-to-gold parity ratio of 15:1 accurately reflected the market ratio at the time, after 1793 the value of silver steadily declined, pushing gold out of circulation, according to Gresham's law.






The gold standard is not currently used by any government. Britain stopped using the gold standard in 1931 and the U.S. followed suit in 1933 and abandoned the remnants of the system in 1973.



The so-called "classical gold standard era" began in England in 1819 and spread to France, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and the United States. Each government pegged its national currency to a fixed weight in gold. For example, by 1834, U.S. dollars were convertible to gold at a rate of $20.67 per ounce. These parity rates were used to price international transactions. Other countries later joined to gain access to Western trade markets.



There were many interruptions in the gold standard, especially during wartime, and many countries experimented with bimetallic (gold and silver) standards. Governments frequently spent more than their gold reserves could back, and suspensions of national gold standards were extremely common. Moreover, governments struggled to correctly peg the relationship between their national currencies and gold without creating distortions.



As long as governments or central banks retained monopoly privileges over the supply of national currencies, the gold standard proved an ineffective or inconsistent restraint on fiscal policy. The gold standard slowly eroded during the 20th century. This began in the United States in 1933, when Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed an executive order criminalizing the private possession of monetary gold.



After WWII, the Bretton Woods agreement forced Allied countries to accept the U.S. dollar as a reserve rather than gold, and the U.S. government pledged to keep enough gold to back its dollars. In 1971, the Nixon administration terminated the convertibility of U.S. dollars to gold, creating a fiat currency regime.


   The Gold Standard vs. Fiat Money  

As its name suggests, the term gold standard refers to a monetary system in which the value of a currency is based on gold. A fiat system, by contrast, is a monetary system in which the value of a currency is not based on any physical commodity but is instead allowed to fluctuate dynamically against other currencies on the foreign-exchange markets.



The term "fiat" is derived from the Latin fieri, meaning an arbitrary act or decree. In keeping with this etymology, the value of fiat currencies is ultimately based on the fact that they are defined as legal tender by government decree.



In the decades prior to the First World War, international trade was conducted on the basis of what has come to be known as the classical gold standard. In this system, trade between nations was settled using physical gold. Nations with trade surpluses accumulated gold as payment for their exports. Conversely, nations with trade deficits saw their gold reserves decline, as gold flowed out of those nations as payment for their imports.




When Did the U.S. Abandon the Gold Standard?
The U.S. officially stopped using the gold standard in 1971 under President Nixon. At the time, inflation was growing and there was a gold run on the horizon. Nixon's administration ended the dollar convertibility to gold, which ended the Bretton Woods System.




What Replaced the Gold Standard?
The gold standard in the U.S. and many other nations was replaced by fiat money. Fiat money is the currency of a government, which is not backed by a commodity but has value because the government has determined that it does and that it must be accepted as a form of payment. Fiat money includes paper bills and metal coins.




Are Any Countries Still on the Gold Standard?
Currently, no country uses the gold standard. Countries have abandoned the gold standard for fiat money. Countries, however, do still maintain gold reserves.


   The Bottom Line  

The gold standard is a fixed currency system in which a government's currency is fixed to the value of gold. This stands in contrast to currency systems that use fiat money; money issued by a government that is not tied to a commodity.



The gold standard was used much throughout history, in ancient civilizations as well as in modern nations. The United States used the gold standard but eventually stopped in the 1970s and is now a fiat-money-based monetary system.
What Is a Golden Cross?  

A golden cross is a chart pattern in which a relatively short-term moving average crosses above a long-term moving average. The golden cross is a bullish breakout pattern formed from a crossover involving a security's short-term moving average (such as the 50-day moving average) crossing above its long-term moving average (such as the 200-day moving average) or resistance level.



As long-term indicators carry more weight, the golden cross indicates the possibility of a long-term bull market emerging. High trading volumes generally reinforce the indicator.





Key Takeaways

A golden cross is a technical chart pattern indicating the potential for a major rally.The golden cross appears on a chart when a stock’s short-term moving average crosses above its long-term moving average.The golden cross can be contrasted with a death cross indicating a bearish price movement.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Does a Golden Cross Form?  

The golden cross is a momentum indicator, which means that prices are continuously increasing—gaining momentum. Traders and investors have changed their outlooks to bullish rather than bearish. The indicator generally has three stages.



The first stage requires that a downtrend eventually bottoms out as buyers overpower sellers. In the second stage, the shorter moving average crosses over the larger moving average to trigger a breakout and confirms a downward trend reversal.






Support is a low price level that the market does not allow. Resistance is a high price level that the market resists. A breakout occurs when the price crosses one of these levels.



The last stage is a continuing uptrend after the crossover. The moving averages act as support levels on pullbacks until they cross back down.



The most commonly used moving averages in the golden cross are the 50-day- and 200-day moving averages. Generally, larger periods tend to form stronger, lasting breakouts. For example, the 50-day moving average crossover up through the 200-day moving average on an index like the S&P 500 is one of the most popular bullish market signals.



Day traders commonly use smaller periods like the 5-day and 15-day moving averages to trade intra-day golden cross breakouts. Some traders might use different periodic increments, like weeks or months, depending on their trading preferences and what they believe works for them.



But when choosing different periods, it's important to understand that the larger the chart time frame, the stronger and more lasting the golden cross breakout tends to be.


   Example of a Golden Cross  

The image below uses a 50-day and a 200-day moving average. The 50-day moving average trended down over several trading periods, finally reaching a price level the market couldn't support. The 200-day moving average flattened out after slightly trending downward.



Prices gradually increased over time, creating an upward trend in the moving 50-day average. The trend continued, pushing the shorter-period moving average higher than the longer-period moving average. A golden cross formed, confirming a reversal from a downward trend to an upward one.



Notice that the price range of the candlesticks made a significant jump when the downward trend bottomed out and turned into an uptrend. Something likely occurred that changed investor and trader market sentiments at this time. The candle bodies were large (the difference between open and close prices), and more days closed with prices much higher than opening during the first uptick after the 50-day moving average bottomed.












TradingView


   The Difference Between a Golden Cross and a Death Cross  

A golden cross and a death cross are opposing indicators. The golden cross confirms a long-term bull market going forward, while a death cross signals a long-term bear market. Either crossover is considered more significant when accompanied by high trading volume.





Golden Cross

A possible long-term bull market is approaching
The short-term moving average crosses from below the long-term moving average
The long-term moving average becomes support



Death Cross

A possible long-term bear market is approaching
The short-term moving average crosses from above the long-term moving average
The long-term moving average becomes resistance






Once the crossover occurs, the long-term moving average is considered a major support level (in the case of the golden cross) or resistance level (in the instance of the death cross) for the market from that point forward. Either cross may appear and signal a trend change, but they more frequently occur when a trend change has already occurred.


   Limitations of the Golden Cross  

All indicators are “lagging,” which means the data used to form the charts has already occurred. This means that no indicator can truly predict the future. Many times, an observed golden cross produces a false signal. Despite its apparent predictive power in forecasting prior large bull markets, golden crosses also regularly fail to manifest. Therefore, other signals and indicators should always be used to confirm a golden cross.




How Do I Identify a Golden Cross on a Chart?
The golden cross occurs when a short-term moving average crosses over a major long-term moving average to the upside and is interpreted by analysts and traders as signaling a definitive upward turn in a market. Some analysts define it as a crossover of the 100-day moving average by the 50-day moving average; others use the 200-day and 50-day moving average. The short-term average trends up faster than the long-term average until they cross.




What Does a Golden Cross Indicate?
A golden cross suggests a long-term bull market going forward. It is the opposite of a death cross, which is a bearing indicator when a long-term moving average crosses under a short-term one.




Are Golden Crosses Reliable Indicators?
As a lagging indicator, a golden cross is identified only after the market has risen, which makes it seem reliable. However, as a result of the lag, it is also difficult to know when the signal is false until after the fact. Traders often use a golden cross to confirm a trend or signal in combination with other indicators.


   The Bottom Line  

A golden cross is believed to confirm the reversal of a downward trend. The key to using the golden cross correctly—with additional filters and indicators—is to use profit targets, stop loss, and other risk management tools. Remember to maintain a favorable risk-to-reward ratio and to time your trade rather than just following the cross mindlessly.
What Are Golden Handcuffs?  

Golden handcuffs are a collection of financial incentives that are intended to encourage employees to remain with a company for a stipulated period of time. Golden handcuffs are offered by employers to existing key employees as a means of holding onto them as well as to increase employee retention rates. Golden handcuffs are common in industries where highly-compensated employees are likely to move from one company to another.





Key Takeaways

Golden handcuffs are financial incentives given to employees to discourage them from leaving a company.Employers offer incentives in order to retain individuals that have performed well for the company or those that have exceptional or irreplaceable skills.A negative connotation is often associated with golden handcuffs as they prevents people from leaving jobs they would otherwise vacate but don't because the financial loss would be large.Incentives that can be considered golden handcuffs include large bonuses, school payments, stock options, and a company car.These incentives come with agreements that stipulate an employee will receive them only after a certain period of employment or they will have to return them if they leave before a certain date.


   Understanding Golden Handcuffs  

Employers invest significant resources in the hiring, training, and retaining of key employees. Golden handcuffs are intended to help employers hold onto employees that they've invested in but also to ensure that their best employees and top performers do not leave the firm. Sometimes golden handcuffs have a negative connotation as they are often associated with individuals staying at a job they are not happy in but not willing to leave because the financial loss would be significant.


   Types of Golden Handcuffs  

Golden handcuffs can be offered on a graduated basis when employees meet certain milestones, or they can be offered all at once with certain stipulations. Golden handcuffs can take many different forms. Some examples include stock options, supplemental executive retirement plans (SERPs), large bonuses, vacation homes, a company car, insurance policies, and so forth.



When these incentives are offered, they come with certain terms. Usually, they state that bonuses or other forms of compensation are only paid out if the employee stays for a defined period of time, or if they are paid out first, then they must be returned to the company if the employee leaves before a certain date.



Other forms of golden handcuffs include contractual obligations that specify an action that an employee may or may not perform, such as a contract prohibiting a network television host from appearing on a competing channel.


   Example of Golden Handcuffs  

Charles has been working for company XYZ for five years. In those five years, the company has spent a significant amount of time and money in training and developing Charle's skill set. Within that same time frame, Charles has demonstrated his exceptional talent and ability to perform well for the company. Not only has the cost in training Charles been returned to the company many times over due to his work ethic, but he will be a remarkable asset to the firm for many years to come.



Because Charles is such an exceptional employee, XYZ is worried they may lose him to a competitor that may offer more money or other incentives. To prevent this from happening, XYZ offers Charles a significant financial incentive through employee stock options. However, the stock options do not vest for five years, ensuring Charles will stay with the company for those five years and not miss out on a significant cash windfall.
What Is a Golden Handshake?  

The term golden handshake refers to a clause in an executive's contract that provides them with a significant severance package if the employee loses their job due to firing, restructuring, negligence, or retirement. Golden handshakes are normally provided to top executives in the event that they lose employment. The amount paid out is commonly negotiated before the contract is signed. Payment of a golden handshake can be made in a variety of ways, including cash and stock options. Golden handshakes and other similar perks have come under scrutiny because they don't necessarily motivate the employee.





Key Takeaways

Golden handshakes are pre-negotiated employment agreements that provide a severance if the employee were to involuntarily leave their position early.Payment can be made in cash, stock options, or anything else accepted in the contract.Golden handshakes often come with non-compete clauses.Golden handshakes are often controversial and can cause upset among the general public.Sometimes low-level employees receive a smaller version of the golden handshake.


   How Golden Handshakes Work  

Executive compensation often comes in a variety of forms, which can be negotiated before the individual joins the company. Compensation for these employees often includes their salaries, stock options, cash, and bonuses. But in order to attract the right people, companies may often include other benefits and incentives. Some of these other perks may include compensation that isn't directly related to their job performance, such as the golden handshake.



A golden handshake is usually negotiated before the employee is onboarded. It refers to a payment made to the employee if they lose their job because of firing, layoff, restructuring, negligence, and even retirement. As noted above, this type of benefit is commonly used as a tactic to hire specific individuals—especially those who aren't already employed with the hiring company.



These golden handshakes can reach in the millions of dollars range, which makes them a very important issue for investors to consider. For example in 1989, R.J. Reynolds Nabisco paid F. Ross Johnson over $52 million as part of a golden handshake clause. Some contracts, along with compensation, include non-compete agreements, which state that the employee is not allowed to open or work for a competing business for a specified period of time after they are terminated.






A golden handshake can also be referred to as a golden parachute.


   Special Considerations  

Certain non-executives may also receive a golden handshake as a bonus in some cases. It is usually drastically different than the compensation that chief executive officers (CEOs) and top executives get, so one might call it a silver handshake. Nevertheless, it is better than leaving with nothing. 



An example of this is automotive companies that buy out union workers' contracts. This can then free up that capital to hire new workers at a more advantageous labor cost. Another example is people who are forced into early retirement. Often times companies want to bring in new talent so these people are paid severance packages.


   Criticism of Golden Handshakes  

Golden handshakes can be very controversial for a number of reasons. As noted earlier, these benefits aren't necessarily related to the employee's job performance. This means that the executive is still compensated even if they cannot deliver results. Even more baffling to critics is that some executives may still be paid a golden handshake if they're let go because of negligence.



This kind of benefit can damage a company's public image because large executive payoffs are viewed as a reward for failure. And these individuals are often paid higher salaries than employees who aren't on the executive team.


   Examples of Golden Handshakes  

Golden handshakes often make headlines, notably when executives don't meet targets or goals, or even in cases where the company experiences a bad public relations (PR) incident. The following are just two examples of famous golden handshakes.


  British Petroleum  

Oil company British Petroleum (BP) had an oil spill in 2010 that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico as a result of an explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. The rig was leased to BP for exploration of the Macondo Prospect, an oil field off the coast of Louisiana.



After the accident, which resulted in costs to the company of more than $69 billion, BP's CEO Tony Hayward was pushed out. However, he received a golden handshake payout of a year's salary, worth $1.5 million, in addition to keeping his approximately $17 million pension fund.


  Banks  

Other famous golden handshake controversies occurred during the 2007-2008 financial crisis. After many banks struggled financially, many top executives were forced to depart. But before they left, their large pay packages were left intact. Some big banks allowed top-level staff to cash out of incentive programs by accelerating the vesting of their stock awards.



Bank shareholders (who were left with worthless stock and bond investments) were upset by these agreements. Since then, some companies have given investors a say on executive pay packages at shareholder meetings. These shareholder votes are usually non-binding. But they do provide a strong signal to management about investors' attitude toward excessive executive payouts.
What Is a Golden Parachute?  

A golden parachute consists of substantial benefits given to top executives if the company is taken over by another firm, and the executives are terminated as a result of the merger or takeover. Golden parachutes are contracts with key executives and can be used as a type of anti-takeover measure, often collectively referred to as poison pills, taken by a firm to discourage an unwanted takeover attempt. Benefits may include stock options, cash bonuses, and generous severance pay.



Golden parachutes are thus named as such because they are intended to provide a soft landing for employees of certain levels who lose their jobs.





Key Takeaways

Golden parachutes are lucrative severance packages inked into the contracts of top executives that compensate them when they are terminated.In addition to large bonuses and stock compensation, golden parachutes may include ongoing insurance and pension benefits.The practice is controversial as poorly performing or short-lived CEOs and other top executives can get paid large sums for little or poorly perceived work.


   How Golden Parachutes Work  

Golden parachute clauses can be used to define the lucrative benefits that an employee would receive if they are terminated. The term often relates to the terminations of top executives that result from a takeover or merger. ​​​​​​​Golden parachutes may include severance pay in the form of cash, a special bonus, stock options, or vesting of previously-awarded compensation. The employment contract contains explicit language detailing the conditions under which the silver parachute clause will become valid.



In addition to monetary awards, other examples of opulent parachute benefits include:



Continued enrollment in company pension plansVesting of all retirement benefitsPaid health and dental insuranceCompensation for legal fees



Instances of these and other exclusive advantages have drawn criticism from shareholders and the public. As a result, the post-financial crisis era has seen many companies review their executive-level compensation policies and devise new ways to link executive performance to corporate success. In many cases, their goal has been to determine whether such packages were in the best interests of the firm and its investors.


   Controversy Surrounding Golden Parachutes  

The use of golden parachutes is controversial. Supporters believe that golden parachutes make it easier to hire and retain top executives, particularly in merger-prone industries. In addition, proponents believe that these lucrative benefit packages allow executives to remain objective if the company is involved in a takeover or merger and that they can discourage takeovers because of the costs that are associated with the golden parachute contracts.



Opponents of golden parachutes argue that executives are already well-compensated and should not be rewarded for being terminated. Opponents may further argue that executives have an inherent fiduciary responsibility to act in the best interest of the company, and should not need an additional financial incentive to remain objective and act in the manner that best benefits the company. In addition, many people who disagree with golden parachutes argue that the associated costs are minuscule compared to the takeover costs and, as a result, can have little to no impact on the outcome of the takeover attempt.



Then there is the golden handshake. It is similar to a golden parachute in that it offers a severance package to an executive when they become unemployed. While both terms describe severance packages given to such an executive upon the termination of duties, a golden handshake goes further to include the severance packages granted to executives upon retirement, too.


   Examples of Golden Parachutes  

Some examples of golden parachutes that have been reported in the press include:



Meg Whitman, chief executive officer (CEO) of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, stood to receive almost $91 million if the company was acquired under her control. She was also promised more than $51 million in compensation if she was terminated. She received a total of $35.6 million after the company was pared down.Staples and Office Depot were exploring a merger until a federal court blocked it in May 2016. Had they merged, the CEO of Office Depot would have collected $39 million under the terms of his golden parachute.Dell merged with storage giant EMC in 2016. Per the terms of his golden parachute, EMC's CEO received $27 million in compensation.
What Is the Golden Rule of Government Spending?  

The golden rule of government spending is a fiscal policy that a government should borrow only to invest, not to fund current spending. In other words, the government should borrow money only to make investments that will produce long-term benefits for the future. Current spending, or spending on short-term needs, should be funded by tax revenues.





Key Takeaways

The golden rule of government spending is a fiscal policy that a government should borrow only to invest in projects that will create long-term, future benefits.Under the rule, current expenditures should be financed through taxation, not by issuing new sovereign debt.Variations of the golden rule have been employed by several European and Asian countries; however, the U.S. government has not adopted this principle.When adopted, the golden rule generally incorporates flexibility to address economic emergencies, such as the 2008 financial crisis and the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic. 


   Understanding the Golden Rule  

Supporters of the golden rule of government spending, which limits borrowing to funding investments, generally seek to protect future generations from being overburdened by debt attributable to borrowing for current expenditures. Some economists emphasize that other policies also affect future generations’ debt burden. They contend that the golden rule is not the optimal way to achieve intergenerational fairness. Others support the golden rule to realize a different goal: limiting the size of government.



The golden rule in fiscal policy has been implemented in a number of countries. While its application varies from country to country, the basic premise of spending less than the government takes in is always at its foundation. Most countries that have adopted the rule—the United States is not one of them—have had to make changes in their constitution or statutes.



Some countries have experienced a reduction in deficits as a share of gross domestic product (GDP) as a result. Governments may also need more flexible fiscal policies during economic downturns and emergencies.






The golden rule in government spending is different than the ethical golden rule, "do unto others as you would have them do unto you," which can be found in the places like Talmud, the New Testament, and the Koran.


   International Applications of the Golden Rule  

Over the last 30 years, a number of countries, particularly nations with advanced economies. have adopted fiscal policies incorporating some form of the golden rule. Whether effected as law or as the policy of a governing party, these policies generally provided exceptions for economic emergencies.  



At various times, golden rule policies have helped Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, andGermany reduce spending growth and debt levels.  The United Kingdom adopted a golden rule policy in 1998. By 2007 economic problems and shortfalls in tax revenues undercut compliance. Even before the international financial crisis in 2008, the economy's need for government support and stimulus led the UK to abandon the policy.



The European Union’s experience with the golden rule indicates that, because of economic unpredictability, the policy operates better as a guideline than as an absolute requirement. In 1997, the European Union adopted a Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) to monitor and stabilize the Economic and Monetary Union and to coordinate fiscal policy among EU members. EU member states were to implement fiscal policies designed to achieve deficits no higher than 3% of GDP and maintain a debt level below 60% of GDP. In 2005, the rules were revised to allow greater flexibility; additional rules and oversight policies were adopted following the 2008 financial crisis.



As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the EU suspended the SGP borrowing limits until 2023. Some members are seeking further amendments to provide more flexibility in the future. And in May 2022, the EU announced that it was proposing a further suspension of the limits through 2023.


   No Golden Rule for the United States  

The United States federal government has not adopted a fiscal policy reflecting the golden rule. Although some commentators on U.S. fiscal policy urge the adoption of a golden rule, others recommend a more flexible, multi-faceted approach.  From time to time, policymakers have proposed legislation—even a Constitutional amendment—that would require a balanced budget.



Currently, the federal government is subject to a legislated budget ceiling. When the government’s borrowing authority nears its limit, the debt ceiling is increased by Congressional action, often generating political debate. In 1985, Congress passed the Gramm-Rudmann-Hollings bill, whichspecified annual deficit targets that, if missed, would trigger an automatic sequestration process. The following year the Supreme Court ruled that the law was unconstitutional.



On Jan. 13, 2023, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned that the U.S. was expected to reach the $31.38 trillion borrowing ceiling Congress approved in December 2021 on Jan. 19. On that day, she announced that Treasury can take "extraordinary measures" to forestall a shutdown until "early June." After that point, Congress will need to take action to avert a government shutdown and a default on the federal government's debt obligations.




Why Is Not Borrowing for Current Expenses Called the 'Golden Rule' of Government Spending?
Supporters believe that limiting government borrowing to funding only projects that will pay off in the future protects future generations. This is because they won't be burdened by debt from borrowing for expenditures that benefited people in the past, but not them. It is called the "golden rule" to compare it to the ethical golden rule and show that its supporters believe it is equally fundamental.




Is the European Union Following the Golden Rule of Government Spending Now?
In May 2022, the European Commission announced that it was proposing to extend its suspension of borrowing limits through 2023. Key goals were funding the transition to a digitized green economy not dependent on Russian gas and recovering from the pandemic.




What Is the US Debt Limit?
The debt limit is the total amount of money the U.S. is authorized to borrow to meet obligations such as Social Security and Medicare benefits, military salaries, interest on the national debt, and tax refunds. To date, the U.S. government has never defaulted on its debts.


   The Bottom Line  

The golden rule that goes deep into ancient history has a more modern incarnation—the golden rule of government spending. This concept believes that future generations shouldn't be burdened with debt incurred by governments for current-day expenditures that long predate them. Instead, it decrees, governments should only take on debt to pay for investments that will produce long-term benefits for the future.



A number of countries have experimented with fiscal policy that seeks to adhere to this rule, though not the United States. It has periodically needed to be suspended in times of financial emergency. In fact, in the EU, borrowing limits are still on a hiatus that began in 2020.
What Is a Golden Share?  

A golden share is a type of share that gives its shareholder veto power over changes to the company's charter. It holds special voting rights, giving its holder the ability to block another shareholder from taking more than a ratio of ordinary shares.



Ordinary shares are equal to other ordinary shares in profits and voting rights. These shares also have the ability to block a takeover or acquisition by another company.





Key Takeaways

A golden share is a type of share that gives its shareholder veto power over changes to the company's charter.One golden share controls at least 51% of voting rights and may be issued by private companies or government enterprises.Golden shares have been predominantly used in the United Kingdom as well as Brazil to maintain control over state-run entities.


   Understanding Golden Shares  

Golden shares can be issued by public companies or governments. One of these shares controls at least 51% of voting rights. In the case of a company, it can only issue golden shares after passing special resolutions and changing its memorandum and articles of association. This document governs or dictates a company's relationship with outside businesses.



Golden shares were most popular during the 1980s when the British government began privatizing companies and wished to retain control over them. Governments in other parts of Europe and the Soviet Union also followed suit.



Golden shares have been predominantly used in the United Kingdom. Other countries, including Brazil, use golden shares to keep control over state-run entities. The European Union, on the other hand, has mostly banned the use of golden shares by companies and governments. While the EU permits governments to protect vital services, it does not allow golden shares, calling them unjustified and disproportionate to the interests of the company and economy.


   Pros and Cons of Golden Shares  

The British government believed there was a good rationale behind using a golden share-strategy with its newly privatized companies. Golden shares would protect companies from hostile takeovers, especially from international bidders. This strategy is also true for public companies, allowing them to retain control of their interests in the face of competitors.



Golden shares were also important for companies that played a key role in a nation's economy and had an effect on public policy as well as national security.



However, there are also pitfalls to golden shares. Critics argue that golden shares give the holder far too much control, especially if that control goes above and beyond the wishes of other shareholders.


   Examples of Golden Shares  

The Brazilian company Embraer S.A. (ERJ) is an example of a company with a golden share. The company provides aeronautical services and makes commercial, military, and agricultural aircraft. Embraer was a private and state-run company from its inception and in 2000, began to make public offerings or issued shares of stock. However, the Brazilian government has veto power since it holds a golden share in the company.



In 2019, the government agreed to the sale of the company's commercial aircraft division to Boeing Corporation (BA). However, in April 2020, the talks failed, and Boeing pulled out of the $4.2 billion deal according to MSN. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro mentioned the golden share when he commented on the failed merger: "There is a golden share...perhaps a new negotiation will begin with another company."



Another golden share example is the British Airports Authority (BAA), which owned Heathrow and Gatwick airports. The British government retained a golden share in the company, which was privatized in 1987. In 2003, a European Union court ruled the government's share in the airport authority broke laws.
What Is a Goldilocks Economy?  

A Goldilocks economy is not too hot or too cold but just right—to steal a line from the popular children's story Goldilocks and the Three Bears. The term describes an ideal state for an economic system. In this perfect state, there is full employment, economic stability, and stable growth. The economy is not expanding or contracting by a large margin.



A Goldilocks economy is thus warm enough with steady economic growth to prevent a recession; however, growth is not so hot as to push it into an inflationary status.





Key Takeaways

A Goldilocks economy describes an ideal state for an economy whereby the economy is not expanding or contracting by too much.A Goldilocks economy has steady economic growth, preventing a recession, but not so much growth that inflation rises by too much.A Goldilocks state is also ideal for investing because as companies grow and generate positive earnings growth, stocks perform well.The term "Goldilocks" references the famous childrens' tale of the same name, describing situations that are "just right" amid two extremes.Goldilocks economies are temporary in nature, as seen by the boom and bust cycles.


   Understanding a Goldilocks Economy  

Although there is some debate among economists as to the exact characteristics of a Goldilocks economy, it's safe to say there should be a balance between growth, employment, and inflation. The ideal conditions are typically characterized by:



Low unemployment: A low unemployment rate, most commonly known as the U3 rate, defines the number of people willing and able to work but unable to find gainful employment, and who have sought work in the past four weeks. The U.S. Federal Reserve (The Fed) estimates a normal rate to fall somewhere between 5% and 6.7%.
Asset price inflation: An increase in the prices of stocks, derivatives, bonds, real estate, and other assets will earmark a Goldilocks economy. This increase is difficult to see when using broader measures that gauge real economic growth.
Low market interest rates: These rates are the percentage of a dollar amount that a lender will charge a borrower when they lend money. Market interest rates have a basis on the overnight rate set by the Fed, which dictates the rate banks charge to lend to one another.
Low inflation as measured by the quantitative-based—based on a number—consumer price index (CPI) and the producer price index (PPI) also identifies this golden economic state. Inflation describes the purchasing power of a nation's money.
Steady gross domestic product (GDP) or economic growth: This is the most cited indicator of the Goldilocks economy. GDP is a broad economic measure of the value of all services and finished goods produced in a country and is a direct indicator of the health of an economy.



If GDP growth is too low, the economy can dip into a recession or an economic downturn. When an economy registers two consecutive quarters—or six months—of negative GDP growth, economists say the country is experiencing a recession. Meanwhile, if GDP growth is too fast, it can lead to a surge in prices in an economy or inflation.


   Maintaining a Goldilocks Economy  

Fiscal spending by Congress is a way to help create and manage a Goldilocks economy. Governments can boost their spending through infrastructure projects such as the creation of roads and bridges as well as writing government contracts with private companies.



The use of taxes is also a tool employed to manage an economy. The reduction of taxes on businesses encourages business investment, while consumer tax cuts encourage consumer spending. However, the effects of fiscal spending and tax cuts can have mixed results and is rarely a long-term solution to maintaining the Goldilocks economy.






A Goldilocks economy is transitional since economic activity is a process of expansion and contraction that occurs repeatedly. The so-called boom and bust cycle is a key characteristic of capitalist economies.


  Goldilocks and the Central Bank  

Central banks are responsible for regulating the money supply and the banking sector. The banking authority uses monetary policy tools to bring on and maintain a Goldilocks economy. The U.S. central bank is the Federal Reserve. The Fed can cut interest rates, spurring lending in the economy as consumers and businesses increase borrowing to take advantage of lower rates. Conversely, the Fed can increase interest rates if it feels the economy is growing too hot and inflation is rising at a faster rate than the Fed's inflation target.﻿﻿



Rising prices can hurt an economy because it tends to lead consumers to cut back on spending. Companies get hurt by inflation if their raw materials become too expensive since the added costs eat into their profits. As a result, businesses can cut investment.



Central banks such as the Fed react by increasing interest rates to slow the growth in the economy, which ultimately slows or prevents inflationary pressures. However, if central banks raise interest rates too soon, or by too much, their actions can trigger an economic slowdown.



Economic conditions abroad and the response from foreign governments and other national central banks can also influence whether an economy can reach a Goldilocks state.






It can be challenging for central bankers and governments to engineer a Goldilocks economy since many factors need to come together for this economic state to exist.


   The Goldilocks Economy and Investing  

The U.S. economy typically goes through five phases as part of the business cycle. These stages are growth or expansion, peak, recession or contraction, trough, and recovery. A Goldilocks economy may happen during the recovery and growth phases. Also, because of the existence of the business cycles, a Goldilocks economy should be considered a temporary state.



A Goldilocks economy is ideal for investing. As companies grow and generate positive earnings growth, stocks perform well. The investor gains through share price appreciation and, in some cases, dividends as the business returns profits to its shareholders. In the absence of inflation, fixed-income investments such as bonds will hold their value.



However, if GDP grows too quickly and inflation creeps up too rapidly, the economy can overheat. In this atmosphere, asset prices can become overvalued.



The Fed may raise interest rates to try to cool down the economy. Rising interest rates break one of the key pillars of the Goldilocks economy and are usually a precursor to its end.


   Real-World Examples  

The economist David Shulman is widely considered to have coined the phrase "Goldilocks economy" in an article published in 1992 called "The Goldilocks Economy: Keeping the Bears at Bay." The U.S. economy of the middle to the late 1990s was considered a Goldilocks economy because it was "not too hot, not too cold, but just right"—a phrase that has been used to describe the ideal economy for investors.



The term has also been used to describe the U.S. economy as it recovered from the bursting of the dot-com bubble between 2004 and 2005. In 2005, the economy grew at 4.3%, putting the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) near multi-year highs for that time.



In 2017, with the economy growing at near 4%, employment between 3% and 4%, and no real inflation in sight, market participants considered it to be a Goldilocks economy. Later that year, the Fed hiked interest rates to keep inflation and growth at moderate levels. The global economy was averaging over 3% GDP growth at that time.
What Is Good Credit?  

Good credit is a classification for an individual's credit history, indicating the borrower has a relatively high credit score and is a safe credit risk. Credit scores are provided through credit reporting agencies. Lenders check credit scores for the purpose of providing credit underwriting decisions and background check details.





Key Takeaways

Good credit is a classification for an individual's credit history, indicating the borrower has a relatively high credit score and is a safe credit risk.Credit rating agencies assign borrowers a score based on their credit history, which is tracked in a credit report.Lenders check credit scores for the purpose of providing credit underwriting decisions and background check details.


   Understanding Good Credit  

Credit rating agencies assign borrowers a score based on their credit history, which is tracked in a credit report. Credit scoring varies according to the methods used in their calculation. The most commonly used credit score is the FICO score.



A borrower's credit score can range from 300 to 850. Credit scoring classifications are broken into five tiers: exceptional, very good, good, fair, and very poor. Borrowers with a good credit score fall into any of the top three tiers. According to Experian, borrowers with exceptional credit have a score of 800 and higher. Borrowers with very good credit have a score ranging from 740 to 799, while those with good credit have scores ranging from 670 to 739.﻿﻿﻿



Therefore, borrowers with a credit score of approximately 670 or higher are considered to have a good credit score and the best chance of receiving credit approval from a lender.



The last two tiers are fair and poor. Borrowers in these two categories have more difficulty getting credit and are often charged higher rates of interest in the form of subprime loans. Borrowers with fair credit have a score of 580 to 669, while those with poor credit have a score of 579 or less.﻿﻿


   Borrower Considerations  

There are a number of steps a borrower can take to improve their credit score. Payment history accounts for 35% of a borrower's score.﻿﻿﻿ Any delinquent payments will negatively impact a credit score and remain on a credit report for seven years.﻿﻿﻿ Thus, borrowers should make payments on time and avoid delinquencies to improve their scores.



Another way to quickly improve a credit score is to reduce the overall amount owed. Total credit utilization accounts for 30% of a borrower's credit score. A borrower can quickly improve their credit score by significantly paying down existing debt balances.﻿﻿﻿



While paying down debt is generally the best way to improve your credit score, another option is to request an increase to your credit limit with your credit card company. This strategy effectively decreases your credit utilization, which may improve your score. However, depending on your credit risk profile, your credit card company may not agree to an increase. If an increase is approved it is important to ensure that the additional credit is used responsibly, and does defeat the purpose by worsening your credit score.



Other factors impacting credit scores include length of credit history, types of credit used, new credit lines issued, and recent credit inquiries. Borrowers should be cautious about the new credit lines they take on and the number of credit accounts they apply for. A high number of hard inquiries in a short amount of time can negatively affect a borrower's credit score and increase their perceived risk of default to lenders.﻿﻿﻿


   Lender Considerations  

A borrower's credit score is a significant factor influencing the type of credit for which they will be eligible. Traditional lenders generally focus on borrowers with good credit. This means they will usually consider only borrowers with a credit score of 670 or higher. These borrowers are more likely to receive loan approvals overall. They are also more likely to receive more favorable loan terms compared with borrowers with poor credit scores.
What Is Good Delivery?  

Good delivery refers to the unhindered transfer of ownership of a security from a seller to a buyer, with all necessary requirements having been met. This used to be a rather complex process, although nowadays, thanks to electronic exchanges that facilitate the digital transfer and clearing of many securities, good delivery has become automated and generally much more straightforward.





Key Takeaways

Good delivery refers to the unhindered transfer of ownership of a security from a seller to a buyer, with all necessary requirements having been met.The criteria for what constitutes good delivery varies from market to market or from security to security, but it is a prerequisite to settling a transaction.Prior to the advent of computers, good delivery included physical inspections by transfer agents to ensure that certain endorsements were authenticated and registration requirements were met in order for the buyer to take the delivery.


   Understanding Good Delivery  

Good delivery occurs when a security's transfer is unimpeded by restrictions or other issues that would prevent its physical or virtual delivery to the buyer. Nowadays, good delivery is, usually, determined by computers. However, in the past, securities were inspected by a transfer agent to ensure that individual paper certificates were authenticated and registration requirements were met in order for the buyer to take the delivery.






To qualify for good delivery, stock certificates must be in good physical condition, be endorsed by the seller or seller's agent, and be delivered in the correct denomination that matches the exact number of shares to transfer.



Historically, good delivery of securities from a seller to a buyer had been an issue in financial markets. The buyer needed to know for sure that they would receive the correct stock certificates, that the certificates were indeed authentic, and that they would actually get physical delivery after paying the seller for them. Regulated stock exchanges and clearing houses sprang up as trusted third parties to facilitate trading and standardize the requirements for making good delivery.



Today, with electronic exchanges, computerized settlement, and clearing facilities, these issues are largely a thing of the past. However, the presence of share transfer restrictions can still hurt the possibility of a stock's good delivery.



For example, insider stock, such as that issued directly to a company's executives, may have certain restrictions that disallow sale outside the company without first having offered the shares for sale to existing shareholders. Rule 144 can allow for the sale of some restricted securities if they meet certain conditions.


   Good Delivery Criteria  

The criteria for what constitutes good delivery varies from market to market or from security to security, but it is a prerequisite to settling a transaction. Many stock markets today allow for easy trading in odd lots or even fractional shares. But, for stock markets that enforce round lots, there may be restrictions on how to deliver those lots. Because the most commonly traded unit of stock has traditionally been 100 shares (a round lot), stock certificates should be denominated in one of the following:



Multiples of 100 shares—100, 200, 300, etc.Divisors of 100 shares—1, 2, 4, 5, 10, 20, 25, 50, or 100Units that add up to 100 shares—40 + 60, 91 + 9, 80 + 15 + 5, etc.



For bond markets, good delivery should be made using multiples of $1,000 (or sometimes $5,000) par value, sometimes with a maximum par value of $100,000. For an unregistered bearer bond to be in good delivery form, it must be delivered with all unpaid coupons still attached.



For commodities markets, good delivery criteria are spelled out by the exchange and incorporated explicitly into futures contracts specifications. For example, the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) specified good delivery in physical gold as:   



Fineness: Minimum of 995.0 parts per thousand fine goldMarks: Serial number, refiner's hallmark, fineness, year of manufactureWeight: 350–430 troy ounces (11–13 kg)Recommended Dimensions: Length (top): 250 mm +/- 40 mm, width (top): 70 mm +/- 15 mm, height: 35 mm +/- 10 mm. For the length and width, a degree of slope, known as the undercut, is permitted from 5º to 25º
What Is a Good Faith Estimate (GFE)?  

A good faith estimate (GFE) is a document that outlines the estimated costs and terms of a reverse mortgage loan offer, enabling borrowers to comparison shop among different lenders and choose the deal that best fits their needs.



Under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), lenders were required to provide consumers with GFEs within three days of a regular mortgage application. Then, in October 2015, GFEs were only made applicable to people seeking reverse mortgages, with loan estimate forms being introduced for other types of home loans.





Key Takeaways

A good faith estimate (GFE) details a fair assessment of the expected fees, costs, and terms associated with a potential mortgage.GFEs now only apply to reverse mortgages, with similar loan estimate forms being introduced for other home loans.Borrowers must be provided with GFEs within three business days of their application.It's possible to shop around and acquire multiple estimates before choosing a loan or a lender.The costs noted on the form are only estimates and may not always prove to be accurate.


   How a Good Faith Estimate (GFE) Works  

A GFE makes it possible to compare offers from various lenders and brokers. Once the document is received, borrowers can examine the breakdowns and contract terms and then indicate if they wish to proceed with the mortgage loan from that particular financial institution.



The form is written in clear language to help consumers better understand the terms of the mortgage for which they are applying and borrowers may shop around and acquire multiple estimates before choosing a loan or a lender.



Since October 2015, GFEs now only apply to reverse mortgages: loans that enable seniors aged 62 and older to convert their home equity into lump-sum amounts, fixed payments, or lines of credit (LOCs).



The bank or financial institution must provide the homeowner seeking a reverse mortgage with a GFE within three business days of receiving their application. This form includes a breakdown of all the costs associated with the loan, such as taxes, title charges, closing costs, and administrative fees, as well as any other terms and conditions of the loan, including policies regarding payback.






Consumers should beware of unscrupulous lenders, who may add their fees or charge excessive fees for administrative items such as wire transfers.



The official standardized estimate forms provide information about the approximated costs of taxes and insurance and how the interest rate and payments may change in the future. Borrowers may be charged a credit report fee before receiving a GFE but cannot be charged any additional fees to acquire the document.


   Limitations of a Good Faith Estimate (GFE)  

The costs noted on the form are only estimates and merely provide a rough idea of how much borrowers may be expected to spend in order to get the loan and what's expected of them before and after the loan comes due. The actual costs might ultimately be higher or lower when everything is finalized.



There are legitimate reasons for discrepancies between the GFE and the actual closing costs. The lender may not know all the costs of closing services provided by third parties, which may be considered the hidden costs of owning a home. 


   Good Faith Estimates (GFE) vs. Loan Estimate Forms  

As noted above, GFEs now only apply to reverse mortgages. They were replaced with loan estimate forms after October 2015 for anyone seeking other types of mortgages.



Loan estimates, like GFEs, are an industry standard. They must be provided to mortgage applicants within three business days of their applications and provide a breakdown of costs, terms, and conditions. And just like the GFE, the document allows borrowers to compare costs between lenders.


   Special Considerations  

Borrowers applying for a home equity line of credit (HELOC), a manufactured housing loan that is not secured by real estate, or a loan through certain types of homebuyer assistance programs are not provided with GFEs or loan estimates. Instead, they receive truth-in-lending disclosures.
What Is Good Faith Money?  

Good faith money is a deposit of money into an account by a buyer to show that they have the intention of completing a deal. Good faith money is often later applied to the purchase but may be non-refundable if the deal does not go through.





Key Takeaways

Good faith money acts as a security deposit towards completing a purchase.This payment is usually nonrefundable but credited towards the final purchase price.When the seller wants to both qualify and motivate a buyer, the deposit amount asked for will be larger.Depending on the supply and demand, good faith money amounts can vary as a percentage of the final price.Both seller and buyer should specify good faith money terms in writing.Good faith money often acts as a strong motivator for a buyer to close the deal as it represents a possible sunk cost; the higher the cost, the more likely they are to go through with the purchase.


   Understanding Good Faith Money  

Good faith money can also be known as earnest money and acts similar to a security deposit on a rental property. Where a security deposit for a rental home, vehicle, or equipment may be taken as insurance against damages, good faith money is usually taken as insurance against a lost opportunity should the buyer not go through with completing a purchase.



In most cases, the deposit amount will be a percentage of the total amount owed—a small percentage for something large like a house or lease contract, and a larger percentage for smaller purchases of consumable items. A common example of good faith money is the so-called "earnest money" escrow deposit required by most home sellers to enter into a sales contract with a buyer.


   Good Faith Money Amounts  

The amount of good faith money used to initiate a contract with a seller will vary considerably depending on the asset, the local market, and the credibility of the buyer. For example, when the housing market in a given locale is very hot and multiple buyers make offers on the same properties, the expected earnest money deposit, in some areas, can rise higher than the standard 1% to 3% of the potential purchase price of the home.﻿﻿



In expensive neighborhoods, this can be such a substantial amount that the buyer has much more incentive to merely make the purchase, rather than delay while working out financing. Those buyers who do not have financing available already are thus weeded out in favor of buyers with stronger financial footing.


   Good Faith Money as Motivation  

This phenomenon reflects the fact that although the money is ostensibly for the seller to offset the opportunity cost of doing business with a different buyer, the higher demand allows the seller to command more earnest money, pushing the buyer to quickly make a decision right away.



This also creates a sunk-cost bias in the buyers that may help them get past their buyer's remorse if they bid up the property too high. Either way, a large earnest money requirement works in favor of the seller and should be a bit of a warning sign that they are about to pay an extra premium for the property. For someone who is looking to make a shrewd purchase, this would be a warning sign to let the property go.



Most good faith money deposits are part of an agreement that spells out the conditions under which a buyer may lose their deposit if they are unable or unwilling to complete the contract. The written agreement is important for the buyer to ensure that the deposit will actually go towards the purchase.



The potential buyer can sometimes get their good faith money back depending on the terms of the agreement. For example, if the home fails a home inspection by a professional, it is usually a fair and justifiable reason to get the good faith money back.



A good faith deposit may seem a little like a call option because the buyer has the right to complete the ultimate purchase. However, unlike an option, good faith money is usually applied to the final purchase price, while a call option premium is not.
What Is Good This Week (GTW)?  

Good this week (GTW) is a type of order that remains active until the end of the week in which it is issued. If the order is not executed prior to the end of the week, it will be automatically canceled.





Key Takeaways

A good this week (GTW) order is one that expires automatically at the end of the current week.GTW orders are relatively rare, as they aren't typically offered on discount brokerage platforms.More common order types include market orders, limit orders, and Good 'Til Canceled (GTC) orders.


   Understanding Good This Week (GTW)  

A GTW contingency is typically added to a limit or stop order. GTW orders are not commonly found on discount brokerage platforms. Instead, they are typically offered by full-service brokers, which allow greater customization of their clients' trades.



GTW offers a middle-ground between orders that last for the current trading day versus those lasting indefinitely. However, investors who use GTW orders must be mindful to ensure that their order is not out of sync with important events that might affect the price of the security they are trading.



For example, suppose it is Wednesday and the investor believes that a Monday news release will cause a given stock to rise. If the investor wishes to buy the stock before the news is released, they may place a GTW order. The order would then be valid until the end of Friday but would become invalid if it is not executed before the end of that day. If the investor fails to realize that the order was not executed, they may miss out on their anticipated gain the following week.



Most traders are unlikely to have used GTW orders before, since they are not commonly offered by brokers. Instead, most brokers offer market orders, limit orders, and Good 'Til Canceled (GTC) orders. GTC orders are similar to GTW orders, except that they will remain active indefinitely unless they either execute or are canceled by the investor. In our above example, a GTC order may have been beneficial for the investor because the order could have been executed on Monday prior to the news being released.


   GTW Example  

Suppose you are a stock market investor who buys individual securities using a full-service brokerage account. As a full-service client, you have access to several order types, including market orders, limit orders, GTW orders, and GTC orders.



You are convinced that shares in XYZ Corporation are likely to rise in the near future, based on an anticipated product announcement. You have decided to purchase shares in XYZ in anticipation of this news, but are unsure of the best way to proceed.



Considering your options, you note that a market order would involve specifying how many XYZ shares you wish to purchase and then purchasing the shares at the best available price. However, in the unlikely event that market sentiment suddenly changes around the time that you place your order, you could end up paying significantly more than you expected.



Limit orders, on the other hand, would allow you to specify a maximum price you are willing to pay for the security. On the other hand, that restriction makes it less likely that the order will necessarily be executed.



Lastly, you consider GTW and GTC orders. You remember that GTW orders would act as market orders but would last until the end of the week you place the trade. GTC orders could potentially last even longer because they have no set expiration date at all.



Taking all these facts into account, you decide to place a GTW order and make a note in your calendar to double-check whether the trade has been executed on the last day of this week.
What is Good 'Til Canceled (GTC)  

Good ’til canceled (GTC) describes a type of order that an investor may place to buy or sell a security that remains active until either the order is filled or the investor cancels it. Brokerages will typically limit the maximum time you can keep a GTC order open (active) to 90 days.



A GTC order may be contrasted with an immediate or cancel (IOC) order.






A Good 'til Cancelled (GTC) order is an order that is working regardless of the time frame, until the order is explicitly cancelled.Traders may use GTC orders to cut down on day-to-day management of their portfolio.Risks associated with GTC orders include execution of orders at inopportune moments, such as the brief rally in prices or temporary volatility. The consequent fallback in prices could leave traders with losses.


   Basics of Good 'Til Canceled (GTC)  

GTC orders are an alternative to day orders, which expire if unfilled at the end of the trading day. Despite the name, GTC orders do not typically remain active indefinitely. Most brokers set GTC orders to expire 30 to 90 days after investors place them to avoid a long-forgotten order suddenly being filled.



Through GTC orders, investors who may not constantly watch stock prices can place buy or sell orders at specific price points and keep them for several weeks. If the market price hits the price of the GTC order before it expires, the trade will execute. Investors may also place GTC orders as stop orders, which set sell orders at prices below the market price and buy orders above the market price to limit losses.



Most GTC orders execute at their specified price, or limit price. But there are exceptions. If the price per share gaps up or down between trading days, skipping over the limit price on the GTC order, the order will complete at a price more favorable to the investor who placed the order, i.e., at a higher rate for GTC sell orders and a lower rate for GTC buy orders.


   The Risks of GTC Orders  

Several exchanges, including the NYSE and Nasdaq no longer accept GTC orders, including stop orders. They have decided that such orders are a risk to investors who may see their orders executed at an inopportune time due to temporary volatility in the market. That said, most brokerage firms still offer GTC and stop orders among their services, but they execute them internally.



The risk of a GTC order comes when a day of extreme volatility pushes the price past the limit price of the GTC order before quickly snapping back. Volatility may trigger a sell-stop order as the price of a stock slips. If the price rebounds immediately, then the investor just sold low and now faces the prospect of buying high if the investor wants to regain the position.


   Example of GTC order  

Investors usually place GTC orders because they either want to buy at a price lower than the current trading level or sell at a price higher than the current trading level. If shares of a certain stock currently trade at $100 apiece, an investor may place a GTC buy order at $95. If the market moves to that level before the investor cancels the GTC order or it expires, the trade will execute.
What Is Goodness-of-Fit?  

The term goodness-of-fit refers to a statistical test that determines how well sample data fits a distribution from a population with a normal distribution. Put simply, it hypothesizes whether a sample is skewed or represents the data you would expect to find in the actual population.



Goodness-of-fit establishes the discrepancy between the observed values and those expected of the model in a normal distribution case. There are multiple methods to determine goodness-of-fit, including the chi-square.





Key Takeaways

A goodness-of-fit is a statistical test that tries to determine whether a set of observed values match those expected under the applicable model.They can show you whether your sample data fit an expected set of data from a population with normal distribution.There are multiple types of goodness-of-fit tests, but the most common is the chi-square test.The chi-square test determines if a relationship exists between categorical data.The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test determines whether a sample comes from a specific distribution of a population.


   Understanding Goodness-of-Fit  

Goodness-of-fit tests are statistical methods that make inferences about observed values. For instance, you can determine whether a sample group is truly representative of the entire population. As such, they determine how actual values are related to the predicted values in a model. When used in decision-making, goodness-of-fit tests make it easier to predict trends and patterns in the future.



As noted above, there are several types of goodness-of-fit tests. They include the chi-square test, which is the most common, as well as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, and the Shapiro-Wilk test. The tests are normally conducted using computer software. But statisticians can do these tests using formulas that are tailored to the specific type of test.



To conduct the test, you need a certain variable, along with an assumption of how it is distributed. You also need a data set with clear and explicit values, such as:



The observed values, which are derived from the actual data setThe expected values, which are taken from the assumptions madeThe total number of categories in the set






Goodness-of-fit tests are commonly used to test for the normality of residuals or to determine whether two samples are gathered from identical distributions.


   Establishing an Alpha Level  

In order to interpret a goodness-of-fit test, it's important for statisticians to establish an alpha level, such as the p-value for the chi-square test. The p-value refers to the probability of getting results close to extremes of the observed results. This assumes that the null hypothesis is correct. A null hypothesis asserts there is no relationship that exists between variables, and the alternative hypothesis assumes that a relationship exists.



Instead, the frequency of the observed values is measured and subsequently used with the expected values and the degrees of freedom to calculate chi-square. If the result is lower than alpha, the null hypothesis is invalid, indicating a relationship exists between the variables.


   Types of Goodness-of-Fit Tests  
  Chi-Square Test  







χ


2



=



∑



i


=


1



k



(



O


i



−



E


i




)


2



/



E


i




\chi^2=\sum\limits^k_{i=1}(O_i-E_i)^2/E_i


χ2=i=1∑k​(Oi​−Ei​)2/Ei​



The chi-square test, which is also known as the chi-square test for independence, is an inferential statistics method that tests the validity of a claim made about a population based on a random sample.



Used exclusively for data that is separated into classes (bins), it requires a sufficient sample size to produce accurate results. But it doesn't indicate the type or intensity of the relationship. For instance, it does not conclude whether the relationship is positive or negative.



To calculate a chi-square goodness-of-fit, set the desired alpha level of significance. So if your confidence level is 95% (or 0.95), then the alpha is 0.05. Next, identify the categorical variables to test, then define hypothesis statements about the relationships between them.






Variables must be mutually exclusive in order to qualify for the chi-square test for independence. And the chi goodness-of-fit test should not be used for data that is continuous.


  Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) Test  






D


=




max


⁡




1


≤


i


≤


N




(


F


(



Y


i



)


−




i


−


1



N



,



i


N



−


F


(



Y


i



)


)



D=\max\limits_{1\leq i\leq N}\bigg(F(Y_i)-\frac{i-1}{N},\frac{i}{N}-F(Y_i)\bigg)


D=1≤i≤Nmax​(F(Yi​)−Ni−1​,Ni​−F(Yi​))



Named after Russian mathematicians Andrey Kolmogorov and Nikolai Smirnov, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test is a statistical method that determines whether a sample is from a specific distribution within a population.



This test, which is recommended for large samples (e.g., over 2000), is non-parametric. That means it does not rely on any distribution to be valid. The goal is to prove the null hypothesis, which is the sample of the normal distribution.



Like chi-square, it uses a null and alternative hypothesis and an alpha level of significance. Null indicates that the data follow a specific distribution within the population, and alternative indicates that the data did not follow a specific distribution within the population. The alpha is used to determine the critical value used in the test. But unlike the chi-square test, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test applies to continuous distributions.



The calculated test statistic is often denoted as D. It determines whether the null hypothesis is accepted or rejected. If D is greater than the critical value at alpha, the null hypothesis is rejected. If D is less than the critical value, the null hypothesis is accepted.


  The Anderson-Darling (A-D) Test  






S


=



∑



i


=


1



N





(


2


i


−


1


)



N



[


ln


⁡


F


(



Y


i



)


+


ln


⁡


(


1


−


F


(



Y



N


+


1


−


i




)


)


]



S = \sum_{i = 1}^{N} \frac {( 2i - 1 )}{ N } [\ln F ( Y_i ) + \ln ( 1 - F ( Y_{N + 1 - i} ) ) ]


S=∑i=1N​N(2i−1)​[lnF(Yi​)+ln(1−F(YN+1−i​))]



The Anderson-Darling (A-D) test is a variation on the K-S test, but gives more weight to the tails of the distribution. The K-S test is more sensitive to differences that may occur closer to the center of the distribution, while the A-D test is more sensitive to variations observed in the tails. Because tail risk and the idea of "fatty tails" is prevalent in financial markets, the A-D test can give more power in financial analyses.



Like the K-S test, the A-D test produces a statistic, denoted as A2, which can be compared against the null hypothesis.


  Shapiro-Wilk (S-W) Test  






W


=




(



∑



i


=


1



n




a


i



(



x



(


i


)





)


2






∑



i


=


1



n



(



x


i



−



x


ˉ




)


2





,



W=\frac{\big(\sum^n_{i=1}a_i(x_{(i)}\big)^2}{\sum^n_{i=1}(x_i-\bar{x})^2},


W=∑i=1n​(xi​−xˉ)2(∑i=1n​ai​(x(i)​)2​,

The Shapiro-Wilk (S-W) test determines if a sample follows a normal distribution. The test only checks for normality when using a sample with one variable of continuous data and is recommended for small sample sizes up to 2000.
The Shapiro-Wilk test uses a probability plot called the QQ Plot, which displays two sets of quantiles on the y-axis that are arranged from smallest to largest. If each quantile came from the same distribution, the series of plots are linear.
The QQ Plot is used to estimate the variance. Using QQ Plot variance along with the estimated variance of the population, one can determine if the sample belongs to a normal distribution. If the quotient of both variances equals or is close to 1, the null hypothesis can be accepted. If considerably lower than 1, it can be rejected.
Just like the tests mentioned above, this one uses alpha and forms two hypotheses: null and alternative. The null hypothesis states that the sample comes from the normal distribution, whereas the alternative hypothesis states that the sample does not come from the normal distribution.


   Other Goodness-of-Fit Tests  

Aside from the more common types of tests mentioned above, there are numerous other goodness-of-fit tests an analyst can use:



The Bayesian information criterion (BIC) is a statistical measure used for model selection among a finite set of models. The BIC is a goodness-of-fit test that balances the complexity of a model with its goodness-of-fit to the data.
The Cramer-von Mises criterion (CVM) is a goodness-of-fit test that is used to assess how well a set of observed data fits a hypothesized probability distribution. Often used in economics, engineering, or finance, it is based on the cumulative distribution function of the observed data and the hypothesized distribution.
The Akaike information criterion (AIC) is a measure of the relative quality of a statistical model for a given set of data, and it provides a trade-off between the goodness-of-fit of the model and its complexity. It's based on information theory and measures the amount of information lost by a model when it is used to approximate the true underlying distribution of the data.
The Hosmer-Lemeshow test compares the expected frequencies of a binary outcome with the observed frequencies of that outcome in different groups or intervals. The groups are typically formed by dividing the predicted probabilities of the outcome into ten groups or bins.
Kuiper's test is similar to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, but it is more sensitive to differences in the tails of the distribution.
Moran's I test or Moran's Index is a statistical test used to assess spatial autocorrelation in data. Spatial autocorrelation is a measure of the degree to which observations of a variable are similar or dissimilar in space.






A very general rule of thumb is to require that every group within a goodness-of-fit test have at least five data points. This ensures that sufficient information is fed into the test to determine the distribution.


   Importance of Goodness-of-Fit Tests  

Goodness-of-fit tests are important in statistics for many reasons. First, they provide a way to assess how well a statistical model fits a set of observed data. The main importance of running a goodness-of-fit test is to determine whether the observed data are consistent with the assumed statistical model. By extension, a goodness-of-fit test may be useful in choosing between different models which may better fit the data.



Goodness-of-fit tests can also help to identify outliers or market abnormalities that may be affecting the fit of the model. Outliers can have a large impact on the model fit and may need to be removed or dealt with separately. Sometimes, outliers are not easily identifiable until they have been integrated into an analytical model.



Goodness-of-fit tests can also provide information about the variability of the data and the estimated parameters of the model. This information can be useful for making predictions and understanding the behavior of the system being modeled. Based on the data being fed into the model, it may be necessary to refine the model specific to the dataset being tested, the residuals being calculated, and the p-value for potentially extreme data.


   Goodness-of-Fit Test vs. Independence Test  

Goodness-of-fit test and independence test are both statistical tests used to assess the relationship between variables; therefore, it may be easy to confuse the two. However, each are designed to answer different questions.



A goodness-of-fit test is used to evaluate how well a set of observed data fits a particular probability distribution. On the other hand, an independence test is used to assess the relationship between two variables. It is used to test whether there is any association between two variables. The primary purpose of an independence test is to see whether a change in one variable is related to a change in another variable.



An independence test is typically used when the research question is focused on understanding the relationship between two variables and whether they are related or independent. In many cases, an independence test is pointed towards two specific variables (i.e. does smoking cause lung cancer?). On the other hand, a goodness-of-fit test is used on an entire set of observed data to evaluate the appropriateness of a specific model.


   Goodness-of-Fit Example  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the goodness-of-fit test works.



Suppose a small community gym operates under the assumption that the highest attendance is on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Saturdays, average attendance on Wednesdays, and Thursdays, and lowest attendance on Fridays and Sundays. Based on these assumptions, the gym employs a certain number of staff members each day to check in members, clean facilities, offer training services, and teach classes.



But the gym isn't performing well financially and the owner wants to know if these attendance assumptions and staffing levels are correct. The owner decides to count the number of gym attendees each day for six weeks. They can then compare the gym's assumed attendance with its observed attendance using a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for example.



Now that they have the new data, they can determine how to best manage the gym and improve profitability.




What Does Goodness-of-Fit Mean?
Goodness-of-Fit is a statistical hypothesis test used to see how closely observed data mirrors expected data. Goodness-of-Fit tests can help determine if a sample follows a normal distribution, if categorical variables are related, or if random samples are from the same distribution.




Why Is Goodness-of-Fit Important?
Goodness-of-Fit tests help determine if observed data aligns with what is expected. Decisions can be made based on the outcome of the hypothesis test conducted. For example, a retailer wants to know what product offering appeals to young people. The retailer surveys a random sample of old and young people to identify which product is preferred. Using chi-square, they identify that, with 95% confidence, a relationship exists between product A and young people. Based on these results, it could be determined that this sample represents the population of young adults. Retail marketers can use this to reform their campaigns.




What Is Goodness-of-Fit in the Chi-Square Test?
The chi-square test whether relationships exist between categorical variables and whether the sample represents the whole. It estimates how closely the observed data mirrors the expected data, or how well they fit.




How Do You Do the Goodness-of-Fit Test?
The Goodness-of-FIt test consists of different testing methods. The goal of the test will help determine which method to use. For example, if the goal is to test normality on a relatively small sample, the Shapiro-Wilk test may be suitable. If wanting to determine whether a sample came from a specific distribution within a population, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used. Each test uses its own unique formula. However, they have commonalities, such as a null hypothesis and level of significance.


   The Bottom Line  

Goodness-of-fit tests determine how well sample data fit what is expected of a population. From the sample data, an observed value is gathered and compared to the calculated expected value using a discrepancy measure. There are different goodness-of-fit hypothesis tests available depending on what outcome you're seeking.



Choosing the right goodness-of-fit test largely depends on what you want to know about a sample and how large the sample is. For example, if wanting to know if observed values for categorical data match the expected values for categorical data, use chi-square. If wanting to know if a small sample follows a normal distribution, the Shapiro-Wilk test might be advantageous. There are many tests available to determine goodness-of-fit.
What Is the Goods and Services Tax (GST)?  

The goods and services tax (GST) is a value-added tax (VAT) levied on most goods and services sold for domestic consumption. The GST is paid by consumers, but it is remitted to the government by the businesses selling the goods and services.



Critics point out, however, that the GST may disproportionately burden people whose self-reported income are in the lowest and middle income brackets, making it a regressive tax. These critics argue that GST can therefore exacerbate income inequality and contribute to social and economic disparities. In order to address these concerns, some countries have introduced GST exemptions or reduced GST rates on essential goods and services, such as food and healthcare. Others have implemented GST credits or rebates to help offset the impact of GST on lower-income households.



Goods and services tax should not be confused with the generation-skipping trust, also abbreviated GST (and its related taxation, GSTT).





Key Takeaways

The goods and services tax (GST) is a tax on goods and services sold domestically for consumption.The tax is included in the final price and paid by consumers at point of sale and passed to the government by the seller.The GST is usually taxed as a single rate across a nation.Governments prefer GST as it simplifies the taxation system and reduces tax avoidance.Critics of GST say it burdens lower income earners more than higher income earners.


   Understanding the Goods and Services Tax (GST)  

The goods and services tax (GST) is an indirect federal sales tax that is applied to the cost of certain goods and services. The business adds the GST to the price of the product, and a customer who buys the product pays the sales price inclusive of the GST. The GST portion is collected by the business or seller and forwarded to the government. It is also referred to as Value-Added Tax (VAT) in some countries.



Most countries with a GST have a single unified GST system, which means that a single tax rate is applied throughout the country. A country with a unified GST platform merges central taxes (e.g., sales tax, excise duty tax, and service tax) with state-level taxes (e.g., entertainment tax, entry tax, transfer tax, sin tax, and luxury tax) and collects them as one single tax. These countries tax virtually everything at a single rate.






France was the first country to implement the GST in 1954; since then, an estimated 140 countries have adopted this tax system in some form or another. Some of the countries with a GST include Canada, Vietnam, Australia, Singapore, United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Nigeria, Brazil, and India.


   Dual Goods and Services Tax Structures  

Only a handful of countries, such as Canada and Brazil, have a dual GST structure. Compared to a unified GST economy where tax is collected by the federal government and then distributed to the states, in a dual system, the federal GST is applied in addition to the state sales tax. In Canada, for example, the federal government levies a 5% tax and some provinces/states also levy a provincial state tax (PST), which varies from 8% to 10%. In this case, a consumer's receipt will clearly have the GST and PST rate that was applied to their purchase value.



More recently, the GST and PST have been combined in some provinces into a single tax known as the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST). Prince Edward Island was the first to adopt the HST in 2013, combining its federal and provincial sales taxes into a single tax. Since then, several other provinces have followed suit, including New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, and Ontario. 


   Critiques of the GST  

A GST is generally considered to be a regressive tax, meaning that it takes a relatively larger percentage of income from lower-income households compared to higher-income households. This is because GST is levied uniformly on the consumption of goods and services, rather than on income or wealth.



Lower-income households tend to spend a larger proportion of their income on consumables, such as food and household goods, which are subject to GST. As a result, GST can disproportionately burden lower-income households.



Because of this. some countries with GST are discussing possible adjustments that might make the tax more progressive, which takes a larger percentage from higher-income earners.  


   Example: India's Adoption of the GST  

India established a dual GST structure in 2017, which was the biggest reform in the country's tax structure in decades. The main objective of incorporating the GST was to eliminate tax on tax, or double taxation, which cascades from the manufacturing level to the consumption level.



For example, a manufacturer that makes notebooks obtains the raw materials for, say, Rs. 10, which includes a 10% tax. This means that they pay Rs. 1 in tax for Rs. 9 worth of materials. In the process of manufacturing the notebook, the manufacturer adds value to the original materials of Rs. 5, for a total value of Rs. 10 + Rs. 5 = Rs. 15. The 10% tax due on the finished good will be Rs. 1.50. Under a GST system, the previous tax paid can be applied against this additional tax to bring the effective tax rate to Rs. 1.50 – Rs. 1.00 = Rs. 0.50.



In turn, the wholesaler purchases the notebook for Rs. 15 and sells it to the retailer at a Rs. 2.50 markup value for Rs. 17.50. The 10% tax on the gross value of the good will be Rs. 1.75, which the wholesaler can apply against the tax on the original cost price from the manufacturer (i.e., Rs. 15). The wholesaler's effective tax rate will, thus, be Rs. 1.75 – Rs. 1.50 = Rs. 0.25.



Similarly, if the retailer's margin is Rs. 1.50, his effective tax rate will be (10% x Rs. 19) – Rs. 1.75 = Rs. 0.15. Total tax that cascades from manufacturer to retailer will be Rs. 1 + Rs. 0.50 + Rs. 0.25 + Rs. 0.15 = Rs. 1.90.



India has, since launching the GST on July 1, 2017, implemented the following tax rates: 



A 0% tax rate applied to certain foods, books, newspapers, homespun cotton cloth, and hotel services.A rate of 0.25% applied to cut and semi-polished stones.A 5% tax on household necessities such as sugar, spices, tea, and coffee.A 12% tax on computers and processed food.An 18% tax on hair oil, toothpaste, soap, and industrial intermediaries.The final bracket, taxing goods at 28%, applies to luxury products, including refrigerators, ceramic tiles, cigarettes, cars, and motorcycles.



The previous system, with no GST, implies that tax is paid on the value of goods and margin at every stage of the production process. This would translate to a higher amount of total taxes paid, which is carried down to the end consumer in the form of higher costs for goods and services. The implementation of the GST system in India is, therefore, a measure that is used to reduce inflation in the long run, as prices for goods will be lower.


   Goods and Services Tax vs. Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax  

The goods and services tax (GST) should not be confused with the generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT Tax), and they are not at all related to one another.



The former is a sort of VAT tax added to the purchase of goods or serves. Meanwhile, the generation skipping transfer tax (GST Tax) is a flat 40% federal tax on the transfer of inheritances from one's estate to a beneficiary who is at least 37½ years younger than the donor. The GST Tax prevents wealthy individuals from avoiding estate taxes through naming younger beneficiaries (e.g., grandchildren).




Who Has to Pay GST?
In general, goods and services tax (GST) is paid by the consumers or buyers of goods or services. Some products, such as from the agricultural or healthcare sectors, may be exempt from GST depending on the jurisdiction.




How Is GST Calculated?
The goods and services tax (GST) is computed by simply multiplying the price of a good or service by the GST tax rate. For instance, if the GST is 5%, a $1.00 candy bar would cost $1.05.




What Are the Benefits of the GST?
The GST can be beneficial as it simplifies taxation, reducing several different taxes into one straightforward system. It also is thought to cut down on tax avoidance among businesses and reduces corruption.




Are VAT and GST the Same?
Value-added tax (VAT) and goods and services tax (GST) are similar taxes that are levied on the sale of goods and services. Both VAT and GST are also indirect taxes, which means that they are collected by businesses and then passed on to the government as part of the price of the goods or services.However, there are some key differences between the two. VAT is primarily used in European countries and is collected at each stage of the production and distribution process, while GST is used in countries around the world and is collected only at the final point of sale to the consumer. VAT is generally applied to a wider range of goods and services than GST, and the rate of VAT and GST can vary depending on the type of goods or services being sold and the country in which they are sold.


   The Bottom Line  

The goods and services tax (GST) is a type of tax levied on most goods and services sold for domestic consumption in many countries. It is paid by consumers and remitted to the government by the businesses selling the goods and services. Some countries have introduced GST exemptions or reduced GST rates on essential goods and services or have implemented GST credits or rebates to help offset the impact of GST on lower-income households. The GST is often a single rate tax applied throughout a country and is preferred by governments because it simplifies the taxation system and reduces tax avoidance. In dual GST systems, such as those in Canada and Brazil, the federal GST is applied in addition to a state sales tax. The GST has been identified by critics as regressive and can potentially place a relatively higher burden on lower-income households.
What Is Goodwill?  

Goodwill is an intangible asset that is associated with the purchase of one company by another. It represents the value that can give the acquiring company a competitive advantage.



Specifically, a goodwill definition is the portion of the purchase price that is higher than the sum of the net fair value of all of the assets purchased in the acquisition and the liabilities assumed in the process.



The value of a company’s name, brand reputation, loyal customer base, solid customer service, good employee relations, and proprietary technology represent aspects of goodwill. This value is why one company may pay a premium for another.





Key Takeaways

Goodwill is an intangible asset that accounts for the excess purchase price of another company.Items included in goodwill are proprietary or intellectual property and brand recognition, which are not easily quantifiable.Goodwill is calculated by taking the purchase price of a company and subtracting the difference between the fair market value of the assets and liabilities.Companies are required to review the value of goodwill on their financial statements at least once a year and record any impairments.Goodwill has an indefinite life, while most other intangible assets have a finite useful life.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding Goodwill  

The value of goodwill typically arises in an acquisition of a company. The amount that the acquiring company pays for the target company that is over and above the target’s net assets at fair value usually accounts for the value of the target’s goodwill.



If the acquiring company pays less than the target’s book value, it gains negative goodwill. This means that it purchased the company at a bargain in a distress sale.



Goodwill is recorded as an intangible asset on the acquiring company's balance sheet under the long-term assets account. Goodwill is considered an intangible (or non-current) asset because it is not a physical asset like buildings or equipment.



Under the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), companies are required to evaluate the value of goodwill on their financial statements at least once a year and record any impairments.



The process for calculating goodwill is fairly straightforward in principle but can be quite complex in practice. To determine goodwill with a simple formula, take the purchase price of a company and subtract the net fair market value of identifiable assets and liabilities.


















Goodwill


=


P


−


(


 A 


−


 L 


)
















where:
















P


=


Purchase price of the target company
















A


=


Fair market value of assets
















L


=


Fair market value of liabilities







\begin{aligned}&\text{Goodwill} = \text{P} - ( \text{ A } - \text { L } ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{P} = \text{Purchase price of the target company} \\&\text{A} = \text{Fair market value of assets} \\&\text{L} = \text{Fair market value of liabilities} \\\end{aligned}


​Goodwill=P−( A − L )where:P=Purchase price of the target companyA=Fair market value of assetsL=Fair market value of liabilities​


   Goodwill Calculation Controversies  

There are competing approaches among accountants to calculating goodwill. One reason for this is that goodwill involves factoring in estimates of future cash flows and other considerations that are not known at the time of the acquisition.



While normally this may not be a significant issue, it can become one when accountants look for ways to compare reported assets or net income between different companies (some that have previously acquired other firms and some that have not).


   Goodwill Impairments  

An example of goodwill in accounting involves impairments. Impairment of an asset occurs when the market value of the asset drops below historical cost. This can occur as the result of an adverse event such as declining cash flows, increased competitive environment, or economic depression, among many others.



If a company assesses that acquired net assets fall below the book value or if the amount of goodwill was overstated, then the company must impair or do a write-down on the value of the asset on the balance sheet.



The impairment expense is calculated as the difference between the current market value and the purchase price of the intangible asset.



The impairment results in a decrease in the goodwill account on the balance sheet. The expense is also recognized as a loss on the income statement, which directly reduces net income for the year. In turn, earnings per share (EPS) and the company's stock price are also negatively affected.


  Impairment Tests  

Companies assess whether an impairment exists by performing an impairment test on an intangible asset.



The two commonly used methods for testing impairments are the income approach and the market approach. Using the income approach, estimated future cash flows are discounted to the present value. With the market approach, the assets and liabilities of similar companies operating in the same industry are analyzed.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which sets standards for GAAP rules, at one time was considering a change to how goodwill impairment is calculated. Because of the subjectivity of goodwill impairment and the cost of testing it, FASB was considering reverting to an older method called "goodwill amortization." This method reduces the value of goodwill annually over a number of years.






In 2017, Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) bought Whole Foods Market Inc. for $13.7 billion. That amounted to Amazon paying a whopping $9 billion more than the value of Whole Foods' net assets. That amount was recorded as the intangible asset goodwill on Amazon's books.


   Goodwill vs. Other Intangibles  

Goodwill is not the same as other intangible assets. Goodwill is a premium paid over fair value during a transaction and cannot be bought or sold independently. Meanwhile, other intangible assets include the likes of licenses or patents that can be bought or sold independently. Goodwill has an indefinite life, while other intangibles have a definite useful life.


   Limitations of Goodwill  

Goodwill is difficult to price, and negative goodwill can occur when an acquirer purchases a company for less than its fair market value. This usually occurs when the target company cannot or will not negotiate a fair price for its acquisition.



Negative goodwill is usually seen in distressed sales and is recorded as income on the acquirer's income statement.



There is also the risk that a previously successful company could face insolvency. When this happens, investors deduct goodwill from their determinations of residual equity.



The reason for this is that, at the point of insolvency, the goodwill the company previously enjoyed has no resale value.


   Example of Goodwill  

If the fair value of Company ABC's assets minus liabilities is $12 billion, and a company purchases Company ABC for $15 billion, the premium paid for the acquisition is $3 billion ($15 billion - $12 billion). This $3 billion will be included on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill.



For an actual example, consider the T-Mobile and Sprint merger announced in early 2018. The deal was valued at $35.85 billion as of March 31, 2018, per an S-4 filing. The fair value of the assets was $78.34 billion and the fair value of the liabilities was $45.56 billion. The difference between the assets and liabilities is $32.78 billion. Thus, goodwill for the deal would be recognized as $3.07 billion ($35.85 billion - $32.78 billion), the amount over the difference between the fair value of the assets and liabilities.




How Is Goodwill Different From Other Assets?
Shown on the balance sheet, goodwill is an intangible asset that is created when one company acquires another company for a price greater than its net asset value. Unlike other assets that have a discernible useful life, goodwill is not amortized or depreciated but is instead periodically tested for goodwill impairment. If the goodwill is thought to be impaired, the value of goodwill must be written off, reducing the company’s earnings.




How Is Goodwill Used in Investing?
Evaluating goodwill is a challenging but critical skill for many investors. After all, when reading a company’s balance sheet, it can be very difficult to tell whether the goodwill it claims to hold is in fact justified. For example, a company might claim that its goodwill is based on the brand recognition and customer loyalty of the company it acquired.When analyzing a company’s balance sheet, investors will therefore scrutinize what is behind its stated goodwill in order to determine whether that goodwill may need to be written off in the future. In some cases, the opposite can also occur, with investors believing that the true value of a company’s goodwill is greater than that stated on its balance sheet.




What Is an Example of Goodwill on the Balance Sheet?
Consider the case of a hypothetical investor who purchases a small consumer goods company that is very popular in their local town. Although the company only had net assets of $1 million, the investor agreed to pay $1.2 million for the company, resulting in $200,000 of goodwill being reflected in the balance sheet. In explaining this decision, the investor could point to the strong brand and consumer following of the company as a key justification for the goodwill that they paid. If, however, the value of that brand were to decline, then they may need to write off some or all of that goodwill in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

Goodwill represents a certain value (and potential competitive advantage) that may be obtained by one company when it purchases another. It is that amount of the purchase price over and above the amount of the fair market value of the target company's assets minus its liabilities.



Goodwill is an intangible asset that can relate to the value of the purchased company's brand reputation, customer service, employee relationships, and intellectual property.



While goodwill officially has an indefinite life, impairment tests can be run to determine if its value has changed, due to an adverse financial event. If there is a change in value, that amount decreases the goodwill account on the balance sheet and is recognized as a loss on the income statement.
What Is a Goodwill Impairment?  

Goodwill impairment is an accounting charge that companies record when goodwill's carrying value on financial statements exceeds its fair value. In accounting, goodwill is recorded after a company acquires assets and liabilities, and pays a price in excess of their identifiable net value.



Goodwill impairment arises when there is deterioration in the capabilities of acquired assets to generate cash flows, and the fair value of the goodwill dips below its book value. Perhaps the most famous goodwill impairment charge was the $54.2 billion reported in 2002 for the AOL Time Warner, Inc. merger.﻿﻿ This was, at the time, the largest goodwill impairment loss ever reported by a company.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Goodwill impairment is an accounting charge that is incurred when the fair value of goodwill drops below the previously recorded value from the time of an acquisition.Goodwill is an intangible asset that accounts for the excess purchase price of another company based on its proprietary or intellectual property, brand recognition, patents, etc., which is not easily quantifiable.Impairment may occur if the assets acquired no longer generate the financial results that were previously expected of them at the time of purchase.A test for goodwill impairment aligned with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) must be undertaken, at a minimum, on an annual basis.﻿﻿












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Goodwill Impairment Works  

Goodwill impairment is an earnings charge that companies record on their income statements after they identify that there is persuasive evidence that the asset associated with the goodwill can no longer demonstrate financial results that were expected from it at the time of its purchase.



Goodwill is an intangible asset commonly associated with the purchase of one company by another. Specifically, goodwill is recorded in a situation in which the purchase price is higher than the net of the fair value of all identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed in the process of an acquisition. The value of a company’s brand name, solid customer base, good customer relations, good employee relations, and any patents or proprietary technology represent some examples of goodwill.



Because many companies acquire other firms and pay a price that exceeds the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities that the acquired firm possesses, the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as goodwill. However, if unforeseen circumstances arise that decrease expected cash flows from acquired assets, the goodwill recorded can have a current fair value that is lower than what was originally booked, and the company must record a goodwill impairment.


   Special Considerations  
  Changes in Accounting Standards for Goodwill  

Goodwill impairment became an issue during the accounting scandals of 2000–2001. Many firms artificially inflated their balance sheets by reporting excessive values of goodwill, which was allowed at that time to be amortized over its estimated useful life. Amortizing an intangible asset over its useful life decreases the amount of expense booked related to that asset in any single year.



While bull markets previously overlooked goodwill and similar manipulations, the accounting scandals and change in rules forced companies to report goodwill at realistic levels. Current accounting standards require public companies to perform annual tests on goodwill impairment, and goodwill is no longer amortized.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


  Annual Test for Goodwill Impairment  

U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require companies to review their goodwill for impairment at least annually at a reporting unit level.﻿﻿ Events that may trigger goodwill impairment include deterioration in economic conditions, increased competition, loss of key personnel, and regulatory action. The definition of a reporting unit plays a crucial role during the test; it is defined as the business unit that a company's management reviews and evaluates as a separate segment. Reporting units typically represent distinct business lines, geographic units, or subsidiaries.



The basic procedure governing goodwill impairment tests is set out by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in "Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment."﻿﻿

DEFINITION of Google Tax  

A Google tax, also known as a diverted profits tax, refers to anti-avoidance tax provisions that have been introduced in several jurisdictions to deal with the practice of profits or royalties being diverted to other jurisdictions that have lower or zero tax rates. For example, internet giant Alphabet Inc.'s (GOOGL) Google paid a negligible amount as tax in the United Kingdom by completing its transactions in the low tax capital city of Dublin, Ireland, even though the revenue of $6.5 billion was earned in the UK.


   BREAKING DOWN Google Tax  

Though the term includes the name of the company (Google) that became the poster boy for the practice, diverting profits is observed to be rampant across various industry sectors. Mainly technology giants from the U.S., like Meta, formerly Facebook, (META), Apple Inc. (AAPL) and Amazon Inc. (AMZN), and other multinational corporations (MNC) like Starbucks Inc. (SBUX) and Diageo PLC (DEO), have been using such practices to lower their tax bills. For instance, a mobile app like Meta's WhatsApp messenger or a game like Clash of Clans may not employ a single employee in a particular country, but can still derive a lot of profit from its local user base who generate revenues for the company through online ads and in-app purchases. The companies enjoyed the freedom to account for such revenues and earnings at a destination of their choice, and they often diverted it to low cost jurisdictions.



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandates that American businesses publicly report details on where and how much revenue they generate across the globe, allowing the authorities of other countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia to obtain more concrete data on any possible tax avoidance measures used by American businesses.



In the U.K. and Australia, tax laws were modified to prevent companies from following such practices. Amid rising public anger, the U.K. introduced the diverted profits tax in 2015 which was set at 25 per cent. Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), the U.K.’s tax collection agency, secured £6.5 billion (around $8.33 billion) in additional taxes by challenging the transfer pricing arrangements of multinationals between 2012-2018. Its own figures show that it secured an extra £853 million (around $1.09 billion) in 2015-16, £1.62 billion (around $2.08 billion) in 2016-17 and £1.68 billion (around $2.15 billion) in 2017-18.



Australia began implementing measures in 2015, which led to the introduction of a diverted profits tax from July 2017 onwards that provisions for a 40 per cent tax on such tax avoidance practices.



Responding to the developments, global enterprises are now voluntarily paying up past dues and entering into settlements with the tax authorities to avoid being shamed by a Google tax. Diageo, the famous drinks giant that makes Tanqueray gin, recently struck an agreement with the HMRC to pay an extra £190 million (around $244 million) in corporation tax to avoid the potential damage to its brand reputation emerging from the Google tax. Google too has agreed to pay around $185 million in back taxes to the U.K.
Who Is Gordon Gekko?  

Gordon Gekko is a fictional character who appears as the villain in the popular 1987 Oliver Stone movie "Wall Street" and its 2010 sequel "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps." The character, a ruthless and wildly wealthy investor and corporate raider, has become a cultural symbol for greed, as epitomized by the famous "Wall Street" quote "Greed is good."





Key Takeaways

Gordon Gekko is the fictional villain of the popular Oliver Stone movie "Wall Street" who has become a cultural symbol for greed.Known by his famous quote "Greed is good," Gekko is reportedly based on multiple real-life individuals on Wall Street, including corporate raider Carl Icahn, disgraced stock trader Ivan Boesky, and investor Michael Ovitz.Despite the fact that Gordon Gekko was clearly a villain in "Wall Street," many aspiring financiers saw him as a mythical antihero and began emulating his character in real life.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Understanding Gordon Gekko  

In "Wall Street," the protagonist, a young stockbroker named Bud Fox, is desperate to work with Gordon Gekko, who is a legend in the world of finance. Predatory, amoral Gekko is only impressed when Fox is willing to compromise his ethics and provide Gekko with inside information about his father's company. Gekko makes Fox wealthy, but eventually, Fox regrets what he has done and turns state's evidence against Gekko, who is sent to prison for securities fraud and insider trading.



For his portrayal of Gordon Gekko in the original film, Michael Douglas won an Academy Award.


   Influences for the Character of Gordon Gekko  

The character of Gordon Gekko was not based on any one person, but rather on a composite of real-life financiers. Stanley Weiser, who co-wrote the screenplay with Oliver Stone, claimed that Gekko was partially based on corporate raider Carl Icahn, disgraced stock trader Ivan Boesky, and investor Michael Ovitz.



The famous Gekko quote "Greed is good" echoes a speech Boesky gave in 1985 at the University of California Berkeley School of Business Administration, when he said, "I think greed is healthy. You can be greedy and still feel good about yourself."



Gekko's penthouse office and elegant suits were modeled after those of art collector Asher Edelman. Weiser adds that some of Gekko's blunt, workaholic dialogue is lifted from the phone calls and work sessions of the film's director and co-writer Oliver Stone.



The film's producer, Ed Pressman, stated that one of the inspirations for Gordon Gekko was Michael Milken. In the 1980s, Milken gained a reputation as the "Junk Bond King," but he was arrested in 1989 and convicted of multiple counts of fraud and racketeering. Oliver Stone looks to his father as the inspiration for the overall film of "Wall Street," as his father was a broker and frequently lamented the lack of good movies on business.


   Emulation of Gordon Gekko  

Despite the fact that Gordon Gekko was clearly a villain in "Wall Street," many aspiring financiers saw him as a mythical antihero. They adopted the character as a role model of how to survive in the cutthroat culture of investment finances. To counter this image, Michael Douglas worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2012 to create a documentary exposing inside trading. The actor who played Gordon Gekko was concerned that people see the character as a criminal and not a role model.
What Is the Gordon Growth Model (GGM)?  

The Gordon growth model (GGM) is a formula used to determine the intrinsic value of a stock based on a future series of dividends that grow at a constant rate. It is a popular and straightforward variant of the dividend discount model (DDM). The GGM assumes that dividends grow at a constant rate in perpetuity and solves for the present value of the infinite series of future dividends.



Because the model assumes a constant growth rate, it is generally only used for companies with stable growth rates in dividends per share.





Key Takeaways

The Gordon growth model (GGM) is a formula used to establish the intrinsic value of company stock.It assumes that a company exists forever and that there is a constant growth in dividends when valuing a company's stock.The GGM works by taking an infinite series of dividends per share and discounting them back to the present using the required rate of return.It is a variant of the dividend discount model (DDM).The GGM is ideal for companies with steady growth rates, given its assumption of constant dividend growth.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Gordon Growth Model Formula  

The Gordon growth model formula is based on the mathematical properties of an infinite series of numbers growing at a constant rate. The three key inputs in the model are dividends per share (DPS), the growth rate in dividends per share, and the required rate of return (ROR).


















P


=




D


1




r


−


g


















where:
















P


=


Current stock price
















g


=


Constant growth rate expected for
















dividends, in perpetuity
















r


=


Constant cost of equity capital for the
















company (or rate of return)

















D


1



=


Value of next year’s dividends







\begin{aligned} &P = \frac{ D_1 }{ r - g } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &P = \text{Current stock price} \\ &g = \text{Constant growth rate expected for} \\ &\text{dividends, in perpetuity} \\ &r = \text{Constant cost of equity capital for the} \\ &\text{company (or rate of return)} \\ &D_1 = \text{Value of next year's dividends} \\ \end{aligned}


​P=r−gD1​​where:P=Current stock priceg=Constant growth rate expected fordividends, in perpetuityr=Constant cost of equity capital for thecompany (or rate of return)D1​=Value of next year’s dividends​



Source: Stern School of Business, New York University.


   Importance of the Gordon Growth Model  

The GGM attempts to calculate the fair value of a stock irrespective of the prevailing market conditions and takes into consideration the dividend payout factors and the market's expected returns. If the value obtained from the model is higher than the current trading price of shares, then the stock is considered to be undervalued and qualifies for a buy, and vice versa.



Dividends per share represent the annual payments a company makes to its common equity shareholders, while the growth rate in dividends per share is how much the rate of dividends per share increases from one year to another. The required rate of return is the minimum rate of return investors are willing to accept when buying a company's stock, and there are multiple models investors use to estimate this rate.


   Assumptions of the Gordon Growth Model  

The Gordon growth model values a company's stock using an assumption of constant growth in dividend payments that a company makes to its common equity shareholders. The GGM assumes that a company exists forever and pays dividends per share that increase at a constant rate.



To estimate the intrinsic value of a stock, the model takes the infinite series of dividends per share and discounts them back to the present using the required rate of return.


   Limitations of the Gordon Growth Model  

The main limitation of the Gordon growth model lies in its assumption of constant growth in dividends per share. It is very rare for companies to show constant growth in their dividends due to business cycles and unexpected financial difficulties or successes. The model is thus limited to firms showing stable growth rates.



The second issue occurs with the relationship between the discount factor and the growth rate used in the model. If the required rate of return is less than the growth rate of dividends per share, the result is a negative value, rendering the model worthless. Also, if the required rate of return is the same as the growth rate, the value per share approaches infinity.


   Example of the Gordon Growth Model  

As a hypothetical example, consider a company whose stock is trading at $110 per share. This company requires an 8% minimum rate of return (r) and will pay a $3 dividend per share next year (D1), which is expected to increase by 5% annually (g).



The intrinsic value (P) of the stock is calculated as follows:


















P


=




$


3




.


08


−


.


05




=


$


100







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \frac{ \$3 }{ .08 - .05 } = \$100 \\ \end{aligned}


​P=.08−.05$3​=$100​



According to the Gordon growth model, the shares are currently $10 overvalued in the market.


   Pros and Cons of the Gordon Growth Model  
  Pros  

The GGM is commonly used to establish intrinsic value and is considered the easiest formula to understand.The model establishes the value of a company's stock without accounting for market conditions, which simplifies the calculation.This straightforward approach also provides a way to compare companies of different sizes and in different industries.


  Cons  

The Gordon growth model ignores non-dividend factors (such as brand loyalty, customer retention, and intangible assets) that can add to a company's value.
It assumes that a company's dividend growth rate is stable.
It can only be used to value stocks that issue dividends, which excludes, for example, most growth stocks.




What Does the Gordon Growth Model Tell You?
The Gordon growth model attempts to calculate the fair value of a stock irrespective of the prevailing market conditions and takes into consideration the dividend payout factors and the market's expected returns. If the GGM value is higher than the stock's current market price, then the stock is considered to be undervalued and should be bought. Conversely, if the value is lower than the stock's current market price, then the stock is considered to be overvalued and should be sold.




What Are the Inputs for the Gordon Growth Model?
The three inputs in the GGM are dividends per share (DPS), the growth rate in dividends per share, and the required rate of return (RoR). DPS is the annual payments a company makes to its common equity shareholders, while the DPS growth rate is the yearly rate of increase in dividends. The required rate of return is the minimum rate of return at which investors will buy a company's stock.




What Are the Drawbacks of the Gordon Growth Model?
The GGM's main limitation lies in its assumption of constant growth in dividends per share. It is very rare for companies to show constant growth in their dividends due to business cycles and unexpected financial difficulties or successes. The model is thus limited to companies with stable growth rates in dividends per share. Another issue occurs with the relationship between the discount factor and the growth rate used in the model. If the required rate of return is less than the growth rate of dividends per share, the result is a negative value, rendering the model worthless. Also, if the required rate of return is the same as the growth rate, the value per share approaches infinity.


   The Bottom Line  

The Gordon growth model is a popular formula that's used to find the intrinsic value of a company's stock. Generally, when the model's calculation results in a figure that's higher than the current market price of a company's shares, the stock is seen as undervalued and should be considered a buy. When the GGM result is lower than the current trading price, the stock is seen as overvalued and should be considered a sell.



A downside of the Gordon growth model is its assumption that dividend payouts grow at a constant rate. This makes it useful only when considering the stock of those select companies with dividends that match that assumption. In addition, should the formula's required rate of return be less than the dividend growth rate, the result will be negative and of no value.
What Is Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance (GRC)?  

Governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) is a relatively new corporate management system that integrates these three crucial functions into the processes of every department within an organization.



GRC is in part a response to the "silo mentality," as it has become disparagingly known. That is, each department within a company can become reluctant to share information or resources with any other department. This is seen as reducing efficiency, damaging morale, and preventing the development of a positive company culture.


   Understanding GRC  

Governance, risk management, and compliance have been key elements of company management for a long time. But the concept of GRC has been around only since about 2007.





Key Takeaways

GRC is a system intended to correct the "silo mentality" that leads departments within an organization to hoard information and resources.Governance, risk management, and compliance systems are integrated into every department for greater efficiency.The overall purpose is to reduce risks, costs, and duplication of effort.



The overall purpose of GRC is to reduce risks and costs as well as duplication of effort. It is a strategy that requires company-wide cooperation to achieve results that meet internal guidelines and processes established for each of the three key functions.



The three elements of GRC are:



Governance, or corporate governance, is the overall system of rules, practices, and standards that guide a business.
Risk, or enterprise risk management, is the process of identifying potential hazards to the business and acting to reduce or eliminate their financial impact.
Compliance, or corporate compliance, is the set of processes and procedures that a company has in place in order to make certain that the company and its employees are conducting business in a legal and ethical manner.


  Adopting a GRC System  

An entire industry has emerged to provide companies with the consulting services necessary to implement a GRC system.






GRC proponents argue that increased regulation, demands for transparency, and the growth of third-party relationships make the traditional siloed approach too risky.



GRC software is also available. Some highly-regarded software packages, according to CIO.com, include the IBM OpenPage GRC Platform, MetricStream, and Rsam's Enterprise GRC. The article notes that more affordable and even free GRC software is available, though with fewer features.


   Advantages of GRC  

Its proponents argue that increasing government regulation, greater demands for corporate transparency, and the growth of third-party business relationships have made the traditional siloed approach to these activities risky and expensive.



Instead, GRC focuses on integrating certain key capabilities and functions across an organization. These capabilities and functions may include information technology, human resources, finance, and performance management, among many others.



As an integrated approach, GRC can mean different things to different businesses. However, it generally requires each department within a business to gather, share, and use information and internal resources more efficiently for the company as a whole.
What Is the Government Accountability Office (GAO)?  

The Government Accountability Office (GAO) is an independent and legislative agency that monitors and audits government spending and operations. The agency examines how taxpayer dollars are spent and provides recommendations on how to save the government money or operate more fiscally responsibly. Established in 1921, GAO is also often called the congressional watchdog. It is a non-partisan agency that helps the government find efficiencies in spending, which is why it is said to work for Congress.





Key Takeaways

The Government Accountability Office is an independent, non-partisan agency that monitors and reviews government spending.It provides Congress and federal agencies with objective, reliable information to help the government save money and work more efficiently.The GAO monitors how the government uses taxpayer dollars and provides reports and recommendations to the government.GAO is also responsible for establishing standards to streamline the process during government audits and reviews.The comptroller general serves as the head of the GAO and is appointed by the president for a 15-year term.


   Understanding the Government Accountability Office (GAO)  

The Government Accountability Office is an independent government agency that is tasked with tracking the use of taxpayer dollars by the legislative and executive branches of government, and providing the results directly to Congress. Put simply, GAO serves as a congressional watchdog over government spending. It monitors the operating results, financial positions, and accounting systems used by the various governmental agencies and conducts routine audits on all branches of government.



The primary goals and objectives of GAO are to:



Conduct audits of federal government agencies to ensure that funds are properly allocated and not misappropriated, such as audits and reviews of the Pentagon, including U.S. military spending on personnel and weapons systemsReview government programs and policies to determine if the (established) goals are properly aligned with their original purpose and are being satisfiedInvestigate allegations of illegal activity within the government and issue legal determinations on proposed rules regarding other government agencies



Another set of legislative duties includes establishing standards or the Yellow Book. Also referred to as the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, these principles are used to streamline the process during government audits and providing reports.



The agency is run by the comptroller general who serves a 15-year term. The position is appointed by the president from a bipartisan list of congressional recommendations.






Gene L. Dodaro was appointed as acting comptroller general in 2008 when David Walker resigned. Dodaro was officially confirmed by the Senate for his 15-year term in 2010.


   Special Considerations  

The GAO has broad authority to review the function and operations of the Federal Reserve—the central bank of the United States.



As such, it conducts reviews of the emergency lending programs that were enacted following the collapse of the housing market and the 2007-2008 financial crisis, which led to the Great Recession. Despite this, it does not have the authority to review individual meetings and monetary policy decisions made by the Fed.



As of May 2021, five out of eight priority recommendations made by the Government Accountability Office were implemented by the Federal Reserve.


   History of the Government Accountability Office (GAO)  

U.S. government spending and debt rose sharply during World War I. This reality prompted demand for a formal system to review, monitor, and control government expenditures. As a result, the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 established the General Accounting Office, which assumed budget, accounting, and auditing responsibilities from the U.S. Treasury.



The act also required the president to prepare an annual budget for the federal government. In 2004, the agency's name was changed to the Government Accountability Office after the passing of the GAO Human Capital Reform Act.



Government programs and expenditures expanded sharply in the 1930s as a result of President Roosevelt's New Deal social policies, which were created in response to the Great Depression. The GAO's role, which originally focused on ensuring payments were made properly, grew in importance. By 1945, at the end of World War II, government spending again soared, and the GAO began auditing government agencies to ensure they operated according to their purpose.



By the 1970s, the GAO's work expanded to include reviews of agency work on consumer protection, the environment, and social welfare. Agency personnel consisted of only accountants. But that soon expanded to include scientists, care professionals, and computer scientists. 



The agency continues to evaluate government spending programs, including how it appropriated funds related to the COVID-19 pandemic, which amounted to $4.8 trillion.
What Is the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB)?  

The Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) is a private non-governmental organization that creates accounting reporting standards, or generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), for state and local governments in the United States.





Key Takeaways:

The Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) is a private non-governmental organization that creates accounting reporting standards for state and local governments.The GASB is responsible for the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The board's mission is to promote clear, consistent, transparent, and comparable financial reporting.


   Understanding the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB)  

The Government Accounting Standards Board is an independent, non-political organization founded in 1984. The board's mission is to promote clear, consistent, transparent, and comparable financial reporting for state and local governments—the Federal Accounting Standards Board (FASB) does the same for the federal government. Taxpayers, holders of municipal bonds, legislators, and oversight bodies rely on this financial information to shape public policy and invest.


   The Government Accounting Standards Board's (GASB) Functions  

The GASB’s uses an open and independent process that encourages broad participation from all stakeholders and objectively considers and analyzes all their views. For example, in June 2022, GASB issued an Invitation to Comment for public feedback which regards providing users of government financial statements with critical information about vulnerabilities for risk and disclosure for state and local governments.


  Oversight and Funding  

The GASB is led by a board. There are seven members of the board, which is headed by a chair and a vice-chair. The FAF Board of Trustees appoints board members for five-year terms, and members serve for up to 10 years. The chair serves on the board full-time, while the vice-chair and the remaining five members serve the board on a part-time basis. GASB members are qualified in governmental accounting and finance and are concerned with public interests in the nation's accounting and financial reporting.



The GASB is subject to oversight by the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) Board of Trustees, which selects its board members, and the FASB, both of which it funds. In turn, the GASB is funded primarily by accounting support fees paid by brokers and dealers who trade in municipal bonds. This funding mechanism was established by Section 978 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.


  The GASB's Mission  

According to the GASB's website, "The collective mission of the GASB, the FASB, and the FAF is to establish and improve financial accounting and reporting standards to provide useful information to investors and other users of financial reports and educate stakeholders on how to most effectively understand and implement those standards." In that regard, the GASB relies on a variety of intelligence sources when settling its policies.


  Consultative Groups  

To ensure that diverse opinions are considered, the GASB convenes consultative groups and task forces. Consultative groups perform research for agenda items concerning accounting and financial reporting standards. Task forces are formed to conduct the board's technical projects. Both groups are important sounding boards to ensure that the GASB makes the best decisions for the tax payer, finance, and business communities.
What Is a Government Bond?  

A government bond is a debt security issued by a government to support government spending and obligations. Government bonds can pay periodic interest payments called coupon payments. Government bonds issued by national governments are often considered low-risk investments since the issuing government backs them.



Government bonds issued by a federal government may also be known as sovereign debt.





Key Takeaways

A government bond represents debt that is issued by a government and sold to investors to support government spending.Some government bonds may pay periodic interest payments. Other government bonds do not pay coupons and are sold at a discount instead.Government bonds are considered low-risk investments since the government backs them.The various types of bonds that are offered by the U.S. Treasury are considered to be among the safest in the world.Because of their relatively low risk, government bonds typically pay low interest rates.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Government Bonds Explained  

Government bonds are issued by governments to raise money to finance projects or day-to-day operations. The U.S. Treasury Department sells the issued bonds during auctions at regular intervals throughout the year. Only certain registered participants, often large banks, can buy U.S. government bonds directly at auction. When the government holds a bond auction, each buyer submits its purchase bid, and the auction continues until all the bonds are duly distributed.



Some Treasury bonds trade in the secondary market. Individual investors, working with a financial institution or broker, can buy and sell previously issued bonds through this marketplace. Treasuries are widely available for purchase through the U.S. Treasury, brokers, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which contain a basket of securities.



Fixed-rate government bonds can have interest rate risk, which occurs when interest rates are rising and investors are holding lower paying fixed-rate bonds as compared to the market. Also, only select bonds keep up with inflation, which is a measure of price increases throughout the economy. If a fixed-rate government bond pays 2% per year, for example, and prices in the economy rise by 1.5%, the investor is earning only 0.5% in real terms.


   Municipal Government Bonds  

Local governments may also issue bonds to fund projects such as infrastructure, libraries, or parks. These are known as municipal bonds, or "munis," and often carry certain tax advantages and exemptions for investors.



Munis can be thought of as loans that investors make to local governments, and they are used to fund public works such as parks, libraries, bridges and roads, and other infrastructure. They may be funded via local tax dollars or by revenue generated from the project (e.g. a toll road).



Although municipal bonds may have lower interest rates than riskier investments like corporate bonds or stocks, they offer some stability and low default rates.





Bond Terms to Know

If you are interested in government bonds, you may want to acquaint yourself with the following terms:

Face or Par Value: the amount of debt you are loaning the government and the amount you will get back when the bond matures
Coupon: the regular interest payments credited to bondholders
Yield: the interest rate on the bond after accounting for its market price
Market Price: the price of the bond in the secondary market, which may differ from the face value
Treasuries: U.S. federal government bonds
T-Bill: short-term Treasuries, maturing in 1 year or less
T-Note: medium-term Treasuries, maturing in 2 to 10 years
T-Bond: long-term Treasuries maturing in 10 to 30 years or longer
TIPS: Treasuries that are indexed to inflation



   The U.S. vs. Foreign Government Bonds  

U.S. Treasuries are nearly as close to risk-free as an investment can get. This low risk profile is because the issuing government backs the bonds. Government bonds from the U.S. Treasury are some of the most secure worldwide, while those floated by other countries may carry a greater degree of risk.



Due to this nearly risk-free nature, market participants and analysts use Treasuries as a benchmark in comparing the risk associated with securities. The 10-year Treasury bond is also used as a benchmark and guide for interest rates on lending products. Due to their low risk, U.S. Treasuries tend to offer lower rates of return relative to equities and corporate bonds.



However, government-backed bonds, particularly those in emerging markets, can carry risks that include country risk, political risk, and central-bank risk, including whether the banking system is solvent. Investors saw a bleak reminder of how risky some government bonds can be during the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998. During this crisis, several Asian nations were forced to devalue their currency, which sent reverberations around the globe. The crisis even caused Russia to default on its debt.


   The Uses of Government Bonds  

Government bonds assist in funding deficits in the federal budget and are used to raise capital for various projects such as infrastructure spending. However, government bonds are also used by the Federal Reserve Bank to control the nation's money supply.



When the Federal Reserve repurchases U.S. government bonds, the money supply increases throughout the economy as sellers receive funds to spend or invest in the market. Any funds deposited into banks are, in turn, used by those financial institutions to loan to companies and individuals, further boosting economic activity.


   Pros and Cons of Government Bonds  

As with all investments, government bonds provide both benefits and disadvantages to the bondholder. On the upside, these debt securities tend to return a steady stream of interest income. However, this return is usually lower than other products on the market due to the reduced level of risk involved in their investments. 



The market for U.S. government bonds is very liquid, allowing the holder to resell them on the secondary bond market easily. There are even ETFs and mutual funds that focus their investment on Treasury bonds.



Fixed rate bonds may fall behind during periods of increasing inflation or rising market interest rates. Also, foreign bonds are exposed to sovereign or governmental risk, changes in currency rates, and have a higher risk of default. 



Some U.S. Treasury bonds are free of state and federal taxes. However, the investor of foreign bonds may face taxes on income from these foreign investments.





Pros

Pay a steady interest income return
Low risk of default for U.S. bonds
Exempt from state and local taxes
A liquid market for reselling
Assessable through mutual funds and ETFs



Cons

Offer low rates of return 
Fixed income falls behind with rising inflation
Carry risk when market interest rates increase
Default and other risks on foreign bonds





   Examples of U.S. Government Bonds  

There are various types of bonds offered by the U.S. Treasury that have various maturities. In addition, some bonds return regular interest payments, while some do not. In the U.S., the national debt refers largely to the notional value of outstanding government bonds. The largest portion of the national debt, approximately $24.2 trillion, is held by the public. Intragovernmental holdings make up approximately $6.6 trillion, for a total debt of approximately $30.9 trillion as of Q3 2022.


  Savings Bonds  

The U.S. Treasury offers series EE bonds and series I savings bonds. Bonds sell at face value and have a fixed rate of interest. Bonds held for 20 years will reach their face value and effectively double. Series I bonds receive a semi-annually calculated secondary rate tied to an inflation rate.


  Treasury Notes  

Treasury notes (T-notes) are intermediate-term bonds maturing in two, three, five, or 10 years that provide fixed coupon returns. T-Notes typically have a $1,000 face value. However, two- or three-year maturities have a $5,000 face value.


  Treasury Bonds  

Treasury bonds (T-Bonds) are long-term bonds having a maturity between 10 to 30 years. T-Bonds give interest or coupon payments semi-annually and have $1,000 face values. The bonds help to offset shortfalls in the federal budget. Also, they help to regulate the nation's money supply and execute U.S. monetary policy.


  Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS)  

Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) are a Treasury security indexed to inflation. They protect investors from the adverse effects of rising prices. The par value—principal—increases with inflation and decreases with deflation, following the Consumer Price Index (CPI).



TIPS pay a fixed rate of interest determined on the bond's auction on a six months basis. However, interest payment amounts vary since the rate applies to the adjusted principal value of the bond. TIPS have maturities of five, 10, and 30 years. On Nov. 19, 2020, the 10-year TIPS bond was auctioned with an interest rate of -0.867%.





Buying vs. Trading Bonds

If you buy government bonds and hold them until maturity, you will enjoy regular coupon (interest) payments and a return of your initial investment when they mature. During that time, however, the price of a government bond will fluctuate in the market. Bond prices have an inverse relationship with interest rates⁠—so when interest rates go up, government bond prices go down in the secondary market. Because of this, shorter-term investors who do not buy and hold bonds until maturity can experience gains or losses in the market. Bond traders can also look to profit from the relative differences in the yields of certain bonds, known as the spread⁠—for instance, the spread between U.S. Treasuries and highly rated corporate bonds. Another bond trading strategy is to bet on changes in the spread between different maturities, known as the yield curve.






Government bonds can provide a combination of considerable safety and relatively high returns. However, investors need to be aware that governments sometimes lack the ability or willingness to pay back their debts.




How Do You Buy Government Bonds?
U.S. Treasury securities are available to investors through their broker or bank, or directly through the TreasuryDirect website. Investors can also look to ETFs or mutual funds that invest in Treasuries. Municipal bonds are available via your broker.




How Do Government Bonds Work?
When governments need to raise funds for operations (e.g. paying government employees or servicing interest charges on existing debt) or to invest in projects (e.g., building federal highways), they can sell bonds to investors. In the U.S. case, bonds are sold through the Treasury and represent debt owned by bondholders. These bondholders are credited with interest and a return of their principal when the bond matures. This makes bondholders of Treasuries essentially creditors (lenders) to the federal government.




Why Are Interest Rates on Government Bonds Usually Lower than Other Bonds?
Bonds issued by the federal government are considered to be essentially riskless. In the U.S., the federal government has never defaulted on its debt, and the government could theoretically create more money or raise taxes in order to pay for the interest on existing debts to avoid default. Therefore, Treasuries carry what is known as the risk-free rate of return. Corporate and other bonds must carry higher yields to compensate investors for the additional credit risk that are inherent to them.




What Are U.S. Government Bond Types?
The U.S. government has a variety of different Treasury securities available for purchase depending on what the investor is looking for. The different offerings of the securities are Treasury Bills, Treasury Notes, Treasury Bonds, Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS), Floating Rate Notes (FRNs), Series I Savings Bonds, and Series EE Savings Bonds.




What Are Example of Non-U.S. Government Bonds?
Foreign governments around the world issue debt in the form of bonds. Some of these commonly include:The U.K.: GiltsGermany: BundsFrance: OATsJapan: JGBsItaly: BTPsCanada: Canada Bonds


   The Bottom Line  

Government bonds issued by federal governments are among the safest investments around, often carrying the risk-free rate of return. However, because of their lower risk, they also carry relatively lower yields. In the U.S., federal bonds are known as Treasuries, which consist of short-term T-Bills, medium-term T-Notes, and long-term T-bonds. Foreign governments also regularly issue bonds. State and local governments may also issue bonds in the form of municipal bonds (munis). These are attractive to some investors since they can offer certain tax exemptions.
What Is a Government Grant?  

A government grant is a financial award given by a federal, state, or local government authority for a beneficial project. It is effectively a transfer payment. A grant does not include technical assistance or other financial assistance, such as a loan or loan guarantee, an interest rate subsidy, direct appropriation, or revenue sharing. The grantee is not expected to repay the money but is expected to use the funds from the grant for their stated purpose, which typically serves some larger good.



In certain cases, there may also be revenue-sharing agreements with the government—for instance, in the case of a discovery that leads to a profit-generating patent.



Twenty-six federal agencies administer more than 1,000 grant programs annually to provide funding for the arts, the sciences, and educational institutions. Government grants help fund ideas and projects providing public services and stimulating the economy. For example, an economics program may be designed to strengthen empirical and theoretical economic analysis, as well as the methods for rigorous research on economic behavior.



Grants may also support critical recovery initiatives, agricultural projects, and innovative research in all sorts of fields.





Key Takeaways

A government grant is a financial award given by the federal, state, or local government to fund some type of beneficial project.Because government grants are funded by tax dollars, they include stringent compliance and reporting measures to ensure the money is well-spent.Receiving a government grant is highly prestigious and often brings an individual or entity to the attention of other donors or sources of revenue.The website grants.gov lists currently available grants.


   How a Government Grant Works  

Government grants aren't just bestowed: they must be applied for. Getting a government grant is an extremely competitive process. The paperwork is complex and applicants must describe how the awarded funds will benefit the local community or the public at large. Crafting a convincing proposal is so challenging that applicants often hire professional help. Some freelance writers specialize in writing grant proposals.



Grants from the federal government are authorized and appropriated through bills passed by Congress and signed by the president. Grant authority varies among agencies. For example, the Small Business Administration (SBA) may distribute grants to nonprofit organizations in many of its counseling and training programs.


   Receiving a Government Grant  

Government grants have no hidden costs or fees: they are outright gifts, not loans. However, because government grants are funded by tax dollars, they include stringent compliance and reporting measures to ensure the money is well-spent.



After receiving a check, the grantee must submit detailed reports accounting for how the money is disbursed. If the funds are received in stages, these reports must continue during the grant period. Any accomplishments or failures also must be documented and submitted to the sponsoring agency according to various deadlines.



Receiving a government grant is a prestigious event, a sign an individual or nonprofit organization has a significant, positive impact on a community or in a field of study or industrial sector. Often, it puts a project on the donor map, attracting other providers of funding, both nonprofit and profit. It also might lend the grantee some influence with, or attention from, the sponsoring agency.


   Applying for a Government Grant  

Grants.gov is a free online source for researching and applying for more than 1,000 federal grant programs with access to approximately $500 billion in awards annually. A grant proposal writer may register by completing a standard business profile on behalf of an individual, a nonprofit organization, a research institution, or a similar entity.



The writer also submits an authorized organization representative application, supplies an e-business point of contact, and completes a detailed application. The writer then has access to finding federal grant opportunities, applying for and tracking grants, and receiving grant email alerts, webinar schedules, and tips from grantors.






Government grants come with no strings, and that includes the application process, so if you are asked to submit a fee to apply or to learn more about a grant, there’s a good chance it is a scam.


   Example of a Government Grant  

The performing arts is one popular category for many government agencies awarding grants. For example, in early 2019 the U.S. Embassy’s Public Affairs Section in Moscow sought grant applications to identify and select American artists and performers to bring to Russia for short-term programs in the fields of music, dance, theater, film and television acting, and culinary arts.



Eligible applicants could include nonprofits, small businesses, and public or private universities; grantees could receive up to $650,000 to produce performances in Russia. The goals of the grant included strengthening "people-to-people ties" between the U.S. and Russia and "showcasing American values by presenting the full range of American creativity and innovation."
What Is the Government National Mortgage Association?  

The Government National Mortgage Association is a federal government corporation that guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) issued by approved lenders. Ginnie Mae connects the United States housing market to capital markets, providing low-cost financing for federal housing programs through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Veterans Affairs (VA), the Department of Agriculture, and HUD's Public and Indian Housing.





Key Takeaways

The Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) is a federal corporation that guarantees principal and interest payments on mortgage-backed securities issued by approved lenders.Ginnie Mae was established in 1968 as part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to promote affordable homeownership.The GNMA is backed by the full faith and credit of the federal government, unlike Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.


   What Does Ginnie Mae Do?  

The Government National Mortgage Association was established in 1968 as part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to promote affordable homeownership. Ginnie Mae does not create mortgages but guarantees them for single and multifamily homes. Since the government backs these loans, homeowners can secure lower interest rates, lowering their borrowing costs. Using a mortgage calculator is an excellent resource for budgeting these costs.







Ginnie Mae operates behind the mortgage market, neither issuing, selling, or buying pass-through mortgage-backed securities nor purchasing mortgage loans. Instead, approved private lenders originate eligible loans, pool them into securities, and issue mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Ginnie Mae. In April 2023, Ginnie Mae's MBS portfolio balance was worth $2.4 trillion.






Ginnie Mae guarantees mortgage-backed securities to help open the home mortgage market to first-time homemakers, low-income borrowers, and other underserved groups.


   Ginnie Mae Guarantees  

Ginnie Mae guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest from approved issuers, such as mortgage bankers, savings and loans, and commercial banks, of qualifying loans. An investor in a GNMA security doesn't know who the underlying issuer of the mortgages is, but that the security is guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, just like the instruments issued by the U.S. Treasury.



The GNMA guarantee means that Investors with shares in Ginnie Mae funds never have to worry about the impact of late payments or mortgage defaults on their investment. When mortgage borrowers fail to make payments, Ginnie Mae covers them.



Ginnie Mae's efforts aid those traditionally underserved in the mortgage market. Most mortgages securitized as Ginnie Mae MBSs are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which typically insures mortgages to first-time home buyers and low-income borrowers.


   History of Ginnie Mae  

After the Great Depression, when historically high unemployment rates led to unprecedented loan defaults, Congress passed the National Housing Act of 1934, a component of the New Deal, to help revive the U.S. housing market and protect lenders from mortgage default.



In 1968, thirty years after it was established, the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), better known as Fannie Mae, split into two entities with two separate functions. Fannie Mae would purchase conventional loans and Ginnie Mae government-backed mortgages.



Fannie Mae was converted from a government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) to a publicly traded company. Ginnie Mae was established as a GSE and part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD. Ginnie Mae is the only home-loan agency explicitly backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.


   Ginnie Mae vs. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  

Several organizations are similar to Ginnie Mae, notably Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), federally chartered corporations owned by private shareholders. 



Where Ginnie Mae guarantees only securities that comprise mortgages guaranteed by federal agencies, such as the FHA and VA, its relatives may back securities whose mortgages are not insured by the government. Fannie Mae has a portfolio that invests in its own and other institutions' mortgage-backed securities. 



The GNMA is also ostensibly the only Mae or Mac backed by the full faith and credit of the federal government. In 2008, during the housing crisis, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were overseen by the government via a conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Committee. Some argue that the bailout erased Ginnie Mae's distinction as the only federal agency guaranteeing mortgage securities that enjoy government protection against failure.




Does Ginnie Mae Provide Mortgage Financing?
Ginnie Mae does not originate any loans or provide financing for mortgage issuers. The GNMA doesn't provide insurance to lenders against any credit risks that stem from borrowers. Furthermore, Ginnie Mae doesn't set any standards for loan issuers, such as underwriting or credit standards.




How Does Ginnie Mae Help Make Mortgages More Affordable?
When mortgages are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, lenders obtain a better price for their mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market and can use the proceeds to fund new mortgage loans. 




Why Are Ginnie Mae Securities Considered a Safe Investment?
Ginnie Mae does not buy or sell loans or issue mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and its balance sheet doesn't use derivatives to hedge or carry long-term debt.


   The Bottom Line  

The Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), or Ginnie Mae, guarantees principal and interest payments on mortgage-backed securities issued by approved lenders. The GNMA is backed by the full faith and credit of the federal government, unlike Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae was established in 1968 to promote affordable homeownership.
What Is the Government Of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC)?  

The Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) is a government-owned company assigned to manage Singapore's sovereign wealth fund. The fund is now officially named: GIC Private Limited. The GIC was formed in 1981 with the aim to invest the sovereign wealth fund more aggressively in higher yielding asset classes and over a longer investment horizon. According to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, the GICS controls the eighth largest sovereign wealth fund in the world, with $390 billion in assets under management as of mid-2018.[cite]



GIC is one of the three reserves management entities in Singapore, alongside the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and Temasek Holdings.





Key Takeaways

The Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) is one of three financial entities that manages the financial assets of the government of Singapore.As a sovereign wealth fund, the GIC's mandate is to invest for the long-term to preserve and enhance the international purchasing power of the funds placed under its management.The GIC currently has approximately US $400 billion in assets under management.


   Understanding the GIC  

The Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) manages funds on behalf of two clients, the Government of Singapore and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Although the GIC has the usual corporate structure it has two unique features due to its status as a "Fifth Schedule" corporation in Singapore. First, the approval of the President of Singapore is required to take certain actions, such as the appointment and removal of directors and key managers. Second, the financial statements of the GIC are audited by the Government of Singapore's auditor-general. A number of the GIC's directors and key officers are prominent current or former members of the Government of Singapore, while others are independent directors appointed from the private sector.



Similar to other sovereign wealth funds, the fund's holdings include a range of financial assets. Most of the portfolio is managed internally, with an estimated 80% of the fund driven by in-house management. Historically the fund has maintained a low-profile but was opportunistic as other sovereign wealth funds were during the 2007-2010 U.S. housing crises.


   GIC Investment Performance  

The GIC does not report exact fund details in its annual profit and loss disclosures. If it revealed precise values, the fund would unnecessarily expose the full size of Singapore's financial reserves, making it easier for speculators to speculate against the Singapore dollar during periods of market and economic vulnerability. However, the fund does disclose certain five, 10 and 20-year details highlighting performance and risk management metrics.



Over the 20-year period that ended 31 March 2019, GIC achieved an annualised rate of return of 3.4% above global inflation. In other words, the international purchasing power of the reserves nearly doubled during the 20-year period.


   Santiago Principles  

In 2008, GIC participated in the pioneering effort, alongside Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and the US Treasury, to develop the 9 Generally Accepted Principles & Practices for sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and recipient countries. These were the foundation of the Santiago Principles, a voluntary set of 24 guidelines designed to promote good governance, accountability, transparency and prudent investment practices as well as maintain a stable and open investment climate. The Santiago Principles are now observed by more than 20 member SWFs, including GIC.
What Is the Government Pension Fund of Norway (GPFN)?  

The Government Pension Fund of Norway is made up of two separate Norwegian investment funds with different mandates. The first is the Government Pension Fund Global (GPFG), also known as the Oil Fund. Established in 1990 to invest surplus revenues of the Norwegian petroleum sector,﻿﻿ the GPFG is the world’s largest sovereign wealth fund.﻿﻿ It also holds real estate and fixed-income investments.﻿﻿ 



The second fund is the Government Pension Fund of Norway (GPFN). Established in 1967 as something of a national insurance fund, it is smaller than the Oil Fund.﻿﻿ It is managed separately and limited to domestic and Scandinavian investments. As a result, it is a major shareholder of many consequential Norwegian companies via the Oslo Stock Exchange.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Government Pension Fund of Norway is made up of two separate Norwegian investment funds: The first is the Government Pension Fund Global (GPFG), also known as the Oil Fund, and the second fund is the Government Pension Fund of Norway (GPFN).The Government Pension Fund of Norway is managed under the guise of the Ministry of Finance.The stated goal of the Government Pension Fund is to facilitate government savings to account for the rising costs of the public pension program.


   Understanding the Government Pension Fund of Norway (GPFN)  

The Government Pension Fund of Norway is managed under the guise of the Ministry of Finance, as laid out by the Act of Parliament and guidelines that include a set of supplementary provisions.﻿﻿ 



The Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM), which is part of the Norwegian Central Bank, manages the global fund on behalf of the Ministry of Finance.﻿﻿ Since 2004, an ethical council has set the parameters for the fund’s investments. The council has the authority to exclude from the fund firms that take part in activities deemed objectionable.﻿﻿ Investment manager Folketrygdfondet manages the domestic fund.﻿﻿ 



The stated goal of the Government Pension Fund is to facilitate government savings to account for the rising costs of the public pension program. It also intends to support long-term considerations related to how the government spends Norway’s significant petroleum revenues.﻿﻿ 



The Ministry of Finance’s investment strategy for the Government Pension Fund looks to maximize returns while taking on a moderate level of risk. The strategy is based on assessments of expected return and risk in the long run and is derived from the purpose and distinctive characteristics of the fund, comparative advantages of the asset manager, as well as assumptions regarding the functioning of the financial markets. The ministry attaches considerable weight to financial theory, research, and accumulated experience.﻿﻿



Notably, the Government Pension Fund Global may divest its oil and gas holdings in the near future. At the end of 2017, the fund recommended the removal of more than NOK 300 billion (about US $35 billion) worth of oil and gas holdings from the fund’s equity benchmark index in order to make Norway less vulnerable to a permanent drop in oil and gas prices.﻿﻿ 



After hitting the $1 trillion mark in 2017, the fund divesting from oil and gas investments could have meaningful global investment implications, given the economic importance of the energy sector. Investor attention on Environmental, Social, and Governance Criteria has increased as part of their investment due diligence. The Norwegian government reached a final decision on the proposal in the fall of 2018.﻿﻿
What Are Government Purchases?  

Government purchases are expenditures on goods and services by federal, state, and local governments. The combined total of this spending, excluding transfer payments and interest on the debt, is a key factor in determining a nation's gross domestic product (GDP). Transfer payments are expenditures that do not involve purchases, such as Social Security payments, welfare, and government subsidies for certain businesses.





Key Takeaways

Government purchases include any spending by federal, state, and local agencies, with the exception of debt and transfer payments such as Social Security.Overall, government purchases are a key component of a nation's gross domestic product (GDP).According to the Keynesian theory of economics, government purchases are a tool to boost overall spending and correct a weak economy.


   Understanding Government Purchases  

One method of calculating GDP, a measure of the market value of all the final goods and services produced in a specific time period within a country's borders that's used to track the health of a nation's economy, is to add up all spending in four major categories:



Personal consumptionBusiness investment spendingGovernment purchasesNet exports



The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) has a number of sub-categories. For instance, it breaks down government purchases into federal, state, and local spending and also differentiates defense-related federal spending from all other spending. The total for imported goods is subtracted from the final GDP total.



Government purchases have risen in real terms over recent decades: 







As a share of overall nominal GDP, however, nominal government purchases have been falling:






   Special Considerations  

Government purchases are seen as a crucial element of a healthy economy in Keynesian economic theory. That is, increasing or decreasing government spending is viewed as a key tool for regulating the business cycle.



According to this theory, government spending boosts demand in two ways. First, the government directly boosts demand by purchasing goods, such as the steel needed to build a bridge. Secondly, it puts money in the pockets of both workers and suppliers, who then spend it on goods and services. This is known as the multiplier effect.






Plenty of other economists are against the government spending lots of money, arguing that such action distorts interest rates, props up non-competitive firms, and leads to higher taxes and so forth.


   Types of Government Purchases  

Government purchases range from spending on infrastructure projects and paying civil service and public service employees, to buying office software and equipment and maintaining public buildings. Transfer payments, which do not involve purchases, are not included in this category.






The BEA attributed a rise in federal government spending in 2020 mainly to an increase in purchases of intermediate services to support the processing and administration of Paycheck Protection Program loan applications.



In 2020, the BEA revealed that federal government spending rose, while state and local government spending fell. Overall, real GDP, in a year overshadowed by crisis and the economically damaging lockdown measures, was estimated to have fallen by 3.5%.
What Was the Government Securities Clearing Corporation?  

The Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC) was an organization that was responsible for clearing and netting trades for government and agency debt securities. The GSCC handled new issues and the sale of existing government securities. It was established in the 1980s by the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC). The GSCC merged with the Mortgage-Backed Securities Clearing Corporation to form the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC) in 2003.





Key Takeaways

The Government Securities Clearing Corporation was responsible for clearing and netting trades for government and agency debt securities.The GSCC was established by the National Securities Clearing Corporation.It reported, validated, and matched the buy and sell sides of securities transactions.The GSCC's board of directors comprised of representatives from primary dealers and clearing banks.The GSCC merged with the Mortgage-Backed Securities Clearing Corporation in 2003 to become the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation.


   Understanding the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC)  

Centralized clearance and settlement services in the U.S. government securities market were conducted through the Government Securities Clearing Corporation.



The GSCC was tasked with reporting, validating, and matching the buy and sell sides of securities transactions. It compared transactions and acted as the counterparty for settlement purposes for each net position. The corporation also served several other key areas, including automated trade comparison, risk management, and operational efficiency to the U.S. Government securities market.



Securities transactions processed by the GSCC included:



Treasury bills
Treasury bonds
Treasury notes
Zero-coupon securities
Government agency securities
Inflation-indexed securities



The final net settlement obligations of GSCC participants were settled through the Fedwire Securities Service via the participants’ settlement bank. The organization GSCC cleared about $1.6 trillion a day in trades involving U.S. government securities until 2002.



The GSCC merged with the MBS Clearing Corporation in 2003 to form the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, which is a subsidiary of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC).






The GSCC's role as a counterparty served an important purpose as the organization maintained the liquidity and integrity of the market for U.S. government securities.


   History of the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC)  

The GSCC was established in 1986. It came after several large primary dealers and the Federal Reserve voiced concerns about the safety and soundness of the existing processes for government securities. The move included the risks associated with the failure of a major firm, the inefficiencies of manual paper processing of trade confirmations, and bilateral trade-for-trade settlement.



The board of directors of GSCC was made up of representatives from primary dealers and clearing banks, plus a management director (GSCC’s president) and two directors designated by NSCC.


   The Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC) vs. the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC)  

As mentioned above, the GSCC and the MBSCC merged to form the FICC. The move was an attempt to become more cost-efficient in clearing and netting services. The merger went into effect in 2003, at which time the FICC began its operations.



The FICC provides the same services that were previously offered by the GSCC and the MSBCC but under two separate divisions.



The Government Securities Division: The GSD matches trades, clearing, risk management, and netting in real time for government issues, including Treasury bills, bonds, and notes, bonds, along with zero-coupon securities, government agency securities, and inflation-indexed securities.
The Mortgage-Backed Securities Division: The MBSD provides the mortgage-backed securities (MSBs) market with services like trade matching, confirmation, risk management, netting, and electronic pool notification. Some of the players in this market include mortgage lenders, government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), banks, and other financial institutions.



These two distinct subsidiaries of the DTCC essentially operate as the GSCC and MBSCC did in the past. While they do offer their own services to their own members, each maintains a separate collateral margin pool.
What Is a Government Security?  

In the investing world, "government security" applies to a range of investment products offered by a governmental body. For most readers, the most common types of government securities are those items issued by the U.S. Treasury in the form of Treasury bonds, bills, and notes. However, the governments of many nations will issue these debt instruments to fund necessary ongoing operations.



Government securities come with a promise of the full repayment of invested principal at maturity of the security. Some government securities may also pay periodic coupon or interest payments. These securities are considered conservative investments with low risk since they have the backing of the government that issued them.





Key Takeaways

Government securities are government debt issuances used to fund daily operations, and special infrastructure and military projects.They guarantee the full repayment of invested principal at the maturity of the security and often pay periodic coupon or interest payments.Government securities are considered to be risk-free as they have the backing of the government that issued them.The tradeoff of buying risk-free securities is that they tend to pay a lower rate of interest than corporate bonds.Investors in government securities will either hold them to maturity or sell them to other investors on the secondary bond market.


   Understanding Government Securities  

Government securities are debt instruments of a sovereign government. They sell these products to finance day-to-day governmental operations and provide funding for special infrastructure and military projects. These investments work in much the same way as a corporate debt issue. Corporations issue bonds as a way to gain capital for buying equipment, funding expansion, and paying off other debt. By issuing debt, governments can avoid hiking taxes or cutting other areas of spending in the budget each time they need additional funds for a project.



After issuing government securities, individual and institutional investors will buy them to either hold until maturity or sell to other investors on the secondary bond market. Investors buy and sell previously issued bonds in the market for a variety of reasons. They may be looking to earn interest income from the bond's periodic coupon payments or to allocate a portion of their portfolio into conservative risk-free assets. These investments are often considered risk-free because when it comes the time for redemption at maturity, the government can always print more money to satisfy the demand.






Government securities come in a variety of forms, but the best-known types are the ones issued by the U.S. Treasury—Treasury bonds, bills, and notes.


   The U.S. vs. Foreign Securities  

As already mentioned, the United States is only one of many countries that issues government securities to fund operations. U.S. Treasury bills, bonds, and notes are considered risk-free assets due to their backing by the American government. Italy, France, Germany, Japan, and many other nations also float government bonds.



However, government securities issued by foreign governments can carry the risk of default, which is the failure of paying back the principal amount invested. If a country's government collapses or there's instability, a default can occur. When purchasing foreign government securities, it's important to weigh the risks, which can include economic, country, and political risks.



As an example of such default risk, one needs to look no further than 1998 when Russia defaulted on its debt. Investors were shocked by their losses as the country devalued the ruble. This downturn came on the heel of—and was in some part brought about by—the Asian financial crisis of the same decade. The Asian crisis was a series of currency devaluations by many nations throughout Asia that sent shock waves around the financial globe.



Although U.S. government securities or Treasuries are risk-free investments, they tend to pay lower interest rates as compared to corporate bonds. As a result, fixed-rate government securities can pay a lower rate than other securities in a rising rate environment, which is called interest rate risk. Also, the low rate of return may not keep up with rising prices in the economy or the inflation rate.


   Buying Government Securities  

The U.S. Treasury Department issues government securities through auctions to institutional investors for buying and selling. Retail investors can purchase government securities directly from the Treasury Department’s website, banks, or through brokers. Since most U.S. government securities have the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, default on these products is unlikely.



The purchase of foreign government bonds—also known as Yankee bonds—is a bit more complicated than buying the American version of the securities. Investors must work with brokers who have international experience and may need to meet specific qualifications. Some investors will assume the heightened aspects of political risk along with currency risk, credit risk, and default risk to reap the greater yields. Some bonds will require the creation of offshore accounts, and have high minimum investment levels. Also, some foreign bonds fall into the category of junk bonds, due to the risk attached to their purchase.


   Controlling Money Supply Through Government Securities  

The Federal Reserve (the Fed) controls the flow of money through many policies, one of which is the selling of government bonds. As they sell bonds, they reduce the amount of money in the economy and push interest rates upward. The government can also repurchase these securities, affecting the money supply and influencing interest rates. Called open market operations (OMO) the Federal Reserve (the Fed) buys bonds on the open market, reducing their availability and pushing the price of the remaining bonds up.



As bond prices rise, bond yields fall driving interest rates in the overall economy lower. New issues of government bonds are also issued at lower yields in the market further driving down interest rates. As a result, The Fed can significantly impact the trajectory of interest rates and bond yields for many years.



The supply of money changes with this buying and selling, as well. When the Fed repurchases Treasuries from investors, the investors deposit the funds in their bank or spend the money elsewhere in the economy. This spending, in turn, stimulates retail sales and spurs economic growth. Also, as money flows into banks through deposits, it allows those banks to use those funds to lend to businesses or individuals, further stimulating the economy.





Pros

Government securities can offer a steady stream of interest income
Due to their low default risk, government securities tend to be safe-haven plays
Some government securities are exempt from state and local taxes
Government securities can be bought and sold easily
Government securities are available through mutual funds and exchange-traded funds



Cons

Government securities offer low rates of return relative to other securities
The interest rates of government securities don't usually keep up with inflation
Government securities issued by foreign governments can be risky
Government securities often pay a lower rate in a rising-rate market





   Examples of Government Securities  

Here are some of the most commonly issued government securities.


  Savings Bonds  

Savings bonds offer fixed interest rates over the term of the product. Should an investor hold a savings bond until its maturity they receive the face value of the bond plus any accrued interest based on the fixed interest rate. Once purchased, a savings bond cannot be redeemed for the first 12 months it is held. Also, redeeming a bond within the first five years means the owner will forfeit the months of accrued interest.


  T-Bills  

Treasury bills (T-Bills) have typical maturities of 4, 8, 13, 26, and 52 weeks. These short-term government securities pay a higher interest rate return as the maturity terms lengthen. For example, as of Sept. 10, 2021, the yield on the four-week T-bill was 0.06% while the one-year T-bill yielded 0.08%.


  Treasury Notes  

Treasury notes (T-Notes) have two, three, five, or 10-year maturities making them intermediate-term bonds. These notes pay a fixed-rate coupon or interest payment semiannually and will usually have $1,000 face values. Two and three-year notes have $5,000 face values.



Yields on T-Notes change daily. However, as an example, the 10-year yield closed at 1.35% on Sept. 10, 2021. Over a 52-week range, the yield varied between 0.07% and 0.08%.


  Treasury Bonds  

Treasury bonds (T-Bonds) have maturities of between 10 and 30 years. These investments have $1,000 face values and pay semiannual interest returns. The government uses these bonds to fund deficits in the federal budget. Also, as mentioned earlier, the Fed controls the money supply and interest rates through the buying and selling of this product.
What Is a Government Shutdown?  

A government shutdown happens when nonessential U.S. government offices can no longer remain open due to a lack of funding. The lack of funding usually occurs when there is a delay in the approval of the federal budget that will finance the government for the upcoming fiscal year. The shutdown remains in effect until funding legislation is passed.



During a government shutdown, many federally run operations will halt. Some organizations may still stay open by running on cash reserves, but once these funds run out, they will also close.



While shutdowns can also occur within the state, territorial, and local levels of government, the term "government shutdown" is usually used to refer to the federal government.





Key Takeaways

A government shutdown occurs when there is a failure to pass the necessary funding legislation that will finance the government for its next fiscal year.During a government shutdown, nonessential government offices are unable to remain open; some essential workers must continue to work but their pay may be furloughed.Veterans' benefits and unemployment payments continue to be paid.Long government shutdowns impact the entire American economy.


   Understanding a Government Shutdown  

During a government shutdown, the U.S. federal government is required to reduce agency activities and services and cease any non-essential operations (including furloughing non-essential workers).



Some agencies remain open during a government shutdown. These services are those that, if suspended, would endanger the health, life, or personal safety of the public. Essential employees in departments covering the safety of human life or protection of property also remain employed. However, these employees may not earn a paycheck during the time of the government shutdown unless a specific spending bill is passed to fund those work hours.



Essential employees include those working in the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). In addition, Both the Federal Reserve and the Postal Service will both continue their operations because neither receive federal funds. 



During a government shutdown, the disbursement of payments from government sources to citizens for veterans’ benefits or unemployment insurance will continue. These programs receive money from specially earmarked budgets and funds from advanced Congressional appropriations. Furloughed federal employees may also apply for temporary unemployment, but the processing of claims may be prolonged.



Government shutdowns can affect many government processing functions. Nonessential agencies who cannot self-fund through the collection of fees or other revenue sources may be forced to furlough, or give unpaid leave, to their employees. Most of the public will see the effect of the government shutdown in the lessening of services they may expect or receive. Perhaps the most visual of these closings is in the shutting down of national parks and monuments.



However, the real effects of a government shutdown are widespread. It may take longer or be impossible to process new loans for homes, businesses, and education. New applications for Social Security benefits and the processing of unemployment insurance will also slow. Death benefits and travel reimbursements will not be paid to the surviving family of service members killed during their military service.



There are various other impacts of a government shutdown. This includes the delay or halting of the United States Department of Agriculture's inspection of some food products and the preclusion of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) from recalling unsafe products, and travelers may be unable to receive new passports (which are issued by the U.S. Department of State). In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) may be unable to identify and track outbreaks of illness.



If the government shutdown remains in place long enough, more agencies will close or reduce the services they provide to the public as a whole, and a larger portion of the American population will begin to see the direct effects.


   Impact on the Economy  

As government operations slow or stop altogether, the effects may also spread to businesses in the private sector. It's possible that the entire economy may lose money as a result of this disruption in government operations. However, the overall cost and lasting impact of a government shutdown on the economy may vary. For example, the government shutdown of 2013, which lasted for 16 days, was estimated to have cost the U.S. economy $24 billion in losses.﻿﻿﻿



Furloughed federal employees may individually curtail their spending. Collectively, this can have an impact on local businesses; if a substantial number of federal workers are furloughed and not spending as expected, the companies that typically serve them may see a revenue decrease.



Companies that cater to the needs of federal agencies—office supply businesses, for example—will see the impact in reduced sales. Business such as hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services that cater to the visitors of U.S. national parks and monuments, will lose business during a shutdown. 



Furthermore, banks, while not government-controlled, are not able to access the information they need to process loan applications during government shutdowns. For example, banks must be able to verify the income submitted on the applicant's tax records during a loan application process. This can also produce reverberations in the economy as a whole because the fees that banks charge to process loans impact the bank's revenues, and, ultimately, the inability to finance a new home will impact the housing market as a whole.


   Special Considerations  

The funding of the U.S. government's budget is a long and complicated process that involves the coordination and cooperation of many stakeholders, including the president, the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the federal agencies and departments that will receive the funding. Many events may delay the budget's approval, including economic downturns, political politics, and the efforts of lobbyists.



Every year, governmental agencies submit budget requests to the White House to continue operations. The president and his staff review and revise these funding requests, and then petition Congress to provide the requested funds. The House and Senate Congressional Appropriations Committees will consider the president's funding request.



The committees will also typically make adjustments to the amounts the agencies initially asked to receive. After they reach a consensus on budget amounts, a bill goes to both the House of Representatives and the Senate. After a debate, there is a floor vote. Next, the bill is returned to the White House to be signed into law or vetoed.


   Real World Example  

At midnight on Dec. 21, 2018, the United States entered a government shutdown. President Trump and members of Congress were unable to agree on funding for the fiscal year 2019. This government shutdown impacted approximately 800,000 federal employees. In a fact sheet released by Senator Patrick Leahy, the Democratic vice chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it was revealed that more than 420,000 federal employees were expected to work without pay, and more than 380,000 federal employees would be placed on furlough. This shutdown lasted 35 days, the longest government shutdown in U.S. history.
What Is a Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE)?  

A government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) is a quasi-governmental entity established to enhance the flow of credit to specific sectors of the U.S. economy. Created by acts of Congress, these agencies—although they are privately held—provide public financial services. GSEs help to facilitate borrowing for a variety of individuals, including students, farmers, and homeowners.



For example, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (Freddie Mac) was originally created as a GSE in the housing sector. It was intended to encourage homeownership among the middle and working classes. Freddie Mac is considered a mortgage GSE.



Another example of mortgage GSEs is the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae). This entity was introduced to improve the flow of credit in the housing market (while also reducing the cost of that credit).





Key Takeaways


A government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) is a quasi-governmental entity established to enhance the flow of credit to specific sectors of the U.S. economy.
GSEs do not lend money to the public directly; instead, they guarantee third-party loans and purchase loans in the secondary market, ensuring liquidity.
GSEs also issue short- and long-term bonds (agency bonds) that carry the implicit backing of the U.S. government.
Mortgage issuers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are examples of government-sponsored enterprises.



   How a Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) Works  

GSEs do not lend money to the public directly. Instead, they guarantee third-party loans and purchase loans in the secondary market, thereby providing money to lenders and financial institutions.



GSEs also issue short- and long-term bonds, referred to as agency bonds. The degree to which an agency bond issuer is considered independent of the federal government impacts the level of its default risk. Bond investors holding most, but not all, types of agency bonds have their interest payments exempt from state and local taxes.



Although GSE bonds carry the implicit backing of the U.S. government, unlike Treasury bonds, they are not direct obligations of the U.S. government. For this reason, these securities offer a slightly higher yield than Treasury bonds, since they have a somewhat higher degree of credit risk and default risk.


   Examples of Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs)  

The first GSE, the Farm Credit System (FCS), was created in 1916 to serve the farming sector. The FCS still exists as a network of federally chartered, borrower-owned lending institutions. They are tasked with providing an accessible source of credit to farmers, ranchers, and other entities involved in agriculture.



The FCS receives its funding capital from the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corp., which sells bonds on securities markets. Another farming GSE, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corp. (Farmer Mac), was created in 1988 and guarantees the timely repayment of principal and interest to agricultural bond investors.



To stimulate the housing segment, in 1932, the government established the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) system, which is owned by more than 8,000 community financial institutions. Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, and Freddie Mac were chartered later—in 1938, 1968, and 1970, respectively. The housing GSEs purchase mortgages from lenders on the secondary mortgage markets. The proceeds from the sale are used by lenders to provide more credit to borrowers or mortgagors.






One difference between Ginnie Mae and Fannie Mae is that Ginnie Mae is owned by the government and part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Therefore, it's not considered a GSE.



SLM Corp. (Sallie Mae) was created in 1972 to target the education sector. While the establishment originally serviced and collected federal student loans on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education, it ended its ties to the government in 2004. Sallie Mae now offers student loans privately, along with advice on financing higher education and federal loan programs.


   Special Considerations  

The aggregate loans of GSEs in the secondary market make them some of the largest financial institutions in the United States. A collapse of even one GSE could lead to a downward spiral in the markets, which could lead to an economic disaster. Since they have an implicit guarantee from the government that they will not be allowed to fail, GSEs are considered by critics to be stealth recipients of corporate welfare.



In fact, following the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac received a combined $187 billion worth of federal assistance. This large sum was intended to mitigate the negative impact that the wave of defaults was wreaking on the housing market and the national economy. They were also placed into government conservatorship. Both agencies have repaid their respective bailouts since then, though they remain under the control of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.




What Is a Government-Sponsored Enterprise?
A government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) is an entity that Congress created to increase the flow of credit in certain areas of the U.S. economy, particularly real estate. GSEs differ from government agencies. The main difference is that GSEs are privately held organizations, while government agencies are run directly by the federal government.




What Is an Example of a Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE)?
The Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (Freddie Mac), and the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) system are government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) in the housing finance market. SLM Corp. (Sallie Mae) is a student loan GSE. And the Farm Credit System (FCS) and the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corp. (Farmer Mac) are agricultural GSEs.




Is Freddie Mac a government-sponsored enterprise?
Yes. Freddie Mac is a government-sponsored enterprise in the housing finance market. As a housing GSE, Freddie Mac is a “federally chartered, shareholder-owned, private company with a public mission to provide stability in and increase the liquidity of the residential mortgage market,” according to The White House. Freddie Mac also helps increase the availability of mortgage credit to low- and moderate-income families and in underserved areas.


   The Bottom Line  

Congress created government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) to increase stability and liquidity in certain areas of the U.S. economy, particularly real estate. GSEs do not loan money to consumers. Rather, they guarantee certain loan products, making financing more widely available, especially for consumers who may not otherwise qualify.



Correction—May 29, 2023: The latest version of this article has removed Ginnie Mae as an example of GSE.
What Is a Government-Sponsored Retirement Arrangement (GSRA)?  

A Government-Sponsored Retirement Arrangement (GSRA) is a Canadian retirement plan for individuals who are not employees of a local, provincial, or federal government body, but who are paid for their services from public funds. Because this type of retirement plan is not registered with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA)—the Canadian equivalent of the American IRS—it does not qualify for tax-deferred status or tax deductions.





Key Takeaways

A Government-Sponsored Retirement Arrangement (GSRA) is a Canadian retirement plan for individuals who are not government or civil employees, but who are paid for their services from public funds.Contributions to a GSRA are not tax-deductible.Canadian regulations limit the amount that GSRA-holders can contribute to their tax-advantaged registered retirement savings plans.


   Understanding Government-Sponsored Retirement Arrangements (GSRAs)  

Government-Sponsored Retirement Arrangements are typically available to people who are employed by a private agency that derives its revenue from the Canadian federal government. Contributions to a GSRA are not tax-deductible. Furthermore, Canadian regulations limit the amount that GSRA-holders can contribute to their registered retirement savings plans (RRSPs), Canada's equivalent of American tax-advantaged retirement accounts like the 401 (k) plan and the IRA.


   Canadian Savings Plans  

While GSRAs don't carry many tax benefits, Canadian law allows a variety of tax-advantaged plans and services.


  Registered Retirement Savings Plans  

A Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) is a retirement savings plan that you establish, that the government registers, and to which you or your spouse or common-law partner contribute. Deductible RRSP contributions can be used to reduce your tax. Any income you earn in the RRSP is usually exempt from tax as long as the funds remain in the plan; you generally have to pay tax when you receive payments from the plan.


  Tax-Free Savings Accounts  

The Tax-Free Savings Account (TFSA) program began in 2009. It is a way for individuals who are 18 and older and who have a valid social insurance number to set money aside tax-free throughout their lifetime. Contributions to a TFSA are not deductible for income tax purposes. Any amount contributed as well as any income earned in the account (for example, investment income and capital gains) is generally tax-free, even when it is withdrawn. Administrative or other fees in relation to TFSA and any interest or money borrowed to contribute to a TFSA are not deductible.


  Pooled Registered Pension Plans  

A Pooled Registered Pension Plan (PRPP) is a retirement savings option for individuals, including self-employed individuals. A PRPP enables its members to benefit from lower administration costs that result from participating in a large, pooled pension plan. It's also portable, so it moves with its members from job to job.



Since the investment options within a PRPP are similar to those for other registered pension plans, its members can benefit from greater flexibility in managing their savings and meeting their retirement objectives.


  Registered Disability Savings Plans  

A registered disability savings plan (RDSP) is a savings plan that is intended to help parents and others save for the long-term financial security of a person who is eligible for the disability tax credit (DTC).



Contributions to an RDSP are not tax-deductible and can be made until the end of the year in which the beneficiary turns 59. Contributions that are withdrawn are not included as income to the beneficiary when they are paid out of an RDSP.



However, the Canada disability savings grant, the Canada disability savings bond, investment income earned in the plan, and the proceeds from rollovers are included in the beneficiary's income for tax purposes when they are paid out of the RDSP.
What Is a Government-Wide Acquisition Contract (GWAC)?  

A government-wide acquisition contract (GWAC) is a contract in which multiple government agencies align their needs and purchase a contract for goods or services. Government-wide acquisition contracts (GWACs) allow for economies of scale, which usually reduce per-unit costs.



These contracts are typically used to purchase new technology, such as computers. With a GWAC, the federal government can get innovative solutions for information technology systems at an improved cost to taxpayers footing the bill. This type of contract may be spearheaded by one particular agency with the expectation that more agencies will follow suit.





Key Takeaways

A government-wide acquisition contract (GWAC) is a contract in which multiple government agencies purchase products or services together with the goal of paying lower costs.GWACs are typically used to purchase new technology and are utilized primarily for information technology solutions.GWACs are available through the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), the National Aeronautics Space Association (NASA), and the National Institute of Health (NIH).GWACs have grown in popularity over the years when compared to single-agency contracts.


   Understanding Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWAC)  

The rise of government-wide acquisition contracts has allowed government agencies to take advantage of their size to negotiate lower prices. Their use has also created an environment in which a single vendor will provide product and service support to more personnel.



By having one agency evaluate a vendor for multiple agencies' needs, the federal government can reduce the likelihood that other agencies will have to "reinvent the wheel" by undertaking their own, separate vetting process.



According to the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), the IT solutions that GWACs provide access to include systems design, software engineering, information assurance, and enterprise architecture solutions.



In addition to GWACs under GSA, there are GWACs from NASA and the National Institute of Health (NIH). All of these entities allow for the government to procure a variety of contracts to obtain informational technology solutions at a low cost with a variety of tech companies that have been approved to participate.






A government-wide acquisition contract consolidates purchases as opposed to having each agency enter into an individual contract.



The GWAC Prices Paid Tool provides federal agencies with detailed information on how their IT dollars are spent on GSA GWACs. These tools help provide a realistic price analysis, negotiations, independent government cost estimates (IGCE), and aid in benchmarking competitive prices.



Government-wide agency contracts (GWACs) have become more popular in the last five years when compared to agency-specific contracts. In 2015, GWACs were 12% of spend and grew to 20% of spend in 2019. The primary reason for the growth is cost and convenience and GWACs are expected to continue growing in popularity.


   Types of Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs)  
  Stars II  

The Stars II GWAC "offers access to highly qualified, certified 8(a) small disadvantaged businesses. The contract has a $22 billion program ceiling." This is offered through the GSA.


  Vets 2  

The VETS 2 GWAC is uniquely set aside for the exclusive use of Service-Disabled, Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB). VETS 2 is designed to provide a series of information technology systems for the federal government, including new and emerging technologies. The contract program ceiling is $5 billion. Vets 2 is offered through the GSA.


  Alliant 2 (A2)  

The Alliant 2 GWAC provides IT solutions that can be purchased as a total package, covering hardware, software, and services.This is also offered through the GSA.


  SEWP  

NASA's GWACs are known as SEWPs (Solutions for Enterprise-Wide Procurement). They provide the government with tablets, desktops, servers, IT peripherals, network equipment, storage systems, security tools, software products, cloud-based services, and more.


  NITAAC  

The NIH Information Technology Acquisition and Assessment Center (NITAAC) operates through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the National Institute of Health (NIH). It offers GWACs through three separate programs: CIO-SP3, CIO-SP3 Small Businesses, and CIO-CS, which is focused on IT commodities.


   How to Use a Government-Wide Acquisition Contract (GWAC)  

Using a GWAC to buy IT solutions for a specific federal agency comes with a few steps, which are as follows:



Attend TrainingRequest Procurement AuthorityIssue the Task OrderRequest an Optional Scope ReviewRequest an Optional Capabilities StatementReport Contract ActionsReview Past Performance
What Is a Grace Period?  

A grace period is a set length of time after the due date during which payment may be made without penalty. A grace period, typically of 15 days, is commonly included in mortgage loan and insurance contracts.





Key Takeaways

Borrowers can use a grace period to pay a late bill without negative impact.A mortgage loan usually offers a built-in grace period.If a loan or other agreement has a grace period, its length of time will be noted in the contract.A grace period is not the same as a deferment, in which a borrower may forgo payments due to financial hardship or other reasons. It is important to carefully review all contracts to understand the consequences of failing to make a payment before the end of the grace period.


   How a Grace Period Works  

A grace period allows a borrower or insurance customer to delay payment for a short period of time beyond the due date. During this period no late fees are charged, and the delay cannot result in default or cancellation of the loan or contract.



In most cases, payment after the due date but during the grace period does not cause a black mark to be added to the borrower’s credit report.



However, it’s important to check the contract for the specifics on the grace period. Under some loan contracts, no additional interest is charged during the grace period, but the majority add compound interest during the grace period.



When defining a grace period on a loan, it is important to note that credit cards do not have grace periods for their monthly minimum payments. A penalty for late payment is added immediately after the due date and interest continues to be compounded daily.






A payment after the due date but during the grace period generally does not cause a black mark on the borrower’s credit report.



However, the term grace period is used to describe one scenario in consumer credit: A period of time before which interest may be charged on new purchases on a credit card is called a grace period. This grace period of 21 days is meant to protect consumers from being charged interest on a purchase before the monthly payment is due.


   Examples of Grace Periods  

If a consumer has a mortgage with a due date on the fifth of every month—and the contract has provided a five-day grace period—the payment can be received as late as the 10th of the month without the borrower incurring any penalties. This is an example of a loan grace period in a mortgage loan.



The grace period for credit card purchases is a newer phenomenon and was established with the Credit Card Act of 2009. Before that consumer protection law went into effect, some lenders began charging interest on purchases immediately after they were made.



Even a consumer who paid off a new purchase in full by the next payment date would be charged interest before the bill was even received. The act includes a provision that requires credit card issuers to give a grace period of at least 21 days for the borrower to repay the charge without incurring any interest charges on the purchase.



Notably, this grace period does not necessarily apply to cash advances or balance transfers. The terms of these are detailed in the credit card agreement.


   Grace Period vs. Deferment  

Similar to grace periods, a deferment is a period of time in which a borrower is not required to make payments on a loan, usually in cases of financial hardship. Unlike grace periods, deferment is usually not automatic; borrowers typically have to request or apply for a deferment and provide documentation to show why they are unable to make payments. In most cases, loans continue to accrue interest during a deferment, so it is wise to make any payments that you can during these periods.






Loans may accrue interest during a deferment or grace period, depending on the terms of the contract. You should continue paying as much as possible to avoid paying extra further down the line.


   Special Considerations  

Any contract that has a grace period will also include language that explains what will happen if the payment is not made by the end of that period. Penalties can include a late payment fee, a penalty interest rate hike, or the cancellation of a line of credit. In cases where an asset is pledged as collateral, multiple missed payments can result in the seizure of the asset by the lending institution.




What Does Grace Period Mean?
A grace period is the period of time after payment is due but before late fees, interest, or other penalties start to accrue. Different contracts will have different grace periods; a monthly rental contract might have a grace period of five days, while student loan contracts have a grace period of six months after graduation.




What Are Some Things You Can Do During the Grace Period?
For student borrowers, the six-month grace period is often used to find a job, choose a repayment plan that fits their budget, or enroll in another higher education program. This allows borrowers to establish a career before loan payments begin.




What Is Another Word for Grace Period?
Grace periods are sometimes referred to as "forgiveness periods," although this is a misnomer. Debt obligations are not forgiven during grace periods, they are simply postponed for a short period of time.Grace periods should not be confused for deferments or moratoriums, which are time periods in which a lender allows the borrower to miss payments due to hardships or other reasons.




What Is the Grace Period of an Insurance Policy?
In insurance, the grace period is the time between the payment due date and the time when insurance coverage will be revoked due to nonpayment. This may be anywhere between 24 hours and a full month after payment.If you miss a payment and later choose to reinstate coverage, your insurer may choose to inspect the property to make sure that there has been no new damage during the grace period. There may be additional penalties for late payment.




What Is a Grace Period for Work?
In employment, the grace period refers to the time after a new shift begins, in which a late employee will not face any penalty. A typical grace period is seven minutes, since most time clocks round to the nearest quarter-hour.There is also a grace period for foreign specialists on work visas. If an employee is terminated from their sponsoring employer, they may remain in the United States for up to two months to find a new job.


   The Bottom Line  

Grace periods allow borrowers to miss a payment due date without suffering additional penalties. A generous grace period can be a lifeline to forgetful borrowers or those with short-term hardships. However, a grace period is not an excuse to miss a payment. It's important to carefully read the terms of any contract in order to understand your obligations and options for payment.
What Is Graded Vesting?  

Graded vesting is the process by which employees gain, over time, ownership of employer contributions made to the employee's retirement plan account, traditional pension benefits, or stock options. Graded vesting differs from cliff vesting, in which employees become fully vested following an initial period of service; and immediate vesting, in which contributions are owned by the employee as soon as they start the job.





Key Takeaways

Graded vesting is just like it sounds, vesting employees over a gradual period of time instead of all at once.Some think graded vesting is better than cliff investing (all at once) as it removes the temptation of quitting on a hard date.Certain contributions to retirement accounts are vested immediately, such as with SEP and Simple IRAs. 


   Understanding Graded Vesting  

Graded vesting encourages employee loyalty since the vesting plays out over a few years of continuous employment. Many employers offer matching contributions to workers’ tax-deferred retirement accounts as a way to attract employees and to score corporate tax benefits. In some cases, these matches are 100%, up to certain limitations, perhaps 7% of salary. In that case, an employee who earns $75,000 and contributes 7% of their earnings to a 401(k) account would save $10,500 towards retirement every year, with only $5,250 coming out of their own pocket. 



Over many years, that employer contribution dramatically boosts retirement savings. But while those contributions are real money that gets invested every year, the principal and potential gains show up only on paper until the employee is vested.



Employers must follow certain federal laws that determine the longest allowable vesting periods, generally six years; however, they are free to choose shorter periods. In addition, if a plan is terminated, all participants become fully vested immediately. Contributions to SEPs and Simple IRAs always fully vest immediately. And an employee’s personal contributions to any retirement plan are always fully vested and belong to the employee even should they leave the job.



It’s important for employees to understand their company vesting schedule, since quitting a job before the full vesting period could mean leaving free money on the table, whether in the form of tax-deferred retirement savings, a pension plan, or stock options.






Any principal and potential gains show up only on paper until the employee is vested.


  A Typical Graded Vesting Schedule Is Six Years  

In a typical graded vesting schedule, an employee becomes vested in 20% of their accrued benefits following an initial period of service, with an additional 20% in each following year until full vesting occurs. The initial period of service often varies. 



For example, if an employer's contribution is based on a fixed percentage of the employee's contribution, the initial period of service might be two years. After two years, the employee would be 20% vested, after three years, 40%, with the employee eventually becoming fully vested after six years.



Some companies feel that the gradual vesting of the employee helps to retain the employee over a longer period of time than cliff investing. The thought behind this is if an employee is gradually "rewarded" with their vestments, they are more likely to feel taken care of by the company.
What Is the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT)?  

The graduate management admission test (GMAT) is a standardized test used to measure a test taker's aptitude in mathematics, verbal skills, and analytical writing. The GMAT is most commonly used as the primary exam reviewed by business schools to gain entrance into an MBA program. The exam is generally offered by computer only; in areas of the world where computer networks are limited, the exam may be given as a paper-based test.





Key Takeaways

The GMAT, which stands for the Graduate Management Admission Test, is the most common test used by business schools to assess candidates.The test consists of four sections: analytical writing, verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and integrated reasoning.Overall, the GMAT takes three and one-half hours to complete and has a max score of 800 points.


   Understanding the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT)  

The GMAT exam consists of four sections: analytical writing assessment, verbal reasoning, integrated reasoning, and quantitative reasoning. The maximum score achievable for the GMAT is 800, and exam scores are generally valid for five years following the exam's completion. On average, the exam takes three and one-half hours to complete.



Every year, over 255,000 individuals take the GMAT. As of August 2023, it costs $275 to take the test at a test center and $300 to take it online in the U.S. Due to the widespread nature of the admissions test, GMATs are offered almost every day of the year and can be taken every 16 calendar days. However, the test can be taken no more than eight times total and no more than five times in a 12-month period. Most applicants take the exam once or twice before applying.


   How the GMAT Is Applied  

The Graduate Management Admission Council administers the exam. In addition to testing comprehension of writing and math, the GMAT is also used to assess an individual’s critical reasoning skills and logic as applicable to business and management in the real world.



Starting in 2012, the exam added a section called Integrated Reasoning, which assesses an individual’s evaluation skills for dealing with information gathered from multiple sources and in new formats. This section also intends to test students in the context of working with data and technology.



Approximately 3,391 graduate programs and institutions around the world use the GMAT to assess applicants to their programs. The Graduate Management Admission Council has recommended that the GMAT be used as one factor for determining whether a student is accepted into a program.






The council cautions that for some international students, the writing analysis section might show the limits of their English language comprehension rather than their critical thinking and reasoning capacity.



Moreover, the nature of the exams and what they test the applicants on make it inappropriate to treat both exams similarly. The Graduate Management Admission Council recommends not using a so-called cutoff score when reviewing applicants but instead looking at their applications holistically. If a cutoff score is implemented, the council suggests the institution take additional measures to show that the cutoff does not lead to discrimination based on age, sex, or ethnicity.


   Requirements for the GMAT  

The Graduate Management Admissions Council requires identification to take the test, which can include:



International travel passport—a passport is always required when taking the exam at a location outside of your country. Expired passports are not acceptable.Green Cards (Permanent Resident Cards) for non-citizen residentsGovernment-issued driver's licenseGovernment-issued national/state/province identity cardMilitary ID card



Acceptable identification varies by country, so you should check the GMAC's website to learn what is acceptable in your country. In addition to having proper identification, you should be eligible to apply for a graduate program at the school you wish to attend.


   GMAT vs. GRE  

Compared to the GMAT's four, the GRE has three sections: an Analytical Writing Assessment, a Quantitative section, and a Verbal section. You're given three hours and 45 minutes to finish the test, the maximum score you can achieve is 170, and the average test score is 150.8.



It is not uncommon for graduate programs to use either the GMAT or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) to assess an applicant. Due to the differences in how the two tests are scaled, GMAT and GRE scores cannot be directly compared. However, some schools accept either the GMAT or the GRE, depending on the program you're applying for. Many graduate programs use the GRE, while more business graduate programs use the GMAT.




Is the GMAT Hard or Easy?
The GMAT requires that you have the critical thinking and reasoning skills required of business leaders. You might need to study and prepare for the test, or you might not—whether it is hard depends on your experiences, knowledge, and level of preparation.




Is 700 a Bad GMAT Score?
The maximum score on the GMAT is 800; the average score in 2022 was 651. So, a score of 700 is above average, but the closer you get to 800, the better it is for your application.




Do Colleges Prefer GMAT or GRE?
It depends on the college you're applying to and the program you wish to study. Colleges might prefer the GMAT over the GRE if you're interested in business. However, it's up to the specific college you're applying to whether it accepts the GRE or GMAT for your area of interest.


   The Bottom Line  

The GMAT is a test designed to evaluate your ability to think critically and make decisions using math, analytical, and communication skills. It is accepted at most business schools and is one of the first steps to take if you're considering a graduate degree in business.
What Is a Graduated Lease?  

A graduated lease is an agreement under which a tenant and landlord agree to a periodic adjustment of monthly payments. For example, the agreement may reflect an increase in the tenant’s payments due to market conditions or an increase in the value of the leased property.


   How a Graduated Lease Works  

A graduated lease tends to benefit the property owner over the long term, but the arrangement offers advantages to both the landlord and the tenant. A graduated lease allows the property owner or lessor the opportunity to charge increased rent as property values increase over time. The tenant or lessee can take possession of a property at what may be a discounted rate in the short term. This can often help during the ramp-up stage of a new business venture.





Key Takeaways

A graduated lease is an agreement between a landlord and tenant, or a lessor and a lessee, that sets out a periodic adjustment of monthly payments.A tenant may be required to pay a higher rent due to market conditions or an increase in the value of the leased property.A graduated lease may be a better fit for real estate agreements where values appreciate over time.



Graduated leases are also known as graded leases. Graduated leases tend to be structured for longer terms than traditional straight or fixed leases, which typically have one to two-year terms.



From a lender’s perspective, a graduated lease is a better fit for real estate agreements than equipment agreements because real estate values tend to appreciate over time. A lessor would be unlikely to offer a graduated lease on an automobile, for instance, because the value of a car depreciates steadily over time. This depreciation could lead to decreasing monthly payments.


   Triggers for Rent Increase Under a Graduated Lease  

Traditionally, adjustments in graduated leases occur due to one of the following four factors:



An escalator clause. Many graduated lease agreements contain an escalator clause triggered by a rise in an economic index. This can also be known as an index clause. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) or 10-year U.S. Treasury Bond are common benchmarks. When prices rise, the landlord can raise monthly lease payments.
A reappraisal clause. A lease agreement may also contain a reappraisal clause which allows for a hike in rent following an annual appraisal of the property. Again, this is likely only to result in an increase in rent.
A participation clause. This type of clause can force the tenant to contribute to increases in expenses such as utilities, taxes, or maintenance. These hikes can be limited by an expense stop provision.
A step-up lease. This type of lease is a form of graduated lease whereby increases in rent are built into the agreement and may be used for the lease of an asset that will depreciate in value, such as machinery. A start-up may enter into a step-up lease to avoid large payments upfront to buy machinery. The start-up anticipates future cash flows arising from the use of the equipment that will allow them to cover larger payments in the future.
What Is a Graduated Payment Mortgage (GPM)?  

A graduated payment mortgage (GPM) is a type of fixed-rate mortgage for which the payments increase gradually from an initial low base level to a higher final level. Typically, the payments will grow between 7% to 12% annually from their initial base payment amount until the full monthly payment amount is reached.





Key Takeaways

A graduated payment mortgage (GPM) is a type of fixed-rate mortgage with an amortization schedule that provides lower payments early on that then increase over time.The purpose of a GPM is to allow homeowners to start off with lower monthly mortgage payments to help certain people qualify for their loans.Total costs over the life of a GPM loan tend to be greater than those of a standard mortgage, and homeowners who were able to afford earlier payments may find themselves in financial trouble as monthly bills rise over time.


   How Graduated Payment Mortgages Work  

A graduated payment mortgage is designed to start with the homeowner owing minimum payments. Then, over time, the payment amount increases. A low initial interest rate is what qualifies the buyer. This lower rate allows many who might not otherwise qualify for a home mortgage to be eligible because they can afford the low initial payments. Had the note been written at a higher interest rate, these buyers may not have qualified due to the higher monthly payments. This type of mortgage payment system may be optimal for young or first-time homeowners because their income levels tend to rise gradually.



A graduated payment mortgage may or may not be a negative amortization loan. If the initial payment amount is less than the accruing interest on the mortgage loan, the graduated payment mortgage is a negative amortization loan. With a negative amortization loan, the payments the borrower makes are less than the interest charged on the note. This payment structure creates deferred interest, which adds to the total principal of the loan.



Graduated payment mortgages are only available on loans from the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). FHA loans allow low- to moderate-income borrowers who are unable to make a large down payment finance up to 96.5% of the home's value.


   Benefits of a Graduated Payment Mortgage  

Graduated payment mortgages can offer homebuyers some key benefits. Some of the advantages associated with graduated payment mortgage loans include:



Potentially easier qualification for a mortgage, based on incomeLower payments initially, with payments that grow as your income doesFlexibility with budgeting monthly expenses



Choosing a graduated payment mortgage could make it easier to buy a home now versus having to wait until later when you're earning a higher income. You may also be able to get more home for your money by accepting a payment structure that evolves alongside your income. The key is the relative certainty that you'll be able to afford your mortgage payments over time as they increase.


   Drawbacks of a Graduated Payment Mortgage  

The primary disadvantage of a graduated payment mortgage is that the total costs associated with the mortgage are higher than those of a traditional mortgage. As payments grow to higher interest rates, the borrower may find they are only paying the interest charges and not reducing the principal borrowed. 



Also, if the graduated payment mortgage is a negative amortization loan, the borrower will pay even more interest on the loan. As deferred interest adds to the principal borrowed, this value grows, then interest calculations are based on the more substantial amount.



Another major drawback that must bear consideration is that with a graduated payment mortgage, there is no guarantee that the borrower’s income will increase in step with the increased mortgage payments. If the borrower’s income does not rise in proportion with the monthly debt, they may default on the loan. The default will further damage their credit, and the lender will foreclose on the property.





Note

Paying off a graduated payment mortgage ahead of schedule could result in a prepayment penalty.


   Graduated Payment Example  

It can help to see an example of what a graduated payment mortgage looks like. So, assume you're taking out a $300,000 loan with a 30-year repayment term at 3%. The annual graduation rate is 2% with a total of five annual graduations. Here's what your payment might look like:









Graduated Payment Mortgage Schedule




 Year
Payment Amount


 1
 $1161.50


 2
 $1184.73


 3
 $1208.43


 4
 $1232.60


 5
 $1257.25


 6-30
 $1282.39






So what would your mortgage cost if you borrowed $300,000 at 3% over a 30-year term with no graduations? Your monthly payment for principal and interest would come to $1,265.





Tip

Using a graduated payment mortgage calculator can help with estimating monthly payments versus what you might pay for a traditional mortgage loan.


   Graduated Payment Mortgage vs. Adjustable-Rate Mortgage  

Though a graduated payment mortgage may seem like a type of adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM), it is not the same thing. 



An adjustable-rate mortgage fluctuates periodically to reflect the market interest rate. The ARM rate is adjusted periodically, but not on a fixed schedule. Also, the interest rate may decrease or climb due to its basis on the going market rate. Conversely, the interest rate on a graduated payment mortgage only goes up.





Important

Some ARMs allow for interest-only payments. Though this may result in a lower monthly payment, it won't help you to reduce the principal owed on the loan.


   FAQs  


What Is a Graduated Payment Mortgage?
A graduated payment mortgage is a type of home loan in which monthly payments start out at one amount then increase gradually over time. This type of mortgage is designed to help homebuyers who may have difficulty qualifying for a loan because they earn a lower income.




Who Should Consider a Graduated Payment Mortgage?
A graduated payment mortgage may be right for someone who expects their income to increase steadily in future years. If you don't have a realistic expectation that your income will rise over time, a graduated payment mortgage could be problematic as your monthly payments increase.




How Are Graduated Payments Calculated?
Graduated payments are calculated using the mortgage loan amount, the interest rate, the annual graduation rate, and the number of graduations applied. You can calculate monthly payments for a graduated mortgage using an online loan calculator.
What Is the Graham Number?  

The Graham number (or Benjamin Graham's number) measures a stock's fundamental value by taking into account the company's earnings per share (EPS) and book value per share (BVPS).



The Graham number is the upper bound of the price range that a defensive investor should pay for the stock. According to the theory, any stock price below the Graham number is considered undervalued and thus worth investing in.





Key Takeaways

The Graham number is a metric to determine the highest price that an investor should pay for a particular stock.It was developed by legendary value investor Benjamin Graham.The number is arrived at using a company's earnings and book value, both on a per-share basis.The Graham number is normalized by a factor of 22.5, to represent an 'ideal' P/E ratio of no more than 15x and a P/B of 1.5x.


   The Formula for Graham Number  








22.5


 


×


 (earnings per share) 


×


 (book value per share)





\sqrt{22.5\ \times\ \text{(earnings per share)}\ \times\ \text{(book value per share)}}


22.5 × (earnings per share) × (book value per share)​



Where:



Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated as a company's net profit divided by the number of outstanding shares of its common stock.
Book value per share (BVPS) is the ratio of equity available to common shareholders divided by the number of outstanding shares. This figure represents the minimum value of a company's equity and measures the book value of a firm on a per-share basis.


   Understanding the Graham Number  

The Graham number is named after the "father of value investing," Benjamin Graham. It is used as a general test when trying to identify stocks that are currently selling for a good price. The 22.5 figure is included in the calculation to account for Graham's belief that the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio should not be over 15x and the BVPS should not be over 1.5x (thus, 15 x 1.5 = 22.5).



The Graham number can thus be alternatively calculated as:










15


 


×


 


1.5


 


×


 



(



net income


shares outstanding



)



 


×


 



(



shareholders’ equity


shares outstanding



)






\sqrt{15\ \times\ 1.5\ \times\ \left(\frac{\text{net income}}{\text{shares outstanding}}\right)\ \times\ \left(\frac{\text{shareholders' equity}}{\text{shares outstanding}}\right)}


15 × 1.5 × (shares outstandingnet income​) × (shares outstandingshareholders’ equity​)​



Essentially, this second method of calculation is equivalent to the first, wherein EPS = net income/shares outstanding, and book value is another term for shareholders’ equity.






According to Benjamin Graham, the current price should not be more than 1 1/2 times the book value last reported. However, a multiplier of earnings below 15 could justify a correspondingly higher multiplier of assets. As a rule of thumb, the product of the multiplier times the ratio of price to book value should not exceed 22.5. 


   Example of the Graham Number  

For example, if the earning per share for a single share of company ABC is $1.50, the book value per share is $10, the Graham number would be 18.37. ((22.5*1.5*10)1/2= 18.37). Again, $18.37 is the maximum price an investor should pay for a share of ABC, according to Graham. If ABC is priced at $16, it is attractive; if priced at $19, it should be avoided.


   Limitations of the Graham Number  

The calculation for the Graham number does leave out many fundamental characteristics, which are considered to comprise a good investment, such as management quality, major shareholders, industry characteristics, and the competitive landscape.



With regard to stocks and equity instruments, fundamental analysis is a method of determining the value that focuses on key metrics and economic indicators, such as revenues, earnings, where an industry is in its cycle, return on equity (ROE), and profit margins.



Fundamental analysis relies on a company’s financial statements. One of the most famous and successful fundamental analysts, Warren Buffett—aka "the Oracle of Omaha"—is famous for successfully employing fundamental analysis. Warren Buffett was both a student and employee of Benjamin Graham. The fundamental method of security analysis is considered to be the opposite of technical analysis.




What Is a Good Graham's Number?
Graham's number will always present a maximum stock price given a company's EPS and BVPS. As a result, any stock price below that figure should signal a good buy for a value investor.




How Does the Graham Number Work in Value Investing?
The Graham number takes a company's per-share metrics and normalizes it based on a recommended upward limit for value investors of 15x P/E and 1.5x P/B.




Who Was Benjamin Graham?
Benjamin Graham is one of the founding fathers of value investing, and a financial guru to many famous value investors such as Warren Buffett. Graham's philosophy was to closely examine a company's financial statements to identify undervalued opportunities. His book, The Interpretation of Financial Statements is widely regarded as foundational for value investing.
What Is the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA)?  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) was a bi-partisan regulation under President Bill Clinton, passed by Congress on November 12, 1999. The GLBA was an attempt to update and modernize the financial industry. The GLBA is most well-known as the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which stated that commercial banks were not allowed to offer financial services—like investments and insurance-related services—as part of normal operations.





Key Takeaways

The act was passed in late 1999 and allows banks to offer financial services previously forbidden by the Glass-Steagall Act.Under the GLBA, each manager or service-person is only allowed to sell or manage one type of financial product/instrument.All banks must share their information-sharing practices with the customer.


   Understanding the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA)  

Due to the remarkable losses incurred as a result of 1929's Black Tuesday and Thursday, the Glass-Steagall Act was originally created to protect bank depositors from additional exposure to risk, associated with stock market volatility. As a result, for many years, commercial banks were not legally allowed to act as brokers. Since many regulations have been instituted since the 1930s to protect bank depositors, GLBA was created to allow these financial industry participants to offer more services.



GLBA was passed on the heels of commercial bank Citicorp merger with the insurance firm Travelers Group. This led to the formation of the conglomerate Citigroup, which offered not only commercial banking and insurance services, but also lines of business related to securities. Its brands at this stage included Citibank, Smith Barney, Primerica, and Travelers. Citicorp merger was a violation of the then-existing Glass–Steagall Act, as well as the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.






The act is also known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act.



To allow the merger to take place, the U.S. Federal Reserve gave Citigroup a temporary waiver in September 1998—a precursor to Congress’s passage of GLBA. Moving forward, other similar mergers would be fully legal. Repealing Glass–Steagall also removed the ban of “simultaneous service by any officer, director, or employee of a securities firm as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank.”


   The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Consumer Privacy  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also required financial institutions offering consumers loan services, financial or investment advice, and/or insurance, to fully explain their information-sharing practices to their customers. Firms must allow their customers the option to "opt-out" if they do not want their sensitive information shared.



While many consider critical information, such as bank balances and account numbers, to be confidential, in reality, this data is consistently bought and sold by banks, credit card companies, and others. Gramm-Leach-Bliley required limited privacy protections against such personal data sales, along with pretexting (obtaining personal information through false pretenses).
What Is a Grandfather Clause?  

A grandfather clause, also called a “legacy clause,” is an exemption that allows persons or entities to continue with activities or operations that were approved before the implementation of new rules, regulations, or laws. Such allowances can be permanent, temporary, or instituted with limits.





Key Takeaways

A grandfather or legacy clause is a provision that allows people or entities to follow old rules that once governed their activity instead of newly implemented ones, often for a limited time.The “grandfather clause” term originated after the U.S. Civil War and referred to statutes enacted in the South to keep African Americans from voting.Grandfather clauses can be permanent, temporary, or instituted with limits.Grandfather clauses often apply to zoning laws when the purpose of a development changes.


   How a Grandfather Clause Works  

Generally speaking, a grandfather clause only exempts people or entities engaged in specified activities before new rules were put in place. All other parties entering the market post-implementation are required to abide by the new rules.



As a result, grandfather clauses effectively place two sets of rules or regulations on otherwise similar businesses or circumstances, which can create unfair competitive advantages for exempted parties. In these situations grandfather clauses may only be granted for a set period of time, thereby encouraging the party with an exemption to work toward compliance with the new rules before the grace period elapses.


   History of the Grandfather Clause  

The origin of the term “grandfather clause” refers to statutes put in place after the Civil War by seven Southern states in an attempt to block African Americans from voting. The statutes enumerated new voting requirements such as literacy tests, property ownership, and poll taxes. However, white voters whose grandfathers had the right to vote before the end of the Civil War were exempt from the new requirements under the legacy clause. As African Americans had no voting rights until the enactment of the 15th Amendment to the Constitution in 1870, they did not qualify for the exemption.



The statute was deemed to be unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1915 because it violated equal voting rights, but the use of the term indicating rights prior to rule changes carries on. The term has expanded beyond its roots in racial exclusion to refer mainly to legal exclusions granted on the basis of a current business practice being grandfathered in.





1965

The year Lyndon B. Johnson introduced the Voting Rights Act, which enabled Congress to end discriminatory voting practices such as the grandfather clause.


   Types of Grandfather Clauses  

Depending on specific circumstances, grandfather clauses can be implemented in perpetuity, for a specified amount of time, or with specific limitations. In situations where this clause creates a competitive advantage for the exempted party, exemptions are usually granted for a specified period to allow existing businesses to make the changes necessary to get up to speed and comply with new rules and regulations.



Clauses with specific limitations may also be put in place to prevent unfair competition, such as prohibitions on the expansion, remodeling, or retooling of an existing facility. This keeps a manufacturing plant, for example, from avoiding upgrades to current environmental standards while still continuing to increase production.


   Examples of Grandfather Clauses  

One of the most common uses of grandfather clauses is found in changing zoning laws. For example, in a situation where a change in zoning law from commercial to residential prohibits new retail establishments, the existing stores are typically granted grandfather clauses allowing them to stay in business if they abide by specified limitations. A common limitation is the sale of a business, which can void the grandfather clause.



Grandfather clauses are also common in the electricity industry. In many countries new regulations on carbon emissions are being applied to proposed generation plants, while grandfather clauses for specified time frames have been granted to existing coal-powered facilities. In part the clauses are being put in place to allow coal-powered plants time to integrate emission controls and to allow workers and communities dependent on coal mining enough time to transition away from the industry.




What Is a Grandfather Clause?
A grandfather clause exempts people, businesses, and other entities from adhering to new legal rules or laws governing their behavior.




How Long Does a Grandfather Clause Last?
The length of time the clause is in force can either be unlimited or for a specified amount of time. It also can end when a specified set of circumstances has been achieved.




What Is the Origin of the Term ‘Grandfather Clause’?
The term “grandfather clause” was coined to describe laws put in place in the South after the U.S. Civil War to prevent African Americans from voting. New laws governing who could and could not vote were implemented that required literacy tests, owning property, and the payment of poll taxes. However, anyone whose grandfather had had the right to vote was exempt from these new laws, hence the name. As slaves were considered property and thus could not vote, it ensured that all African Americans would be subject to the new voting restrictions, while most White Americans would not.


   The Bottom Line  

Though born in the infamy of racism, the term “grandfather clause” has survived the years and come to be viewed as benign and untethered to its origins. It describes a legal clause that provides an exemption to adhering to a new law or standard. It is most often used to prevent unfair advantage and is frequently limited in duration, for example allowing older businesses to get up to speed and comply with new regulations while amortizing the costs of doing so. It can also be limited by circumstance, such as when an area is rezoned from commercial to residential, but existing businesses are allowed to stay in operation, so long as that operation is continuous. Sometimes it exists in perpetuity.
What Is a Small-Business Grant?  

A small-business grant is an award, usually financial, given by one entity (typically a company, foundation, or government) to a company to facilitate a goal or incentivize performance. Grants are essentially gifts that usually do not have to be paid back.



Small-business grants are targeted to a variety of purposes, from starting a company or helping it run more efficiently to aiding its expansion. Grants are not simply free money, however. The funds must be used in accordance with the terms of the grant, and if they are not, they will have to be paid back—possibly with interest.





Key Takeaways

A grant is a gift to an individual or company that does not need to be paid back.Grants usually involve a three-phase lifecycle: pre-award, award, and post-award.The five main grant types for small businesses are federal, state or regional, corporate, specialty, and startup.Grants are considered income and thus subject to taxation, unless the law says otherwise.


   How Small-Business Grants Work  

Grants are tailored to a specific purpose, and the application process is generally rigorous and time-consuming. The federal government delineates what it terms “the grant lifecycle,” which has three phases.



Pre-Award Phase: During this phase the grant-awarding government agency decides what it wants to fund, announces a grant (or grants), and accepts and reviews applications.Award Phase: Applicants are told whether or not they have been approved, the agency works with the grantee(s) to finalize the legal framework for the funding, and the funds are disbursed.Post-Award Phase: A grants management officer is assigned to oversee grant compliance during the life of the grant(s) through regular reports submitted by the grantee(s) and on-site audits. Eventually, each grant is closed out once it is determined that the goals have been attained and the funds spent.



Non-federal grants, of course, may vary in how closely they are scrutinized and monitored, but the process remains largely the same.


   Types of Grants for Small Businesses  

There are at least five different general types of small-business grants, available from myriad grantors. Within these five categories are opportunities too numerous to elucidate in one article, and the categories can sometimes overlap.



The most comprehensive source for federal business grants is the government website grants.gov, which maintains a database of thousands of available business grants. GrantWatch is on online database of over 27,000 grants, including more than 1,000 small-business grants. It has a free membership, or you can pay for a subscription lasting a week ($18), a month ($45), a quarter ($90), or a year ($199), which provides added benefits such as keyword search and full grant info.



Here are some grant examples that will help you understand what kind of help is available and where to look for it.


  Federal small-business grants  

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), a federal agency, is a principal source of limited small-business grants for certain defined purposes. These include:



Research and development: If your business does scientific research and development, you might qualify for a grant from the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs.
Management and technical assistance: The SBA’s 7(j) Management and Technical Assistance Program helps small businesses that give management and technical assistance and guidance to other eligible small businesses. The intent is to help them be competitive in landing federal, state, and local government contracts as a prime or subcontractor.
Export development: The SBA’s State Trade Expansion Program (STEP) “provides financial awards to state and territory governments to assist small businesses with export development.” To date it has awarded more than $200 million to help small businesses learn how to export their products, participate in foreign trade missions, design international marketing products and campaigns, support website globalization and e-commerce possibilities, pay for subscription services provided by federal agencies, and participate in export trade shows and training workshops.
Entrepreneurship promotion: These grants do not go directly to small businesses. Instead, they go to community organizations that promote entrepreneurship through counseling and training programs, including organizations that support veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned businesses and government-sanctioned “small business development centers.”



The U.S. Department of Agriculture also has grants for rural small businesses.



USDA rural business development grants: These USDA grants pay for technical assistance and training for small rural businesses, which are defined as having “fewer than 50 new workers and less than $1 million in gross revenue.” The money must be used for “projects that benefit rural areas or towns outside the urbanized periphery of any city with a population of 50,000 or more.”






Federal small-business grants cannot be used for starting or expanding a business.


  State or regional small-business grants  

As noted above, the SBA provides grant money through STEP and its Small Business Development Centers that eventually funds small business support and development on the state or regional scale. In addition, the U.S. Department of Commerce has two programs that fund a variety of grants distributed statewide or region-wide. They are:



Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA): The MBDA serves minority business enterprises owned and operated by African Americans, Asian Americans, Hasidic Jews, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, and Pacific Islanders. Through a network of business centers, specialty centers, and grantees, it offers at the state and regional level “customized business development and industry-focused services to provide greater access to capital, contracts, and markets.”Economic Development Administration (EDA): The EDA has a grant investment portfolio that ranges from planning to infrastructure construction designed to enhance “local efforts to build, improve, or better leverage economic assets that allow businesses to succeed and regional economies to prosper and become more resilient.” Its investment priorities include projects that advance equity for underserved populations and communities, recovery and resilience from economic shocks, workforce development, manufacturing, technology-based economic development, environmentally sustainable development, and exports and foreign direct investment. Its grants are competitive, and each state has its own agency.



There are also states and regions that offer small-business government grants. Here are just two examples from New York and Texas.



Neighborhood business grants: The Citizens Committee for New York City (CitizensNYC) offers neighborhood business grants of up to $10,000 to “fill gaps in funding by prioritizing businesses owned by people of color, immigrants, and women.” These grants prioritize small businesses that give back to the communities they serve.Skills for Small Business grants: The Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) and its Skills for Small Business program has a budget of up to $2 million and provides grants for employees to pay for “training offered by their local community or technical college, or the Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service (TEEX).” To qualify, a business must have fewer than 100 employees, and the grant can be used either to train new workers (up to $1,800 per person per year) or improve the skills of current employees (up to $900 per person per year). Employees must be full-time workers.






Corporations may offer grants as a way to burnish their image since philanthropy usually plays well to the public.


  Corporate small-business grants  

Corporations are usually concerned about projecting a positive image to the public, and philanthropy is one way to do that. This can take the form of grants to worthy causes, often nonprofit ones, but it can also take the form of small-business grants. Here are but a few of what is out there.



DoorDash Disaster Relief: The ubiquitous food delivery company maintains a relief fund that makes $10,000 grants to “selected restaurants across the United States, Puerto Rico, New Zealand, Australia, and Canada affected by natural disasters like fires, floods, and hurricanes.” The restaurant must have a brick-and-mortar location (and no more than three of them), employ 50 or fewer people, have been open for at least six months, and have revenues of $3 million or less per location.Visa Everywhere Initiative: The company behind the internationally accepted credit card stages a worldwide competition among fintech startups from five regions—North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Central Europe, Middle East, Africa (CEMEA)—for a $50,000 Overall Winner grant. Visa is looking for companies that have “products that deliver innovative payment and commerce solutions to consumers and businesses.” Also available are an Audience Favorite grant of $10,000 and a Visa Direct grant of $10,000. Local and regional grants ranging from $10,000 to $40,000 are also awarded. Applications are closed for 2023, so get on your mark for 2024.FedEx Small Business Grant Contest: The famed delivery company offers grants to small businesses “to be applied toward growing or enhancing their business.” To be eligible, a company “must be for-profit, have a valid FedEx business shipping account number, currently ship with FedEx, and have fewer than 99 employees.” Grants of $30,000, plus $1,000 worth of FedEx Office print services were awarded to 10 small businesses in 2023.


  Specialty small-business grants  

All grants are targeted to a specific goal, but some are aimed solely at a defined group. It could be the LGBTQ+ community, veterans, or—as with DoorDash above and the SoGal Foundation below (see "Start-up grants for small businesses")—restaurant owners (DoorDash) and self-identified Black women and nonbinary people (SoGal). Here are a couple of other examples.



Queer to Stay Initiative: A joint venture of the Human Rights Campaign and Showtime, partnering with Visa, the Queer to Stay Initiative will award grants to at least 25 LGBTQ+ small businesses across the country in 2023. A prime goal is simply to keep safe spaces for the community open. You must be a U.S.-based for-profit business, primarily serve/cater to the LGBTQ+ community, and explain how you have been negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Special consideration will be given to businesses that are community-owned. Application deadline is Aug. 31, 2023.Military Entrepreneur Challenge: Run by the Second Service Foundation, the Military Entrepreneur Challenge "is a nationwide grant program that gives veteran, military spouse, and Gold Star family entrepreneurs the opportunity to network, learn, and compete for capital to grow their small business." You prepare a pitch for your business that must be delivered first to a panel of judges and then to a live audience. The judges decide who gets to the final round, and the audience decides the winner. Grant amounts and prizes vary based on event. In the upcoming 2023 Challenge round in Arlington, Texas, due to be held Oct. 4-6, cash grants are $1,000 or $2,000, plus a $5,000 PR package and a $25,000 in-kind legal services package.


  Startup grants for small businesses  

As mentioned above, federal small-business grants cannot be used for starting a business. Fortunately, plenty of other entities are more than happy to help out in that regard. Here are just three.



Incfile's Fresh Start Business Grant: Incfile helps birth small businesses by managing all the complicated filing and paperwork, offering tax advice, and providing other support services for nearly one million customers. Its Fresh Start Business Grant gives $2,500 to help start your business, as well as offering Incfile's Gold plan for free, which usually costs $385 and includes incorporation and registered agent services plus tax consultation. There are three deadlines per year, with one still to go in 2023 on Sept. 30.
Black Founder Startup Grant: The SoGal Foundation was formed in 2015 “to close the diversity gap in entrepreneurship and venture capital.” It has teamed up with sponsors such as Winky Lux, bluemercury, twelveNYC, Twilio, Walmart.org’s Center for Racial Equity, and others to offer $10,000 and $5,000 grants to people who “self-identify as a Black woman or Black nonbinary entrepreneur (inclusive of multiracial Black women and multiracial Black nonbinary folks).” Applicants must “have a legally registered business, plan to seek investor financing in order to scale, now or in the future, and have a scalable, high-impact solution or idea with the ambition to be the next billion dollar business.”
Cincinnati Chamber Foundation Startup Grant: Thanks to a grant from the Johnson Foundation, this Ohio organization has established a $100,000 grant program “to support women-, minority-, or LGBTQ-owned small businesses that are opening in downtown, Over-the-Rhine, and Pendleton.” The goal is to support the revitalization of vacant retail storefronts in the city while creating new jobs and fostering minority-business growth. Grants of $5,000 and $10,000 are available.




Is a Grant a Loan?
No, it is not. A loan must eventually be repaid, usually with interest, while a grant does not need to be repaid.




Is a Grant a Form of Income?
Yes, it is, which means that it is considered taxable at both the federal and state level unless the law dictates otherwise.




Can You Pay Yourself With Grant Money?
This really depends on the grantor's terms for the use of the grant, but it is possible if those terms allow it.




Does a Grant Have to Be Paid Back?
No, it does not, unless the grantee fails to satisfy all the obligations of the grant.


   The Bottom Line  

Small businesses are an important component of the American economy, which is undoubtedly why there is such a plethora of support for them in the form of grant money. That support can come from the government—federal, state, or regional—corporations, private companies, nonprofit foundations, and other entities. It usually must be used for targeted goals and is often aimed at specific communities. So don’t by shy about it. If you and your small business are in need, go out and find the grant that’s designed for you.
What Is a Grant Deed?  

A grant deed, also known as a special or limited warranty deed, is a legal document used to transfer real estate between a previous owner (the grantor) and a new owner (the grantee). A grant deed warrants that:



The grantor has not transferred the property to anyone else.
The property was not encumbered when the grantor held title except as noted in the deed. The grantor doesn’t guarantee against any title defects that may have existed before taking possession of the property.



A grant deed must be in writing and include the names of the grantor and the grantee, a legal description of the property being transferred (i.e., lot number, tract number, city, county, and state), words of conveyance—for example, “grant, bargain, sell, and convey”—and the grantor’s signature.





Key Takeaways

A grant deed is used to transfer ownership of real property, often in conjunction with tax or foreclosure sales.It offers more protection to the buyer than a quitclaim deed but less than a general warranty deed.To be valid, a grant deed must include the names of the grantor and the grantee, a description of the property being transferred, words of conveyance, and the grantor’s signature.Some states require a notary public to witness the transfer of a deed.


   Uses and Content of a Grant Deed  

A deed is a legal document that, when executed and delivered, conveys title to or an interest in real estate from a seller to a buyer. There are a variety of deeds, including quitclaim deeds, general warranty deeds, and grant deeds. Each type of deed offers different levels of protection (and risks) to buyers and sellers.



A grant deed includes two warranties: that the grantor received title, and that the property was unencumbered by the grantor. It does not contain any information to pay legal costs if a title claim needs to be defended. It also does not provide any warranties to claims made before the title was acquired by the grantor.



This type of deed offers less protection to buyers than a general warranty deed—a deed in which the grantor fully warrants good, clear title to the property. However, a grant deed offers more protection to buyers than a quitclaim deed, which has no express or implied covenants or warranties.


  Uses  

Grant deeds are often used to transfer real estate in conjunction with tax and foreclosure sales. Grant deeds are seen as a middle ground between quitclaim deeds and general warranty deeds, as grant deeds provide a level of protection between the two.



There are several types of grant deeds, depending on who transfers property to whom. For example, an interspousal transfer grant deed is used to transfer real estate from one spouse to another (often during a divorce).


  Content  

All deeds must contain the names of the grantor and the grantee, the date, an overview of the property being transferred, and the signature of the grantor. A majority of deeds will require the stamp of a notary as well as the signatures of witnesses.



In addition to the above, a grant deed will contain a statement of the warranties included. The overall content and format of a grant deed will depend on the law of the state where the property is located.


   Real Estate Investing Considerations  

Real estate, including real property, is often described as an asset class along with stocks, bonds, cash, and alternative investments such as private equity and venture capital.






Real property consists of land and any property attached directly to it (such as buildings, ponds, canals, roads, and machinery) and can entail the right to use, control, and dispose of the land.



As an investment, real estate is unique in that its location significantly impacts prices. For example, residential real estate values are affected by local factors such as the area’s employment rate, economy, crime rates, transportation facilities, quality of schools, and other municipal services, along with property taxes.



In commercial real estate, which is often more valuable per square foot than residential real estate, these factors are also pertinent, although less so. Commercial rental real estate is more heavily regulated than residential real estate, with specific regulations existing between countries, states, and even cities and counties. Zoning regulations can add further complexity to commercial real estate investments along with the risk of tenant turnover.



Those interested can invest directly in real estate (where grant deeds might come into play) or indirectly by buying shares in real estate investment trusts (REITs) or mortgage-backed securities (MBS).


   Other Types of Deeds  

There are other variations of a deed, including (but not limited to):



General warranty deeds: A general warranty deed provides the most protection to the buyer but gives the grantor the highest degree of liability. The grantor of a general warranty deed fully warrants good, clear title to the property. This type of deed is used in most real estate deed transfers.
Quitclaim deeds: Also called a non-warranty deed, a quitclaim deed does not warrant clear title, nor does it guarantee that the grantor has a legal right to transfer the property. It provides the grantee with the least protection of any deed and is often used to fix title errors and transfer property between family members.
Tax deeds: This is a legal document granting ownership of a property to a government body when the owner fails to pay any associated property taxes. A tax deed gives the government agency the authority to sell the property to collect delinquent taxes. Once sold, the property is then transferred to the purchaser. These transactions are called tax deed sales and are usually held at auctions.




Is a Grant Deed the Same as a Mortgage?
Grant deeds are not the same as a mortgage. Grant deeds (and other types of deeds) are used to transfer real estate ownership from a seller to a buyer. On the other hand, a mortgage is a conditional transfer or pledge of real estate as security (collateral) for the payment of a debt.




What Is the Difference Between a Grant Deed and a Quitclaim Deed?
Grant deeds and quitclaim deeds are used to transfer property between sellers and buyers; however, grant deeds offer more protection to buyers than quitclaim deeds. A grant deed grantor warrants that the property was not encumbered during the time they held title (except as noted in the deed).Conversely, a quitclaim deed carries no covenants or warranties and only conveys the interest (if any) that the grantor may have when the deed is delivered. If the grantor has no interest in the property, then the grantee acquires nothing by virtue of a quitclaim deed.




What Is the Strongest Type of Deed?
For real estate buyers, a general warranty deed provides greater protection than any other type of deed. While it’s the best deed for the grantee, it gives the grantor the most liability. The grantor is generally bound by several covenants, including:The covenant of seizin—the grantor warrants that they own the property and has a legal right to convey it.The covenant against encumbrances—the grantor warrants that the property is free of liens or encumbrances.The covenant of quiet enjoyment—the grantor guarantees that the grantee’s title will be good against third-party claims.


   The Bottom Line  

A deed is a written document that conveys title to or an interest in real estate when executed and delivered. Grant deeds fall in the middle of the spectrum in terms of buyer protections—they offer more protection than quitclaim deeds, but less than general warranty deeds.



A deed determines the grantor’s obligations and the degree of protection that the grantee receives. As such, it’s essential to understand the type of deed used in a real estate transaction—whether you’re the buyer or the seller. Similarly, real estate laws vary by state. Consult with a qualified real estate attorney, broker, or agent if you have questions.
What Are Federal Grants In Aid?  

A federal grant is financial aid awarded to fund a specific project or program. Recipients include state, local, and municipal governments, as well as individuals. Federal grants in aid are funded with money from income tax revenues. These grants are not loans; therefore, no repayment is required, but funds must be spent according to the federal government's guidelines for that particular grant.





Key Takeaways

A federal grant in aid is federal money granted to a recipient to fund a project or program.Federal grants in aid are not loans and therefore require no repayment.Federal grants can be awarded to university faculty members to pursue a particular line of research.Parts of a state government may procure and earmark grants to support nonprofits that provide aid to its constituents.


   Understanding Federal Grants In Aid  

A federal grant in aid allows the government to publicly fund a project and still operate independently from the state. The funds come with standards and requirements. Entities that offer grants might divide the resources up across one or more periods annually; furthermore, they might divide the funds among potential recipients. This can make the pursuit of such grant funding a competitive effort among applicants.





$500 billion

The amount the U.S. government awards annually in Federal Assistance Agreements, consisting mostly of grants.



Grants-in-aid can be awarded to university faculty members to pursue a particular line of research; however, there are restrictions on how the money can be used. For example, permitted use of the funds might be to pay undergraduate students to assist with the research, and a non-permitted use might be the payment of university utility bills.



The recipient will also have to meet certain requirements to qualify for the aid. For example, an individual recipient might be required to meet certain citizenship and/or residency requirements.


   Types of Federal Grants  

Federal grants can take on a variety of forms and have different requirements. For instance, a university might make a federal grant in aid to support a program that lowers the tuition rate to make it more affordable for military veterans and their spouses. A university might also make this type of funding available to support conferences that have a particular subject matter or area of study at its core.



In the case of research efforts that receive a grant-in-aid, it may be stipulated that the funding is not intended to cover all expenses for the project. Furthermore, the grant may be given with the intent of encouraging and attracting other, more substantial funding to the project. This makes the federal grant in aid a sort of seed funding that lends some credibility to the endeavor. 



Foundations and professional associations might offer federal grants as a form of financial assistance to graduate students who are developing a thesis focused on specific topics that are relevant to the organization.



Parts of a state government, such as its legislative body, might procure and earmark federal grants to support nonprofit organizations that provide aid to its constituents. The money, however, is often stipulated as a supplemental rather than primary source of funding.
What Is a Grantee?  

A grantee is the recipient of a grant, scholarship, or some other asset such as real estate property. In contrast, a grantor is a person or entity that conveys ownership of an asset to another person or entity: the grantee. Identifying the grantee and grantor is especially important in legal documents as specific duties, responsibilities, benefits, and limitations are assigned to each.


   Understanding Grantees  

A grantee is the recipient of something granted or given. The term can be used in different contexts and across different industries and institutions. In real estate, the grantee takes title to the purchased property. In academia, a grantee is the recipient of a scholarship or grant. In the investment industry, a grantee can be the recipient of stock options.





Key Takeaways

A grantee is the recipient of something, such as a college grant or real estate property.A grantor is a person or entity that transfers to another person or entity the interest or ownership rights to an asset.Legal documents, such as deeds, detail the transfer of assets between grantors and grantees.The type of legal document determines what limitations are placed on rights and interests transferred to a grantee.



The grantor and grantee are named in legal documents, such as deeds, which transfer from one party to another the interests or rights to an asset. However, what exactly is being transferred can differ depending on the type of legal document. For example, in real estate, a quitclaim deed provides no warranty regarding the status of the property's title to the grantee. This type of deed can render the grantee powerless should there be title defects whereby no interest in the property is transferred to the grantee. These types of deeds are uncommon between parties with no existing relationship.



Special warranty deeds assure the grantee that the grantor owns the asset, such as real estate property, and had no issues with the title during their ownership. The special warranty deed does not provide any guarantees about the title before the grantor's ownership.



General warranty deeds include warranties and covenants, offering grantees the most protection. With this deed, the grantee receives a warranty that the title is without title defects, such as encumbrances. It is not limited to issues that arose during the seller's ownership.


   Special Considerations  

A county grantor-grantee index provides a record of real estate transfers showing who released ownership of a property and who took ownership. The index also shows the property's legal description, its location, and the type of document used to transfer ownership (e.g., quitclaim deed, trust deed, or tax lien). Typically, the index is maintained by the county recorder.


   Grantee Example  

The parties in a debt lien are also known as grantors and grantees. The most common of these include mechanic's liens, tax liens, and judgment liens. In a financed automobile arrangement, the car's owner (grantor) transfers their interest in the vehicle to the lender (grantee). The grantee has an interest in the asset until the loan is satisfied by the grantor. If the grantor breaches the contract, the grantee may take possession of the asset.
What Is a Grantor?  

A grantor is an individual or other entity that creates a trust (i.e., the individual whose assets are put into the trust) regardless of whether the grantor also functions as the trustee. The grantor may also be referred to as the settlor, trustmaker, or trustor.



A grantor can also refer to the seller, or writer, of either call or put options contracts who collects the premiums for which the options are sold. Options are sold through exchanges to option holders who are responsible for the payment of the premium.





Key Takeaways

A grantor is the entity that establishes a trust and legally transfers control of those assets to a trustee, who manages it for one or more beneficiaries.In certain types of trusts, the grantor may also be the beneficiary, the trustee, or both.A grantor may also refer to an options writer, who earns a premium when they sell options contracts.


   Understanding Grantors: Trust Creators  

The grantor is the person who creates a trust, and the beneficiaries are the persons identified in the trust to receive the assets.



The assets in the trust are supplied by the grantor. The associated property and funds are transitioned into the ownership of the trust. The grantor may function as the trustee, allowing for the management of the property contained therein, but this is not required. If the grantor is the trustee, the trust is referred to as a grantor trust. Non-grantor trusts are still funded by the grantor, but control of the assets is relinquished, allowing the trust to function as a separate tax entity from the grantor.


  What Are Trusts?  

Trusts are designed to hold money, investments, or property for various purposes. Different types of trusts—testamentary trusts, living (inter vivos) trusts, revocable trusts, irrevocable trusts, and more—protect assets in different ways.



Trusts can facilitate a smooth and speedy transfer of assets upon death, eliminate probate costs, minimize estate taxes, and ensure that the settlor’s assets are used in the way intended. For example, a trust can allow a parent to make sure a child doesn’t squander an inheritance. Trusts also let the settlor decide (at a time when they have full mental capabilities) what should happen to the assets in the event of future mental disability or incapacity.


   Understanding Grantors: Options Sellers  

Synonymous with "option writer," a grantor creates contracts for selling options for an underlying interest or asset. For example, say a grantor has sold a call option or assumed a short position in a call option. If the call option is exercised, then the grantor has to sell the underlying stock at the strike price.



Conversely, if the grantor sells a put option, the grantor is said to be long and must purchase the underlying stock at the strike price. Serving the function of an option writer is relatively risky, especially on a naked position when the writer does not actually have possession of the asset involved in the contract.


  What Are Options Contracts?  

Options are contracts that provide the buyer and seller the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a particular asset at a specified price, referred to as the strike price, on a particular date. These contracts are supported by the presence of the underlying asset, which may be composed of a particular stock, an exchange-traded fund (ETF), or other applicable financial products.



The options writer, or grantor, has no authority as to whether the option will be exercised before the contract expires. In cases where a grantor anticipates a loss based on the position, they can choose to participate in a secondary deal with another party designed to offset the risk associated with the obligation.
What Are Grantor Trust Rules?  

Grantor trust rules are guidelines within the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) that outline certain tax implications of a grantor trust. Under these rules, the individual who creates a grantor trust is recognized as the owner of the assets and property held within the trust for income and estate tax purposes.





Key Takeaways

A grantor trust is a trust in which the individual who creates the trust is the owner of the assets and property for income and estate tax purposes.Grantor trust rules are the rules that apply to different types of trusts.Grantor trusts can be either revocable or irrevocable trusts.With intentionally defective grantor trusts, the grantor must pay taxes on any income, but the assets are not part of the owner's estate.


   Understanding Grantor Trust Rules  

Trusts are established for various reasons, and in many cases, they're designed as separate legal entities to protect the grantor's (or originator's) assets and the income generated from those assets so that the beneficiaries may receive them.



For example, trusts are created when performing estate planning to ensure the assets get distributed properly to the named beneficiaries upon the death of the owner. However, a grantor trust is any trust in which the grantor or owner retains the power to control or direct income or assets within the trust.



Grantor trusts were originally used as a tax haven for wealthy people. The tax rates graduated at the same rate as income tax rates. As more and more income was earned in the trust, the income was taxed at the personal income tax rates.



The grantor reaped the benefits of a trust, such as shielding money but was taxed as if it were a personal account and not a separate legal entity. Also, grantors could change the trust and remove the money whenever they chose. Grantor trust rules were established by the IRS to thwart the misuse of trusts.



Today, the income generated from trusts graduates to a higher tax bracket more quickly than the individual marginal income tax rates. For example, any trust income over $13,450 in 2022 or $14,450 in 2023 would be taxed at the highest tax rate of 37%.



Conversely, if the trust was taxed at the individual tax rate, the trust income wouldn't be taxed at the highest rate of 37% until it earned $539,900 for 2022 or $578,125 for 2023. In other words, it doesn't take as much income earned in a trust to be thrust into a higher tax bracket.



As a result, a grantor trust is not the type of tax haven for wealthy people that it once was before the IRS made changes to it. However, grantor trusts are still used today because they have characteristics that might be beneficial to the grantor, depending on their income, tax, and family situation.


   Benefits of Grantor Trust Rules  

Grantor trusts have several characteristics that allow the owners to use the trusts for their specific tax and income purposes.


  Trust Income  

The income the trust generates is taxed to the grantor's income tax rate rather than to the trust itself. In this regard, grantor trust rules offer individuals a certain degree of tax protection because tax rates are generally more favorable at the individual level than they are for trusts.


  Beneficiaries  

Grantors can also change the beneficiaries of the trust, along with the investments and assets within it. They can direct a trustee to make alterations as well. Trustees are individuals or financial companies that hold and manage assets for the benefit of a trust and its beneficiaries.


  Revocable  

Grantors can also undo the trust freely as long as they are deemed mentally competent at the time the decision is made. This distinction makes a grantor trust a type of revocable living trust. A revocable trust is a trust that can be changed and canceled by the owner, originator, or grantor.


  Changing the Trust  

However, the grantor is also free to relinquish control of the trust making it an irrevocable trust, which is a trust that cannot be amended or canceled without the permission of the beneficiaries of the trust. In this case, the trust itself will pay taxes on the income it generates, and then it would require its tax identification number (TIN).


   Special Considerations  

Trusts are established for various purposes, including the purpose of storing the owner's assets in a separate legal entity. As a result, trust owners should be aware of the risks that the trust could be triggered into a grantor trust.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines some exceptions to avoid triggering the grantor trust status. For example, if the trust has only a single beneficiary who is paid the principal and income from the trust. Or, if the trust has multiple beneficiaries who receive the principal and income from the trust by their shareholding in the trust.


   How Grantor Trust Rules Apply to Different Trusts   

Grantor trust rules also outline certain conditions when an irrevocable trust can receive some of the same treatments as a revocable trust by the IRS. These situations sometimes lead to the creation of what are known as intentionally defective grantor trusts.



In these cases, a grantor is responsible for paying taxes on the income the trust generates, but trust assets are not counted toward the owner's estate. Such assets would apply to a grantor's estate if the individual runs a revocable trust, however, because the individual would effectively still own property held by the trust.



In an irrevocable trust, the property is transferred out of the grantor's estate and into a trust, which would effectively own that property. Individuals often do this to ensure the property is passed down to family members at the time of death. In this case, a gift tax may be levied on the property's value at the time it's transferred into the trust, but no estate tax is due upon the grantor's death.



Grantor trust rules also state that a trust becomes a grantor trust if the creator of the trust has a reversionary interest greater than 5% of trust assets at the time the transfer of assets to the trust is made.



A grantor trust agreement dictates how assets are managed and transferred after the grantor's death. Ultimately, state law determines if a trust is revocable or irrevocable as well as the implications of each.


   Examples of Grantor Trust Rules  

Some of the grantor trust rules outlined by the IRS are as follows:



The power to add or change the beneficiary of a trustThe power to borrow from the trust without adequate securityThe power to use the income from the trust to pay life insurance premiumsThe power to make changes to the trust's composition by substituting assets of equal value
What Is a Granular Portfolio?  

A granular portfolio is an investment portfolio that is well diversified across a wide variety of assets, typically with a significant number of holdings. Because this type of portfolio contains a large number of positions in different asset classes and/or sectors, it is considered to have a lower overall risk profile. Conversely, portfolios that have "low granularity" have fewer positions or contain highly correlated assets. They are less diversified and have a higher overall risk profile.





Key Takeaways

A granular portfolio has investments across many asset classes and sectors.The primary advantage of a granular portfolio to an investor is the ability to reduce risk through diversification.Other advantages include the ability to customize a portfolio of holdings to meet an investor's financial objectives and the flexibility to diversify across many asset classes.Disadvantages of a granular portfolio include the potential of losing out on windfall gains and the possible exposure to increased risk during market volatility.


   How a Granular Portfolio Works  

A granular portfolio can refer to a credit, currency, equity, bond, or mixed asset class portfolio. Highly granular portfolios, sometimes referred to as infinitely granular, diversify most of the unsystematic risk (individual security risk) out of the portfolio so that it is exposed to systemic risk only, which investors can't minimize through diversification.


   Advantages of a Granular Portfolio  

While the primary advantage to an investor is the reduction of risk, other advantages of a granular portfolio include the ability to customize a portfolio and to diversify across many asset classes.


  Reduces Risk  

Having investments across many sectors and asset classes helps to reduce a portfolio’s overall risk. For example, if healthcare stocks are underperforming, a granular portfolio with exposure to other sectors—such as technology, financials, and consumer goods—helps to offset those positions. Bonds can be added to a granular portfolio to provide income when stocks go through range-bound periods.                                                                                                    


  Customization  

Because granular portfolios include many holdings, they can easily be adjusted to meet the financial objectives of many different investors. For instance, an investor might have their asset allocations split between equities, bonds, and cash. When the investor is young, 90% of the portfolio may be invested in equities, with 5% in bonds and 5% in cash. As the investor approaches retirement, they can easily adjust the portfolio to have more conservative allocations.


  Asset Choice  

A granular portfolio gives investors the flexibility to diversify across multiple asset classes as they see fit. For example, if precious metal commodities, such as gold and silver, are trending higher, an investor could add some futures contracts to his portfolio to gain exposure to the move.


   Disadvantages of a Granular Portfolio  

Although there are fewer disadvantages to a granular portfolio, they can be significant, particularly during times of marketplace instability or downturns.


  Windfall Gains  

The diversified structure of a granular portfolio means that a large gain in a single investment has a minimal impact on overall returns. For instance, a stock in an investor’s portfolio may increase by 75%, but that holding only accounts for a slight gain if it represents 5% of the portfolio's value.


  Exposure  

In a stable economic environment, a granular portfolio takes advantage of uncorrelated asset classes and sectors offsetting each other to help reduce risk. These correlations may break down in a financial crisis to actually increase risk.



For example, during the global financial crisis between 2008 and 2009, price moves in equities and commodities became strongly correlated, while bonds and equities became uncorrelated. Investors who hold a granular portfolio should continually monitor changing correlations between asset classes to ensure they don’t overexpose themselves. Understanding this relationship between market correlation and volatility can help investors manage portfolio risk.
What Is a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)?  

A Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) is a chip or electronic circuit capable of rendering graphics for display on an electronic device. The GPU was introduced to the wider market in 1999 and is best known for its use in providing the smooth graphics that consumers expect in modern videos and games.





Key Takeaways

The term graphics processing unit (GPU) refers to a chip or electronic circuit capable of rendering graphics for display on an electronic device.The term “GPU” is often used interchangeably with “graphics card,” though the two are different.Although GPUs were initially popular with video editing and computer gaming enthusiasts, the rapid growth of cryptocurrencies has created a new market for them.GPUs, first introduced to the wider market in 1999, are perhaps best known for their use in providing the smooth graphics that consumers expect in modern videos and video games.There has been a shortage of GPUs recently thanks to their application in the mining of cryptocurrencies. 


   How a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) Works  

The graphics in videos and gs consist of polygonal coordinates that are converted into bitmaps—a process called “rendering”—and then into signals that are shown on a screen. This conversion requires the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) to have a lot of processing power, which also makes GPUs useful in machine learning, artificial intelligence, and other tasks that require a large number of complex and sophisticated computations.


   History of the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)  

In 1999, Nvidia introduced the Geforce 256, the first widely available GPU. Nvidia defined a GPU as a "single-chip processor with integrated transform, lighting, triangle setup/clipping, and rendering engines that is capable of processing a minimum of 10 million polygons per second.” The GeForce 256 improved on the technology by other processors by optimizing 3D gaming performance.



While Nvidia still reigns supreme in the GPU market, the technology has greatly improved. In the 2000s Nvidia released its GeForce 8800 GTX which has a texture-fill rate of a whopping 36.8 billion per second.



Today, GPUs have seen a resurgence in popularity. Their use has been extended into new industries thanks to the advent of artificial intelligence and cryptocurrencies. GPUs have also played a role in establishing wider access to higher-quality virtual reality gaming.


   GPUs vs CPUs  

Before the arrival of GPUs in the late 1990s, graphic rendering was handled by the Central Processing Unit (CPU). When used in conjunction with a CPU, a GPU can increase computer performance by taking on some computationally intensive functions, such as rendering, from the CPU. This accelerates how quickly applications can process since the GPU can perform many calculations simultaneously. This shift also allowed for the development of more advanced and resource-intensive software.



Processing data in a GPU or a CPU is handled by cores. The more cores a processing unit has, the faster (and potentially more efficiently) a computer can complete tasks. GPUs use thousands of cores to process tasks in parallel. The parallel structure of the GPU is different than that of the CPU, which uses fewer cores to process tasks sequentially. A CPU can perform calculations faster than a GPU, which makes it better at basic tasks.


   Special Considerations  

The term “GPU” is often used interchangeably with “graphics card,” though the two are different. A graphics card is a piece of hardware that contains one or more GPUs, a daughterboard, and other electronic components that allow the graphics card to function.



A GPU can, however, be integrated into the motherboard or be found in the daughterboard of a graphics card. Initially, high-end computers were the only ones to feature graphics cards. Today, most desktop computers typically use a separate graphics card with a GPU for increased performance, rather than rely on a GPU built into a motherboard.


   GPUs and Cryptocurrency Mining  

While GPUs were initially popular with video editing and computer gaming enthusiasts, the rapid growth of cryptocurrencies created a new market. This is because cryptocurrency mining requires thousands of calculations in order to add transactions to a blockchain, which is something that could be profitable with access to a GPU and an inexpensive supply of electricity.



In recent years, two prominent graphics card manufacturers, Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) have experienced a rapid increase in sales and revenue as a result of cryptocurrency mining.



This had the side effect of frustrating non-mining customers, who saw prices increase and supply dry up. As a result, retailers occasionally limited the number of graphics cards that an individual could purchase. While miners of the more popular cryptocurrencies, such as bitcoin, have shifted to using specialized and more cost-effective chipsets called application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), Graphics Processing Units are still used to mine lesser-known currencies.






The rise in the popularity of cryptocurrencies has caused a massive shortage of GPUs. Reporting from the Verge calculated that GPUs are being sold for two to three times their street price on sites like eBay.


   Examples of GPU Companies  

Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) and Nvidia (NVDA) are two of the biggest names in the GPU market. Let's take a look at both companies below.


  Advanced Micro Devices (AMD)  

AMD is one of the most trusted producers of graphic cards. The manufacturer began as a startup in Silicon Valley in 1969 and develops high-performance computing and visualization products. AMD entered the GPU market in 2006 when it acquired leading video card maker ATI. Since then, AMD and Nvidia have been the dominant players in the GPU market. As of May 2021, AMD has a market cap of $97.3 billion. AMD has shipped over 500 million GPUs since 2013 and controls 17% of the GPU market share.



AMD places its focus in the GPU market on PC gaming and is a favorite among gamers worldwide.


  Nvidia (NVDA)  

Nvidia was the very first company to bring GPUs into the world in 1999. The first GPU in history was known as the Geforce 256. 1999 was also the year Nvidia launched its initial public offering (IPO) at $12 per share. As of May 2021, the stock is trading around $645 per share.



Nvidia has a market cap of $404.8 billion and controls 13% of the GPU market share.



Nvidia has considerable reach in the advanced GPU market. According to Nvidia's website "eight of the world’s top 10 supercomputers now use NVIDIA GPUs, InfiniBand networking, or both. NVIDIA powers 346 of the overall TOP500 systems on the latest list."



Nvidia's own supercomputer, named Selene, is ranked fifth in the world and is the world's fastest industrial supercomputer.


   Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) FAQs  
  What Is the Difference Between GPU and VGA?  

Whereas GPU is a chip or electronic circuit capable used to render graphics for display on an electronic device, a VGA or video graphics array connector is a physical device used to transfer video signals and computer video output.


  How Do You Overclock Your GPU?  

Before overclocking make sure you thoroughly clean your device and install any updates and bug fixes to your software. Thanks to updates in technology, overclocking is fairly simple. Simply install software such as Afterburner and let the system go to work. After the installation is complete, run a gaming benchmark to test out the new software.


  What Is GPU Scaling?  

GPU scaling is a feature that enables users to adjust the aspect ratio of a game based on their monitor’s resolution. Some users believe this adjusting the aspect ratio will further enhance the image quality of the display.
What Is a Grantor Retained Annuity Trust (GRAT)?  

A grantor retained annuity trust (GRAT) is a financial instrument used in estate planning to minimize taxes on large financial gifts to family members. Under these plans, an irrevocable trust is created for a certain period of time. Assets are placed under the trust and then an annuity is paid out to the grantor every year. When the trust expires and the last annuity payment is made, the beneficiary receives the assets and pays little or no gift taxes.





Key Takeaways

Grantor retained annuity trusts (GRATs) are estate planning instruments in which a grantor locks assets in a trust from which they earn annual income.Upon expiry, the beneficiary receives the assets with minimal or no gift tax liability.GRATs are used by wealthy individuals to minimize tax liabilities.


   Understanding Grantor Retained Annuity Trusts (GRATs)  

A grantor retained annuity trust is a type of irrevocable gifting trust that allows a grantor or trustmaker to potentially pass a significant amount of wealth to the next generation with little or no gift tax cost. GRATs are established for a specific number of years.



When creating a GRAT, a grantor contributes assets in trust but retains a right to receive (over the term of the GRAT) the original value of the assets contributed to the trust while earning a rate of return specified by the IRS (known as the 7520 rate). When the GRAT's term expires, the leftover assets (essentially any appreciation of the original assets minus the IRS-assumed return rate) are given to the grantor's beneficiaries.


   GRAT Risks  

Under a GRAT, the annuity payments come from interest earned on the assets underlying the trust or as a percentage of the total value of the assets. If the individual who establishes the trust dies before the trust expires the assets become part of the taxable estate of the individual, and the beneficiary receives nothing, making the GRAT useless.



A successful GRAT also assumes that the assets appreciate, so if there is a Depreciation, the GRAT doesn't work well. There is also a risk with the IRS's 7520 rate, in that it has been so low over the last decade as to reduce the ultimate advantage of using a GRAT in the first place.


   GRAT Uses  

GRATs are most useful to wealthy individuals who face significant estate tax liability at death. In such a case, a GRAT may be used to freeze the value of their estate by shifting a portion or all of the appreciation onto their heirs. For example, if a person had an asset worth $10 million but expected it to grow to $12 million over the next two years, they could transfer the difference to their children tax-free.






If the grantor dies during the term of the GRAT, the value of the remainder interest is also included in the grantor's estate. However, the grantor can pass the right to receive any remaining annuity payments to their surviving spouse to qualify for the estate tax marital deduction, which could eliminate any estate tax liability relating to the GRAT assets.



GRATs are especially popular with individuals who own shares in startup companies, as stock price appreciation for IPO shares will usually far outpace the IRS assumed rate of return. That means more money can be passed to children while not eating into the grantor's lifetime exemption from estate and gift taxes.


   GRAT History  

GRATs saw a big surge in popularity in 2000 as a result of a favorable ruling in the U.S. Tax Court involving the Walton family of Walmart Inc. fame. Audrey J. Walton v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue saw the court rule in favor of Walton's use of two GRATs, in which annuity payments were set up to return all of the original assets to the grantor and leave only the appreciated value to beneficiaries.



Through this set-up, the value of the gift originally put in trust is reduced to zero, and any remaining value in the trust is transferred to the beneficiary tax-free. The use of GRATs in this way is known as a "zeroed-out GRAT" or "Walton GRAT."


   Example of a GRAT  

Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg put his company's pre-IPO stock into a GRAT before it went public. While the exact numbers are not known, Forbes magazine ran estimated numbers and came up with an impressive number of $37,315,513 as the value of Zuckerberg's stock.
What Is a Gravestone Doji?  

The term gravestone doji refers to a bearish indicator commonly used in trading by technical analysts. A gravestone doji is a bearish reversal candlestick pattern that is formed when the open, low, and closing prices are all near each other with a long upper shadow. The long upper shadow suggests that the bullish advance at the beginning of the session was overcome by bears by the end of the session. This often comes just before a longer-term bearish downtrend.





Key Takeaways

A gravestone doji is pattern that occurs in technical analysis. This doji is a bearish pattern that suggests a reversal followed by a downtrend in the price action.A gravestone pattern can be used as a sign to take profits on a bullish position or enter a bearish trade.The pattern is represented by an inverted T with a long upper shadow. The opposite of a gravestone doji is a dragonfly doji.


   What Does a Gravestone Doji Tell You?  

As noted above, a gravestone doji is used in technical analysis. It is a strategy that some investors use to make trades. They rely on statistical trends, such as past performance, price history, and trading volume to make their trading decisions. They often employ charts and other tools to identify opportunities in the market. One of these is the gravestone doji.



The gravestone doji pattern implies that a bearish reversal is coming. It looks like an inverted T with a high, upper shadow. The open, low, and closing prices can be equal or almost equal for the pattern to be valid. There should also be a relatively small tail or else the pattern could be classified as an inverted hammer, shooting star, or a spinning top.



The market narrative is that the bulls attempt to push to new highs over the session but the bears push the price action to near the open by the session close. So the long upper shadow represents the bulls losing momentum.



While the gravestone doji can be found at the end of a downtrend, it is more common to be found at the end of an uptrend. Although the gravestone doji is popular, it suffers from the same reliability issues as many visual patterns. Traders will generally not act on a gravestone doji unless the next candle provides confirmation of a reversal.






The first and best way to get a grip on how technical analysis works is to learn about it—read books, take courses both on and offline, talk to other traders, and visit websites that can help teach you some tricks of the trade. Once you've mastered the basics, you'll be able to develop your own style.


   Trading the Gravestone Doji  

Traders will often exit long positions or initiate short positions after identifying a gravestone doji pattern, although it's important to use this candlestick pattern in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis as a confirmation.



Investors often look at the volume associated with the session, as well as activity from the previous session, as potential indicators of the reliability of the pattern. The following chart shows a gravestone doji in Cyanotech's stock following a significantly high volume uptrend, which could indicate a bearish reversal over the near term following the breakout.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In this example, the gravestone doji could predict a further breakdown from the current levels to close the gap near the 50- or 200-day moving averages at $4.16 and $4.08, respectively.



Traders would also take a look at other technical indicators to confirm a potential breakdown, such as the relative strength index (RSI) or the moving average convergence divergence (MACD). Day traders may also put a stop-loss just above the upper shadow at around $5.10, although intermediate-term traders may place a higher stop-loss to avoid being stopped out.


   Gravestone Doji vs. Dragonfly Doji  

The opposite pattern of a gravestone doji is a bullish dragonfly doji. The dragonfly doji, which isn't a very frequent pattern, looks like a "T" and it is formed when the high, open, and close of the session are all equal or nearly the same. Unlike the gravestone doji, the dragonfly doji pattern has a long lower shadow. This implies aggressive selling during the period of the candle.



Although these two formations are talked about as separate entities, they are essentially the same phenomenon. When confirmed, one can be called bullish and the other bearish. Sometimes they can appear in the opposite scenario.



For example, a gravestone doji can be followed by an uptrend or a bullish dragonfly may appear before a downtrend. Both patterns need volume and the following candle for confirmation. It is perhaps more useful to think of both patterns as visual representations of uncertainty rather than pure bearish or bullish signals.






A doji is a trading session where the security's opening and closing levels (or prices) are either equal or virtually equal. The doji is represented on the chart as a candlestick.


   Limitations of a Gravestone Doji  

The gravestone doji can be used to suggest a stop loss placement and eyeball a profit-taking plan on a downtrend, but these are less precise methods than other technical indicators provide. Although reliability increases with volume and a confirming candle, the gravestone doji is best accompanied by other technical tools to guide trading.




What Does Gravestone Doji Mean?
A gravestone doji is a trading pattern that occurs in technical analysis. Traders use it to identify trading opportunities. It represents a bearish pattern during a reversal that will be followed by a downtrend in price. Traders can use the pattern to determine when to take profits—either through a bearish trade or on a bullish position.




How Do You Trade on a Gravestone Doji?
The gravestone doji shows up in a series of candlestick patterns. The opening, closing, and high prices may be equal or nearly the same. When this happens, the possibility of a trend reversal is likely with a new bearish trend on the horizon. In order to take advantage of the trade, make sure you confirm there's a trend reversal on the way after you identify the pattern. Then, enter your position once the next candle closes below the closing price of the candlestone doji. Set your stop-loss at the highest point of the candle and be prepared to take your profit. You can also enter the trade above the closing price. Just be sure you set your stop-loss at the lowest point of the gravestone candle before you take your profit.




What Does a Gravestone Doji Indicate?
A gravestone doji is a trading pattern that occurs in technical analysis. It looks like an inverted T with a long upper shadow. It is a bearish trend that indicates a reversal is on the horizon. Traders can assume that the reversal will be accompanied by a downtrend in the security's price. When a trader identifies a gravestone doji, they may be able to profit on a bullish position or by taking a position on a bearish trade.




What's the Opposite of a Gravestone Doji?
The opposite of a gravestone doji is a dragonfly doji. Where the gravestone doji is an inverted T with a long upper shadow, the dragonfly doji is a T with a longer lower shadow. In an uptrend, it means that the bearish pattern may be getting stronger while a dragonfly doji that appears in a downtrend indicates the opposite trend. Keep in mind that this pattern isn't one that occurs very frequently.


   The Bottom Line  

Many traders use technical analysis to capitalize on trends in the market. They use charts, patterns, and other tools that are based on past performance, trading volumes, and price history. One of these tools is the gravestone doji. This inverted T appears in a group of candles on a chart and is a bearish pattern indicating that a reversal is on the horizon with a downtrend in the price action. Knowing the ins and outs of the gravestone doji, when to use it, and combining it with other technical tools can help you minimize your losses while you profit on your trades.
What Is a Gray Box?  

Gray box refers to the testing of software where there is some limited knowledge of its internal workings. Gray box testing is an ethical hacking technique where the hacker has to use limited information to identify the strengths and weaknesses of a target's security network.





Key Takeaways

Gray box testing is a technique for discovering software bugs or finding exploits, where some limited knowledge about the underlying software is known in advance.This form of "ethical hacking" allows software developers to create fixes and patches to prevent malicious attackers from utilizing these exploits.Gray box testing is essentially a blend of white box (full-knowledge) and black box (no-knowledge) methodologies.


   Understanding Gray Boxes  

Gray box is the hybrid of white box testing, where the tester examines the internal logic and structure of the software’s code, and black box testing, where the tester knows nothing about the software’s code. To understand gray box testing, we must first understand black box testing and white box testing.


  Black Box and White Box Testing   

Black box testing looks at nothing more than inputs by the user and what output the software produces given those inputs. Black box testing does not require any knowledge of programming language or other technical details. It is a type of high-level testing used in system testing and acceptance testing. Software engineers require a software requirement specification (SRS) document to perform black box testing. This testing takes an end-user perspective where the black box tester does not know how the outputs are generated from the inputs.



White box testing requires in-depth knowledge of the techniques and platforms used to build software, including the relevant programming language. It is a type of low-level testing used in unit testing and indication testing. Software engineers need to understand the programming language used to create the application so they can understand its source code. White box testing’s primary purposes are to strengthen security, examine how inputs and outputs flow through the application, and improve design and usability. When a white box tester does not get the expected output from a given input, the result is considered to be a bug that needs to be fixed.


   How Gray Box Testing Works  

Gray box testing includes important components of both black and white box testing to get a better result than either could obtain alone. Both end users and developers perform gray box testing with limited (partial) knowledge of an application’s source code. Gray box testing can be manual or automated. It is more comprehensive and more time consuming than black box testing, but not as comprehensive or time consuming as white box testing. Gray box testers require detailed design documents.



Gray box testing involves identifying inputs, outputs, major paths, and subfunctions. It then moves on to developing inputs and outputs for subfunctions, executing test cases for subfunctions, and verifying those results.


   Gray Box Example  

A gray box tester might check and fix the links on a website. If a link doesn't work, the tester changes the HTML code to try to make the link work, then rechecks the user interface to see if the link works. A gray box tester might also test an online calculator. The tester would define inputs—mathematical formulas such as 1+1, 2*2, 5-4, and 15/3—then check to see that the calculator provides the correct outputs given those inputs. The gray box tester has access to the calculator’s HTML code and can change it if any errors are identified.



Gray box testing looks at both the application’s user interface, or presentation layer, and its internal workings, or code. It is mainly used in integration testing and penetration testing but it is not suitable for algorithm testing. Gray box testing is generally used to test an application’s user interface, security, or online functionality through techniques such as matrix testing, regression testing, orthogonal array testing, and pattern testing. Gray box testers are most likely to identify context-specific problems.



“Gray” refers to the tester’s partial ability to see the application’s internal workings. “White” refers to the ability to see through the software’s interface to its inner workings, and “black” refers to the inability to see the software’s internal workings. Gray box testing is sometimes called translucent testing, while white box testing is sometimes called clear testing and black box testing may also be called opaque testing.




What Are the Advantages of Gray Box Testing?
Because gray box testing is meant to be conducted from the perspective of a user or hacker, it may reveal important flaws in the software that wouldn't be obvious to a developer approaching the testing from a development perspective.




Who Performs Gray Box Testing?
Both developers and security testers can conduct gray box testing. White box testing is conducted by developers and testers who are very familiar with the code used to write the software. Black box testing is conducted by testers who don't need to know the software's code. Gray box testing is a hybrid of the two and can be conducted by experts who conduct both white box and black box testing.




How Is Gray Box Testing Used in Cybersecurity?
Gray box testing can be used to see what kind of access a user has when signing into a website or app, and therefore, how easy or difficult it might be for someone to hack into the site with similar credentials, or without any credentials.
What Is a Gray List?  

A gray list is a list of stocks that are ineligible for trade by an investment bank's risk arbitrage division. Securities on the gray list aren’t necessarily exceptionally risky or otherwise inherently flawed, but are nonetheless restricted. In such cases, the gray list can include those firms working with the investment bank, often in matters of mergers and acquisitions. Once the firms in question have completed this business, the stocks may be taken off the gray list, allowing the bank to trade them once again.





Key Takeaways

The gray list identifies the stocks that a risk arbitrage desk is restricted from trading by a brokerage or bank.Risk arbitrage is an investment strategy that hopes to profit from the stock prices of merger and acquisition deal stocks.The gray list prevents investment banking clients of the financial firm doing risk arbitrage from dealing in those securities with deals pending in order to prevent insider trading or perceptions thereof.Gray lists are kept strictly confidential as they can reveal the M&A or other customers of the bank.


   Understanding the Gray List  

Risk arbitrage an investment strategy that seeks to profit from proposed mergers and acquisitions. In particular, the strategy tries to take advantage of potential for a narrowing of the gap of the trading price of a target's stock and the acquirer's valuation of that stock in an intended takeover deal. In a stock-for-stock merger, risk arbitrage involves buying the shares of the target and selling short the shares of the acquirer. This investment strategy will be profitable if the deal is consummated; if it is not, the investor will lose money.



The gray list is intended to safeguard a bank’s interests by keeping it from investing in stocks that currently carry an inherent amount of risk. The outcome of a merger or acquisition will typically influence the value of shares issued by any of the firms involved in the deal. The influence of such a business deal on the price of a stock can be either positive or negative, so stocks are placed on the gray list until the deal is complete and its impact can be accurately assessed.


   Confidentiality of the Gray List  

Because the gray list includes firms working closely with an investment bank, it is often confidential and kept close within the bank's trading divisions. The document is created for internal purposes only because the specifics of a bank’s business arrangements with other firms are considered confidential. Only the firm involved and the employees of the risk arbitrage division of the bank involved know which stocks are on a gray list, or have access to it as required by their professional duties.


   Trade of Stocks on the Gray List by Other Divisions of the Same Bank  

While the risk arbitrage division is barred from trading within the gray list, other departments or divisions of the bank in question are not prohibited from trading the gray list stocks. For instance, the investment bank's block trading desk is eligible for such transactions. This is allowed because of what’s referred to as the Chinese wall, which maintains secrecy between divisions or departments of a bank so that each department is unaware of the customer interactions of other departments. Therefore, the block trading desk of the bank in question may be unaware that a merger or acquisition is in the works, and would have no reason to treat shares issued by the client firm any differently than it would treat shares issued by any other firm.
What Is a Gray Market?  

A gray market is an unofficial market for financial securities. Gray (or “grey”) market trading generally occurs when a stock that has been suspended from trades off the market, or when new securities are bought and sold before official trading begins. The gray market enables the issuer and underwriters to gauge demand for a new offering because it is a “when issued” market (i.e., it trades securities that will be offered in the very near future). The gray market is an unofficial one but is not illegal.



The term “gray market” also refers to the import and sale of goods by unauthorized dealers; in this instance as well, such activity is unofficial but not illegal.





Key Takeaways

The gray market for financial securities refers to unofficial, over-the-counter (OTC) transactions in a security.Unlike typical OTC trading where securities never trade on an exchange, the gray market trades in securities that have been suspended from official trading, or which have not yet begun official trading on an exchange.The gray market also refers to products, often imports, that are sold through alternative retail channels.In either case, while not illegal, the unofficial status of the gray market increases its riskiness.


   Gray Market Explained  

In gray market trading, while the trade is binding, it cannot be settled until official trading begins. This may cause an unscrupulous party to renege on the trade. Due to this risk, some institutional investors, like pension funds and mutual funds, may refrain from gray market trading.



The gray market for goods thrives when there is a significant price discrepancy for a popular product in different nations. In many nations, there is a substantial gray market for popular consumer devices and electronics because these can be easily purchased online and shipped to any location. Other popular gray market products include luxury cars, high-end apparel, handbags and shoes, cigarettes, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics. Unauthorized dealers may import such items in bulk and, despite adding a healthy markup, sell them at a price still well below the local cost.



Customers who buy such products for the discount price may face problems in the future and should ensure that they meet local safety and certification standards. Post-sale service and support is another key issue, as authorized dealers may be unwilling to service goods bought in the gray market.



Consumers may also occasionally unwittingly buy a gray market product. Some indications that a product is likely to be from a gray market are a price that is considerably lower than that offered by other local retailers, user manuals in a different language, and photocopied manuals or duplicated software CDs.


   Adverse Impact on Businesses  

The size of some gray markets is substantial. Business outside official channels poses challenges for the manufacturers of the goods. Aside from the loss of sales that a company can book directly, the gray market produces a risk to brand equity and damages relationships in the formal sales channel made up of wholesalers, distributors, and retailers, whose exclusivity for sought-after goods is weakened.
What Is the Graduate Record Examination (GRE)?  

The graduate record examination (GRE) is a standardized exam used to measure one's aptitude for abstract thinking in the areas of analytical writing, mathematics, and vocabulary. The GRE is commonly used by many graduate schools in the U.S. and Canada to determine an applicant's eligibility for the program.



The GRE today is primarily offered via computer; however, in areas that lack the appropriate computer networks, a paper-based exam may be given.





Key Takeaways

The GRE is a standardized graduate program aptitude test that measures abstract thinking in areas such as reading comprehension, writing, and mathematics.The GRE score scale is 130-170, with top graduate programs looking for those scoring in the mid-to-high-160s.The GRE is available at online testing centers and, in most countries including the U.S.In most countries, the GRE costs costs $220 to take; the test costs $231.30 for test-takers in China.


   Understanding the Graduate Record Examination (GRE)  

The GRE consists of three key sections designed to measure verbal and quantitative reasoning, and critical writing skills.



The verbal reasoning section analyzes the test taker's ability to draw conclusions, distinguish major and relevant points, and understand words and sentences, among other things. It’s structured to measure the test taker’s ability to analyze and evaluate written material. This section also gauges their capacity to process the information they gather from written material and see and analyze relationships between different parts of sentences.



In the quantitative segment, the test taker’s ability to solve problems is measured through the use of concepts of geometry, data analysis, and algebra. Test takers must solve problems using mathematical problems, and interpret and analyze quantitative data.



The final section, meanwhile, measures the test taker’s capacity for critical thinking and analytical writing—in particular, how well they can articulate complex ideas and provide effective support for those concepts.


   History of the GRE  

The GRE was introduced in 1936 by a consortium of four universities and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. In 1938, the University of Wisconsin became the first public university to ask students to take the GRE.



The Educational Testing Service (ETS) was created in 1947 and currently oversees GRE testing. Initially, the GRE test included only verbal and quantitative sections. An analytics and logic section was later added, but then replaced, after 2002, with the analytical writing assessment.



New questions were introduced in 2007, together with fill-in-the-blank style questions in the math section, while 2008 brought style changes to the reading comprehension questions. The biggest changes came in 2011, with a new design that includes the current 130-170 scoring scale, doing away with particular question types, and making the computer adaptive testing adjustments based on sections and not questions.



Despite its ubiquity, some universities have begun dropping GRE requirements, amidst criticism that the exam is unfair and biased, and moreover does not provide a good prediction of graduate student success or further employment in academia.



Most recently, the ETS announced that the shortening of the GRE in 2023. Instead of a 4-hour long exam, test-takers will receive a condensed exam that will take less than two hours to complete, about half the time of the current test. The shorter test removes and condenses some of the sections on the GRE such as the argument essay, experimental (unscored) section, 10-minute break and the number of questions across the Quant sections. Registration for the shorter test is now open for test dates beginning September 22, 2023.


   How the GRE Is Scored  

There are three different sections of the GRE; these are scored in two different ways:



Verbal Reasoning: The Verbal Reasoning score range is typically between 130 and 170, in one-point increments.Quantitative Reasoning: The Quantitative Reasoning score range is also between 130 and 170, in one-point increments.Analytical Writing: Each task is scored on a scale of 0 to 6, in half-point increments. The two scores are then averaged to get the Analytical Writing score, which ranges from 0 to 6.



Your final GRE score is the combination of your Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning scores. These scores are reported on a scale of 260 to 340, in one-point increments. The Analytical Writing score is reported separately.


   How Admissions Use the GRE  

The GRE General Test is used broadly by graduate and business schools to screen applicants. Some schools may require applicants to take GRE Subject Tests, which measure knowledge in particular fields of study. These subject areas may include physics, psychology, biology, literature in English, and chemistry.



Note that GRE Subject Test areas of focus are not always static; tests have been introduced or discontinued for topics such as computer science and biochemistry, though the scores from previously taken tests remain reportable.


  Business School Admissions  

Most business schools prefer that applicants attempt the GMAT before applying for an MBA program, although many of them will also accept GRE scores as an equivalent.



The GRE measures a test taker's skills in vocabulary, as opposed to the GMAT, which focuses more on mathematical ability. Nevertheless, many business schools, including the top business schools in the U.S., accept the GRE as an entrance exam for their MBA programs.



To get a better idea of typical scores for the GRE, here are the average GRE scores for the class of 2022.











2022 Average GRE Scores for the Top 10 Business Schools




Ranking
Business School
Average GRE Verbal
Average GRE Quant


1
Stanford University
165
164


2
University of Chicago (Booth)
163
161


3
University of Pennsylvania (Wharton)
161
161


4
Harvard Business School
163
163


5
Northwestern University (Kellogg)
163
163


6
MIT (Sloan)
n/a
n/a


7
Columbia University
n/a
n/a


8
University of California at Berkeley (Haas)
161
161


9
Dartmouth University (Tuck)
161
159


10
Yale University
164
164



Rankings from U.S. News’ Top Business Schools of the Class of 2022


   How to Take the GRE and Costs  

Those who are looking to take the GRE typically schedule to take the exam at a test center. The time allotted to complete the exam is more than three hours, with scheduled breaks between testing sections. While there is no limit on the number of times one can take the exam, there must be a 21-day gap between any two consecutive test attempts. The exam also cannot be taken more than five times in a calendar year.



A test taker might take the exam multiple times in order to improve their test scores and increase their chances of being accepted into the graduate schools they are interested in attending. Test takers choose which scores they send to graduate schools, unlike other standardized tests that are reported without input from the applicant.



The cost of the exam in the U.S. is $220. That same fee applies to many other countries in the world, although there are some exceptions—in China and India the exam costs $231.30 and $213, respectively.


   Signing Up and Preparing for the GRE  

Individuals can sign up to take the GRE on the ETS website. Taking the computer test requires a free ETS account, then the test taker can sign up for a test date and center—although they must register at least two calendar days prior to the planned test date. Payment for the test can be made via credit or debit card, e-check, paper check, or PayPal.



In terms of preparing for the GRE, the ETS website offers a range of resources, most of which are free. The ETS offers free practice tests, math skills reviews with definitions and examples, and instructional videos.



The ETS also offers paid materials, which includes a number of additional practice tests. Section-specific questions, such as verbal reasoning, can be purchased, too. In addition, there are online writing practice features available through the service, which allows you to write two essays and get scores and feedback.




How Long Is the GRE?
The total testing time for the GRE is approximately 3 hours and 45 minutes, including time for breaks and instructions. The individual sections' durations vary, with Verbal and Quantitative sections lasting around 1 hour each, and Analytical Writing taking about 1 hour.




Can You Retake the GRE?
Yes, you can retake the GRE. There is no strict limit on how many times you can take the test, but there is a waiting period of 21 days between attempts. You can take the GRE up to five times within any continuous rolling 12-month period.




How Often Can You Take the GRE?
The GRE can be taken once every 21 days, up to five times within any 12-month period. The number of times you can take the GRE resets after 12 months from your first test.




Can I Send Only My Best GRE Score to Schools?
Yes, you have the option to send only your best GRE scores to schools. The ScoreSelect option allows you to choose which scores are sent to institutions, giving you control over which scores they see.




Do All Schools Require GRE Scores?
No, not all schools require GRE scores for admission. In recent years, some programs have waived the GRE requirement, especially for specific intakes, due to factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic or changes in admissions policies.


   The Bottom Line  

The GRE is a standardized test used for admissions into graduate and business school programs. It assesses a student's readiness for advanced academic studies by evaluating their verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing skills. The test consists of three main sections: Verbal Reasoning, Quantitative Reasoning, and Analytical Writing. GRE scores range from 130 to 170 for each of the Verbal and Quantitative sections, and from 0 to 6 for Analytical Writing.
What Was the Great Depression?  

The term "Great Depression" refers to the greatest and longest economic recession in modern world history. The Great Depression ran between 1929 and 1941, which was the same year that the United States entered World War II in 1941. This period was accentuated by a number of economic contractions, including the stock market crash of 1929 and banking panics that occurred in 1930 and 1931.



Economists and historians often cite the Great Depression as one of the largest—if not the most—catastrophic economic events of the 20th century.





Key Takeaways

The Great Depression was the greatest and longest economic recession in modern world history that ran between 1929 and 1941.Investing in the speculative market in the 1920s led to the stock market crash in 1929, which wiped out a great deal of nominal wealth.Most historians and economists agree that the stock market crash of 1929 wasn't the only cause of the Great Depression. Other factors including inactivity followed by overaction by the Fed also contributed to the Great Depression.Both Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt tried to mitigate the impact of the depression through government policies.





How Did the Great Depression End?

Conventional wisdom says that the U.S. was jolted out of the Great Depression by New Deal job creation combined with a flood of government investment in the private sector in preparation for the country's entrance into World War II. This is disputed by some economists, who assert that the Depression would have ended earlier with less government intervention.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   The Stock Market Crash  

During the short depression that lasted from 1920 to 1921, known as the Forgotten Depression, the U.S. stock market fell by nearly 50%, and corporate profits declined by over 90%. The U.S. economy enjoyed robust growth during the rest of the decade. The Roaring Twenties, as the era came to be known, was a period when the American public discovered the stock market and dove in headfirst.



Speculative frenzies affected both the real estate markets and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Loose money supply and high levels of margin trading by investors helped to fuel an unprecedented increase in asset prices.



The lead-up to October 1929 saw equity prices rise to all-time high multiples of more than 19-times after-tax corporate earnings. This, coupled with the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Index (DJIA) increasing 500% in just five years, ultimately caused the stock market crash.



The NYSE bubble burst violently on Oct. 24, 1929, a day that came to be known as Black Thursday. A brief rally occurred Friday the 25th and during a half-day session Saturday the 26th. However, the following week brought Black Monday (Oct. 28) and Black Tuesday (Oct. 29). The DJIA fell more than 20% over those two days. The stock market would eventually fall almost 90% from its 1929 peak.



Ripples from the crash spread across the Atlantic Ocean to Europe triggering other financial crises such as the collapse of the Boden-Kredit Anstalt, Austria’s most important bank. In 1931, the economic calamity hit both continents in full force.


   The U.S. Economy Tailspin  

The 1929 stock market crash wiped out nominal wealth, both corporate and private, sending the U.S. economy into a tailspin. In early 1929, the U.S. unemployment rate was 3.2%. By 1933, it soared over 25%.



Despite unprecedented interventions and government spending by both the Hoover and Roosevelt administrations, the unemployment rate remained above 18.9% in 1938. Real per capita gross domestic product (GDP) was below 1929 levels by the time the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in late 1941.



While the crash likely triggered the decade-long economic downturn, most historians and economists agree that the crash alone did not cause the Great Depression. Nor does it explain why the slump's depth and persistence were so severe. A variety of specific events and policies contributed to the Great Depression and helped to prolong it during the 1930s.


   Mistakes by the Young Federal Reserve  

The relatively new Federal Reserve mismanaged the supply of money and credit before and after the crash in 1929. According to monetarists such as Milton Friedman and acknowledged by former Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke.



Created in 1913, the Fed remained fairly inactive throughout the first eight years of its existence. After the economy recovered from the 1920 to 1921 depression, the Fed allowed significant monetary expansion. The total money supply grew by $28 billion, a 61.8% increase between 1921 and 1928. Bank deposits increased by 51.1%, savings and loan shares rose by 224.3%, and net life insurance policy reserves jumped 113.8%. All of this occurred after the Federal Reserve cut required reserves to 3% in 1917. Gains in gold reserves via the Treasury and Fed were only $1.16 billion.



By increasing the money supply and keeping the interest rate low during the decade, the Fed instigated the rapid expansion that preceded the collapse. Much of the surplus money supply growth inflated the stock market and real estate bubbles.



After the bubbles burst and the market crashed, the Fed took the opposite course by cutting the money supply by nearly a third. This reduction caused severe liquidity problems for many small banks and choked off hopes for a quick recovery.






Trade routes created during World War II remained open during the Great Depression and helped the market recover.


   The Fed's Tight Fist  

As Bernanke noted in a November 2002 address, before the Fed existed, bank panics were typically resolved within weeks. Large private financial institutions would loan money to the strongest smaller institutions to maintain system integrity. That sort of scenario had occurred two decades earlier, during the Panic of 1907.



When frenzied selling sent the NYSE spiraling downward and led to a bank run, investment banker J.P. Morgan stepped in to rally Wall Street denizens to move significant amounts of capital to banks lacking funds. Ironically, it was that panic that led the government to create the Federal Reserve to cut its reliance on individual financiers such as Morgan.



After Black Thursday, the heads of several New York banks had tried to instill confidence by prominently purchasing large blocks of blue-chip stocks at above-market prices. While these actions caused a brief rally Friday, the panicked sell-offs resumed Monday. In the decades since 1907, the stock market grew beyond the ability of such individual efforts. Now, only the Fed was big enough to prop up the U.S. financial system.



The Fed failed to do so with a cash injection between 1929 and 1932. Instead, it watched the money supply collapse and let thousands of banks fail. At the time, banking laws made it very difficult for institutions to grow and diversify enough to survive a massive withdrawal of deposits or run on the bank.



While difficult to understand, the Fed's harsh reaction may have been the result of its fear that bailing out careless banks would only encourage fiscal irresponsibility in the future. Some historians argue that the Fed created the conditions that caused the economy to overheat and then exacerbated an already dire economic situation.


   Hoover's Propped-Up Prices  

Herbert Hoover took action after the crash occurred even though he's often characterized as a "do-nothing" president.



Between 1930 and 1932, he implemented:



An increase to federal spending by 42%, which engaged in massive public works programs such as the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC)
Taxes to pay for new programs
A ban on immigration in 1930 to keep low-skilled workers from flooding the labor market



Hoover was mainly concerned with the fact that wages would be cut following the economic downturn. He reasoned that prices needed to stay high to ensure high paychecks in all industries. To keep prices high, consumers would need to pay more.



But the public was burned badly in the crash, leaving many people without the resources to spend lavishly on goods and services. Nor could companies count on overseas trade, as foreign nations were not willing to buy overpriced American goods any more than Americans were.






Many of his and Congress' other post-crash interventions, such as wage, labor, trade, and price controls, damaged the economy's ability to adjust and reallocate resources.


   U.S. Protectionism  

This bleak reality forced Hoover to use legislation to prop up prices and hence wages by choking out cheaper foreign competition. Following the tradition of protectionists, and against the protests of more than 1,000 of the nation's economists, Hoover signed into law the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930.



The act was initially a way to protect agriculture but swelled into a multi-industry tariff, imposing huge duties on more than 880 foreign products. Nearly three dozen countries retaliated, and imports fell from $7 billion in 1929 to just $2.5 billion in 1932. By 1934, international trade had declined by 66%. Not surprisingly, economic conditions worsened worldwide.



Hoover's desire to maintain jobs and individual and corporate income levels was understandable. However, he encouraged businesses to raise wages, avoid layoffs, and keep prices high at a time when they naturally should have fallen. With previous cycles of recession/depression, the United States suffered one to three years of low wages and unemployment before dropping prices led to a recovery. Unable to sustain these artificial levels, and with global trade effectively cut off, the U.S. economy deteriorated from a recession to a depression.


   The New Deal  

President Franklin Roosevelt promised massive change when he was voted-in in 1933. The New Deal he initiated was an innovative, unprecedented series of domestic programs and acts designed to bolster American business, reduce unemployment, and protect the public.



Loosely based on Keynesian economics, it was based on the fact that the government could and should stimulate the economy. The New Deal set lofty goals to create and maintain the national infrastructure, full employment, and healthy wages. The government set about achieving these goals through price, wage, and even production controls.



Some economists claim that Roosevelt continued many of Hoover's interventions, just on a larger scale. He kept in place a rigid focus on price supports and minimum wages and removed the country from the gold standard, forbidding individuals to hoard gold coins and bullion. He banned monopolistic business practices and instituted dozens of new public works programs and other job-creation agencies.



The Roosevelt administration paid farmers and ranchers to stop or cut back on production. One of the most heartbreaking conundrums of the period was the destruction of excess crops, despite the need for thousands of Americans to access affordable food.



Federal taxes tripled between 1933 and 1940 to pay for these initiatives as well as new programs such as Social Security. These increases included hikes in excise taxes, personal income taxes, inheritance taxes, corporate income taxes, and an excess profits tax.


   New Deal Success and Failure  

The New Deal led to measurable results, such as financial system reform and stabilization, boosting public confidence. Roosevelt declared a bank holiday for an entire week in March 1933 to prevent institutional collapse due to panicked withdrawals. This was followed by a construction program for a network of dams, bridges, tunnels, and roads. These projects opened up federal work programs, employing thousands of people.



Although the economy showed some recovery, the rebound was far too weak for the New Deal's policies to be unequivocally deemed successful in pulling America out of the Great Depression. Historians and economists disagree on the reason:



Keynesians blame a lack of federal spending, saying that Roosevelt did not go far enough in his government-centric recovery plans
Others claim that by trying to spark immediate improvement instead of letting the economic/business cycle follow its usual two-year course of hitting bottom and then rebounding, Roosevelt may have prolonged the depression, just like Hoover did before him



A study by two economists at the University of California, Los Angeles estimated that the New Deal extended the Great Depression by at least seven years. But it is possible that the relatively quick recovery, which was characteristic of other post-depression recoveries, may not have occurred as rapidly post-1929. That's because it was the first time the general public (not just the Wall Street elite) lost large amounts in the stock market.



American economic historian Robert Higgs argued that Roosevelt's new rules and regulations came so fast and were so revolutionary that businesses became afraid to hire or invest. Philip Harvey, a professor of law and economics at Rutgers University, suggested that Roosevelt was more interested in addressing social welfare concerns than creating a Keynesian-style macroeconomic stimulus package.






Social Security policies enacted by the New Deal created programs for unemployment, disability insurance, old-age, and widows' benefits.


   The Impact of World War II  

The Great Depression appeared to end suddenly around 1941 to 1942. That's if we look at employment and GDP figures. This was just around the time that the United States entered World War II. The unemployment rate fell from eight million in 1940 to just over one million in 1943. However, more than 16 million Americans were conscripted to fight in the Armed Services. In the private sector, the real unemployment rate grew during the war.



The standard of living declined due to wartime shortages caused by rationing, and taxes rose dramatically to fund the war effort. Private investment dropped from $17.9 billion in 1940 to $5.7 billion in 1943, and total private-sector production fell by nearly 50%.



Although the notion that the war ended the Great Depression is a broken window fallacy, the conflict did put the United States on the road to recovery. The war opened international trading channels and reversed price and wage controls. Government demand opened up for inexpensive products, and the demand created a massive fiscal stimulus.



In the first 12 months after the war ended, private investments rose from $10.6 billion to $30.6 billion. The stock market broke into a bull run in a few short years.




What Really Caused the Great Depression?
It's hard to pinpoint exactly what specific factor caused the Great Depression. But economists and historians generally agree that there were several mitigating factors that led to this period of downturn. These include the stock market crash of 1929, the gold standard, a drop in lending and tariffs, as well as banking panics, and contracted monetary policies by the Fed.




When Did the Great Depression Start?
The Great Depression started following the stock market crash of 1929, which wiped out both private and corporate nominal wealth. This sent the U.S. economy into a tailspin and eventually trickled out beyond the U.S. border to Europe.




When Did the Great Depression End?
The Great Depression ended in 1941. This was around the same time that the United States entered World War II. Most economists cite this as the end date, as this was the time that unemployment dropped and GDP increased.


   The Bottom Line  

The Great Depression was the result of an unlucky combination of factors, including a flip-flopping Fed, protectionist tariffs, and inconsistently applied government interventionist efforts. This period could have been shortened or even avoided by a change in any one of these factors.



While the debate continues as to whether the interventions were appropriate, many of the reforms from the New Deal, such as Social Security, unemployment insurance, and agricultural subsidies, exist to this day. The assumption that the federal government should act in times of national economic crisis is now strongly supported. This legacy is one of the reasons the Great Depression is considered one of the seminal events in modern American history.
What Is the Great Leap Forward?  

The Great Leap Forward was a five-year plan of forced agricultural collectivization and rural industrialization that was instituted by the Chinese Communist Party in 1958, which resulted in a sharp contraction in the Chinese economy and between 30 to 45 million deaths by starvation, execution, torture, forced labor, and suicide out of desperation. It was the largest single, non-wartime campaign of mass killing in human history.



The initiative was led by Mao Zedong, also known as Mao Tse-tung and Chair Mao. Mao’s official goal was to rapidly evolve China from an agrarian economy into a modern industrial society with a greater ability to compete with Western industrialized nations.





Key Takeaways

The Great Leap Forward was a five-year economic plan executed by Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party, begun in 1958 and abandoned in 1961.The goal was to modernize the country's agricultural sector using communist economic ideologies.Instead of stimulating the country's economy, The Great Leap Forward resulted in mass starvation and famine.It is estimated that between 30 and 45 million Chinese citizens died due to famine, execution, and forced labor, along with massive economic and environmental destruction.The Great Leap Forward remains the largest episode of non-wartime mass killing in human history, and a clear example of the failures of socialism and economic central planning.


   Understanding the Great Leap Forward  

In 1958, Mao announced his plan for the Great Leap Forward, which he laid out as a five-year plan to improve the economic prosperity of the People’s Republic of China. He devised the plan after touring China and concluding that he felt the Chinese people were capable of anything.



Overall, the plan was centered around two primary goals, collectivizing agriculture, and widespread industrialization, with two main targets, increasing grain and steel production.


  Agriculture  

Private plot farming was abolished and rural farmers were forced to work on collective farms where all production, resource allocation, and food distribution was centrally controlled by the Communist Party. Large-scale irrigation projects, with little input from trained engineers, were initiated, and experimental, unproven new agricultural techniques were quickly introduced around the country. 



These innovations resulted in declining crop yields from failed experiments and improperly constructed water projects. A nationwide campaign to exterminate sparrows, which Mao believed (incorrectly) were a major pest on grain crops, resulted in massive locust swarms in the absence of natural predation by the sparrows. Grain production fell sharply, and hundreds of thousands died from forced labor and exposure to the elements on irrigation construction projects and communal farming. 



Famine quickly set in across the countryside, resulting in millions more deaths. People resorted to eating tree bark and dirt, and in some areas to cannibalism. Farmers who failed to meet grain quotas, tried to get more food, or attempted to escape were tortured and killed along with their family members via beating, public mutilation, being buried alive, scalding with boiling water, and other methods.


  Industrialization  

Large-scale state projects to increase industrial production were introduced in urban areas, and backyard steel furnaces were built on farms and in urban neighborhoods. Steel production was targeted to double in the first year of the Great Leap Forward, and Mao forecast that Chinese industrial output would exceed Britain’s within 15 years. The backyard steel industry produced largely useless, low-quality pig iron. Existing metal equipment, tools, and household goods were confiscated and melted down to fuel additional production.



Due to the failures in planning and coordination, and resulting materials shortages, which are common to central economic planning, the massive increase in industrial investment and reallocation of resources resulted in no corresponding increase in manufacturing output.



Millions of “surplus” laborers were moved from farms to steel making. Most were men, breaking up families and leaving the forced agricultural labor force for the collective farms consisting of mostly women, children, and older adults. The increase in urban populations placed additional strain on the food distribution system and demand on collective farms to increase grain production for urban consumption. Collective farm officials falsified harvest figures, resulting in much of what grain was produced being shipped to the cities as requisitions were based on the official figures.






Throughout the Great Leap forward, while millions starved to death, China remained a net exporter of grain as Mao directed grain exports and refused offers of international food relief in order to convince the rest of the world that his plans were a success.


   The Impact of the Great Leap Forward  

The Great Leap Forward ended up being a massive failure. Tens of millions died by starvation, exposure, overwork, and execution in just a few years. It broke families apart, sending men, women, and children to different locations, and destroyed traditional communities and ways of life. Farmland was damaged by nonsensical agricultural practices and the landscape denuded of trees to fuel the steel furnaces.



Thirty to forty percent of the housing stock was demolished to obtain raw materials for collective projects. In industry, massive quantities of capital goods and raw materials were consumed in projects that yielded no additional output of final goods. 



The Great Leap Forward was officially halted in Jan. 1961 after three brutal years of death and destruction.




What Was the Purpose of the Great Leap Forward Program?
The Great Leap Forward was a relatively short-lived effort by the communist regime of China to modernize its rural and agricultural sectors through collectivism and industrialization.




What Happened in the Great Leap Forward?
Rather than stimulating the economy, the measures undertaken by the Great Leap Forward resulted in massive food shortages, leading to famine and starvation—ultimately, tens of millions of Chinese citizens died as a result.




How Did the Great Leap Forward Cause Famine?
The failure of this program was due to the confluence of several factors. Efforts to kill off birds increased insect populations that ruined crops. The communal farms set up by the Great Leap Forward were beset by inadequate food distribution throughout the country given China's relatively primitive infrastructure at the time.At the same time, there was an overproduction of grain, much of which rotted before being able to be transported. In addition, there was a bias to feed residents of urban centers rather than to peasants across the countryside, leading to higher death rates among rural communities than in cities.




How Many People Died During the Great Leap Forward?
While there is no exact count, researchers have estimated the death toll to be between 30 million and 45 million individuals.




What Was the Impact of the Great Leap Forward on China's Economy?
While the social and human consequences of the Great Leap Forward were one of the greatest avoidable disasters of modern history, the net effect on China's economy may have been positive in the end by setting it on a permanent course to becoming a dominant industrial economy. In the years following the end of the program, China's industrial and agricultural output increased greatly, along with investment and construction activity.


   The Bottom Line  

The Great Leap Forward was an ambitious plan for economic development, urbanization, and industrialization in China during the late 1950s into the '60s. The plan, however, ended up being a disaster. During the Great Leap Forward, as many as 45 million people died from diseases and famine resulting from Mao Zedong's failed attempt to convert small family farms to urbanized communes while simultaneously urging them into industrial production and away from agriculture.
What Is the Great Moderation?  

The Great Moderation is the name given to the period of decreased macroeconomic volatility experienced in the United States starting in the 1980s. During this period, the standard deviation of quarterly real gross domestic product (GDP) declined by half and the standard deviation of inflation declined by two-thirds, according to figures reported by former U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke. The Great Moderation can be summed up as a multi-decade period of low inflation and positive economic growth.





Key Takeaway

The Great Moderation is the name given to the period of decreased macroeconomic volatility experienced in the United States from the mid-1980s to the financial crisis in 2007.In a speech delivered in 2004, Bernanke hypothesized three potential causes for the Great Moderation: structural change in the economy, improved economic policies, and good luck.Bernanke's praise of the Great Moderation was decidedly premature, as it culminated just a few years later in the worst global recession since the Great Depression.


   Understanding the Great Moderation  

The Great Moderation followed a period of at times violent swings in economic performance and inflation in the U.S. economy. From the 1960s Vietnam War inflation to the collapse of Bretton Woods to the stagflationary recessions of the 1970s to the era of volatile interest rates and inflation amid a double-dip recession in the early 1980s, the years leading up to the Great Moderation had some severe economic ups and downs.



The Great Moderation marked a period when U.S. inflation remained low and stable, and recessions, when they came, were relatively mild.


   The Great Moderation as Portrayed by the Fed  

The Great Moderation has been portrayed as an outcome of the monetary policy framework laid by Paul Volcker and continued by Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke during their stints as Federal Reserve chairs. In a speech delivered in 2004, Bernanke hypothesized three potential causes for the Great Moderation: structural change in the economy, improved economic policies, and good luck.



The structural changes Bernanke referred to included the widespread use of computers to enable more accurate business decision-making, advances in the financial system, deregulation, the economy's shift toward services, and increased openness to trade.



Bernanke also pointed to improved macroeconomic policies helping to moderate the large boom and bust cycles of the past, with many economists suggesting that a gradual stabilizing of the U.S. economy correlated with increasingly sophisticated theories of monetary and fiscal policy. Finally, Bernanke referred to studies indicating that greater stability has resulted from a decrease in economic shocks during this period, rather than a permanent improvement in stabilizing forces.



In retrospect, Bernanke's speech has been widely judged to have been prematurely self-congratulatory.


   The Failure of the Great Moderation  

A few years after Bernanke's speech, the Great Moderation came to a crashing halt with the financial crisis and the Great Recession. Imbalances in the economy that had been allowed to build up for years or even decades by the Fed's easy money policies throughout the Great Moderation came to a head. The U.S. housing market collapsed and price inflation accelerated in early 2008, freezing up the flow of credit and liquidity in financial markets, and precipitating the worst global recession since the Great Depression.



This was made possible because the normal feedback mechanisms to monetary policy stopped working during the Great Moderation. The spread of globalization, interconnected financial markets, and the hegemony of the U.S. dollar in international trade had given the Fed's decades-long inflationary policies an outlet in foreign markets that effectively soaked up the price inflation that would otherwise have rapidly driven up the domestic price level and spoiled the Fed's party. With each recessionary cycle that occurred over the course of the Great Moderation, the Fed was able to simply double down and inflate more, papering over underlying problems in the economy by printing more money.



The Great Recession, when it came, represented a trade-off between risk and stability: rather than allow moderate recessions to periodically run their course, Fed policymakers during the Great Moderation chose to run the long-term risk of a catastrophic crash in order to put off short-term pain.



Like a patient given painkillers and instructed to continue walking around on a broken leg by his doctor, the economy muddled through mild recessions in the early 1990s and 2000s until it reached a final breaking point in 2008. The fragile economy that the Fed, and others, had built through the Great Moderation ended in a spectacular global meltdown.
What Was the 2008 Great Recession?  

The Great Recession was the sharp decline in economic activity that started in 2007 and lasted several years, spilling into global economies. It is considered the most significant downturn since the Great Depression in the 1930s. The term "Great Recession" applies to both the U.S. recession, officially lasting from December 2007 to June 2009, and the ensuing global recession in 2009.



The economic slump began when the U.S. housing market went from boom to bust, and large amounts of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and derivatives plummeted in value.





Key Takeaways

The Great Recession refers to the economic downturn from 2007 to 2009 after the bursting of the U.S. housing bubble and the global financial crisis.The Great Recession was the most severe economic recession in the United States since the Great Depression of the 1930s.In response to the Great Recession, unprecedented fiscal, monetary, and regulatory policy was unleashed by federal authorities, which some, but not all, credit with the subsequent recovery.


   Understanding the Great Recession  

The term "Great Recession" is a play on the term "Great Depression" of the 1930s, when gross domestic product (GDP) declined more than 10% and unemployment hit 25%.



While no explicit criteria exist to differentiate a depression from a severe recession, there is a near consensus among economists that the downturn of 2007-2009 was not a depression. During the Great Recession, U.S. GDP declined by 0.3% in 2008 and 2.8% in 2009, while unemployment briefly reached 10%.


   Causes of the Great Recession  

According to a 2011 report by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, the Great Recession was avoidable. The appointees, which included six Democrats and four Republicans, cited several key contributing factors they determined led to the downturn.



First, the report identified failure on the part of the government to regulate the financial industry. This failure to regulate included the Fed’s inability to stop banks from giving mortgages to people who subsequently proved to be a bad credit risk.



Next, too many financial firms took on too much risk. The shadow banking system, which included investment firms, grew to rival the depository banking system but was not under the same scrutiny or regulation. When the shadow banking system failed, the collapse impacted the flow of credit to consumers and businesses.



Other causes the report identified included excessive borrowing by consumers and corporations, along with lawmakers who did not fully understand the collapsing financial system. This created asset bubbles, especially in the housing market as mortgages were extended at low interest rates to unqualified borrowers who subsequently could not repay them. The ensuing selloff caused housing prices to fall and left many other homeowners underwater. This, in turn, severely impacted the market for the mortgage-backed securities (MBS) banks and other institutional investors held, and demand for which allowed lenders to give mortgages to risky borrowers.


   Origins and Consequences  

The 2001 Dotcom bubble implosion followed by the World Trade Center attacks of September 11, 2001, hammered the U.S. economy. The U.S. Federal Reserve responded by cutting interest rates to the lowest levels since Bretton Woods to stimulate the economy. The Fed held interest rates low through mid-2004.



Combined with federal policy to encourage home ownership, low interest rates helped spark a boom in real estate and financial markets and a dramatic expansion of the volume of total mortgage debt. Financial innovations such as new types of subprime and adjustable mortgages allowed borrowers, many of whom otherwise might not have qualified, to obtain home loans on generous terms based on the expectation that interest rates would remain low and home prices would continue to rise.



However, from 2004 through 2006, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates to control inflation. As interest rates rose, the flow of new credit through traditional banking channels into real estate slowed. More seriously, rates on existing adjustable mortgages and exotic loans began to reset at much higher rates than many borrowers expected (or were led to expect by lenders). As monthly mortgage payments rose beyond borrowers' ability to pay (and they could not simply refinance as prices had stopped steadily rising), many borrowers started to sell. The increase in supply burst what was later widely recognized to be a housing bubble.



During the U.S. housing boom, financial institutions sold mortgage-backed securities and complex derivative products at unprecedented levels. When the real estate market collapsed in 2007, these securities declined precipitously in value. The credit markets that had financed the housing bubble quickly followed housing prices into a downturn as a credit crisis began unfolding in 2007. The solvency of over-leveraged banks and financial institutions hit a breaking point with the collapse of Bear Stearns in March 2008.



Things came to a head later that year with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the country’s fourth-largest investment bank, in September 2008. The contagion quickly spread to other economies around the world, most notably in Europe. As a result of the Great Recession, the United States alone lost more than 8.7 million jobs, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, doubling the unemployment rate. Further, U.S. households lost roughly $19 trillion in net worth as the stock market plunged, according to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Great Recession's official end date was June 2009.





Important

The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave the government control of failing financial institutions and the ability to establish consumer protections against predatory lending.


   Response to the Great Recession  

The aggressive monetary policies the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank took, along with other central banks around the world, was widely credited with preventing even greater damage to the global economy. However, some also criticized the moves, claiming they made the recession last longer and that they laid the groundwork for later recessions.


  Monetary and Fiscal Policy  

For example, the Fed lowered a key interest rate to nearly zero to promote liquidity and, in an unprecedented move, provided banks with a staggering $7.7 trillion of emergency loans in a policy known as quantitative easing (QE).



Along with the inundation of liquidity, the U.S. Federal government embarked on a massive program to stimulate the economy in the form of $787 billion in spending under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. These monetary and fiscal policies reduced immediate losses to major financial institutions and large corporations.


  The Dodd-Frank Act  

Not only did the government introduce stimulus packages, new financial regulation was also put into place. In the 1990s, the U.S. repealed the Glass-Steagall Act, a depression-era regulation that separated investment from retail banking to reduce systemic risk. Some economists say this move helped cause the crisis. The repeal allowed some large U.S. banks to merge and form larger institutions, many of which later failed and had to be bailed out.



In response, in 2010, U.S. Congress passed and then-President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which gave the government expanded power to regulate the financial sector,including greater control over financial institutions that were deemed on the cusp of failing. It also created consumer protections against predatory lending.



However, critics of Dodd-Frank note that the financial sector players and institutions that actively drove and profited from predatory lending and related practices during the housing and financial bubbles were also deeply involved in both the drafting of the new law and with the agencies charged with its implementation. 






The U.S. Federal government spent $787 billion to stimulate the economy during the Great Recession under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, according to the Congressional Budget Office.


   Recovery From the Great Recession  

Following these policies, the economy gradually recovered. Real GDP bottomed out in the second quarter of 2009 and regained its pre-recession peak in the second quarter of 2011, three and a half years after the initial onset of the official recession. Financial markets recovered as the flood of liquidity washed over Wall Street.



The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which had lost over half its value from its August 2007 peak, began to recover in March 2009 and, four years later, in March 2013, broke its 2007 high.



For workers and households, the picture was less rosy. Unemployment was at 5% at the end of 2007, reached a high of 10% in October 2009, and did not recover to 5% until 2015, nearly eight years after the beginning of the recession. Real median household income did not recover to pre-recession levels until 2016.



Critics of the policy response and how it shaped the recovery argue that the tidal wave of liquidity and deficit spending propped up politically connected financial institutions and big business at the expense of ordinary people. It also may have delayed recovery by tying up economic resources in industries and activities that deserved to fail, when those assets and resources could have been used by other businesses to expand and create jobs.




How Long Did the Great Recession Last?
According to official Federal Reserve data, the Great Recession lasted eighteen months, from December 2007 through June 2009.




Have There Been Recessions Since the Great Recession?
Not officially. While the economy did suffer and markets fell following the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, stimulus efforts were effective in preventing a full-blown recession in the U.S. Some economists, however, fear that a recession may still be on the horizon as of late 2022.




How Much Did the Stock Market Crash During the Great Recession?
On October 9, 2007, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at its pre-recession high of 14,164.53. By March 5, 2009, the index had fallen more than 50% to 6,594.44.On September 29, 2008. The Dow Jones fell nearly 778 points in one day. It was the largest point drop in history until the market crashed in March 2020 at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.


   The Bottom Line  

The Great Recession lasted from roughly 2007 to 2009 in the U.S., although the contagion spread around the world, affecting some economies longer. The root cause was excessive mortgage lending to borrowers who normally would not qualify for a home loan, which greatly increased risk to the lender. Lenders were willing to take this risk as they could simply package the loans into an instrument they sold, passing the risk on to investors. Low interest rates and poor regulatory oversight following the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act compounded the problem, as credit was cheap and lending institutions had been freed from regulations that would have hampered their ability to mix commercial and investment banking, which the Act had separated.



As the economy imploded and financial institutions failed, the U.S. government launched a massive bailout program, which included assistance for consumers and the many unemployed people via the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Most credit the bailouts and the ARRA with providing much needed relief to the public and with saving the financial industry (along with other industries) from total failure, but some assert the money used to bail out insolvent institutions could have been directed to more productive enterprises rather than using it to save failed ones.
What Was the Great Society?  

The Great Society was a set of domestic policy initiatives, programs, and legislation introduced in the 1960s in the U.S. These Great Society programs were intended to reduce poverty levels, reduce racial injustice, reduce crime, and improve the environment. Great Society policies were launched by then-President Lyndon B. Johnson between 1964 and 1965.



Johnson first laid out his plan for what he coined a "Great Society" during a speech at the University of Michigan. Johnson vowed that this collection of programs would lead to "an end to poverty and racial injustice."



Although Johnson's policies and programs targeted education, workforce training, healthcare, food security, and voting and civil rights, they were centrist in their approach.





Key Takeaways

The Great Society was a set of domestic policy initiatives designed under President Lyndon B. Johnson.Medicare, Medicaid, the Older Americans Act, and the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965, all remain in 2021. Education, civil rights, healthcare, and education were four important items on Johnson's agenda.These policies established greater civil and voting rights, greater environmental protections, and increased aid to public schools.President Johnson's initiatives were comparable to President Roosevelt's New Deal programs. 


   Understanding the Great Society  

The initiatives that comprised the Great Society have been compared, in their scope and their intent, to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal programs, enacted in the U.S. between 1933 and 1939.



The Great Society is considered one of the most extensive social reform plans in modern history. In addition, Johnson's efforts helped establish greater civil and voting rights, greater environmental protections, and increased aid to public schools.


   Great Society Programs  
  Antipoverty  

In March 1964, Johnson introduced the Office of Economic Opportunity and the Economic Opportunity Act to Congress. Johnson wanted to address the underprivileged members of the U.S. by creating a Job Corps. He also asked state and local governments to develop work training programs. 



A national work-study program provided funding for 140,000 Americans to attend college. Other initiatives included community action programs, government-sponsored programs that trained volunteers to serve poor communities, loans to employers to hire the unemployed, funding for agricultural co-ops, and help for parents re-entering the workforce. 


  Healthcare  

When Johnson took office, many aging adults and those living paycheck to paycheck or living below the federal poverty level in the U.S. lacked any health insurance. When Johnson became the President, the Medicare and Medicaid programs became part of U.S. law.






The Great Society contributed to an increase in life expectancies, from 66.6 years for men and 73.1 for women years in 1964 to 73.2 and 79.1 respectively in 2021.



Medicare helped to provide coverage for hospital and physician visits for aging adults; the Medicaid program helped cover healthcare costs for those suffering from poverty and receiving assistance from the government. 


  Education  

Project Head Start began as an eight-week summer camp. It was operated by the Office of Economic Opportunity, and 500,000 children aged from three to five received preschool education.



In 1965, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act was passed, which guaranteed federal funding for education in school districts where the majority of students were living in low-income households.



Johnson also created additional support for the arts and humanities by signing the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act in 1965.


  Environmental Protections  

Various environmental initiatives set water quality standards and vehicle emission standards. Laws were also passed to create scenic trails and protect wildlife, rivers, and historic landmarks.






Project Head Start, which began under President Johnson, supports children's growth in a positive learning environment through various services from early development educational development to overall family health. Today Head Start programs reach over a million children every year in the United States.


  Consumer Protection  

The Great Society established several laws and agencies to protect U.S. consumers. In 1972, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) was formed to "protect the public against unreasonable risks of injuries and deaths associated with consumer products."



The CPSC creates and enforces standards, restricts unsafe consumer products, oversees the recall and replacement of products, and provides education on consumer safety. Most products except for motor vehicles, food, drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and firearms fall under the jurisdiction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.



The Great Society also established the Child Protection Act of 1966 to protect children from dangerous toys and products. Under the act, the federal government possesses the authority to define potential hazards and issue warning labels on hazardous toys and household items.


   The Legacy of the Great Society  

Great Society policies also focused on urban renewal. Following World War II, many major cities were in poor condition, and affordable housing was hard to find, particularly for the disadvantaged and underprivileged. The Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 provided federal funds to cities to invest in urban development that met minimum housing standards. The Act provided better access to home mortgages and a rent-subsidy program.



Johnson's Great Society policies birthed Medicare, Medicaid, the Older Americans Act, and the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965. All of which remain government programs in 2021. In addition, Johnson's policies helped create the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts to support and fund cultural institutions necessary for a healthy society. These programs fund and support libraries, public television and radio, museums, and archives.



The Great Society programs and policies inspire, educate, and lift Americans out of poverty decades after they were put into place.


   Special Considerations  

Johnson's government-funded programs aimed to reduce poverty and improve society, and his initiatives increased education levels and reduced inequality among Americans. Unfortunately, some of Johnson's efforts were overshadowed by the Vietnam War.



As the conflict waged on, Johnson was forced to divert funds to promote education and help underprivileged members of society to the war that claimed over 58,000 American lives. America's involvement in Vietnam tarnished Johnson's reputation despite his efforts to improve life for millions of Americans.




What Is the Definition of Great Society?
The definition of Great Society harkens to a group of government policy initiatives created in the 1960s by Lyndon B. JOhnson that were designed to improve the lives of Americans.




What Were Some of the Programs of the Great Society?
Project Head Start, the National Endowment for the Arts, Medicare, and Medicaid, are all programs that were part of the Great Society initiatives.




Who Urged Congress to Pass the Civil Rights Act as Part of His Vision for a Great Society?
Before his untimely death, President John Kennedy asked Congress in 1963 for a comprehensive civil rights bill. When Lyndon B. Johnson became the president after Kennedy's death, he urged Congress to pass the Civil Rights Act as part of his (and the late Kennedy) vision for a "Great Society."
What Is the Greater Fool Theory?  

The greater fool theory argues that prices go up because people are able to sell overpriced securities to a "greater fool," whether or not they are overvalued. That is, of course, until there are no greater fools left.



Investing, according to the greater fool theory, means ignoring valuations, earnings reports, and all the other data. Ignoring the fundamentals is, of course, risky; and so people subscribing to the greater fool theory could be left holding the bag after a correction.





Key Takeaways

The greater fool theory states that you can make money from buying overvalued securities because there will usually be someone (i.e. a greater fool) who is willing to pay an even higher price.Eventually, as the market runs out of fools left, prices will sell-off.Due diligence is recommended as a strategy to avoid becoming a greater fool yourself.


   Understanding the Greater Fool Theory  

If acting in accordance with the greater fool theory, an investor will purchase questionably priced securities without any regard for their quality. If the theory holds, the investor will still be able to quickly sell them off to another “greater fool,” who could also be hoping to flip them quickly.



Unfortunately, speculative bubbles burst eventually, leading to a rapid depreciation in share prices. The greater fool theory breaks down in other circumstances, as well, including during economic recessions and depressions. In 2008, when investors purchased faulty mortgage-backed securities (MBS), it was difficult to find buyers when the market collapsed.



By 2004, U.S. homeownership had peaked at just under 70%. Then, in late 2005, home prices started to fall, leading to a 40% decline in the U.S. Home Construction Index in 2006. Many subprime borrowers were no longer able to withstand high interest rates and began to default on their loans. Financial firms and hedge funds that owned in excess of $1 trillion in securities backed by these failing subprime mortgages also began to move into distress.


   Greater Fool Theory and Intrinsic Valuation  

One of the reasons that it was difficult to find buyers for MBS during the 2008 financial crisis was that these securities were built on debt that was of very poor quality. It is important in any situation to conduct thorough due diligence on an investment, including a valuation model in some circumstances, to determine its fundamental worth.



Due diligence is a broad term that encompasses a range of qualitative and quantitative analyses. Some aspects of due diligence can include calculating a company’s capitalization or total value; identifying revenue, profit, and margin trends; researching competitors and industry trends; as well as putting the investment in a broader market context—crunching certain multiples such as price-to-earnings (PE), price-to-sales (P/S), and price/earnings-to-growth (PEG).



Investors can also take steps to understand management (the effects and methods of their decision-making) and company ownership (via a capitalization table that breaks down who owns the majority of company shares and has the strongest voting power).


   Example of the Greater Fool Theory  

Bitcoin's price is often cited as an example of the greater fool theory. The cryptocurrency doesn't appear to have intrinsic value (although this is an area of debate), consumes massive amounts of energy, and consists simply of lines of code stored in a computer network. Despite these concerns, the price of bitcoin has skyrocketed over the years.



At the end of 2017, it touched a peak of $20,000 before retreating. Attracted to the lure of profiting from its price appreciation, traders and investors rapidly bought and sold the cryptocurrency, with many market observers positing that they were buying simply because they hoped to resell at a higher price to someone else later. The greater fool theory helped the price of bitcoin zoom upwards in a short period of time as demand outstripped supply of the cryptocurrency.



The years 2020-21 saw Bitcoin rise to new highs, topping $60,000 and hovering above $50,000 for weeks. This time, however, large institutional investors and corporations such as Tesla and PayPal have been involved in the buying—and it is debatable whether or not they can be considered fools. So, perhaps Bitcoin is not an example of the greater fool theory, after all.
What Is the Greek Drachma?  

The Greek drachma was the basic unit of currency in Greece until 2001 when it was replaced by the euro. The euro is now the only official currency of the country.





Key Takeaways

The Greek drachma was the currency of Greece before it was replaced by the euro in 2001. It was also the ancient money of the Greek empire and city-states.Drachma note denominations ranged from 10 to 500 over much of its existence, while smaller denominations of 1 and 2 drachmae were issued earlier.Greece has suffered financially from the mid-2000s, experiencing a debt crisis, which called into question the benefits of using the euro.A movement known as Grexit, which proposes a return to the drachma, gained popularity during Greece's debt crisis.


   Understanding the Greek Drachma  

The drachma had been a currency unit used in many ancient Greek city-states. It was re-introduced in 1832, following the creation of the modern country of Greece, where it replaced the phoenix, the first currency of modern Greece introduced in 1828. In 2002, the drachma was subsequently replaced by the euro and ceased to be legal tender.



One drachma is divided into 100 lepta. Between 1917 and 1920, the Greek central bank printed paper drachma notes in denominations of 10 lepta, 50 lepta, 1 drachma, 2 drachmae, and 5 drachmae. Large denominations followed, with the 1000-drachma note appearing in 1901, and the 5000-drachma note in 1928. The Greek government issued smaller valued notes between the years 1940 and 1944, with denominations ranging from 50 lepta to 20 drachmae.



After Greece was liberated from Germany in 1944, old drachmae were exchanged for new ones at a rate of 50 trillion to one, issued as one, five, 10, and 20 drachmae banknotes. In 1953, Greece joined the Bretton Woods system in an attempt to slow inflation. The following year, the drachma was revalued at a rate of 1000 to one, pegged at 30 drachmae to one U.S. dollar.



The three modern Greek drachmae were replaced by the euro in 2001 at the rate of 340.750 drachmae to one euro. This exchange rate was fixed on June 19, 2000, and the euro was introduced shortly thereafter in January of 2002.


   The Greek Drachma and Grexit  

Following the Greek debt crisis that erupted in 2009, there have been arguments for and against Greece eliminating the euro and reintroducing the drachma as its national currency by leaving the EU, in a process dubbed "Grexit."



The primary impetus for Grexit was to bring Greece back from the edge of bankruptcy. The idea was that a devalued drachma would encourage overseas investment and increase European tourism at reduced rates by paying in euro, which is more expensive. The euro's value would go further in Greece.



This would impact Greece negatively in the short term, but the increased investment and tourism would help it recover from its debt crisis without the assistance of the eurozone and its stringent requirements.



Those against Grexit argued that the switch to the lower-valued drachma would reduce the living standards of the Greek citizen and result in a difficult economic transition; all of which would result in social unrest throughout the country.



On July 5, 2015, the Greek population voted in a referendum whether to accept an agreement between Greece and its creditors—the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary Fund. The voters overwhelmingly rejected the proposal, which would have imposed austerity measures—leading to speculation that Grexit, and a return to the drachma, was at hand.



On the 16th, however, the Greek parliament voted to accept a slightly modified agreement, averting Greece's department from the Eurozone.


   History of the Greek Drachma  

The National Bank of Greece issued drachma banknotes from 1841 to 2001, after which time Greece joined the European Union (EU) and adopted its common currency, the euro. Drachma note denominations ranged from 10 to 500 over much of its existence, while smaller denominations of 1 and 2 drachmae were issued earlier. Initially, 5 drachma notes were created simply by cutting a 10 drachma note in half.






In Ancient Greece, the most popular drachma coin, the tetradrachm, had the profile of the goddess Athena on one side and an owl on the other.



After Greece won its national independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1828, the new nation issued the phoenix as its currency; however, it was short-lived—only in use for four years. In 1832, the drachma was re-introduced, harkening back to its ancient origins. The first drachmae notes were impressed with the image of King Otto, who reigned as modern Greece’s first king from 1832 to 1862.


   Greek Drachma vs. Euro  

When Greece switched to using the euro, it benefited greatly. It switched from a low-value currency to a high-value currency. That being said, if Greece had its own currency, it could print as much as it liked until it stimulated economic growth. In addition, having a weaker currency would attract investment, including an increase in exports and tourism. The downside is that printing too much money would cause inflation.



Despite any benefits of having its own currency, Greece benefits from being part of the eurozone. It has a strong currency, it receives aid packages, and using a powerful currency makes it safer and more efficient for companies to do business. Greece benefits from stable financial markets because of using the euro, which generates investments and trade.



Using the euro does come with rigid rules that often don't benefit less wealthy countries, like Greece, while greatly benefiting wealthier ones, like Germany.




What Was the Drachma Worth in Ancient Times?
Economists estimate that in the 5th century B.C., the drachma was worth approximately $54 in 2021 currency.




What Was the Drachma Made From?
The drachma was made with silver but over time it became debased as copper was introduced into the silver.




Why Did Greece Stop Using the Drachma?
Greece stopped using the drachma as part of the European Union's switch to utilizing one international unit of exchange. Greece had been part of the EU since the 1980s and as all the countries moved to adopt one currency with the goal of benefiting from more efficient trade and financial markets, Greece moved with the process as well.




Will Greece Switch Back to the Drachma?
As of now, despite the presence of "Grexit" supporters, Greece will not switch back to the drachma.


   The Bottom Line  

The Greek drachma was the official currency of Greece for most of its history; from antiquity to being reintroduced in the 1800s until it was replaced by the euro in 2001. The switch to the euro has come with many advantages and disadvantages for Greece and the debate of switching back to the drachma has been popular in the last few years. Despite the benefits of a lower value currency, Greece does benefit in many ways by using the euro.



Correction: Dec. 8, 2021. A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that in 2015, Greece voted to either remain with the euro or to switch back to the drachma, with the votes to stay with the euro winning the majority.
What Are the Greeks?  

The variables that are used to assess risk in the options market are commonly referred to as "the Greeks." A Greek symbol is used to designate each of these risks.



Each Greek variable is a result of an imperfect assumption or relationship of the option with another underlying variable. Traders use different Greek values, such as delta, theta, and others, to assess options risk and manage option portfolios. 





Key Takeaways

The Greeks are symbols assigned to the various risk characteristics that an options position entails.The most common Greeks used include the delta, gamma, theta, and vega, which are the first partial derivatives of the options pricing model.Greeks are used by options traders and portfolio managers to understand how their options investments will behave as prices move, and to hedge their positions accordingly.


   Understanding the Greeks  

Greeks encompass many variables. These include delta, theta, gamma, vega, and rho, among others. Each one of these Greeks has a number associated with it, and that number tells traders something about how the option moves or the risk associated with that option. The primary Greeks (delta, vega, theta, gamma, and rho) are calculated each as a first partial derivative of the options pricing model (for instance, the Black-Scholes model).



The number or value associated with a Greek changes over time. Therefore, sophisticated options traders may calculate these values daily to assess any changes that may affect their positions or outlook, or simply to check if their portfolio needs to be rebalanced. Below are several of the main Greeks traders look at.


   Delta  

Delta (Δ) represents the rate of change between the option's price and a $1 change in the underlying asset's price. In other words, the price sensitivity of the option is relative to the underlying asset. The delta of a call option has a range between 0 and 1, while the delta of a put option has a range between 0 and -1. For example, assume an investor is long a call option with a delta of 0.50. Therefore, if the underlying stock increases by $1, the option's price would theoretically increase by 50 cents.



For options traders, delta also represents the hedge ratio for creating a delta-neutral position. For example, if you purchase a standard American call option with a 0.40 delta, you will need to sell 40 shares of stock to be fully hedged. Net delta for a portfolio of options can also be used to obtain the portfolio's hedge ratio.



A less common usage of an option's delta is the current probability that the option will expire in-the-money. For instance, a 0.40 delta call option today has an implied 40% probability of finishing in-the-money.


   Theta  

Theta (Θ) represents the rate of change between the option price and time, or time sensitivity—sometimes known as an option's time decay. Theta indicates the amount an option's price would decrease as the time to expiration decreases, all else equal. For example, assume an investor is long an option with a theta of -0.50. The option's price would decrease by 50 cents every day that passes, all else being equal.



Theta increases when options are at-the-money, and decreases when options are in- and out-of-the money. Options closer to expiration also have accelerating time decay. Long calls and long puts will usually have negative theta; short calls and short puts will have positive theta. By comparison, an instrument whose value is not eroded by time, such as a stock, would have zero theta.


   Gamma  

Gamma (Γ) represents the rate of change between an option's delta and the underlying asset's price. This is called second-order (second-derivative) price sensitivity. Gamma indicates the amount the delta would change given a $1 move in the underlying security. For example, assume an investor is long on a call option on hypothetical stock XYZ. The call option has a delta of 0.50 and a gamma of 0.10. Therefore, if stock XYZ increases or decreases by $1, the call option's delta would increase or decrease by 0.10.



Gamma is used to determine how stable an option's delta is: Higher gamma values indicate that delta could change dramatically in response to even small movements in the underlying's price. Gamma is higher for options that are at-the-money and lower for options that are in- and out-of-the-money and accelerates in magnitude as expiration approaches. Gamma values are generally smaller the further away from the date of expiration; options with longer expirations are less sensitive to delta changes. As expiration approaches, gamma values are typically larger, as price changes have more impact on gamma.



Options traders may opt to not only hedge delta but also gamma in order to be delta-gamma neutral, meaning that as the underlying price moves, the delta will remain close to zero.


   Vega  

Vega (ν) represents the rate of change between an option's value and the underlying asset's implied volatility. This is the option's sensitivity to volatility. Vega indicates the amount an option's price changes given a 1% change in implied volatility. For example, an option with a vega of 0.10 indicates the option's value is expected to change by 10 cents if the implied volatility changes by 1%.



Because increased volatility implies that the underlying instrument is more likely to experience extreme values, a rise in volatility will correspondingly increase the value of an option. Conversely, a decrease in volatility will negatively affect the value of the option. Vega is at its maximum for at-the-money options that have longer times until expiration.






Greek-language buffs will point out that there is no actual Greek letter vega. There are various theories about how this symbol, which represents the Greek letter nu, found its way into stock-trading lingo.


   Rho  

Rho (ρ) represents the rate of change between an option's value and a 1% change in the interest rate. This measures sensitivity to the interest rate. For example, assume a call option has a rho of 0.05 and a price of $1.25. If interest rates rise by 1%, the value of the call option would increase to $1.30, all else being equal. The opposite is true for put options. Rho is greatest for at-the-money options with long times until expiration.


   Minor Greeks  

Some other Greeks, which aren't discussed as often, are lambda, epsilon, vomma, vera, zomma, and ultima. These Greeks are second- or third-derivatives of the pricing model and affect things such as the change in delta with a change in volatility and so on. They are increasingly used in options trading strategies, as computer software can quickly compute and account for these complex and sometimes esoteric risk factors.


   Implied Volatility  

Implied volatility is not a Greek, but it is related to them. This value forecasts how volatile the stock underlying an option will be in the future. Implied volatility is theoretical, meaning it shows what is expected but is not always dependable. This value is usually reflected in the price of an option.






Implied volatility can help you judge what assumptions market makers are using to set their bid and ask prices.



Implied volatility is often provided on options trading platforms, rather than being something that traders need to calculate for themselves. This is because market makers use implied volatility to set their prices, so traders need to know how volatile those market makers think an underlying stock will be. Implied volatility is based on a number of factors, including:



Upcoming earnings reportsPending product launchesExpected mergers or acquisitions



Comparing an underlying stock's historic volatility to its implied volatility can help you judge whether the option you are considering is priced low or high. If the implied volatility is higher than normal, this generally benefits option sellers. Implied volatility that is lower than normal, on the other hand, usually benefits option buyers.




What Are the Greeks In Options?
The five main Greeks in options trading are delta (Δ), theta (Θ), gamma (Γ), vega (ν), and rho (ρ). Each Greek has a number value that provides information about how the option is moving or the risk associated with buying or selling that option. These values change over time, so savvy traders will check them daily or multiple times a day before making trades.




Is a High Delta Good for Options?
A rise in the price of the underlying stock is positive for call options but not for put options. This means that the Delta value is positive for call options and negative for put options.




Which Greek Measures Volatility?
Theta measures the rate of decline in the value of an option over time. This is its sensitivity to implied volatility. Implied volatility is a separate value that is not a Greek but is often used alongside them to value an option.




Are Greeks Part of the Price of an Option?
The Greeks are not part of the price of an option. They are used to estimate what the price of an option might do in response to changes in the market or the value of the underlying stock. This can help you judge the underlying risk of an option and whether it is a good investment or not.


   The Bottom Line  

In options investing, the Greeks are values that estimate the various risk characteristics of an options position. They tell traders how an option is likely to react to changes in the market, such as a change in the price of the underlying asset. Greeks can be used to judge the riskiness of an investment in that option.



The Greeks get their name because they are represented by letters from the Greek alphabet. The five main ones are delta, gamma, vega, theta, and rho. There are also minor Greeks, such as lambda, epsilon, vomma, vera, zomma, and ultima. The use of these minor Greeks is becoming more common since computers can quickly calculate complex variables for traders.
What Is a Green Bond?  

A green bond is a type of fixed-income instrument that is specifically earmarked to raise money for climate and environmental projects. These bonds are typically asset-linked and backed by the issuing entity’s balance sheet, so they usually carry the same credit rating as their issuers’ other debt obligations.​



Dating back to the first decade of the 21st century, green bonds are sometimes referred to as climate bonds, but the two terms are not always synonymous. Climate bonds specifically finance projects that reduce carbon emissions or alleviate the effects of climate change, while green bonds represent a broader category of instruments related to projects with a positive environmental impact.





Key Takeaways


A green bond is a fixed-income instrument designed to support specific climate-related or environmental projects.
Green bonds may come with tax incentives to enhance their attractiveness to some investors.
The phrase “green bond” is sometimes used interchangeably with “climate bonds” or “sustainable bonds.”
Green bonds are part of a larger trend in socially responsible and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing.



   Understanding Green Bonds  

Green bonds are designated bonds intended to encourage sustainability and to support climate-related or other types of special environmental projects. More specifically, green bonds finance projects aimed at energy efficiency, pollution prevention, sustainable agriculture, fishery and forestry, the protection of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, clean transportation, clean water, and sustainable water management. They also finance the cultivation of environmentally friendly technologies and the mitigation of climate change.



Green bonds may come with tax incentives such as tax exemption and tax credits, making them a more attractive investment vs. a comparable taxable bond. These tax advantages provide a monetary incentive to tackle prominent social issues such as climate change and a movement toward renewable sources of energy. To qualify for green bond status, they are often verified by a third party such as the Climate Bond Standard Board, which certifies that the bond will fund projects that include benefits to the environment.


   History of Green Bonds  

As recently as 2012, green bond issuance amounted only to $2.6 billion. But in 2016, green bonds began to sprout. Much of the action was attributable to Chinese borrowers, who accounted for $32.9 billion of the total, or more than one-third of all issuances. But the interest is global, with the European Union and the United States among the leaders, too.



In 2017, green bond issuance soared to a record high, accounting for $161 billion worth of investment worldwide, according to a report from the rating agency Moody’s. Growth slowed a bit in 2018, hitting only $167 billion, but rebounded the following year thanks to an increasingly climate-aware market. Green issuances reached a record $266.5 billion in 2019 and nearly $270 billion the following year.



The 2010s saw the development of green bond funds, broadening the ability of retail investors to participate in these initiatives. Allianz S.E., Axa S.A., State Street Corp., TIAA-CREF, BlackRock, AXA World Funds, and HSBC are among the investment companies and asset management firms that have sponsored green bond mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs).





2008

The year when The World Bank issued the first so-labeled green bond for institutional investors.


   Real-World Example of Green Bonds  

The World Bank is a major issuer of green bonds and issued $14.4 billion of green bonds from 2008 through 2020. These funds have been used to support 111 projects around the world, largely in renewable energy and efficiency (33%), clean transportation (27%), and agriculture and land use (15%).



One of the bank’s first green issuances financed the Rampur Hydropower Project, which aimed to provide low-carbon hydroelectric power to northern India’s electricity grid. Financed by issuances of green bonds, it produces nearly 2 megawatts per year, preventing 1.4 million tons of carbon emissions.


   Types of Green Bonds  

While all green bonds represent a form of debt financing for an environmental project, the specific characteristics of each instrument may differ based on its issuer, what the proceeds are used for, and the recourse of bondholders to the issuer’s assets in case of a liquidation, among other factors. The following list describes some of the different types of green bonds that may be available on the market:



“Use of Proceeds” Bonds: This type of instrument is dedicated to financing green projects, but in the case of a liquidation, the lenders have recourse to the issuer’s other assets. These instruments carry the same credit rating as the issuer’s other bonds.“Use of Proceeds” Revenue Bonds or Asset-Backed Securities (ABS): These securities may finance or refinance green projects, but the collateral for the debt comes from streams of revenue collected by the issuer, such as taxes or fees. State and municipal entities may opt for this type of setup when issuing green bonds.Project Bonds: This type of bond is limited in scope to a particular underlying green project, meaning that investors have recourse only to assets related to the project.Securitization Bonds: These debt instruments involve a group of projects gathered together into a single debt portfolio, with bondholders having recourse to the assets underlying the full set of projects. Some examples of green securitization bonds have included green mortgages and solar leasing projects.Covered Bonds: This type of instrument also involves financing a group of green projects, known as the “covered pool.” In this case, investors have recourse to the issuer, but if the issuer is unable to make debt payments, then bondholders gain recourse to the covered pool.Loans: Financing for green projects may be secured (backed by collateral) or unsecured. In the case of unsecured loans, lenders have full recourse to the assets of the borrower. For secured loans, lenders have recourse to the collateral—and, in some cases, partial recourse to the borrower.


   How to Buy Green Bonds  

Investments in green bonds often come from institutional investors—entities like mutual funds, hedge funds, and endowments that can afford to invest large sums in debt instruments. However, for retail investors who want to align their fixed-income portfolios with their environmental sensibilities and values, there are numerous mutual funds and ETFs that offer exposure to the green bond space.



One example is the iShares USD Green Bond ETF (BGRN), which seeks to replicate the performance of an index comprising investment-grade bonds used to finance environmental projects. While the ETF focuses exclusively on U.S. dollar-denominated debt, it includes bonds from non-U.S. issuers as well as U.S.-based borrowers.



While ETFs like BRGN are readily available to purchase through a brokerage account or online brokerage platform, retail investors who want to buy individual green bonds may face a few more complexities. Your broker may allow you to invest in individual bonds, but when buying green bonds from corporate issuers, you may be subject to minimum deposits, maintenance fees, and commissions. Government-issued green bonds may also be available for purchase through your broker or directly from the government entity.




How does a green bond work?
Green bonds work just like any other corporate or government bond. Borrowers issue these securities to secure financing for projects that will have a positive environmental impact, such as ecosystem restoration or reducing pollution. Investors who purchase these bonds can expect to make a profit as the bond matures. In addition, there are often tax benefits for investing in green bonds.




How big is the green bond market?
According to the Climate Bonds Initiative, the issuance of green bonds reached $269.5 billion in 2020. The United States was the largest player, with $50 billion in new issuances. The same analysis found that the cumulative issuance of green bonds had reached more than $1 trillion.




How are green bonds different from blue bonds?
Blue bonds are sustainability bonds to finance projects that protect the ocean and related ecosystems. This can include projects to support sustainable fisheries, protection of coral reefs and other fragile ecosystems, or reducing pollution and acidification. All blue bonds are green bonds, but not all green bonds are blue bonds.




How are green bonds different from climate bonds?
“Green bonds” and “climate bonds” are sometimes used interchangeably, but some authorities use the latter term specifically for projects focusing on reducing carbon emissions or alleviating the effects of climate change. The Climate Bonds Initiative is an organization that seeks to establish a standard for certifying climate bonds.




How do I know if a green bond is actually green?
Despite efforts like those of the Climate Bonds Initiative, there is no universally recognized standard for determining the environmental friendliness of a bond. In some cases, debt instruments may be marketed to investors as “green” even if their positive environmental impact is dubious at best. Such examples of greenwashing—making exaggerated or misleading environmental claims—highlight the necessity for investors to carry out due diligence regarding potential green bond purchases. In addition to the Climate Bonds Initiative, other companies provide assessments of bond issuers’ environmental claims, including Bloomberg L.P., rating agencies such as Moody’s, and other specialized firms.


   The Bottom Line  

Green bonds are debt securities designated to finance environmentally friendly projects. Green bonds may offer tax advantages, providing incentives for investing in sustainable projects that do not apply to other, comparable types of bonds. Investors seeking assets that align with their environmental values should be sure to verify the claims of sustainability made by bond issuers.
What Is a Green Card?  

A green card is a colloquial name for the identification card issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to permanent residents who are legally allowed to live and work in the U.S. indefinitely. Green cards got their nickname because they were green in color from 1950 to 1964. In 2010 they became green again, but the nickname persisted during the intervening decades of blue, pink, and yellow "green cards." 





Key Takeaways

The green card is a permanent resident ID issued to immigrants in the U.S.The green card lottery gives away up to 55,000 annual permanent visas to other countries.Permanent residents can be fined or jailed for not having their green card on their person.Cards must be renewed every 10 years.


   How a Green Card Works  

Individuals can be eligible for a green card through family, work, refugee, asylee status, or a variety of special programs. These include the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program, which makes up to 55,000 visas available each year through a lottery system targeted at underrepresented countries. Making investments above a certain threshold can entitle an investor to permanent resident status.


   Requirements for a Green Card  

Permanent residents who are 18 or older are required to carry their green cards at all times or face fines or jail time. The fine can be up to $100 or 30 days in jail. The cards expire after 10 years and must be renewed, except for those issued from 1979 to 1989, which never expire. Conditional permanent residents who obtain legal status through a recent marriage or investment must file a petition to remove their conditional residency 90 days prior to their green card expiration date.


  Lottery System  

The green card lottery system is officially known as the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program or Diversity Program (DV). The first one was officially held in 1994, but the program existed under different auspices since 1986 and with smaller limits. The reason why the U.S. has this system is to give countries with low immigration rates to the U.S. a chance of winning a green card. It also pays homage to America’s heritage as a cultural melting pot. 






Applications for the green card lottery have continued to rise—hitting roughly 23 million in 2018—but only about 116,000 of these applicants were granted visas.



Currently, the DV program gives away upwards of 55,000 visas per year. Countries that have more than 50,000 residents legally immigrating to the U.S. in the last five years are not allowed to participate. If your spouse wins so do you as long as you are registered and all unmarried children under 21 will also be given a green card. Your family must be listed on the application for you to win.
What Are Green Chip Stocks?  

Green chip stocks are shares of environmentally-friendly companies. Green chip stocks are likely to be concentrated in areas such as alternative energy, pollution control, carbon abatement, and recycling.



But despite these issues, green chip stocks may attract significant interest from investors who care about environmentally-friendly market leaders. These stocks are popular with investors who want to focus on socially responsible investing (SRI).





Key Takeaways

Green chip stocks are shares of companies that engage in practices seen as being environmentally friendly.The companies may fall under sector categories including alternative energy, pollution control, carbon abatement, and recycling. Investors who are looking for companies that reflect their values are drawn to green chips, as they tend to fall under the umbrella of socially responsible investing.


   Understanding Green Chip Stocks  

The term green chip stocks, or green chips, is derived from blue chips, which refers to stocks that are considered to be industry leaders and consistently profitable. Green chips, though, represent public companies whose primary focus and business are seen as eco-friendly or beneficial to the environment. As such, a typical green chip stock may not always be as profitable as a blue-chip stock. That's because its financial structure may be less stable than that of a blue-chip.



Individuals who focus on socially responsible investing generally tend to favor green chips over other companies, regardless of how well they perform. In fact, these companies and their stocks are increasingly popular as environmental issues and corporate social responsibility (CSR) takes on more importance in the business world. This investment style focuses on companies that have a positive impact on society including those that promote high moral values and have a positive impact on the environment.


   Segments of Green Chip Companies  

Any public company that operates in the green industry is considered a green chip. These companies may take part in the following:



Alternative energy, renewable energy, and green power
Recycling and waste reduction
Water and aquaculture
Pollution control
Green transportation
Organic agriculture



These segments can be further divided into more specific categories. For instance, the renewable energy segment can be divided into several categories including wind power, solar energy, and geothermal power.



Wind power is, in fact, one of the fastest-growing sources of alternative energy and has continued to grow within the last 20 years due to a drop in costs. Solar power consists of solar power companies and those associated with the construction and installation of these systems. One of the newest entrants into the green sector is the legal cannabis industry.


   Special Considerations  

These shares tend to be more volatile than other, more profitable companies. Most investors are willing to overlook their limitations during bull markets, which is when they tend to surge.



But some investors may not be willing to follow suit during bear markets and recessions. That's because there tends to be a flight to safety during these periods, as investors flock to companies that are able to provide more sustainable and predictable returns.






Green ships tend to be more volatile than other, more profitable companies and often surge during bull markets.



For instance, alternative energy stocks were among the best performers in the latter part of the global bull market between 2003 and 2007, as the search for other energy sources assumed greater importance in an economic situation of triple-digit prices in crude oil. But these stocks experienced a sudden reversal of fortune in the 2008 bear market, as investors exited their positions in droves due to uncertainty about the global recession and the collapse in conventional energy prices.



The outlook for green chips is also generally affected by the level of government subsidies and support available to them or to users of their end products. While higher subsidy levels can boost these stocks, reduced government subsidies can have an adverse impact on them.
What Is a Green-Field Investment?  

A green-field (also "greenfield") investment is a type of foreign direct investment (FDI) in which a parent company creates a subsidiary in a different country, building its operations from the ground up. In addition to the construction of new production facilities, these projects can also include the building of new distribution hubs, offices, and living quarters.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   The Basics of a Green-Field Investment  

The term "green-field investment" gets its name from the fact that the company—usually a multinational corporation (MNC)—is launching a venture from the ground up—plowing and prepping a green field. These projects are foreign direct investments—known simply as direct investments—that provide the highest degree of control for the sponsoring company.



Another method of FDI includes foreign acquisitions or buying a controlling stake in a foreign company. However, when a business takes the acquisition route, it may face regulations or difficulties that can hinder the process.






Green-field investments carry the same high risks and costs associated with building new factories or manufacturing plants.



In a green-field project, a company’s plant construction, for example, is done to its specifications, employees are trained to company standards, and fabrication processes can be tightly controlled.



This type of involvement is the opposite of indirect investment, such as the purchase of foreign securities. Companies may have little or no control in operations, quality control, sales, and training if they use indirect investment.



Splitting the distance between a green-field project and indirect investment is the brown-field (also "brownfield") investment. With brown-field investing, a corporation leases existing facilities and land and adapts them to suit its needs. Renovation and customization usually result in relatively lower expenses and quicker turn-around than building from scratch.





Key Takeaways

In a green-field investment, a parent company creates a new operation in a foreign country from the ground up.A green-field investment provides the sponsoring company with the greatest degree of control.A green-field investment poses greater risks and a greater commitment of time and capital than other types of foreign direct investments.


   Risks and Benefits of Green Field Investments  

Developing countries tend to attract prospective companies with offers of tax breaks, or they could receive subsidies or other incentives to set up a green-field investment. While these concessions may result in lower corporate tax revenues for the foreign community in the short run, the economic benefits and the enhancement of local human capital can deliver positive returns for the host nation over the long term.



As with any startup, green-field investments entail higher risks and higher costs associated with building new factories or manufacturing plants. Smaller risks include construction overruns, problems with permitting, difficulties in accessing resources and issues with local labor.Companies contemplating green-field projects typically invest large sums of time and money in advance research to determine feasibility and cost-effectiveness.





Pros

Tax breaks, financial incentives
Everything done to specifications
Complete control of venture



Cons

Greater capital outlay
More complex to plan
Longer-term committment






As a long-term commitment, one of the greatest risks in green field investments is the relationship with the host country—especially politically unstable one. Any circumstances or events that result in the company needing to pull out of a project at any time can be financially devastating for the business.


   Real-World Examples of Green Field Investment  

The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) tracks green-field investments—that is, the investment by a foreign entity to either establish a new business in the U.S. or expand an existing foreign-owned business. U.S. green-field expenditures, according to data released by the BEA in July 2018, totaled US$259.6 billion in 2017. Also, $4.1 billion went to establish new businesses. Manufacturing expenditures accounted for 40% of the total. Food and information were the most popular industries.



In April 2015, Toyota announced its first green-field project in Mexico in three years, costing US$1.5 billion for the new manufacturing plant in Guanajuato. The factory is scheduled to open in December 2019 with an eventual goal of hiring 3,000 employees and the capacity to produce 300,000 pickup trucks per year—the initial capacity and workforce will be a third of that number. Along with the plant, the automaker plans to build or improve urban development to provide housing for the workers, called Toyota City.



Historically, Mexico has been viewed as an attractive country for green-field investments due in large part to its low costs of labor and manufacturing, as well as its proximity to markets in the United States.
What Is a Green Fund?  

A green fund is a mutual fund or another investment vehicle that will only invest in companies that are deemed socially conscious or directly promote environmental responsibility. A green fund can come in the form of a focused investment vehicle for companies engaged in environmentally supportive businesses, such as alternative energy, green transport, water and waste management, and sustainable living.





Key Takeaways

Green funds are mutual funds or other types of investment vehicles that promote socially and environmentally conscious policies and business practices.Green funds might invest in companies engaged in green transportation, alternative energy, and sustainable living.Green investing began in earnest in the 1990s after environmental disasters like the Exxon Valdez oil spill gained worldwide attention.$50 billion were invested in green funds in 2020, more than double the inflows of the previous year.There is some evidence that green funds can match the profits of traditional funds, but it is not conclusive.


   Understanding Green Funds  

Green funds are investment funds whose portfolio is largely based on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) criteria. A green fund's investment strategy can be based on some of the following characteristics:



Choosing companies that look for ways to reduce energy consumption and support environmental issuesSelecting companies that value relationship building with employees, customers, and the community (concerns include gender inclusion, fair labor practices, and human rights)Paying attention to how a company is governed, the level of transparency, and whether or not they have a diverse board



Based on performance, it is not yet clear whether green funds and socially responsible investing (SRI) can consistently create better returns for investors, but they do represent a proactive step toward environmental consciousness, which many investors see as valuable.


   History of Green Funds  

Some have cited green investing as having begun in earnest during the 1990s, a period where investors were more seriously taking into account the harm businesses or the pressure entire industries were putting on the environment.



In the wake of headline-grabbing events like the Exxon Valdez oil spill and protracted fights over logging rights in the Pacific Northwest, a set of investors began to focus their attention and resources on those businesses that were better at managing their environmental impact than more traditional enterprises.



For some investors, these businesses were not only operating in a more ethical manner but also had a competitive advantage over companies who were ill-equipped to reduce their impact on the environment. Others saw an ethical obligation to invest in technologies and businesses that could contribute to building a sustainable society through renewable energy sources.






Following the Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989, Congress passed the Oil Pollution Act (OPA) of 1990, which strengthened the powers of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to prevent future oil spills and to punish polluters.


   Types of Green Funds  

Green funds invest in areas such as renewable energy, and buildings and efficiency sectors. The renewable energy sector is a broad one, including solar energy, wind, battery, and energy storage technologies, as well as the materials that help make those technologies possible.



The buildings sector includes builders who use energy-efficient materials, making each building's carbon footprint smaller—whether they're being used for commercial, residential, or office use.



Socially conscious investing has continued to gain in popularity, largely due to increased worldwide exposure to the issue of climate change, as well as increased federal funding for alternative energy and other programs. Since 2009, the Green Transition Scoreboard, a project run by Ethical Markets Media, has tracked a cumulative $10.39 trillion invested in the green economy through the end of 2019.





$10.39 trillion

The total investment in the green economy between 2009 and 2019.


   Performance of Green Funds  

Money has poured into green funds as investors seek both socially responsible investments and returns from the uptick in green technologies such as wind and solar power. According to the Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment, there were $3.1 trillion in assets managed by registered investment companies with ESG criteria, such as mutual funds and index funds, in 2020.



Despite sometimes high fees, the funds have also garnered relatively solid performance. According to Morningstar, sustainable funds in 2019 outperformed conventional funds, with 66% finishing in the top half of their categories and 35% finishing in the top quartile. The returns of only 16% of sustainable funds finished in the bottom quartile. In 2019, the number of sustainable funds grew to 303 open-end and exchange traded fund (ETFs).




Are Green Funds Profitable?
While profit is not the only goal for green investing, some studies have found that funds with ESG criteria are competitive with the returns of more traditional funds. A Morningstar analysis of 4,900 funds over ten years found that 58.8% of sustainable funds "have beaten their average surviving traditional peer." In the same analysis, sustainable funds delivered an average annual return of 6.9%, compared with 6.3% from more traditional funds.




How Much Money Is Invested in Green Funds?
Estimates of the total portfolio value of green funds vary widely, due to the subjective meaning of the term. According to the Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment, there were $3.1 trillion in assets managed by registered investment companies with ESG criteria, such as mutual funds and index funds, in 2020.




What Do Green Funds Invest in?
Broadly speaking, green funds seek to invest in businesses with positive environmental impacts, but there are several strategies to do so. Some green funds simply seek to create a portfolio of companies that do not rely on fossil fuels, deforestation, or other unsustainable business activities. Others actively seek to support companies engaged in new energy research, sustainable materials, or other technologies with environmental benefits.
What Is Green Investing?  

Green investing seeks to support business practices that have a favorable impact on the natural environment. Often grouped with socially responsible investing (SRI) or environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria, green investments focus on companies or projects committed to the conservation of natural resources, pollution reduction, or other environmentally conscious business practices. Green investments may fit under the umbrella of SRI but are more specific.



Some investors buy green bonds, green exchange-traded funds (ETFs), green index funds, green mutual funds, or hold stock in environmentally friendly companies to support green initiatives. While profit is not the only motive for those investors, there is some evidence that green investing may mimic or beat the returns of more traditional assets.





Key Takeaways

Green investing refers to investing activities aligned with environmentally friendly business practices and the conservation of natural resources.Investors can support green initiatives by buying green mutual funds, green index funds, green exchange-traded funds (ETFs), green bonds, or by holding stock in environmentally friendly companies.Pure play green investments are investments in which most or all revenues come from green activities.Although profit is not the only motive, there is evidence that green investing can rival the returns of more traditional assets.Since branding is not enough to confirm a commitment to green initiatives, investors should conduct thorough research to ensure that a company adheres to desired standards.


   Understanding Green Investing  

Pure play green investments are those that derive all or most of their revenues and profits from green business activities. Green investments also can refer to companies that have other lines of business but focus on green-based initiatives or product lines.



There are many potential avenues for businesses seeking to improve the environment. Some green companies are engaged in renewable energy research or developing eco-friendly alternatives to plastics and other materials. Others may seek to reduce the pollution or other environmental impacts from their production lines.



Because there is no firm definition of the term “green,” what qualifies as a green investment is open to interpretation. Some investors want only pure-play options like renewable fuels and energy-saving technology. Other investors put money behind companies that have good business practices in how they use natural resources and manage waste but also draw their revenue from multiple sources.


   Types of Green Investing  

There are several ways to invest in green technology initiatives. While once considered risky, some green technologies have been able to return strong profits to their investors.


  Green equities  

Perhaps the simplest form of green investing is to buy stock in companies with strong environmental commitments. Many new startups are seeking to develop alternative energies and materials, and even traditional players are making sizable bets on a low-carbon future. Some companies, such as Tesla (TSLA), have been able to reach multibillion-dollar valuations by targeting environmentally conscious consumers.


  Green bonds  

A second route is to invest in green bonds. Sometimes known as climate bonds, these fixed-income securities represent loans to help banks, companies, and government bodies finance projects with a positive impact on the environment. According to the Climate Bonds Initiative, approximately $1.1 trillion in new green bonds were issued in 2021. These bonds also may come with tax incentives, making them a more attractive investment than traditional bonds.


  Green funds  

Another route is to invest in shares of a mutual fund, ETF, or index fund that provides wider exposure to green companies. These green funds invest in a basket of promising securities, allowing investors to spread their money on a diversified range of environmental projects rather than a single stock or bond.



There are quite a number of green mutual funds, such as the TIAA-CREF Social Choice Equity Fund (TICRX), Trillium ESG Global Equity Fund (PORTX), and the Green Century Balanced Fund (GCBLX), to name a few. Several indexes seek to track environmentally favorable businesses as well. For example, the NASDAQ Clean Edge Green Energy Index and the MAC Global Solar Energy Index both target renewable energy industries. Funds that follow these indexes invest in renewable energy companies, allowing investors to support the new technology while earning a potential profit.





Over $70 billion

The amount of new money invested in sustainable funds in 2021.


   Results of Green Investing  

Once considered a niche sector, green investing has swelled after several natural disasters brought attention to the oncoming climate crisis. The amount of new money in ESG funds reached over $70 billion in 2021, almost a third of an increase over the previous year.



Although profit is not the only goal of green investing, there is evidence that environmentally friendly investments can match or beat the profits of more traditional assets. A 2022 study by Morningstar Inc. reported "another year of broken records" between environmentally sustainable funds and the wider market. The study also found that sustainable U.S. large-blend funds "beat their traditional peers in 2021 as well as the trailing three- and five-year periods."






To get the latest analysis and advice on green investing, check out The Green Investor podcast powered by Investopedia.


   Special Considerations  

Investing in green companies can be riskier than other equity strategies, as many companies in this arena are in the development stage, with low revenues and high earnings valuations. However, if encouraging eco-friendly businesses is important to investors, then green investing can be an attractive way to put their money to work.



The definition of “green” may vary from one investor to another. Some so-called green funds include companies that operate in the natural gas or oil sectors. Although these companies also may be researching renewable energy technology, some investors might hesitate to invest in a fund associated with fossil fuel companies. Prospective investors should research their investments (by checking out a fund’s prospectus or a stock’s annual filings) to see if the company fits their definition of green.






Some green funds also may invest in more traditional companies, such as General Motors, Toyota, or even ExxonMobil. Environmentally conscious investors should be careful to check a fund’s prospectus to decide if it fits their definition of green.


   Green Investing vs. Greenwashing  

Greenwashing refers to the practice of branding a company or product as environmentally friendly to capitalize on the growing demand for sustainability. While green marketing is often sincere, many companies have overstated the impact of their environmental practices or downplayed the ecological costs of their products.



For example, some companies have overstated their usage of recycled materials, leading consumers to mistakenly believe that their products were more sustainable. Many companies purchase carbon offsets to reduce their footprints, although verifying the true cost of a company’s emissions is difficult. In a more egregious case, IKEA was accused of using illegally sourced timber for some of its furniture products. To make matters worse, the timber had been verified by the Forest Stewardship Council, raising ethical questions about the business model of pay-for-play green labeling.



In the securities world, some managed funds have attempted to greenwash themselves by rebranding in a way that suggests a greater level of sustainability. The only way to evaluate a fund’s sustainability is to examine its assets.




What Are the Best Green Stocks To Buy?
While there is no surefire way to predict a stock’s future earnings, some of the most successful green investments have been in the field of renewable energy generation and storage. For example, Tesla’s share price grew more than tenfold from 2018 to the middle of 2021. In the same period, China’s LONGi Green Energy Technology saw its market capitalization rise from $11 billion to nearly $70.5 billion.




Are Green Investments Profitable?
While profit is not the only goal of green investing, there is evidence that environmentally-friendly investments can match or beat the profits of more traditional assets. A 2022 study by Morningstar Inc. reported "another year of broken records" between environmentally sustainable funds and the wider market. The study also found that sustainable U.S. large-blend funds "beat their traditional peers in 2021 as well as the trailing three- and five-year periods."




How Can You Tell if a Green Fund Is Sustainable?
Each fund holds a basket of securities, representing a cross-section of a larger part of the market. To determine if a green fund is sufficiently sustainable, prospective investors should first examine the securities listed in the fund’s assets. In addition, some research firms may offer independent evaluations, such as Morningstar’s sustainability rating or State Street's R-Factor.
What Is Green Marketing?  

Green marketing refers to the practice of developing and advertising products based on their real or perceived environmental sustainability. 



Examples of green marketing include advertising the reduced emissions associated with a product’s manufacturing process, or the use of post-consumer recycled materials for a product's packaging. Some companies also may market themselves as being environmentally-conscious companies by donating a portion of their sales proceeds to environmental initiatives, such as tree planting.





Key Takeaways

Green marketing describes a company's efforts to advertise the environmental sustainability of its business practices.The emergence of a consumer population that is becoming increasingly concerned with environmental and social factors has led to green marketing becoming an important component of corporate public relations.One criticism of green marketing practices is that they tend to favor large corporations that can absorb the additional costs entailed by these programs.Smaller businesses may not be able to shoulder the high-cost burden of green marketing, but this isn't to say, they cannot. Greenwashing occurs when a company states it is involved in environmental endeavors but it turns out the claims can't be substantiated. 


   How Green Marketing Works  

Green marketing is one component of a broader movement toward socially and environmentally conscious business practices. Increasingly, consumers have come to expect companies to demonstrate their commitment to improving their operations alongside various environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria. To that end, many companies will distribute social impact statements on an ongoing basis, in which they periodically self-report their progress toward these goals.



Typical examples of ESG-related improvements include the reduction of carbon emissions involved in a company’s operations, the maintenance of high labor standards both domestically and throughout international supply chains, and philanthropic programs designed to support the communities in which the company operates. Although green marketing refers specifically to environmental initiatives, these efforts are increasingly presented alongside social and corporate governance policies as well. 



When a company’s green marketing activities are not substantiated by significant investments or operational changes, it may be criticized for false or misleading advertising. This practice is also sometimes referred to as greenwashing, and the fines and negative press can be tremendous. For example, on April 8, 2022, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) made a public announcement that it was issuing a $5.5 million penalty via its Penalty Offense Authority to Kohl's Inc. ($2.5 million) and Walmart, Inc. ($3 million) due to their deceptive environmental claims about rayon products. This is the largest civil penalty in FTC history.






There are many incentives for companies that choose to engage in green marketing. To begin with, a companies’ perceived commitment to environmental causes is an increasingly important factor influencing many consumers' spending habits.


   Example of Green Marketing  

Starbucks is often cited as a leader in green marketing practices. The company has invested heavily in various social and environmental initiatives in recent years. For example, in a 2018 report, Starbucks reported that it had committed over $140 million to the development of renewable energy sources. The company purchases enough renewable energy to power all of its company-operated stores throughout North America and the United Kingdom.



Similarly, the company has made investments in social impact projects through initiatives such as the Starbucks College Achievement Plan. Through this project, many U.S.-based Starbucks employees who work more than 20 hours a week on average are eligible to receive fully-paid tuition to the online undergraduate degree program offered by Arizona State University. This project, as well as similar commitments in areas related to the employment of veterans, have formed an important part of Starbucks’ green marketing initiatives.



From an investor's point of view, these kinds of green marketing initiatives can prove essential in building and maintaining a valuable brand, particularly for consumer-facing companies such as Starbucks. However, some critics argue that green marketing can exacerbate the existing advantages of larger companies at the expense of their small or mid-sized competitors.



After all, implementing robust social or environmental programs often involves additional overhead costs. For large companies, these costs can easily be borne and may even form part of the company’s existing marketing budget. For smaller companies, however, the addition of these costs may significantly impair the profitability or viability of the business.




What Is Greenwashing?
Greenwashing is when a company makes claims about its positive environmental endeavors but is misleading the public about them, or outright lying. If a company's green marketing activities are found to be false, the company may be hit with heavy penalties and bad press.




What Are Some Green Companies?
Starbucks, Patagonia, and Burts Bees are all active in green marketing due to the high level of positive ecological and social programs that these companies support.




What Is an Example of Green Marketing?
Green marketing focuses on myriad environmentally friendly policies and initiatives that illuminate products and services that are more beneficial (or at least less harmful) to the environment than other products.
What Is Green Monday?  

Green Monday refers to one of the retail industry's busiest shopping days, occurring on the second Monday in December. Green Monday represents the day many shoppers rush to purchase last-minute holiday gifts and take advantage of deals.





Key Takeaways

Green Monday is the second Monday in December and one of the busiest retail shopping days in the United States.eBay claims it created the phrase in 2007 after it realized that the most profitable sales day was the second Monday of that year.The winter holiday season includes the year's most profitable retail sales days: Black Friday, Cyber Monday, and Green Monday.


   Understanding Green Monday  

The web shopping site eBay claims to have coined the phrase "Green Monday" in 2007 after it realized that the second Monday in December was one of its most profitable sales days. Green Monday is also known as Cyber Monday 2 in retail circles due to its high volume of online shoppers seeking last-minute holiday deals.



The "green" in Green Monday can refer to green for dollars or environmentally green for those who consider online shopping a more eco-friendly endeavor than racking up deals in brick-and-mortar stores.



Green Monday is eclipsed by Black Friday and Cyber Monday in terms of popularity, but this retail event is becoming a marker of holiday sales. Green Monday is promoted by big-box stores and online shopping giants like Amazon and Target. Other retailers may simply offer holiday deals on that day to reach holiday shoppers and reduce merchandise before the end of the year.






A note for those sending presents: If you had packages to send out for the 2021 holiday season, Green Monday was only a couple of days before shipping dates kicked in. The USPS website indicated that Dec. 15, 2021, was the last date to send domestic packages using regular ground shipping. UPS ground shipping users needed to check the company's website for its ZIP code's cutoff date. USPS Priority Mail and UPS Next Day Air users could wait as late as Dec. 18, 2021, and Dec. 23, 2021, respectively. FedEx's cutoff for ground shipping was Dec. 15, 2021. Green Monday 2022 is Dec. 12.


   Green Monday vs. Black Friday  

There is no shortage of catchphrases for the major retail shopping days that occur near the winter holidays. Black Friday describes the Friday after Thanksgiving when many people start their holiday shopping. Many people are off of work and eager to spend money. Online and traditional retailers capitalize on this busy shopping day by offering special sales.



Traditionally, sales were exclusive to the Friday after Thanksgiving. Now some large retailers offer sales before Thanksgiving and for several days after including Small Business Saturday. Retailers offer discounts online and in-store on Black Friday. Many open their doors during the predawn hours on Black Friday. To keep up with the competition, some retailers keep their operations going on the Thanksgiving holiday, while others begin offering deals earlier during November.



Some analysts and investors look at Black Friday sales numbers as a litmus test of the overall health of the entire retail industry. 


   Green Monday vs. Cyber Monday  

Cyber Monday describes the Monday following Thanksgiving when online retailers offer above-average deals to entice consumers to shop online. It is like Black Friday, but for online shoppers. Cyber Monday is now a global phenomenon, and in recent years, sales on that day have exceeded Black Friday sales.



Cyber Monday retailers often have Cyber Monday sales occurring at the same time as Black Friday sales. This tactic targets all types of consumers, those who enjoy the hustle and bustle of Black Friday shopping and also those who prefer to shop online.



Approximately 179.8 million consumers in the U.S. shopped during the 2021 five-day holiday weekend between Thanksgiving Day and Cyber Monday, down slightly compared to 2020, but still falls in the four-year average range, according to the National Retail Federation (NRF).




When Is Green Monday?
Green Monday occurs on the second Monday in December each year. In 2022, Green Monday takes place on Dec. 12.




When Did Green Monday Start?
The first Green Monday was in December 2007. eBay maintains it created the name after it figured out that the second Monday in December was its most profitable sales day of the year.




What Is Cyber Monday?
Cyber Monday takes place on the Monday following the Thanksgiving weekend. Online retailers give discounts on this day and traditional retailers offer exclusive, website-only deals.
What Is Green Tech?  

Green tech refers to a type of technology that is considered environmentally friendly based on its production process or its supply chain. Green tech—an abbreviation of "green technology"—can also refer to clean energy production, the use of alternative fuels, and technologies that are less harmful to the environment than fossil fuels.



Although the market for green technology is relatively young, it has garnered a significant amount of investor interest due to increasing awareness about the impacts of climate change and the depletion of natural resources.





Key Takeaways

Green tech–or green technology–is an umbrella term that describes the use of technology and science to reduce human impacts on the natural environment. Green technology encompasses a wide area of scientific research, including energy, atmospheric science, agriculture, material science, and hydrology.Many green technologies aim to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in order to prevent climate change.Solar power is one of the most successful green technologies and is now cheaper to deploy than fossil fuels in many countries.Investors can support green technology by buying stocks, mutual funds, or bonds that support environmentally friendly technology.


   Understanding Green Tech  

Green technology is an umbrella term that describes the use of technology and science to create products and services that are environmentally friendly. Green tech is related to cleantech, which specifically refers to products or services that improve operational performance while also reducing costs, energy consumption, waste, or negative effects on the environment.



The goal of green tech is to protect the environment, repair damage done to the environment in the past, and conserve the Earth's natural resources. Green tech has also become a burgeoning industry that has attracted enormous amounts of investment capital.



The use of green tech can be a stated goal of a business segment or a company. These goals are typically outlined in a company's environmental, sustainability, and governance (ESG) statement, or can even be found in the mission statement of a firm. Increasingly, socially responsible investors are looking to narrow down their prospective investments to only include companies that specifically employ or produce green technologies.






The $1.2 Trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, signed into law by President Joe Biden on Nov. 15, 2021, earmarks substantial allocations for green tech. These include the largest investment in clean energy transmission and EV infrastructure in history, electrifying thousands of school and transit buses across the country, and creating a new Authority to build a resilient, clean, electric grid.


   History of Green Tech  

While green tech has become increasingly popular in the modern age, elements of these business practices have been in use since the Industrial Revolution. Beginning in the early 19th century, scientists began to observe the ecological impacts of coal-burning industrial plants, and manufacturers have sought to reduce their negative environmental externalities by altering production processes to produce less soot or waste byproducts.



In the United States, one of the most important milestones was the Second World War. In order to reduce consumption and waste, more than 400,000 volunteers began collecting metal, paper, rubber, and other materials for the war effort.



Following the war, scientists like Rachel Carson began warning of the consequences of chemical pesticides, while doctors abroad reported mysterious illnesses associated with nuclear radiation. Many point to this era as the genesis of the ecological movement, which sought to preserve ecosystems and resources while raising awareness of the consequences of runaway technology.



Government bodies slowly recognized the importance of protecting environmental resources. Curbside recycling programs became common over the following decades, raising awareness about household waste. The Environmental Protection Agency, established in 1970, set firm requirements on pollution and waste and established mandates for coal scrubbers and other clean technologies.






In the United States, the first major recycling program was launched during World War II. Nearly half a million volunteers pitched in, recycling tens of thousands of tons of waste to help the war effort.


   Types of Green Tech  

Green technology is a broad category that encompasses several forms of environmental remediation. While climate change and carbon emissions are now considered among the most pressing global issues, there are also many efforts to address local environmental hazards. Some seek to protect specific ecosystems or endangered species. Others seek to conserve scarce natural resources by finding more sustainable alternatives.


  Alternative Energy  

In order to provide a viable alternative to fossil fuels, many businesses are seeking to engineer alternative sources of energy that do not generate atmospheric carbon. Solar and wind power are now among the most inexpensive sources of energy, and solar panels are affordable to U.S. homeowners at a consumer scale. Other alternatives, such as geothermal and tidal energy, have yet to be deployed at scale.


  Electric Vehicles  

Nearly a third of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are released by transportation activities, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Many manufacturers are exploring ways to reduce automotive emissions, either by designing more fuel-efficient engines or shifting to electrical power.



However, electric vehicles require a host of innovations in other spheres, such as high-capacity rechargeable batteries and charging infrastructure. In addition, the benefits of electric vehicles are limited by the fact that many power grids still rely on fossil fuels.


  Sustainable Agriculture  

Farming and livestock have a substantial environmental footprint, from the high costs of land and water usage to the ecological consequences of pesticides, fertilizers, and animal waste. As a result, there are many opportunities for green technology in the area of agriculture. For example, organic farming techniques can reduce the damage due to soil exhaustion, innovations in cattle feed can reduce methane emissions, and meat substitutes can reduce the consumption of livestock.


  Recycling  

Recycling seeks to conserve scarce resources by reusing materials or finding sustainable substitutes. While plastic, glass, paper, and metal waste are the most familiar forms of recycling, more sophisticated operations can be used to recover expensive raw materials from e-waste or automobile parts.


  Carbon Capture  

Carbon capture refers to a group of experimental technologies that seek to remove and sequester greenhouse gases, either at the point of combustion or from the atmosphere. This technology has been heavily promoted by the fossil fuel industry, although it has yet to deliver on those expectations. The largest carbon capture facility can absorb 4,000 tons of carbon dioxide per year, a minuscule amount compared to annual emissions.





70%

The amount of new energy capacity that comes from wind and solar power.


   Adoption of Green Tech  

While green tech is a broad and hard-to-define category, some types of green technology have experienced wide adoption. Several countries have launched initiatives to eliminate single-use plastics, a goal that would require sizeable investments in alternatives, such as paper substitutes, bioplastics, or recycling technologies. Singapore, for example, has pledged to reach 70% recycling by 2030.



Renewable energy is another frontier for green tech adoption, with fossil fuels recognized as a significant driver for climate change. According to the Energy Information Administration, solar and wind power together accounted for 70% of the new energy capacity added in 2021. Worldwide, global investment in all renewable energy sources exceeded $300 billion in 2020.


   Special Considerations  

While green technologies have the shared goal of preserving biodiversity and conserving the earth's resources, there are few ways to do so without affecting the environment in other ways. In some cases, reducing environmental costs in one area means causing adverse impacts in another.



For example, the batteries in electric vehicles rely on lithium, an element that is often strip-mined from South American rain forests. Hydroelectric dams have low carbon emissions, but high impacts on the salmon and other species that rely on those waterways. Green energy devices such as solar panels and wind turbines require a host of rare minerals, that can only be extracted by diesel-powered mining machinery.



This does not necessarily mean that green technology is a lost cause, but it does require careful accounting to ensure that the benefits outweigh the costs.




What Is the Cheapest Form of Green Energy?
The cheapest form of alternative energy is solar power, according to the International Energy Agency. In its 2020 World Outlook Report, the Agency found that photovoltaic solar energy is "consistently cheaper than new coal- or gas-fired power plants in most countries, and solar projects now offer some of the lowest-cost electricity ever seen."




How Do You Invest in Green Technology?
The easiest way to invest in green tech is to buy stock in companies that are making major bets on environmentally-friendly technologies. Investors can attempt to identify individual stocks, or simply invest in a mutual fund, index fund, or another instrument that seeks to reflect the broader market for environmental investments. The advantage to the latter approach is that the investor will gain diversified exposure to the green tech industry, rather than the fortunes of a single company.




Is Nuclear Power Green?
Nuclear power is a deeply controversial subject, and many scientists have disputed its benefits. Although nuclear power derived from fission can provide reliable, inexpensive electricity without greenhouse gases, it also produces highly radioactive waste that must be stored for thousands of years. Some activists have argued that nuclear power can never be safely generated, and a number of high-profile accidents—notably at Chernobyl and Fukushima—have highlighted these concerns. However, it should also be noted that the combined death toll from nuclear accidents is far lower than the annual fatalities from fossil fuel pollution.
What Is a Greenback?  

A greenback is a slang term for U.S. paper dollars. The term originated during the mid-1860s, when these notes were printed in green ink. Congress had limited taxing authority, and used paper currency to help finance the civil war.



The word "greenback" was a negative term because these notes did not have secure financial backing and banks were reluctant to give customers the full value of the dollar.





Key Takeaways

Greenback is a slang term for U.S. dollars.The first greenbacks were printed to finance the civil war and were called as such because their backs were printed in green.Because they were not fully backed by gold, greenbacks lost value and caused inflation in the northern economy. The first greenbacks were called demand notes, and used to pay for salaries and government expenses in 1861-2.These were later replaced in the Legal Tender Act of 1862, which authorized the paper notes that would eventually become the official currency.


   Understanding Greenbacks  

It took half a century to get all foreign coins and competing state currencies out of circulation, but by the early 1800s, the U.S. was ready to try the paper money experiment again. Bank notes had been in circulation for a while, but because banks issued more notes than they had coins to cover, these notes often traded at less than face value.



In the 1860s, the U.S. created over $400 million in legal tender to finance its war against itself. The government had earlier issued bonds to raise capital. However, the war's timeline depleted its finances.



The idea of issuing paper money was opposed by bankers because it would bring the federal government into markets and could potentially translate to its bankruptcy if the war failed to go in its favor. To prevent such an eventuality, the paper money's value depended on the health of the individual banks issuing the currency.



They were called greenbacks simply because the backs were printed in green. The government backed this currency and stated that it could be used to pay back public and private debts. However, despite the government backing, they were not exchangeable for gold or silver.






Today, the term greenback is an anecdotal term used by foreign exchange traders for the U.S. dollar.


   Demand Notes vs. Paper Notes  

Greenbacks came in two forms; demand notes and U.S. paper notes. Demand notes were issued in 1861 and 1862 to pay for salaries and other government expenses during the civil war. In February of 1862, the Legal Tender Act saw the government issue paper notes, which would eventually become the official currency of the U.S. as demand notes were phased out.



During this period the value fluctuated according to the North's success or failure at certain stages in the war. However, due to the size of the issue—$400 million—the value of greenbacks against gold steadily declined.



According to H. W. Brand's book Greenback Planet: How the Dollar Conquered the World and Threatened Civilization as We Know It, the value of the greenback had a temporary recovery in value after the battle of Gettysburg before plummeting to a value of 258 greenback to 100 gold (its lowest point) in 1864. When the war ended in 1865, the value of the greenback recovered to 150 greenback to 100 gold.






Demand notes were not legal tender, meaning that private parties could refuse them as payment. Banks varied in their willingness to accept the paper notes.



Greenbacks are reported to have funded 15% of the war's costs. But the rise in their value also increased the cost of everyday goods and supplies—inflation was 14% in 1862 and 25% in 1863 and 1864.
What Is Greenmail?  

Greenmail is the practice of buying enough shares in a company to threaten a hostile takeover so that the target company will instead repurchase its shares at a premium. Regarding mergers and acquisitions, the company makes a greenmail payment as a defensive measure to stop the takeover bid. The target company must repurchase the stock at a substantial premium to thwart the takeover, which results in a considerable profit for the greenmailer.





Key Takeaways

Greenmail is a practice whereby a greenmailer buys up a substantial block of a company's shares and threatens a hostile takeover.The target company can resist the takeover attempt by repurchasing its shares at a premium from the greenmailer.Greenmail became more frequent and controversial during the 1980s.Anti-greenmail provisions, laws, regulations, and taxes made greenmail more difficult after the 1980s.﻿﻿Critics see greenmail as a predatory practice similar to extortion, but it can be defended as a free-market solution to disputes between shareholders.


   Understanding Greenmail  

Like blackmail, greenmail is money paid to an entity to stop or prevent aggressive behavior. In mergers and acquisitions, it is an anti-takeover measure in which the target company pays a premium, known as greenmail, to purchase its own shares back at inflated prices from a corporate raider. After accepting the greenmail payment, the raider generally agrees to discontinue the takeover and not buy any more shares for a specific time.



The term "greenmail" stems from a combination of blackmail and greenbacks (U.S. dollars). The high number of corporate mergers that occurred during the 1980s led to a wave of greenmail. During that time, it was suspected that some corporate raiders, seeking only to profit, initiated takeover bids with no intention of following through on the takeover.






Greenmail is much less common today because of laws, regulations, taxes, and anti-greenmail provisions.



Although greenmail still occurs tacitly in various forms, several federal and state regulations made it much more difficult. In 1987, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) introduced an excise tax of 50% on greenmail profits.﻿﻿ Furthermore, companies have introduced various defense mechanisms, referred to as poison pills, to deter activist investors from making hostile takeover bids.



An anti-greenmail provision is a special clause in a firm's corporate charter that prevents the board of directors from approving greenmail payments. An anti-greenmail rule will remove the possibility that a board takes the expedient way out and pays off an unwelcome acquirer of the company's shares, leaving shareholders worse off.


   Criticism of Greenmail  

Greenmail is often seen as a predatory practice, bordering on extortion. In this view, the greenmailer who buys up shares does not intend to participate in the company's operations as a shareholder. Instead, the greenmailer buys the shares intending only to threaten management with a hostile takeover or other actions. If successful, critics believe that the greenmailer profits at the company's expense while providing nothing in return.






Greenmail is conceptually similar to blackmail, but "green" denotes legitimate money.


   Benefits of Greenmail  

Despite its sinister reputation, some forms of greenmail can be seen as free-market solutions to real disputes between shareholders. A corporate raider may genuinely believe that resources within the company are not used effectively. One solution may be to sell off assets at a profit to other firms, which can presumably put them to better use. This arrangement could be beneficial to the corporate raider, other shareholders, and society as a whole.



However, the firm's management may not share the corporate raider's view that their assets would be put to better use by others. Suppose that management can come up with the funds to pay greenmail instead. That provides a sort of free-market proof that the assets should remain under the firm's control. The corporate raider forgoes the profits that could be made selling off assets by selling shares instead. If the raider can make more money selling the assets, greenmail does not occur because it would be unprofitable and economically inefficient. Hence, greenmail only takes place when it is beneficial in this view.


   Real World Example  

Sir James Goldsmith was a notorious corporate raider in the 1980s. He orchestrated two high-profile greenmail campaigns against St. Regis Paper Company and Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (GT). Goldsmith earned $51 million from his St. Regis venture and $93 million from his Goodyear raid, which took only two months.



In October 1986, Goldsmith purchased an 11.5% stake in Goodyear at an average cost of $42 per share. He also filed plans to finance a takeover of the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Part of his plan was to have the company sell off all its assets except its tire business. This plan was not well-received among Goodyear executives.



In response to Goodyear's resistance, Goldsmith proposed to sell his stake back to the company for $49.50 a share. This type of strong-arm proposal is often referred to as the ransom or the goodbye kiss. Eventually, Goodyear accepted and subsequently repurchased 40 million shares from shareholders at $50 per share, which cost the company $2.9 billion. Goodyear's share price fell to $42 immediately following the repurchase.
What Is a Greensheet?  

A greensheet is a document prepared by an underwriter to summarize the main components of a new issue or initial public offering (IPO). Such documents are for internal use only, functioning as a marketing tool to help drum up interest from prospective institutional investors and brokers.





Key Takeaways

A greensheet is a document prepared by an underwriter to summarize the main components of a new issue or initial public offering (IPO).It is distributed to brokers and institutional sales desks of the underwriting firm to determine which clients may be interested in becoming large volume buyers.The document generally includes a brief overview of the advantages and disadvantages of the new issue and information on initial pricing.


   Understanding a Greensheet  

Companies mainly issue new stock or bonds to raise capital for expansion. Any time a security is sold on the market for the first time, it can be described as a new issue. That includes securities for IPOs: the process whereby a private corporation gives up part of its ownership by offering shares to the general public.



Though potentially lucrative, issuing new securities is a complicated and challenging process that requires significant legwork. Companies are legally obligated to follow certain protocols and file lots of paperwork when taking this route. Companies will also do plenty of their own due diligence to ensure that this expensive, time-consuming task is worth pursuing.



One of the many important steps that must be taken is the hiring of an underwriter. These financial specialists work closely with the issuing body to determine the initial offering price of the securities, buy the securities from the issuer, and then sell them to investors via their distribution network.



A key part of the underwriter’s job involves putting together a greensheet: an internal marketing document circulated to brokers and institutional sales desks of the underwriting firm laying out the main information related to the offering. The purpose of a greensheet is to prepare salespeople to effectively market a new issue to the public and to determine which clients may be interested in becoming large volume buyers.


   Greensheet vs. Prospectus  

A greensheet is only an introduction to a new security issue and is not intended to be comprehensive in nature. For a complete breakdown of what an investment offering represents, it is necessary to consult the prospectus: a formal document required by and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that is made available to everyone.



The prospectus is used to help sell an investment to the general public. A greensheet, on the other hand, is only designed for internal use and contains information considered most important to a registered representative (RR).



Generally, a greensheet will contain a brief overview of the advantages and disadvantages of the new issue, including any benefits and risks, as well as insights on initial pricing. Armed with these basic details, an RR can then decide whether it wants to offer the issue to its clients.





Important

A greensheet must not be circulated outside of the brokers and institutional sales desks of the underwriting firm. By law, it should only contain information that would appear in the issue's prospectus.


   Special Considerations  

A greensheet, by law, contains only information that would appear in the issue's prospectus. Its job is to make a balanced presentation of the contents found in a prospectus and not add anything new.



The greensheet should also contain a disclosure that explains the purpose of the document, the restrictions on its distribution, the limitations on the information it contains, and a statement that specifies that the information is not a solicitation of securities.
What is a Greenshoe Option?  

A greenshoe option is an over-allotment option. In the context of an initial public offering (IPO), it is a provision in an underwriting agreement that grants the underwriter the right to sell investors more shares than initially planned by the issuer if the demand for a security issue proves higher than expected.





Key Takeaways


A greenshoe option is an over-allotment option in the context of an IPO.
A greenshoe option was first used by the Green Shoe Manufacturing Company (now part of Wolverine World Wide, Inc.)
Greenshoe options typically allow underwriters to sell up to 15% more shares than the original issue amount. 
Greenshoe options provide price stability and liquidity.
Greenshoe options provide buying power to cover short positions if prices fall, without the risk of having to buy shares if the price rises. 













Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How a Greenshoe Option Works  

Over-allotment options are known as greenshoe options because, in 1919, Green Shoe Manufacturing Company (now part of Wolverine World Wide, Inc. (WWW) as Stride Rite) was the first to issue this type of option. A greenshoe option provides additional price stability to a security issue because the underwriter can increase supply and smooth out price fluctuations. It is the only type of price stabilization measure permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Greenshoe options typically allow underwriters to sell up to 15% more shares than the original amount set by the issuer for up to 30 days after the IPO if demand conditions warrant such action. For example, if a company instructs the underwriters to sell 200 million shares, the underwriters can issue if an additional 30 million shares by exercising a greenshoe option (200 million shares x 15%). Since underwriters receive their commission as a percentage of the IPO, they have the incentive to make it as large as possible. The prospectus, which the issuing company files with the SEC before the IPO, details the actual percentage and conditions related to the option.



Underwriters use greenshoe options in one of two ways. First, if the IPO is a success and the share price surges, the underwriters exercise the option, buy the extra stock from the company at the predetermined price, and issue those shares, at a profit, to their clients. Conversely, if the price starts to fall, they buy back the shares from the market instead of the company to cover their short position, supporting the stock to stabilize its price.



Some issuers prefer not to include greenshoe options in their underwriting agreements under certain circumstances, such as if the issuer wants to fund a specific project with a fixed amount and has no requirement for additional capital.


   Examples of Greenshoe Option  

A well-known example of a greenshoe option at work occurred in Facebook Inc., now Meta (META), IPO of 2012. The underwriting syndicate, headed by Morgan Stanley (MS), agreed with Facebook, Inc. to purchase 421 million shares at $38 per share, less a 1.1% underwriting fee. However, the syndicate sold at least 484 million shares to clients—15% above the initial allocation, effectively creating a short position of 63 million shares.



If Facebook shares had traded above the $38 IPO price shortly after listing, the underwriting syndicate would’ve exercised the greenshoe option to buy the 63 million shares from Facebook at $38 to cover their short position and avoid having to repurchase the shares at a higher price in the market.



However, because Facebook’s shares declined below the IPO price soon after it commenced trading, the underwriting syndicate covered their short position without exercising the greenshoe option at or around $38 to stabilize the price and defend it from steeper falls.
What Is Greenspan Put?  

Greenspan put was the moniker given to the policies implemented by Alan Greenspan during his tenure as Federal Reserve (Fed) Chair. The Greenspan-led Fed was extremely proactive in halting excessive stock market declines, acting as a form of insurance against losses, similar to a regular put option.





Key Takeaways

Greenspan put was the moniker given to the policies implemented by former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan that halted excessive stock market declines.Essentially, the Greenspan put is a type of a Fed put.The Greenspan put did not imply a concrete trading strategy, so there is no way to quantitatively measure the effectiveness of such a concept.A historical review of the price action after each instance of the Greenspan put lends credence to the market belief that the Fed would continue to back-stop the stock markets in the future.












Investopedia / Bailey Mariner


   Understanding Greenspan Put  

Greenspan was chair of the Federal Reserve (Fed) from 1987 to 2006. Throughout his tenure, he sought to support the U.S. economy by actively using the federal funds rate and other policies in the Fed's arsenal to buoy the markets, especially stock markets.



Essentially, the Greenspan put is a type of a Fed put. The term "Fed put," a play on the option term "put," is the market belief that the Fed would step in and implement policies to limit the stock market's decline beyond a certain threshold. During Greenspan's tenure, it was widely believed that a stock market decline of over 20%, which typically denotes a bear market, would prompt the Fed to lower the fed funds rate. This was seen as insurance and allayed the fears of investors that a protracted, and costly, market decline would occur.



A consequence of Greenspan's policies was that investors were more prone to excessive risk-taking in stock markets, leading to market bubbles, which, at times, resulted in more market volatility. Experienced investors, needing to buy protection from the actions of short-sellers, speculators, and so on, resorted to the time-tested trading strategy of buying put options to protect their portfolios from excessive market declines precipitated by the inevitable bursting of these market bubbles.


  Put Protection  

A put can be utilized in a trading strategy of hedging against price risk and has been used by traders to offset unwelcome market volatility that could adversely affect their portfolios. This strategy could help investors mitigate losses and potentially profit, while still holding on to their stock positions.



For example, as internet stocks fell drastically in price from 2000 to 2002, some investors profited mightily by deploying this strategy. In practice, the idea might have advocated the notion that if you bought an internet stock, and then it dramatically rose in price over a few months, then, to preserve your gains, you would buy a put option with several months' duration to protect those shares.



However, the moniker Greenspan put differs from the traditional put option strategy in that there is not a specific investing or trading methodology. Rather, it is the generalized notion of a commitment, that has never been officially confirmed, that the Greenspan-led Fed would be extremely proactive in halting excessive stock market declines.



Some have suggested that an unintended consequence of Greenspan put was to make put option derivative strategies profitable, especially in times surrounding a crisis. The chart below seems to give some historical support for why investors held that notion.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



This chart shows how, beginning in 1997, average implied volatility began to rise and remained elevated through 2004. Since the phrase Greenspan put was more heavily referenced in the late 1990s, it seems rational that investors and traders would hold this perception from that time forward. However, the fundamental factors that correspond to Greenspan's philosophy for how the Fed should accomplish its stated goals equally contribute to the use of this phrase.


   Greenspan’s Actions  

One of Greenspan's first meaningful acts as chair occurred following the 1987 stock market crash. He immediately lowered rates to help companies recover from the crisis and set a precedent that the Fed would intervene in times of crisis.



This assumption of intervention and support from the Fed induced risk-taking that made trading and investing, in general, more attractive. As valuations rose beyond recognizably acceptable ranges, professional investors were less able to rationalize whether it was a sound decision to participate in some stocks—especially internet-related stocks, which were booming.



In this environment, stock prices could make wild fluctuations, making put options an ever more popular insurance to investors. The inflated valuations and rising prices made it difficult for seasoned investors to buy stocks without considering put-option protection.



In the early 1990s, Greenspan instituted a series of rate decreases lasting until approximately 1993. Through Greenspan’s tenure, there were also several instances where the Fed intervened to support exorbitant risk-taking in the stock market, including market-moving events such as the savings and loan crisis, Gulf War, Mexican crisis, Asian financial crisis, Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) crisis, Y2K, and, especially, the bursting of the dotcom bubble following the market's peak in 2000.













Source: The New York Times



Overall, the Greenspan put ushered in an era that encouraged risk-taking since it was expected that the Fed would be tacitly providing insurance against excessive market declines, much like a regular put option would do.



Greenspan most often used a reduction in interest rates to stem market declines. The chart above shows the general downward trend of the federal funds target rate through Greenspan's time as chair. The effects of the Fed’s rate reductions helped and encouraged investors to borrow funds more cheaply to invest in the securities market, which added to an environment of risk-taking.


   'Fed Puts' Post Greenspan  

On February 1, 2006, Ben Bernanke replaced Greenspan as the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) Chair. Bernanke followed a similar strategy to Greenspan in 2007 and 2008. The combination of rate reduction timing implemented by Greenspan and Bernanke has been generally attributed to supporting excessive risk-taking in the financial markets, which many believe to have been a catalyst contributing to the conditions of the 2008 financial crisis.



However, as the chart below shows, in the decade that followed the financial crisis, the results of such policies are not so obviously seen as encouraging inordinate risk. The same policies implemented by Greenspan and Bernanke continued, in measured degree, with subsequent chairs Janet Yellen and Jerome Powell. As the chart shows, the historical results after 2008 demonstrated, on average, much less volatility in both stock and option prices than the decade that preceded it.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021
What Is Greenwashing?  

Greenwashing is the process of conveying a false impression or misleading information about how a company’s products are environmentally sound. Greenwashing involves making an unsubstantiated claim to deceive consumers into believing that a company’s products are environmentally friendly or have a greater positive environmental impact than they actually do.



In addition, greenwashing may occur when a company attempts to emphasize sustainable aspects of a product to overshadow the company’s involvement in environmentally damaging practices. Performed through the use of environmental imagery, misleading labels, and hiding tradeoffs, greenwashing is a play on the term “whitewashing,” which means using false information to intentionally hide wrongdoing, error, or an unpleasant situation in an attempt to make it seem less bad than it is.





Key Takeaways

Greenwashing is an attempt to capitalize on the growing demand for environmentally sound products.Greenwashing can convey a false impression that a company or its products are environmentally conscious or friendly.Critics have accused some companies of greenwashing to capitalize on the socially responsible or environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing movement.Genuinely green products or businesses back up their claims with facts and details.


   How Greenwashing Works  

Also known as “green sheen,” greenwashing is an attempt to capitalize on the growing demand for environmentally sound products, whether that means they are more natural, healthier, free of chemicals, recyclable, or less wasteful of natural resources.



The term originated in the 1960s, when the hotel industry devised one of the most blatant examples of greenwashing. They placed notices in hotel rooms asking guests to reuse their towels to save the environment. The hotels enjoyed the benefit of lower laundry costs.



More recently, some of the world’s biggest carbon emitters, such as conventional energy companies, have attempted to rebrand themselves as champions of the environment. Products are greenwashed through a process of renaming, rebranding, or repackaging them. Greenwashed products might convey the idea that they’re more natural, wholesome, or free of chemicals than competing brands.



Companies have engaged in greenwashing via press releases and commercials touting their clean energy or pollution reduction efforts. In reality, the company may not be making a meaningful commitment to green initiatives. In short, companies that make unsubstantiated claims that their products are environmentally safe or provide some green benefit are involved in greenwashing.






Products that are actually eco-friendly can benefit from green marketing, which highlights the environmental benefits of the product and company making it. However, if a company’s green marketing activities are found to be false, the company may be accused of greenwashing and be hit with penalties, bad press, and reputational damage.


   How the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Helps Protect Consumers  

Of course, not all companies are involved in greenwashing. Some products are genuinely green. These products usually come in packaging that spells out the real differences in their contents from competitors’ versions.



The marketers of truly green products are only too happy to be specific about the beneficial attributes of their products. The website for Allbirds, for example, explains that its sneakers are made from merino wool, with laces made from recycled plastic bottles, and insoles that contain castor bean oil. Even the boxes used in shipping are made from recycled cardboard.



The U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) helps protect consumers by enforcing laws designed to ensure a competitive, fair marketplace. The FTC offers guidelines on how to differentiate real green products from the greenwashed:



Packaging and advertising should explain the product’s green claims in plain language and readable type in close proximity to the claim.An environmental marketing claim should specify whether it refers to the product, the packaging, or just a portion of the product or package.A product’s marketing claim should not overstate, directly or by implication, an environmental attribute or benefit.If a product claims a benefit compared with the competition, then the claim should be substantiated.


   Examples of Greenwashing  

The FTC offers several illustrations of greenwashing on its website, which details its voluntary guidelines for deceptive green marketing claims. Below is a list of examples of unsubstantiated claims that would be considered greenwashing.



A plastic package containing a new shower curtain is labeled “recyclable.” It is not clear whether the package or the shower curtain is recyclable. In either case, the label is deceptive if any part of the package or its contents, other than minor components, cannot be recycled.An area rug is labeled “50% more recycled content than before.” In fact, the manufacturer increased the recycled content to 3% from 2%. Although technically true, the message conveys the false impression that the rug contains a significant amount of recycled fiber.A trash bag is labeled “recyclable.” Trash bags are not ordinarily separated from other trash at the landfill or incinerator, so they are highly unlikely to be used again for any purpose. The claim is deceptive because it asserts an environmental benefit where no meaningful benefit exists.




What are some other types of greenwashing?
One common form of greenwashing is to include misleading labeling or bury environmentally unsound practices in the fine print. This can include use of terminology such as “eco-friendly” or “sustainable,” which are vague and not verifiable. Imagery of nature or wildlife can also connote environmental friendliness, even when the product is not green. Companies may also cherry-pick data from research to highlight green practices while obscuring others that are harmful. Such information can even come from biased research that the company funds or carries out itself.




How can you spot greenwashing?
If greenwashing is going on, there is often no evidence to back up the claims that a company is making. Sometimes verifying can be difficult, but you can look to third-party research and analyst reports, as well as check the product’s ingredients list. True green products will often be certified by an official vetting organization, which will be clearly labeled.




Why is greenwashing bad?
Greenwashing is deceitful and unethical because it misleads investors and consumers that are genuinely seeking environmentally friendly companies or products. Often, green products can be sold at a premium, making them more expensive, which can lead consumers to overpay. If greenwashing is revealed, it can seriously damage a company’s reputation and brand.


   The Bottom Line  

Environmentalism and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria have become important considerations for some investors. This has led many businesses to focus on becoming more eco-friendly by reducing waste, cutting emissions, recycling, and using renewable energy, among other efforts. However, some companies can instead cut corners and claim that they are doing these things to gain favor when, in reality, they are not. Greenwashing is an unethical practice that can mislead investors and the general public.
What Is Gresham's Law?  

Gresham's law is a principle that states that "bad money drives out good" and can be applied to the currency markets.



The law stemmed from the historical use of precious metals to manufacture coins and their subsequent value. Since the abandonment of metallic currency standards, the theory often describes the stability and movement of different currencies in global markets.





Key Takeaways


Sir Thomas Gresham lived from 1519 to 1579 and wrote about the value and minting of coins while working as a financier.
Gresham's law is a principle that states that "bad money drives out good."
The law observes that legally overvalued currency will drive legally undervalued currency out of circulation.
The law observes the effects of currency debasement.



   Understanding Gresham's Law  

Sir Thomas Gresham lived from 1519 to 1579 and wrote about the value and minting of coins while working as a financier and later founded the Royal Exchange of the City of London. When Henry VIII changed the composition of the English shilling, replacing a substantial portion of the silver with base metals, citizens separated the English shilling coins and hoarded the coins containing more silver which were worth more than their face value.



Both currency types were liquid and available simultaneously for use as acceptable forms of exchange. Gresham observed that bad money was driving out good money from circulation. Bad money is a currency with equal or less value than its face value. Good money has the potential for a greater value than its face value. People will choose to use bad money first and hold onto good money. The Scottish economist Henry Dunning Macleod attributed this law to Gresham in the 19th century.


   Good Money vs. Bad Money  

Historically, mints manufactured coins from gold, silver, and other precious metals, which gave the coins their value. Issuers of coins sometimes lowered the level of the precious metals used and passed the coins as full-value coins. New coins with less metal content had less market value and traded at a discount. The old coins retained a higher value.



However, legal tender laws mandated that new coins with less metal content have the same face value as older coins. The new coins were legally overvalued, and the old coins were legally undervalued. Governments, rulers, and other coin issuers often implemented this policy to obtain revenue and repay debts borrowed in old coins using new coins at par value.



Legally forced to treat both types of coins as the same monetary unit, buyers passed along their less valued coins as quickly as possible and held onto the old coins, thus debasing the currency, creating a fall in the purchasing power of the currency units. To fight Gresham’s law, governments often blamed speculators, implemented currency controls, prohibited removing coins from circulation, or confiscated privately owned precious metal supplies.


   Gresham's Law and Legal Tender  

Gresham's law is evident in a modern economy with legal tender laws. When all currency units are legally mandated to be recognized at the same face value, the traditional version of Gresham's law operates. In the absence of effectively enforced legal tender laws, Gresham's law operates in reverse as good money drives bad money out of circulation where people can decline to accept less valuable money.



With the adoption of paper money as legal tender, the issuers of money can print money into existence and this ongoing debasement has led to a persistent trend of inflation as the norm in most economies. If a currency loses value rapidly, people tend to stop using it in favor of more stable foreign currencies, sometimes even in the face of repressive legal penalties.



During a period of hyperinflation in Zimbabwe in 2008, the Zimbabwe dollar was the legal currency and many people abandoned its use in transactions, eventually forcing the government to recognize de facto and subsequent de jure dollarization of the economy. In the chaos of an economic crisis with a near-worthless currency, the government was unable to enforce its legal tender laws. Good, stable money drove bad, hyperinflated money out of circulation. 






Stable currencies, such as the U.S. dollar or the euro, can be considered good money as they circulate as an international medium of exchange. Weaker currencies of less developed nations circulate very little outside the jurisdictions of their issuing countries and can be considered bad money.


   Example of Gresham's Law  

In 1982, the U.S. government changed the composition of the penny to contain 97.5% zinc. This change made pre-1982 pennies worth more than their post-1982 counterparts, while the face value remained the same. Due to the debasement of the currency and resulting inflation, copper prices rose from an average of $0.6662/lb. in 1982 to $3.0597/lb. in 2006 with the purchasing power of a penny falling by nearly 80%.



As people began harvesting copper from old pennies, the U.S. imposed stiff penalties for melting coins, and the legislation carried a $10,000 fine or up to five years in prison if convicted of the offense.




What Are Legal Tender Laws?
Countries implement legal tender laws to define what currency is recognized by law as a means to settle a public or private debt or meet a financial obligation, including tax payments, contracts, and legal fines or damages. The national currency is legal tender in every country.




How Does Gresham's Law Apply When Both Paper and Precious Metal Coins are in Circulation?
Gresham’s law is evident when paper notes are accepted by the population and circulate along with gold and or silver coins. During the Revolutionary War in the United States, bad paper money, accepted as a form of payment at the time, drove all valuable gold and silver coins, good money, from circulation.




How Does the Use of a Gold Standard Affect Gresham's Law?
When the U.S. dollar first gained prominence as the world’s reserve currency through the Bretton Woods Agreement in 1944, it was fully backed by gold. Since the global financial system has transitioned to fiat currencies, examples of Gresham’s law are rare. The Bretton Woods system required countries to guarantee the convertibility of their currencies into U.S. dollars, with the dollar convertible to gold bullion for foreign governments.


   The Bottom Line  

Gresham's law states that "bad money drives out good" and is a monetary principle that can be applied to the currency markets. During the historical use of precious metals to manufacture coins, Gresham's law applied to the changing value of coins and their contents. Since the global financial system has transitioned to fiat currencies, examples of Gresham’s law are rare.
What Is Grexit?  

Grexit, an abbreviation for "Greek exit," refers to Greece's potential withdrawal from the Euro-zone, and a return to the Drachma as its official currency instead of the Euro.





Key Takeaways

Grexit, an abbreviation for "Greek exit," refers to Greece's potential withdrawal from the Euro-zone, and a return to the Drachma as its official currency instead of the Euro.Grexit, as a viable solution to the country's debt crisis, gained notoriety in early 2012 and has been in the financial vernacular ever since.The Greek government rejected Grexit and instead received multiple rounds of bailout loans from the euro-zone in addition to implementing austerity measures.


   Understanding Grexit  

Grexit gained notoriety in early 2012 and remained in the financial vernacular for years after that. Many pundits, and even some Greek citizens, floated the idea that Greece should withdraw from the eurozone as a viable solution to the country’s debt crisis.



Leaving the euro and bringing back the Greek drachma was thought to be a way to allow Greece to recover from the brink of bankruptcy. A devalued drachma could encourage overseas investment and allow other Europeans to visit Greece on the cheap by paying in the more expensive euro currency. In this way, proponents argued that the Greek economy would suffer in the near term, but could eventually recover with far less assistance from other eurozone countries and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), perhaps even quicker than via eurozone bailouts.



However, opponents argued that a return to the drachma would lead to a very rough economic transition and far-lower living standards, which could result in even more civil unrest. Some in Europe worried that Grexit could even cause Greece to embrace other foreign powers that might not align with the interests of the eurozone.



Opponents to Grexit have seemingly won out, at least in the years since Grexit entered the discussion. As of 2021, Greece remains in the eurozone, with help from bailout loans in 2010, 2012, and 2015.﻿﻿ Although the term Grexit doesn't make headlines as often anymore, some have argued that Grexit remains an eventual possibility. Greece continues to attract foreign investment and has implemented many austerity measures.


   Origins of Greece's Debt Crisis  

Grexit points to decades-old problems in Greece, such as high government debt, tax evasion, and government corruption. Greece first joined the eurozone in 2001, but its government revealed just three years later that economic data was falsified so the country would gain entry.﻿﻿



When the global financial crisis struck, it laid bare many of Greece’s structural problems. Greece’s gross domestic product (GDP) shrank by 4.7% in the first quarter of 2009, and the deficit ballooned to more than 12% of GDP.﻿﻿ The country subsequently suffered a string of credit-rating downgrades culminating in Standard & Poor’s demoting Greece’s debt to junk status, which caused the country’s bond yields to soar, reflecting the severe financial instability.﻿﻿


   Austerity and Bailouts  

In exchange for receiving multiple bailouts to avoid bankruptcy, Greece had to agree to austerity measures. The first round of austerity in 2010 cut public-sector wages, raised the minimum retirement age, and increased fuel prices. Subsequent measures over the following three years reduced public-sector pay further, cut Greece’s minimum wage, reduced pension payouts, gutted defense spending, and raised taxes. As a result, unemployment rose to nearly 28% in the fall of 2013, far higher than the 11% average for the Euro-zone as a whole.﻿﻿



One criticism of the bailouts has been that little of the money has gone to help Greek citizens directly. Rather, it has mostly passed through Greece and helped to repay Greece’s debt-holders, most of which are banks in other European countries. Germany, for example, has been the largest contributor to Greece’s bailout packages, and its banks also are the largest investors in Greek bonds.﻿﻿


   Greek Recovery  

The economic and financial uncertainty in Greece has improved markedly since the worst days of the crisis. In August 2018, government officials announced the country had successfully exited the last of its bailout programs. Ending the bailout programs allowed Greece to begin selling 10-year bonds in 2019 for the first time in nine years. This event marks a milestone in Greece's recovery as it allows the country to raise money and continue its long journey to regain economic sovereignty.



The economy appeared to be entering a period of modest recovery from its significant economic troubles of 2010-2016. However, like so many other countries, Greece experienced a deep recession in 2020 as a result of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Unfortunately, this led to an increase in the country's already exorbitantly high public debt. Experts estimate that a full recovery will only be feasible beyond 2021.
What Is a Gray Market?  

A gray market is an unofficial market for financial securities. Gray (or “grey”) market trading generally occurs when a stock that has been suspended from trades off the market, or when new securities are bought and sold before official trading begins. The gray market enables the issuer and underwriters to gauge demand for a new offering because it is a “when issued” market (i.e., it trades securities that will be offered in the very near future). The gray market is an unofficial one but is not illegal.



The term “gray market” also refers to the import and sale of goods by unauthorized dealers; in this instance as well, such activity is unofficial but not illegal.





Key Takeaways

The gray market for financial securities refers to unofficial, over-the-counter (OTC) transactions in a security.Unlike typical OTC trading where securities never trade on an exchange, the gray market trades in securities that have been suspended from official trading, or which have not yet begun official trading on an exchange.The gray market also refers to products, often imports, that are sold through alternative retail channels.In either case, while not illegal, the unofficial status of the gray market increases its riskiness.


   Gray Market Explained  

In gray market trading, while the trade is binding, it cannot be settled until official trading begins. This may cause an unscrupulous party to renege on the trade. Due to this risk, some institutional investors, like pension funds and mutual funds, may refrain from gray market trading.



The gray market for goods thrives when there is a significant price discrepancy for a popular product in different nations. In many nations, there is a substantial gray market for popular consumer devices and electronics because these can be easily purchased online and shipped to any location. Other popular gray market products include luxury cars, high-end apparel, handbags and shoes, cigarettes, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics. Unauthorized dealers may import such items in bulk and, despite adding a healthy markup, sell them at a price still well below the local cost.



Customers who buy such products for the discount price may face problems in the future and should ensure that they meet local safety and certification standards. Post-sale service and support is another key issue, as authorized dealers may be unwilling to service goods bought in the gray market.



Consumers may also occasionally unwittingly buy a gray market product. Some indications that a product is likely to be from a gray market are a price that is considerably lower than that offered by other local retailers, user manuals in a different language, and photocopied manuals or duplicated software CDs.


   Adverse Impact on Businesses  

The size of some gray markets is substantial. Business outside official channels poses challenges for the manufacturers of the goods. Aside from the loss of sales that a company can book directly, the gray market produces a risk to brand equity and damages relationships in the formal sales channel made up of wholesalers, distributors, and retailers, whose exclusivity for sought-after goods is weakened.
What Is Grid Trading?  

Grid trading is when orders are placed above and below a set price, creating a grid of orders at incrementally increasing and decreasing prices. Grid trading is most commonly associated with the foreign exchange market. Overall the technique seeks to capitalize on normal price volatility in an asset by placing buy and sell orders at certain regular intervals above and below a predefined base price.



For example, a forex trader could put buy orders every 15 pips above a set price, while also putting sell orders every 15 pips below that price. This takes advantages of trends. They could also place buy orders below a set price, and sell orders above. This takes advantages of ranging conditions.





Key Takeaways

Grid trading involves placing buy and sell orders at set intervals around a set price.The grid can be created to profit from trends or ranges.To profit from trends, place buy orders at intervals above the set price, and sell orders below the set price.To profit from ranges, place buy orders at intervals below the set price, and sell orders above the set price.


   Understanding Grid Trading  

An advantage of grid trading is that it requires little forecasting of market direction and can be easily automated. Major drawbacks, however, are the possibility of incurring large losses if stop-loss limits are not adhered to and the complexity associated with running and/or closing multiple positions in a large grid.



The idea behind with-the-trend grid trading is that if the price moves in a sustained direction the position gets bigger to capitalize on it. As the price moves up, more buy orders are triggered resulting in a bigger position. The position gets bigger and more profitable the further the price runs in that direction.



This leads to a dilemma, though. Ultimately the trader must determine when to end the grid, exit the trades, and realize the profits. Otherwise, the price could reverse and those profits will disappear. While losses are controlled by the sell orders, also equally spaced, by the time those orders are reached the position could have gone from profitable to losing money.



For this reason, traders typically limit their grid to a certain number of orders, such as five. For example, they place five buy orders above a set price. If the price runs through all the buy orders they exit the trade with a profit. This could be done all at once or via a sell grid starting a target level.



If the price action is choppy it could trigger buy orders above the set price and sell orders below the set price, resulting in a loss. This is where the with-the-trend grid falters. Ultimately, the strategy is most profitable if the price runs in a sustained direction. The price oscillating back and forth typically doesn't produce good results.



In oscillating or ranging markets, against-the-trend grid trading tends to be more effective. For example, the trader places buy orders at regular intervals below a set price, and places sell orders at regular intervals above the set price. As the price falls, the trader gets long. As the price rises the sell orders are triggered to reduce the long position and potentially get short. The trader profits as long as the price continues to oscillate sideways, triggering both and sell orders.



The problem with the against-the-trend grid is that the risk is not controlled. The trader could end up accumulating a larger and larger losing position if the price keeps running in one direction instead of ranging. Ultimately, the trader must set a stop loss level, as they can't continue to hold a losing (let alone make bigger) position indefinitely.


   Grid Trading Construction  

To construct a grid there are several steps to follow.



Choose an interval, such as 10 pips, 50 pips, or 100 pips, for example.Determine the starting price for the grid.Determine whether the grid will be with-the-trend or against-the-trend.



In a with-the-trend grid, assume a trader chooses a starting point of 1.1550 and a 10 pip interval. Place buy orders at 1.1560, 1.1570, 1.1580, 1.1590, and 1.1600. Place sell orders at 1.1540, 1.1530, 1.1520, 1.1510, and 1.1500. This strategy requires an exit when things are going well in order to lock in profits.



Assume the trader opts to use an against-the-trend grid. They also choose 1.1550 as the starting point and a 10 pip interval. They place buy orders at 1.1540, 1.1530, 1.1520, 1.1510, and 1.1500. They place sell orders at 1.1560, 1.1570, 1.1580, 1.1590, and 1.1600. This strategy will lock in profits as both buy and sell orders are triggered, but it requires a stop loss if the price moves in one direction.


   Example of Grid Trading in the EURUSD  

Assume a day trader sees that the EURUSD is ranging between 1.1400 and 1.1500. The price is currently near 1.1450, so the trader opts to use a 10 pip interval against-the-trend grid to potentially capitalize on the range.



The trader places a sell order at 1.1460, 1.1470, 1.1480, 1.1490, 1.1500, and 1.1510. A stop loss is placed at 1.1530. This assures there is a cap to the risk. The risk is 270 pips if all the sell orders are triggered, no grid buy orders are triggered, and the stop loss is reached.



They also place buy orders at 1.1440, 1.1430, 1.1420, 1.1410, 1.1400, and 1.1390. They place a stop loss at 1.1370. The risk is 270 pips if all the buy orders are triggered, no grid sell orders are triggered, and the stop loss is reached.



The trader is hoping the price will move higher and lower, or lower and higher within the range of 1.1510 and 1.1390. Although they are also hoping that the price doesn't move too far outside that range, otherwise they will be forced to exit with a loss in order to control their risk.
What Is a Grinder?  

A grinder is a slang term for a person who works in the investment industry and makes only small amounts of money at a time on small investments, over and over again. Grinders typically are hard working and highly respected investors who value every cent they make off their investments. Grinders who are investment advisors tend to keep in regular contact with their clients.





Key Takeaways

A grinder refers to an investor who tends to make small, consistent profits through relatively small trades.This strategy can produce consistent, low-risk returns but at the same time can be time-consuming and expensive in terms of transaction costs.While not as flashy as large block traders, successful grinders tend to be respected by their colleagues.


   Understanding Grinders  

A grinder, in this case, stands for a person who grinds. The term "grind" is defined as taking a thing and breaking it down into very small pieces. In financial investing, this describes a person who puts in significant work to bring in small amounts or profits in a highly tedious and laborious, but ultimately effective, manner.



A grinder also is thus an informal term used to describe the style of an investor who specializes in small trades. While the term implies a high level of effort to achieve a satisfactory return, a grinder rarely is inclined to work on larger trades for larger yields. In contrast, a grinder focuses on making a large quantity of smaller trades, compensating for the lower returns of each individual trade by conducting them in large volumes.


   Example of a Grinder  

To produce a return on investment, a grinder may conduct 100 transactions each yielding a $50 profit. This results in a total return of $5,000. In contrast, an investor working with larger-scale investments may conduct five trades each yielding a $1,000 profit. This also results in a total of $5,000. While both investors achieved the same results, the grinder did so by conducting transactions at a large volume while the other investor did not.



Inherently, the work required to complete 100 transactions is likely to be more involved, in both time and effort, than what is required to complete five trades. This increase in required effort also applies to the use of the term grinder regardless of the level of success the grinder experiences.


   Other Uses of the Terms Grind and Grinder  

The term grind can be applied to any tedious yet lengthy endeavor regardless of the industry or circumstances in which it occurs. A college student’s activity of studying at length for an exam can be considered a grind. The term also applies to anyone whose job may be monotonous or simple in nature, yet requires a large amount of effort to complete. In that case, since the large effort yields minimal returns, the position may be considered a grind.



Finally, if a trader has a particular trade that must be done, it is sometimes referred to as having an axe to grind.
What Is the Gross Debt Service Ratio?  

The gross debt service (GDS) ratio is a debt service measure that financial lenders use to assess the proportion of housing debt that a borrower is paying in comparison to their income. The gross debt service ratio is one of several metrics used to qualify borrowers for a mortgage loan and determine the amount of principal offered.



The gross debt service ratio may also be referred to as the housing expense ratio or the front-end ratio. Generally, borrowers should strive for a gross debt service ratio of 28% or less.





Key Takeaways

The gross debt service (GDS) ratio, total debt service ratio, and a borrower’s credit score are the key components analyzed in the underwriting process for a mortgage loan.GDS may be used in other personal loan calculations as well, but it is most common with mortgage loans.Many lenders require a borrower to meet specific credit score requirements for loan consideration.


   How the GDS Ratio Works  

The gross debt service ratio is typically a comprehensive measure of all of a borrower’s monthly housing expenses. It may also be calculated on an annual basis. The borrower’s current monthly mortgage payment is the primary expense. Other expenses may also include monthly property tax payments, monthly home insurance payments, and utility bills.



Total monthly expenses are divided by total monthly income to calculate the ratio. As a rule of thumb, lenders typically require a gross debt service ratio of 28% or less. Lenders also use the GDS ratio to determine how much the borrower can afford to borrow.





Tip

Using an online mortgage calculator to estimate homebuying costs can give you an idea of what you might be able to afford.


   Gross Debt Service Ratio Formula and Calculation  

The formula that's used to calculate the gross debt service ratio is fairly straightforward. It looks like this:



Gross Debt Service Ratio = Principal + Interest + Taxes + Utilities / Gross Annual Income



Utilities can include any amounts paid toward electric, water, or natural gas service. If you're planning to purchase a property, you may be able to contact the electric company, water company, and gas company to get information about average utility costs. You can also look up information about local property taxes to estimate what you might pay for those.


   Example of Gross Debt Service Ratio  

As an example, consider two married law students who have a monthly mortgage payment of $1,000 and pay annual property taxes of $3,000 with a gross family income of $45,000. This would result in a GDS ratio of 33%. Based on the benchmark of 28%, this couple appears to be carrying an unacceptable amount of debt and are not likely to be approved for a mortgage loan given their current situation.





Note

If you're applying for a mortgage as a self-employed person, the lender may consider the average of your last two years' worth of income versus a single year of earnings.


   How Is GDS Ratio Used?  

The GDS ratio helps lenders determine whether a borrower can afford a mortgage. Extending a mortgage loan involves a certain amount of risk to the lender so they want reassurance beforehand that you'll be likely to pay back what you borrow. The GDS ratio is a way to measure your ability to pay, based on estimated housing costs and your household income.



If a lender determines that your GDS is above acceptable limits, you have some options. The first is finding ways to increase your income. For example, you may be able to do that by asking for a raise at work, taking on more hours, starting a second job, or starting a side hustle. Increasing the size of your down payment could also help you qualify for a mortgage if you're financing a smaller loan amount.





Note

If increasing income or the size of your down payment isn't enough to fall within a lender's acceptable GDS limits, then you may need to revise your budget to look for a less expensive home.


   Special Considerations  

The GDS ratio is only one component involved in the underwriting process for a loan. A borrower’s total debt service ratio and credit report are also important components as well.



A borrower’s credit report is obtained from a hard inquiry and provides the lender with the borrower’s credit score and credit history. Many lenders require a borrower to meet specific credit score requirements for loan consideration.



A borrower’s total debt service ratio is also a factor in the qualification process for approval. The total debt service ratio is similar to the gross debt service ratio; however, it includes all of a borrower’s debt and is not just focused on housing. The total debt service ratio sums up all of a borrower’s monthly debt and divides it by their monthly income to calculate a ratio. This may also be referred to as the "bottom ratio."






Generally, lenders require a total debt service ratio of approximately 36% or less for loan approval.


  Gross debt service ratio FAQs  


What Is the Gross Debt Service Ratio?
The gross debt service ratio is a measure of housing costs versus a borrower's gross income. Specifically, this ratio tells lenders how much of a homebuyer's gross income goes toward housing costs. The GDS ratio helps determine how much home a buyer can afford when qualifying them for a mortgage loan.




How Do You Calculate the Gross Debt Service Ratio?
To calculate the gross debt service ratio, you'd divide total housing costs by gross income. Housing costs include principal, interest, taxes, and utility costs. Gross income represents what you make before taxes and other deductions are taken out.




What Is a Good Gross Debt Service Ratio for a Mortgage?
Generally, a good gross debt service ratio for a mortgage is 28%. Whether it's possible to qualify for a home loan with a GDS ratio above that amount may depend on the lender and its specific underwriting criteria.
What Are Gross Dividends?  

Similar in concept to gross income, gross dividends are the sum total of all dividends received by an investor for tax purposes. Gross dividends include all ordinary dividends that are paid, plus capital-gains distributions and nontaxable distributions received by the taxpayer during the year before taxes, fees, and expenses are deducted.



Gross dividends can be contrasted with net dividends.





Key Takeaways

Gross dividends, for tax purposes, include all ordinary dividends plus capital gains distributions and non-taxable distributions.Gross dividends will be adjusted for the presence of qualified dividends as well as any associated fees and expenses of receiving dividends.Taxpayers use IRS form 1099-DIV to calculate their taxable exposure to dividend and related investment income.


   Understanding Gross Dividends  

Most of the time, gross dividends paid to American investors are reported on IRS Form 1099-DIV. Ordinary dividends are reported in Box 1a, while the other types of dividend income are listed elsewhere. All dividends are considered ordinary unless they are specifically classified as qualified dividends. Box 1b is designated for reporting qualified dividends, which shows the portion of the amount in Box 1a that may be eligible for reduced capital gains rates. Box 3 shows non-dividend distributions.



A 1099-DIV is required to be sent to anyone who has received dividends (including capital gain dividends and exempt-interest dividends) and other distributions on stock of ten dollars or more, or if funds were withheld to pay foreign tax on dividends and other distributions on stock over a given year. Not all dividend income reported on the 1099-DIV is reported on Schedule B.



In many countries, income from dividends is treated at a more favorable tax rate than ordinary income. Investors may look to dividend-paying stocks in order to take advantage of potentially more favorable tax conditions. The amount of tax owed on dividends depends on overall income and whether the dividends are qualified or nonqualified.


   Example of a Gross Dividend Versus a Net Dividend  

As an example, let's say that company ABCXYZ decides to issue a dividend of $1.20 to its shareholders. This means for each share owned, the company pays $1.20 in dividends. If a shareholder-owned 1,000 shares, they would receive an annual payout of $1,200 in gross dividends. Companies in the U.S. typically pay quarterly dividends, while non-U.S. companies generally pay annual or semi-annual dividends.



If the dividend was considered an ordinary one and taxed at a rate of 35%, with another 2% going toward fees and expenses, the net dividend would actually be $756. If the dividend was a qualified one instead, with a reduced tax rate of 15%, the net dividend would actually be $996.
What Is Gross Domestic Income (GDI)?  

Gross domestic income (GDI) is a measure of a nation's economic activity that is based on all of the money earned for all of the goods and services produced in the nation during a specific period.



In theory, GDI should be identical to gross domestic product (GDP), a more commonly used measure of a country's economic activity. However, the different sources of data used in each calculation lead to somewhat different results.



Generally, GDP tends to be the more reliable metric as it is based on fresher and more expansive data.





Key Takeaways

GDI and GDP are two slightly different measures of a nation's economic activity.GDI counts what all participants in the economy make or "take in" (like wages, profits, and taxes). GDP counts the value of what the economy produces (like goods, services, and technology).One of the core concepts of macroeconomics is that income equals spending, which means that GDI will be the same as GDP in an economy at equilibrium.


   Understanding Gross Domestic Income (GDI)  

GDI is the total income that all sectors of an economy generate, including wages, profits, and taxes.



It is a lesser-known statistic than gross domestic product (GDP), which is used by the Federal Reserve Bank to measure total economic activity in the United States.



One of the core concepts in the field of macroeconomics is that income equals spending. This means that the money spent buying what was produced must equal the source of that money.


   Formula and Calculation of Gross Domestic Income  

Note the differences in formula for GDI compared to the formula for GDP:



GDI = Wages + Profits + Interest Income + Rental Income + Taxes - Production/Import Subsidies + Statistical AdjustmentsGDP = Consumption + Investment + Government Purchases + Exports - Imports



Wages encompass the total compensation to employees for services rendered. Profits, also called "net operating surplus," are the surpluses of incorporated and unincorporated businesses. Statistical adjustments may include corporate income tax, dividends, and undistributed profits.



The most significant component of GDI is wages and salaries. Historically, roughly 50% of all national income goes to workers. In Q3, 2021, U.S. GDI clocked in at roughly $23.8 trillion with $12.8 trillion coming in the form of compensation of employees.






Another large component of GDI is the net operating surplus from private enterprises. In Q3, 2021, about $6.1 trillion of the $23.8 trillion in GDI was attributed to that category.


   GDI vs. GDP  

According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce, GDI and GDP are conceptually equivalent in terms of national economic accounting, with minor differences attributed to statistical discrepancies. The market value of goods and services consumed often differs from the amount of income earned to produce them due to sampling errors, coverage differences, and timing differences.



But while the difference between GDI and GDP is usually minimal, they can sometimes vary up to a full percentage point for some quarters. The gap also varies over different periods of time.



GDI differs from GDP, which values production by the amount of output that is purchased, in that it measures total economic activity based on the income paid to generate that output. In other words, GDI aims to measure what the economy makes or "takes in" (like wages, profits, and taxes) while GDP seeks to measure what the economy produces (goods, services, technology).






GDI calculates the income that was paid to generate GDP. So, an economy at equilibrium will see GDI equal to GDP.



Some economists have argued that GDI might be a more accurate gauge of the economy. The reason is that more advanced estimates of GDI are closer to the final estimates of both calculations. Research from Federal Reserve economist Jeremy Nalewalk showed that early estimates of GDI captured the Great Recession of 2007-2009 better than GDP, suggesting that policymakers would have been better prepared if GDI was the main indicator used.



Over time, according to the BEA, "GDI and GDP provide a similar overall picture of economic activity." For annual data, the correlation between GDI and GDP is 0.97, according to BEA calculations.


   Gross Domestic Income Analytics  

GDI figures have various analytical uses:



One important metric is the ratio of wages and salaries to GDI. The BEA compares this ratio with corporate profits as a share of GDI to see where the constituents, mainly workers and company owners, stand relative to each other with respect to their share of GDI. A rule of thumb states that workers' share of GDI should be higher when unemployment is low.
Employee compensation share of GDI is also compared with the inflation trendline. Economists generally anticipate that higher employee compensation share will correlate with an upward trend in inflation.
What Is Gross Domestic Product (GDP)?  

Gross domestic product (GDP) is the total monetary or market value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country’s borders in a specific time period. As a broad measure of overall domestic production, it functions as a comprehensive scorecard of a given country’s economic health.



Though GDP is typically calculated on an annual basis, it is sometimes calculated on a quarterly basis as well. In the U.S., for example, the government releases an annualized GDP estimate for each fiscal quarter and also for the calendar year. The individual data sets included in this report are given in real terms, so the data is adjusted for price changes and is, therefore, net of inflation.





Key Takeaways

Gross domestic product is the monetary value of all finished goods and services made within a country during a specific period.GDP provides an economic snapshot of a country, used to estimate the size of an economy and its growth rate.GDP can be calculated in three ways, using expenditures, production, or incomes and it can be adjusted for inflation and population to provide deeper insights.Real GDP takes into account the effects of inflation while nominal GDP does not.Though it has limitations, GDP is a key tool to guide policymakers, investors, and businesses in strategic decision-making.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

The calculation of a country’s GDP encompasses all private and public consumption, government outlays, investments, additions to private inventories, paid-in construction costs, and the foreign balance of trade. Exports are added to the value and imports are subtracted.



Of all the components that make up a country’s GDP, the foreign balance of trade is especially important. The GDP of a country tends to increase when the total value of goods and services that domestic producers sell to foreign countries exceeds the total value of foreign goods and services that domestic consumers buy. When this situation occurs, a country is said to have a trade surplus.



If the opposite situation occurs—that is, if the amount that domestic consumers spend on foreign products is greater than the total sum of what domestic producers are able to sell to foreign consumers—it is called a trade deficit. In this situation, the GDP of a country tends to decrease.



GDP can be computed on a nominal basis or a real basis, the latter accounting for inflation. Overall, real GDP is a better method for expressing long-term national economic performance since it uses constant dollars.



Let's say one country had a nominal GDP of $100 billion in 2012. By 2022, its nominal GDP grew to $150 billion. Prices also rose by 100% over the same period. In this example, if you looked solely at its nominal GDP, the country's economy appears to be performing well. However, the real GDP (expressed in 2012 dollars) would only be $75 billion, revealing that an overall decline in real economic performance actually occurred during this time.





2.1%

The annual rate of increase for U.S. GDP in the second quarter of 2023. U.S. GDP recorded a 2.0% increase during the first quarter of 2023.






   Types of Gross Domestic Product  

GDP can be reported in several ways, each of which provides slightly different information.


  Nominal GDP  

Nominal GDP is an assessment of economic production in an economy that includes current prices in its calculation. In other words, it doesn’t strip out inflation or the pace of rising prices, which can inflate the growth figure.



All goods and services counted in nominal GDP are valued at the prices that those goods and services are actually sold for in that year. Nominal GDP is evaluated in either the local currency or U.S. dollars at currency market exchange rates to compare countries’ GDPs in purely financial terms.



Nominal GDP is used when comparing different quarters of output within the same year. When comparing the GDP of two or more years, real GDP is used. This is because, in effect, the removal of the influence of inflation allows the comparison of the different years to focus solely on volume.


  Real GDP  

Real GDP is an inflation-adjusted measure that reflects the number of goods and services produced by an economy in a given year, with prices held constant from year to year to separate out the impact of inflation or deflation from the trend in output over time. Since GDP is based on the monetary value of goods and services, it is subject to inflation.



Rising prices tend to increase a country’s GDP, but this does not necessarily reflect any change in the quantity or quality of goods and services produced. Thus, by looking just at an economy’s nominal GDP, it can be difficult to tell whether the figure has risen because of a real expansion in production or simply because prices rose.



Economists use a process that adjusts for inflation to arrive at an economy’s real GDP. By adjusting the output in any given year for the price levels that prevailed in a reference year, called the base year, economists can adjust for inflation’s impact. This way, it is possible to compare a country’s GDP from one year to another and see if there is any real growth.



Real GDP is calculated using a GDP price deflator, which is the difference in prices between the current year and the base year. For example, if prices rose by 5% since the base year, then the deflator would be 1.05. Nominal GDP is divided by this deflator, yielding real GDP. Nominal GDP is usually higher than real GDP because inflation is typically a positive number.



Real GDP accounts for changes in market value and thus narrows the difference between output figures from year to year. If there is a large discrepancy between a nation’s real GDP and nominal GDP, this may be an indicator of significant inflation or deflation in its economy.


  GDP Per Capita  

GDP per capita is a measurement of the GDP per person in a country’s population. It indicates that the amount of output or income per person in an economy can indicate average productivity or average living standards. GDP per capita can be stated in nominal, real (inflation-adjusted), or purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.



At a basic interpretation, per-capita GDP shows how much economic production value can be attributed to each individual citizen. This also translates to a measure of overall national wealth since GDP market value per person also readily serves as a prosperity measure.



Per-capita GDP is often analyzed alongside more traditional measures of GDP. Economists use this metric for insight into their own country’s domestic productivity and the productivity of other countries. Per-capita GDP considers both a country’s GDP and its population. Therefore, it can be important to understand how each factor contributes to the overall result and is affecting per-capita GDP growth.



If a country’s per-capita GDP is growing with a stable population level, for example, it could be the result of technological progressions that are producing more with the same population level. Some countries may have a high per-capita GDP but a small population, which usually means they have built up a self-sufficient economy based on an abundance of special resources.


  GDP Growth Rate  

The GDP growth rate compares the year-over-year (or quarterly) change in a country’s economic output to measure how fast an economy is growing. Usually expressed as a percentage rate, this measure is popular for economic policymakers because GDP growth is thought to be closely connected to key policy targets such as inflation and unemployment rates.



If GDP growth rates accelerate, it may be a signal that the economy is overheating and the central bank may seek to raise interest rates. Conversely, central banks see a shrinking (or negative) GDP growth rate (i.e., a recession) as a signal that rates should be lowered and that stimulus may be necessary.


  GDP Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  

While not directly a measure of GDP, economists look at PPP to see how one country’s GDP measures up in international dollars using a method that adjusts for differences in local prices and costs of living to make cross-country comparisons of real output, real income, and living standards.


   GDP Formula  

GDP can be determined via three primary methods. All three methods should yield the same figure when correctly calculated. These three approaches are often termed the expenditure approach, the output (or production) approach, and the income approach.


  The Expenditure Approach  

The expenditure approach, also known as the spending approach, calculates spending by the different groups that participate in the economy. The U.S. GDP is primarily measured based on the expenditure approach. This approach can be calculated using the following formula:















GDP


=


C


+


G


+


I


+


NX
















where:
















C


=


Consumption
















G


=


Government spending
















I


=


Investment
















NX


=


Net exports







\begin{aligned}&\text{GDP} = \text{C} + \text{G} + \text{I} + \text{NX} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{C} = \text{Consumption} \\&\text{G} = \text{Government spending} \\&\text{I} = \text{Investment} \\&\text{NX} = \text{Net exports} \\\end{aligned}


​GDP=C+G+I+NXwhere:C=ConsumptionG=Government spendingI=InvestmentNX=Net exports​
All of these activities contribute to the GDP of a country. Consumption refers to private consumption expenditures or consumer spending. Consumers spend money to acquire goods and services, such as groceries and haircuts. Consumer spending is the biggest component of GDP, accounting for more than two-thirds of the U.S. GDP.
Consumer confidence, therefore, has a very significant bearing on economic growth. A high confidence level indicates that consumers are willing to spend, while a low confidence level reflects uncertainty about the future and an unwillingness to spend.
Government spending represents government consumption expenditure and gross investment. Governments spend money on equipment, infrastructure, and payroll. Government spending may become more important relative to other components of a country’s GDP when consumer spending and business investment both decline sharply. (This may occur in the wake of a recession, for example.)
Investment refers to private domestic investment or capital expenditures. Businesses spend money to invest in their business activities. For example, a business may buy machinery. Business investment is a critical component of GDP since it increases the productive capacity of an economy and boosts employment levels.
The net exports formula subtracts total exports from total imports (NX = Exports - Imports). The goods and services that an economy makes that are exported to other countries, less the imports that are purchased by domestic consumers, represent a country’s net exports. All expenditures by companies located in a given country, even if they are foreign companies, are included in this calculation.






  The Production (Output) Approach  

The production approach is essentially the reverse of the expenditure approach. Instead of measuring the input costs that contribute to economic activity, the production approach estimates the total value of economic output and deducts the cost of intermediate goods that are consumed in the process (like those of materials and services). Whereas the expenditure approach projects forward from costs, the production approach looks backward from the vantage point of a state of completed economic activity.


  The Income Approach  

The income approach represents a kind of middle ground between the two other approaches to calculating GDP. The income approach calculates the income earned by all the factors of production in an economy, including the wages paid to labor, the rent earned by land, the return on capital in the form of interest, and corporate profits. 



The income approach factors in some adjustments for those items that are not considered payments made to factors of production. For one, there are some taxes, such as sales taxes and property taxes, that are classified as indirect business taxes.



In addition, depreciation, which is a reserve that businesses set aside to account for the replacement of equipment that tends to wear down with use, is also added to the national income. All of this together constitutes a nation’s income.


   GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI  

Although GDP is a widely used metric, there are other ways of measuring the economic growth of a country. While GDP measures the economic activity within the physical borders of a country (whether the producers are native to that country or foreign-owned entities), gross national product (GNP) is a measurement of the overall production of people or corporations native to a country, including those based abroad. GNP excludes domestic production by foreigners.



Gross national income (GNI) is another measure of economic growth. It is the sum of all income earned by citizens or nationals of a country (regardless of whether the underlying economic activity takes place domestically or abroad). The relationship between GNP and GNI is similar to the relationship between the production (output) approach and the income approach used to calculate GDP.



GNP uses the production approach, while GNI uses the income approach. With GNI, the income of a country is calculated as its domestic income, plus its indirect business taxes and depreciation (as well as its net foreign factor income). The figure for net foreign factor income is calculated by subtracting all payments made to foreign companies and individuals from all payments made to domestic businesses.



In an increasingly global economy, GNI has been put forward as a potentially better metric for overall economic health than GDP. Because certain countries have most of their income withdrawn abroad by foreign corporations and individuals, their GDP figure is much higher than the figure that represents their GNI.



For example, in 2019, Luxembourg had a significant difference between its GDP and GNI, mainly due to large payments made to the rest of the world via foreign corporations that did business in Luxembourg, attracted by the tiny nation’s favorable tax laws. On the contrary, GNI and GDP in the U.S. do not differ substantially. U.S. GDP was roughly $26.80 trillion as of Q2-2023 while its GNI was about $25.84 trillion at the end of 2022.


   Adjustments to GDP  

A number of adjustments can be made to a country’s GDP to improve the usefulness of this figure. For economists, a country’s GDP reveals the size of the economy but provides little information about the standard of living in that country. Part of the reason for this is that population size and cost of living are not consistent around the world.



For example, comparing the nominal GDP of China to the nominal GDP of Ireland would not provide much meaningful information about the realities of living in those countries because China has approximately 300 times the population of Ireland.



To help solve this problem, statisticians sometimes compare GDP per capita between countries. GDP per capita is calculated by dividing a country’s total GDP by its population, and this figure is frequently cited to assess the nation’s standard of living. Even so, the measure is still imperfect.



Suppose China has a GDP per capita of $1,500, while Ireland has a GDP per capita of $15,000. This doesn’t necessarily mean that the average Irish person is 10 times better off than the average Chinese person. GDP per capita doesn’t account for how expensive it is to live in a country.



PPP attempts to solve this problem by comparing how many goods and services an exchange-rate-adjusted unit of money can purchase in different countries—comparing the price of an item, or basket of items, in two countries after adjusting for the exchange rate between the two, in effect.



Real per-capita GDP, adjusted for purchasing power parity, is a heavily refined statistic to measure true income, which is an important element of well-being. An individual in Ireland might make $100,000 a year, while an individual in China might make $50,000 a year. In nominal terms, the worker in Ireland is better off. But if a year’s worth of food, clothing, and other items costs three times as much in Ireland as in China, however, then the worker in China has a higher real income.


   How to Use GDP Data  

Most nations release GDP data every month and quarter. In the U.S., the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) publishes an advance release of quarterly GDP four weeks after the quarter ends, and a final release three months after the quarter ends. The BEA releases are exhaustive and contain a wealth of detail, enabling economists and investors to obtain information and insights on various aspects of the economy.



GDP’s market impact is generally limited since it is backward-looking, and a substantial amount of time has already elapsed between the quarter-end and GDP data release. However, GDP data can have an impact on markets if the actual numbers differ considerably from expectations.



Because GDP provides a direct indication of the health and growth of the economy, businesses can use GDP as a guide to their business strategy. Government entities, such as the Fed in the U.S., use the growth rate and other GDP stats as part of their decision process in determining what type of monetary policies to implement.



If the growth rate is slowing, they might implement an expansionary monetary policy to try to boost the economy. If the growth rate is robust, they might use monetary policy to slow things down to try to ward off inflation.



Real GDP is the indicator that says the most about the health of the economy. It is widely followed and discussed by economists, analysts, investors, and policymakers. The advance release of the latest data will almost always move markets, although that impact can be limited, as noted above.


   GDP and Investing  

Investors watch GDP since it provides a framework for decision-making. The corporate profits and inventory data in the GDP report are a great resource for equity investors, as both categories show total growth during the period; corporate profits data also displays pre-tax profits, operating cash flows, and breakdowns for all major sectors of the economy.



Comparing the GDP growth rates of different countries can play a part in asset allocation, aiding decisions about whether to invest in fast-growing economies abroad and if so, which ones.



One interesting metric that investors can use to get a sense of the valuation of an equity market is the ratio of total market capitalization to GDP, expressed as a percentage. The closest equivalent to this in terms of stock valuation is a company’s market cap to total sales (or revenues), which in per-share terms is the well-known price-to-sales ratio.



Just as stocks in different sectors trade at widely divergent price-to-sales ratios, different nations trade at market-cap-to-GDP ratios that are literally all over the map. For example, according to the World Bank, the U.S. had a market-cap-to-GDP ratio of 193.3% for 2020, while China had a ratio of just over 83.2% and Hong Kong had a ratio of 1,777.2%.



However, the utility of this ratio lies in comparing it to historical norms for a particular nation. As an example, the U.S. had a market-cap-to-GDP ratio of 141.6% at the end of 2006, which dropped to 78.5% by the end of 2008. In retrospect, these represented zones of substantial overvaluation and undervaluation, respectively, for U.S. equities.



The biggest downside of this data is its lack of timeliness; investors only get one update per quarter, and revisions can be large enough to significantly alter the percentage change in GDP.


   History of GDP  

The concept of GDP was first proposed in 1937 in a report to the U.S. Congress in response to the Great Depression, conceived of and presented by an economist at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Simon Kuznets.



At the time, the preeminent system of measurement was GNP. After the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, GDP was widely adopted as the standard means for measuring national economies; however, the U.S. continued to use GNP as its official measure of economic welfare until 1991, after which it switched to GDP.



Beginning in the 1950s, however, some economists and policymakers began to question GDP. Some observed, for example, a tendency to accept GDP as an absolute indicator of a nation’s failure or success, despite its failure to account for health, happiness, (in)equality, and other constituent factors of public welfare. In other words, these critics drew attention to a distinction between economic progress and social progress.



However, most authorities, like Arthur Okun, an economist for President John F. Kennedy’s Council of Economic Advisers, held firm to the belief that GDP is an absolute indicator of economic success, claiming that for every increase in GDP, there would be a corresponding drop in unemployment.


   Criticisms of GDP  

There are, of course, drawbacks to using GDP as an indicator. In addition to the lack of timeliness, some criticisms of GDP as a measure are:



It ignores the value of informal or unrecorded economic activity. GDP relies on recorded transactions and official data, so it does not take into account the extent of informal economic activity. GDP fails to account for the value of under-the-table employment, underground market activity, or unremunerated volunteer work, which can all be significant in some nations and cannot account for the value of leisure time or household production, which are ubiquitous conditions of human life in all societies.
It is geographically limited in a globally open economy. GDP does not take into account profits earned in a nation by overseas companies that are remitted back to foreign investors. This can overstate a country’s actual economic output. For example, Ireland had a GDP of $529.24 billion and GNI of $383.48 billion in 2022, the difference of about $145.76 billion (or over 28% of GDP) largely being due to profit repatriation by foreign companies based in Ireland.
It emphasizes material output without considering overall well-being. GDP growth alone cannot measure a nation’s development or its citizens’ well-being, as noted above. For instance, a nation may be experiencing rapid GDP growth, but this may impose a significant cost to society in terms of environmental impact and an increase in income disparity.
It ignores business-to-business activity. GDP considers only final goods production and new capital investment and deliberately nets out intermediate spending and transactions between businesses. By doing so, GDP overstates the importance of consumption relative to production in the economy and is less sensitive as an indicator of economic fluctuations compared to metrics that include business-to-business activity.
It counts costs and waste as economic benefits. GDP counts all final private and government spending as additions to income and output for society, regardless of whether they are actually productive or profitable. This means that obviously unproductive or even destructive activities are routinely counted as economic output and contribute to growth in GDP. For example, this includes spending directed toward extracting or transferring wealth between members of society rather than producing wealth (such as the administrative costs of taxation or money spent on lobbying and rent-seeking); spending on investment projects for which the necessary complementary goods and labor are not available or for which actual consumer demand does not exist (such as the construction of empty ghost cities or bridges to nowhere, unconnected to any road network); and spending on goods and services that are either themselves destructive or only necessary to offset other destructive activities, rather than to create new wealth (such as the production of weapons of war or spending on policing and anti-crime measures).


   Global Sources for Country GDP Data  

The World Bank hosts one of the most reliable web-based databases. It has one of the best and most comprehensive lists of countries for which it tracks GDP data. The International Money Fund (IMF) also provides GDP data through its multiple databases, such as World Economic Outlook and International Financial Statistics.



Another highly reliable source of GDP data is the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD not only provides historical data but also forecasts GDP growth. The disadvantage of using the OECD database is that it tracks only OECD member countries and a few nonmember countries.



In the U.S., the Fed collects data from multiple sources, including a country’s statistical agencies and The World Bank. The only drawback to using a Fed database is a lack of updating in GDP data and an absence of data for certain countries.



The BEA is a division of the U.S. Department of Commerce. It issues its own analysis document with each GDP release, which is a great investor tool for analyzing figures and trends and reading highlights of the very lengthy full release.








What Is a Simple Definition of GDP?
Gross domestic product is a measurement that seeks to capture a country’s economic output. Countries with larger GDPs will have a greater amount of goods and services generated within them, and will generally have a higher standard of living. For this reason, many citizens and political leaders see GDP growth as an important measure of national success, often referring to GDP growth and economic growth interchangeably. Due to various limitations, however, many economists have argued that GDP should not be used as a proxy for overall economic success, much less the success of a society.




Which Country Has the Highest GDP?
The countries with the two highest GDPs in the world are the United States and China. However, their ranking differs depending on how you measure GDP. Using nominal GDP, the United States comes in first with a GDP of $23.32 trillion as of 2021, compared to $17.73 trillion in China.Many economists argue that it is more accurate to use purchasing power parity GDP as a measure of national wealth. By this metric, China is actually the world leader with a 2022 PPP GDP of $30.33 trillion, followed by $25.46 trillion in the United States.




Is a High GDP Good?
Most people perceive a higher GDP to be a good thing because it is associated with greater economic opportunities and an improved standard of material well-being. It is possible, however, for a country to have a high GDP and still be an unattractive place to live, so it is important to also consider other measurements. For example, a country could have a high GDP and a low per-capita GDP, suggesting that significant wealth exists but is concentrated in the hands of very few people. One way to address this is to look at GDP alongside another measure of economic development, such as the Human Development Index (HDI).


   The Bottom Line  

In their seminal textbook Economics, Paul Samuelson and William Nordhaus neatly sum up the importance of the national accounts and GDP. They liken the ability of GDP to give an overall picture of the state of the economy to that of a satellite in space that can survey the weather across an entire continent.



GDP enables policymakers and central banks to judge whether the economy is contracting or expanding, whether it needs a boost or restraint, and if a threat such as a recession or inflation looms on the horizon. Like any measure, GDP has its imperfections. In recent decades, governments have created various nuanced modifications in attempts to increase GDP accuracy and specificity. Means of calculating GDP have also evolved continually since its conception to keep up with evolving measurements of industry activity and the generation and consumption of new, emerging forms of intangible assets.
What Are Gross Earnings?  

Gross earnings is the total amount of income earned over a period of time by an individual/household or a company. For individuals and households, gross earnings are the income earned before the deduction of taxes or adjustments. In the corporate world, it's an accounting convention that refers to a public company's gross profit or the amount left from total revenues over a specified time period once the cost of goods sold (COGS) is deducted.





Key Takeaways

Gross earnings is the total amount of income earned over a period of time by an individual/household or a company.The gross earnings for a person or household are any income without any deductions.For a business, gross earnings are the total revenue less the cost of goods sold.Gross earnings are also referred to as gross income or gross profit.The IRS differentiates between gross earnings and adjusted gross income, which is what is left over when certain above-the-line deductions are subtracted.


   Understanding Gross Earnings  

Gross earnings are also commonly referred to in the financial sector as gross profit or gross income. As noted above, the term has different meanings depending on how it is used.



When referring to personal or household income, gross earnings are generally the first line of an employee's pay stub. This is followed by income and payroll taxes and other deductions, such as employer-sponsored health insurance, life insurance, and retirement benefits. Once these deductions are accounted for, the employer lists the employee's net earnings or income on the bottom of the paystub and on their paycheck.



Things work a little differently for businesses. When it comes to the business world, the term refers to the amount of money left from a public company's total revenue once the COGS is deducted. Also referred to as gross profit, it is the income a company earns before any adjustments and other deductions, such as taxes. These other costs, such as administrative expenses, are not included and fall under a company's operating income.






Most lenders generally look at your gross income when they decide how much credit they should extend to you.


   Gross Earnings on Business Income Statements  

A company's gross earnings are reported periodically on its income statement. The first line of the income statement reports a company's total sales and revenues for a given time period, while the COGS and gross earnings often appear on the second and third lines of many income statements. The difference between revenue and COGS is a company's gross earnings.



The COGS includes costs directly related to the company's product, such as:



Materials for manufacturing
Inventory for shops
Labor costs



Once a business calculates its gross earnings, it may subtract the rest of its business expenses, including costs such as utilities, loan repayments, office supplies, contractor fees, and many other expenses.






Indirect costs are not included in a company's cost of goods sold.


   Gross Earnings vs. Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)  

For tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) distinguishes gross earnings and adjusted gross income (AGI). Gross income includes all of the money you earn through the year including wages, income from a business, alimony payments, rental income, interest, and a few other types of payments.



The IRS allows taxpayers to take a select number of above-the-line deductions from gross income, and these include certain expenses incurred by educators, eligible moving expenses, contributions to IRA accounts as well as a few others. The difference between your gross income and these deductions is your AGI.



When you complete your income tax return, you subtract a standard deduction or a list of itemized deductions from your AGI, and the difference yields your taxable income, the amount upon which the IRS levies an income tax.


   Examples of Gross Earnings  

To understand individual gross earnings, consider Mr. Z, who earned a total of $50,000 for the recently completed fiscal year. He also paid $10,000 in income tax, retirement contributions, and Social Security payments. In this case, his gross earnings are $50,000, and his net earnings are $40,000.



But how does it work for businesses? Here's a simple example. Let's say Company X has sales of $2 million, cost of goods sold of $500,000, and expenses related to the sale of $300,000. The company's gross income is $1.5 million. After the other deductions, it is left with $1.2 million in net income.
What is Gross Estate  

The term "gross estate" refers to the total dollar value of an individual’s property and assets at the time of his or her death. This figure does not factor in any liabilities, such as debts owed and taxable events triggered by one's death. When those charges are deducted, the sum figure represents the net value of an individual’s estate.


   Breaking Down Gross Estate  

Gross estate values are typically calculated by an executor, which defines an individual who is primarily responsible for fulfilling the directives of the deceased. Executors may only be appointed if they are specifically named on a legally-recognized last will and testament. In the event that an executor is not designated, a court-appointed administrator will take over the responsibility of executing the deceased individual's estate. However, having an executor in place is a much favorable approach, because it lets people cherry-pick a person they wholeheartedly trust to oversee their estates, during their living years.





Key Takeaways

"Gross estate" is a term used to describe the total dollar value of an individual’s assets at the time of their death. A gross estate value does not consider his figure debts owed and tax liabilities. Once liabilities are deducted from a gross estate value, the remaining sum represents the estate's net value.



An estate executor's first task involves assessing and calculating the amount of assets that the deceased owned. These assets may include stocks, bonds, real estate, automobiles, jewelry, antiques, artwork, and other collectibles. The resulting gross estate figure is typically established for federal income tax purposes.



An executors second responsibility involves determining any liabilities, and then deducting their value from the pre-determined gross estate figure, in order to compute the net estate value. Liabilities include any outstanding debt, funeral expenses, taxes, and any other administrative costs that must be paid, upon one's death.



An executor's third and final task involves distributing the net estate among any beneficiaries, according to the directives articulated in the will.


   Benefits of Estate Planning  

Estate planning can help individuals, couples, families and beneficiaries avoid complex and unforeseen tax situations during the emotional period following the death of a loved one. In addition to naming beneficiaries and determining who will inherit the deceased’s assets, the estate planning ritual can also greatly simplify any thorny financial matters that beneficiaries otherwise might have to contend with. Advanced estate planning tools, such as trusts, charitable giving, private foundations and others constructs, can likewise help protect an estate’s assets, while minimizing or eliminating federal estate taxes.


   Where Can Estate Executors Find Assistance?  

For estate settlement advice, individuals may consult Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Publication 559, which provides useful guidance, and also helps individuals calculate taxes owed on an estate. This resource can also help clarify which portions of an estate beneficiaries may deduct, while also instructing individuals on how they may claim deductions and credits.



[Important: Certain types of gifts, if made within three years before the donor's death, are includible in one's gross estate.]
What Is the Gross Expense Ratio (GER)?  

The gross expense ratio (GER) is the total percentage of a mutual fund's assets that are devoted to running the fund. The gross expense ratio includes any fee waiver or expense reimbursement agreements that may be in effect. However, it does not include any sales or brokerage commissions that are not charged to the fund directly but which would be included in the net expense ratio.



Sometimes referred to as the audited gross expense ratio, data providers such as Morningstar pull the annual gross expense ratio from the fund’s audited annual report. Annual-report expense ratios reflect the actual fees charged during a particular fiscal year, while prospectus expense ratios reflect material changes to the expense structure for the current period.





Key Takeaways

The gross expense ratio (GER) is the annual cost of investing in a mutual fund or ETF, or the portion of the assets earmarked for the cost of operating the fund.GER includes fee waivers or expense reimbursements, but not sales or brokerage commissions that aren't charged directly to the fund.It differs from the net expense ratio, which includes the fund's management fees, administrative costs, and other costs, but does not include fee waivers or expense reimbursements.


   How the Gross Expense Ratio (GER) Works  

The gross expense ratio is important because it informs the investors about the total amount of fees charged for managing the fund. These fees matter because they affect the net return produced by the fund and received by the investors. If these fees are high, the fund's net return after fees is negatively affected in a material way.



The discussion around Mutual Funds' GER has grown with the rise of exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which are more competitive in this regard. The gross expense ratio includes all fees incurred by the fund including management fees, 12B-1 fees, administrative costs, and operating expenses. Investors should compare the gross expense ratio to a fund’s net expense ratio and understand the differences involved.



In some cases, a fund may have agreements in place for waiving, reimbursing, or recouping some of the fund’s fees. This is often the case for new funds. An investment company and its fund managers may agree to waive certain fees following the launch of a new fund to keep the expense ratio lower for investors. The net expense ratio represents the fees charged to the fund after any waivers, reimbursements, and recoupments have been made. These fee reductions are typically for a specified time frame after which the fund may incur all full costs.



For example, if a fund has a net expense ratio of 2% and a gross expense ratio of 3%, it is readily apparent that 1% of the fund's assets were used to waive fees, reimburse expenses or provide other rebates not included in the net expense ratio. This is important because such rebates and reimbursements may or may not continue in the future. Prudent investors will want to examine both expense ratios and compare them to like funds before investing.


   Examples of Gross Expense Ratios  

In general, passively managed funds, such as index funds, will typically have lower expense ratios than actively managed funds. Gross expense ratios usually range from 0% to 3%. Below are two examples.


  The AB Large Cap Growth Fund  

The AB Large Cap Growth Fund is an actively managed fund with a gross expense ratio of 0.65% and a net expense ratio of 0.64% for the Class A shares, as of September 2020. The fund currently has a fee waiver and expense reimbursement of 0.01%. Management fees for the fund are 0.51%.﻿﻿ The fund invests primarily in large-cap U.S. stocks with high growth potential. It typically includes 50 to 70 holdings.


  The T. Rowe Price Equity Index 500 Fund  

The T. Rowe Price Equity Index 500 Fund is a passive fund. It seeks to replicate the S&P 500 Index. As of September 2020, it has some contractual fee waivers in place. Its gross expense ratio is 0.19%, and its net expense ratio is also 0.19%.
What is Gross Exposure?  

Gross exposure refers to the absolute level of a fund's investments. It takes into account the value of both a fund’s long positions and short positions and can be expressed either in dollar or percentage terms. Gross exposure is a measure that indicates total exposure to financial markets, thus providing an insight into the amount at risk that investors are taking on. The higher the gross exposure, the bigger the potential loss (or gain).


   Understanding Gross Exposure  

Gross exposure is an especially relevant metric in the context of hedge funds, institutional investors, and other traders, who can short and long assets and use leverage to amplify returns. These types of investors are sometimes more sophisticated and have greater resources than regular, long-only investors.



As an example, hedge fund A has $200 million in capital. It deploys $150 million in long positions and $50 million in short positions. The fund's gross exposure is thus: $150 million + $50 million = $200 million.



Since gross exposure equals capital in this case, gross exposure as a percentage of capital is 100%. If gross exposure exceeds 100%, it means the fund is using leverage — in other words, it is borrowing money to amplify returns. Alternatively, gross exposure below 100% indicates a portion of the portfolio is invested in cash.





Key Takeaways

Gross exposure measures an investment fund's total exposure to financial markets, including long and short positions and use of leverage.A higher gross exposure means that the fund has a greater amount at stake in the markets.Gross exposure is an especially relevant metric in the context of hedge funds, institutional investors, and other traders, who can short and long assets and use leverage to amplify returns.


   Gross Exposure Vs. Net Exposure  

The exposure of an investment fund can also be measured in net terms. Net exposure equals the value of long positions, minus the value of short positions. 



For example, the net exposure of hedge fund A is $100 million. This is calculated by subtracting $50 million, the amount of capital tied up in short positions, from the $150 million of long holdings.



If net exposure is the same as gross exposure, it means the fund only has long positions. On the other hand, if net exposure is zero, it means the percentage invested in long positions equals investment in short positions, also known as a market neutral strategy.



A fund has a net long exposure if the percentage amount invested in long positions exceeds the percentage amount invested in short position. Likewise, it has a net short position if short positions exceed long positions.



Assume hedge fund B also has $200 million in capital but uses a significant amount of leverage. As a result, it has $350 million in long positions and $150 million in short positions. The gross exposure in this case is thus $500 million (i.e. $350 million + $150 million), while the net exposure is $200 million (i.e. $350 - $150 million).



Gross exposure as a percentage of capital for hedge fund B = $500 million ÷ $200 million = 250%. Fund B's higher gross exposure means that it has a greater amount at stake in the markets than A. Fund B's use of leverage will magnify losses, as well as profits.


   Special Considerations  

Gross exposure is generally used as the basis for calculating a fund's management fees, since it takes into account total exposure of investment decisions on both the long and short side. Portfolio managers combined decisions will have direct consequences on the performance of a fund and thus distributions to its investors.



An additional method of calculating exposure is a beta-adjusted exposure, also used for investment funds or portfolios. This is computed by taking the weighted average exposure of a portfolio of investments, where the weight is defined as the beta of each individual security.
What Is Gross Income?  

Gross income for an individual—also known as gross pay when it’s on a paycheck—is an individual’s total earnings before taxes or other deductions. This includes income from all sources, not just employment, and is not limited to income received in cash; it also includes property or services received. 



For companies, gross income is interchangeable with gross margin or gross profit. A company’s gross income, found on the income statement, is the revenue from all sources minus the firm’s cost of goods sold (COGS).





Key Takeaways

Gross income for an individual consists of income from wages and salary plus other forms of income, including pensions, interest, dividends, and rental income.Gross income for a business is total revenues minus the cost of goods sold.Individual gross income is part of an income tax return and—after certain deductions and exemptions—becomes adjusted gross income, then taxable income.Individuals may also be required to report gross income when attempting to secure a loan.Businesses often use gross income instead of net income to better gauge the product-specific performance of the business.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Gross Income  

There are different components to gross income in respects to an individual and a company. An individual will easily be able to determine their gross income by consulting a recent pay stub or calculating their hours worked and wage. Alternatively, gross income of a company may require a bit more computation.



An individual’s gross income is used by lenders or landlords to determine whether that person is a worthy borrower or renter. When filing federal and state income taxes, gross income is the starting point before subtracting deductions to determine the amount of tax owed.



A company calculates gross income to understand how the product-specific aspect of its business performed. By using gross income and limiting what expenses are included in the analysis, a company can better analyze what is driving success or failure. For example, if a company is interested in knowing how a specific product line is performing, it does not want to see the company's rent expense included in the performance as that is an unrelated, administrative expense.


   How to Calculate Gross Income  

The approach to determining gross income for an individual is slightly different than the approach for a business. Although both calculations are similar, each type of entity uses different classifications of income and expenses.


  Individual Gross Income  

For individuals, the gross income metric used on the income tax return includes not just wages or salary but also other forms of income, such as tips, capital gains, rental payments, dividends, alimony, pension, and interest. After subtracting above-the-line tax deductions, the result is adjusted gross income (AGI).



There are income sources that are not included in gross income for tax purposes but still may be included when calculating gross income for a lender or creditor. Common nontaxable income sources are certain Social Security benefits, life insurance payouts, some inheritances or gifts, and state or municipal bond interest. 



For non-tax purposes, individuals can usually use their total wages as gross income. When applying for a loan, individual gross income will equal the amount of money the individual earns prior to any taxes being deducted or any expenses having been paid. Some lenders may require the use of AGI to standardize how gross income is calculated.


  Business Gross Income  

Gross income is a line item that is sometimes included in a company’s income statement. If not displayed, it’s calculated as gross revenue minus COGS.


















Gross Income


=


Gross Revenue


−


COGS
















where:
















COGS


=


Cost of Goods Sold







\begin{aligned} &\text{Gross Income} = \text{Gross Revenue} - \text{COGS} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{COGS} = \text{Cost of Goods Sold} \\ \end{aligned}


​Gross Income=Gross Revenue−COGSwhere:COGS=Cost of Goods Sold​



Gross income is sometimes referred to as gross margin. There’s also gross profit margin, which is more correctly defined as a percentage and is used as a profitability metric. The gross income for a company reveals how much money it has made on its products or services after subtracting the direct costs to make the product or provide the service.



Business gross income can be calculated on a company-wide basis or product-specific basis. As long as the company is using a chart of accounts that allows tracking of revenue by product and cost by product, a company can see how much profit each product is making.






While the gross income metric factors in the direct cost of producing or providing goods and services, it does not include other costs related to selling activities, administration, taxes, and other costs related to running the overall business.


   Gross Income vs. Net Income  

Gross income and net income are two terms commonly used by businesses to describe profit. Both terms can also be used to explain how much money a household is making or taking home.



For an individual, net income is the total residual amount of income remaining after all personal expenses have been paid for. Personal net income is calculated as the total amount of revenue earned less the total amount of personal expenses. This differs from gross income which limits what can be deducted from total revenue earned. An individual's net income more closely resembles their final paycheck amount; although the individual likely has more expenses that what is deducted from their pay, their paycheck is a good example of their revenue being reduced by costs.



For a business, net income is the total amount of revenue less the total amount of expenses. These expenses include cost of goods sold just like gross income. However, net income also includes selling, general, administrative, tax, interest, and other expenses not included in the calculation of gross income. Gross income is a much higher view of a company, while net income incorporates every facet of cost.






Because gross income incorporates both revenue and specific expenses of driving that revenue, gross income is often a better gauge for comparing dissimilar companies as it analyzes how efficiently each company generated profit.


   Examples of Gross Income  
  Individual Gross Income Example  

Assume that an individual has a $75,000 annual salary, generates $1,000 a year in interest from a savings account, collects $500 per year in stock dividends, and receives $10,000 a year from rental property income. Their gross annual income is $86,500. Alternatively, the individual can calculate their monthly gross income is approximately $7,200.



Imagine that same individual pays $1,500 per month in rent, $450 in student loans, and $300 towards an auto loan. All three of these expenses are excluded from the calculation of gross income for non-tax purposes. An individual's gross income only considers the revenue earned.



In regards to the individual's federal income tax, let's imagine the individual paid $500 in student loan interest for the prior year. When filing their tax return, the student loan interest is an above-the-line deduction used to factor adjusted gross income. Assuming the individual earned the same amount of money this year as last, the individual's AGI is $86,000 ($86,500 - $500).


  Business Gross Income Example  

Apple's consolidated statement of operations reported total net sales of $97.278 billion for the three-month period ending March 2022. The company spent $49.290 billion to generate those products and spent an additional $5.429 billion on services also as part of its cost of goods sold. By subtracting Apple's net sales by the total cost of goods sold, Apple reported a gross income of $42.559 billion.



Apple also incurred $6.3 billion of research and development costs, $6.2 billion of selling, general, and administrative costs, and $5.1 billion for income taxes. All three of these expenses are excluded when calculating gross income. A company's gross income only includes the company's net sales less COGS.




How Can I Calculate Personal Gross Income?
An individual’s gross income is the total amount earned before taxes or other deductions. Usually, an employee’s paycheck will state the gross pay as well as the take-home pay. If applicable, you’ll also need to add other sources of income that you have generated—gross, not net.




What Is the Difference Between Gross and Net Income?
Net income is the money that you effectively receive from your endeavors—the take-home pay for individuals. For companies, it is the revenues that are left after all expenses have been deducted. This is different than gross income which only includes COGS and omits all other types of expenses.




How Do You Calculate Gross Business Income?
The gross income of a company is calculated as gross revenue minus the cost of goods sold (COGS). If a company registered $500,000 in product sales and the cost to produce those products was $100,000, then its gross income would be $400,000.




What Is My Monthly Gross Income?
To find your personal monthly gross income, calculate the amount of money you earn each month. This will likely be different than the amount of money you take home or receive as payment directly from your employer.Your gross income can be found on a pay stub as the total amount of money you earned in a given period before any deductions or taxes are removed. You can also see your total gross income on your year-end W2 or 1099. Alternatively, you can calculate your gross income as (1) your monthly salary before taxes or (2) the number of hours you will work in a given month multiplied by your hourly pay rate.




Does Gross Income Include Taxes?
Yes, gross income is the total amount of income a person or company has earned before deductions against that income. Gross income is calculated as the total amount of revenue earned before subtracting expenses like costs, interest, and taxes.
What Is a Gross Income Multiplier?  

A gross income multiplier (GIM) is a rough measure of the value of an investment property. It is calculated by dividing the property's sale price by its gross annual rental income. Investors can use the GIM—along with other methods like the capitalization rate (cap rate) and discounted cash flow method—to value commercial real estate properties like shopping centers and apartment complexes.





Key Takeaways

A gross income multiplier is a rough measure of the value of an investment property.GIM is calculated by dividing the property's sale price by its gross annual rental income.Investors shouldn't use the GIM as the sole valuation metric because it doesn't take an income property's operating costs into account. 


   Understanding the Gross Income Multiplier  

Valuing an investment property is important for any investor before signing the real estate contract. But unlike other investments—like stocks—there's no easy way to do it. Many professional real estate investors believe the income generated by a property is much more important than its appreciation.



The gross income multiplier is a metric widely used in the real estate industry. It can be used by investors and real estate professionals to make a rough determination whether a property's asking price is a good deal—just like the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio can be used to value companies in the stock market.



Multiplying the GIM by the property's gross annual income yields the property's value or the price for which it should be sold. A low gross income multiplier means that a property may be a more attractive investment because the gross income it generates is much higher than its market value.


   Special Considerations  

A gross income multiplier is a good general real estate metric. But there are limitations because it doesn't take various factors into account including a property's operating costs including utilities, taxes, maintenance, and vacancies. For the same reason, investors shouldn't use the GIM as a way to compare a potential investment property to another, similar one. In order to make a more accurate comparison between two or more properties, investors should use the net income multiplier (NIM). The NIM factors in both the income and the operating expenses of each property.






Use the net income multiplier to compare two or more properties.


   Drawbacks of the Gross Income Multiplier Method  

The GIM is a great starting point for investors to value prospective real estate investments. That's because it's easy to calculate and provides a rough picture of what purchasing the property can mean to a buyer. The gross income multiplier is hardly a practical valuation model, but it does offer a back of the envelope starting point. But, as mentioned above, there are limitations and several key drawbacks to consider when using this figure as a way to value investment properties.



A natural argument against the multiplier method arises because it’s a rather crude valuation technique. Because changes in interest rates—which affect discount rates in the time value of money calculations—sources, revenue, and expenses are not explicitly considered.



Other drawbacks include:



The GIM method assumes uniformity in properties across similar classes. Practitioners know from experience that expense ratios among similar properties often differ as a result of such factors as deferred maintenance, property age and the quality of property manager.
The GIM estimates value based on gross income and not net operating income (NOI), while a property is purchased based primarily on its net earning power. It is entirely possible that two properties can have the same NOI even though their gross incomes differ significantly. Thus, the GIM method can easily be misused by those who don’t appreciate its limits.
A GIM fails to account for the remaining economic life of comparable properties. By ignoring remaining economic life, a practitioner can assign equal values to a new property and a 50-year-old property—assuming they generate equal incomes.


   Example of Gross Income Multiplier Calculation  

A property under review has an effective gross income of $50,000. A comparable sale is available with an effective income of $56,000 and a selling value of $392,000 (in reality, we’d seek a number of comparable to improve analysis).



Our GIM would be $392,000 ÷ $56,000 = 7.



This comparable—or comp as is it often called in practice—sold for seven times (7x) its effective gross. Using this multiplier, we see this property has a capital value of $350,000. This is found using the following formula:



V = GIM x EGI



7 x $50,000 = $350,000.
What Is the Gross-Income Test?  

The gross-income test is one of the five necessary tests that dependents must pass before they can be claimed as such in the United States.



The gross-income test mandates that dependents cannot earn more than a certain amount of income each year. Furthermore, this test only applies to potential dependents that are over the age of 19 or over the age of 24 if the candidate in question is a full-time student.


   Understanding the Gross-Income Test  

The amount that a potential-dependent can earn is indexed for inflation each year and consequently fluctuates periodically. For 2021, for example, the limit was $4,300. This is a spike from the 2015 threshold of $4,000, and the 2008 limit of $3,500. Because of periodically shifting numbers, it's vital for individuals to make certain they base the test on the correct, up-to-date figure, before moving on to the other four dependency tests. If an individual fails the Gross Income Test or any of the other qualifying relative dependent metrics, they may not claim that dependent for purposes of the personal exemption. And in order to claim a dependency exemption for a qualifying child, a series of qualifying child dependency tests must be met. There's no age limit for a qualifying relative, and if you are entitled to claim an exemption for a dependent, said dependent might not claim a personal exemption on their own tax return.


   Income Considered Valid for Gross Income Consideration  

Gross income of a qualifying relative that may be deemed a dependent takes into consideration the totality of an individual’s combined income sources, which may be the form of money, and non-tax-exempt property and services. The terms for calculating income from merchandising, mining, or manufacturing endeavors are extremely specific. Namely, gross income is viewed as total net sales, less the cost of goods sold, plus any miscellaneous business income. Gross receipts from rental properties are deemed gross income. Other gross income includes any business partners’ share of the gross partnership income, but not a share of the net profits. Gross income furthermore includes all taxable social security benefits, taxable unemployment compensation, and certain fellowship grants and scholarships an employer provides.



Finally, if a household member pays legally obligated child support to a child outside the home, the child support is not counted in the initial gross income test. And there are no gross income tests for households that include an elder or disabled member.
What Is Gross Interest?  

Gross interest is the annual rate of interest to be paid on an investment, security, or deposit account before taxes or other charges are deducted. Gross interest is often the headline interest rate attached to a fixed-income security (e.g., a bond or CD), a loan, or a deposit account.



Gross interest is expressed as a percentage and can be contrasted with net interest, which is the rate of interest earned after taxes, fees, and other costs are deducted. As a result, gross interest will always be higher than net interest.





Key Takeaways

Gross interest is the headline interest rate earned on a fixed-income investment or paid on a loan before fees or taxes are accounted for.The gross interest rate is what is more often quoted for a loan or investment.Net interest deducts the impact of taxes, fees, and other costs from the gross interest. For instance, a gross 5% interest earned on deposits and taxed at 25% would result in 3.75% net interest.


   Understanding Gross Interest  

When an individual deposits money in their bank account, the bank pays interest on the funds to the account holder in compensation for the deposit. This is because the deposit is used to lend money to other individual and corporate borrowers, generating income for the bank. The interest paid to the account holder may be deposited in the entity’s account monthly, quarterly, or annually, depending on the financial institution or type of account.



The interest is simply referred to as gross interest because it does not factor in taxes, which also impacts the interest earnings. For example, if you have $3,000 in a savings account that earns 2% interest paid on a yearly basis, the quoted 2% is the gross interest. So the bank would pay you $60 at the end of the year.



However, the gross interest does not take into account other items such as taxes, fees, and other charges that may apply to the investment or account. After these costs are taken into account and deducted from the gross interest earned, the account holder actually walks away with less. Following from our example above, if the annual fee on the savings account is $5 and you were taxed 35%, taxes due would be $21 (calculated by multiplying $60 by 35%) and the net interest earned would be calculated as $60 - $21 - $5 = $34, or 1.13%, which is less than the 2% gross interest.






Gross interest is always higher than net interest.


   Gross Interest and Bonds  

Gross interest is simply the pure interest amount paid by a debtor to a creditor. For bonds, the quoted interest income bondholders receive from their investment represents gross interest. Assume, for example, that a bond investor purchases a $1,000 par value corporate bond with a coupon rate of 3% payable annually and a maturity date of five years. The bond issuer will periodically pay the bondholder a fixed interest of 3% x $1,000 = $30 for the duration of the bond’s life. The fixed coupon rate is the gross interest. However, at the end of the year, the interest earned on the corporate bond will be taxed by the government. Therefore, the bondholder’s effective net yield will be less than 3%.



The net interest is calculated from the gross interest after other fees and costs are deducted.
What Is a Gross Lease?  

A gross lease is an agreement that requires the tenant to pay the property owner a flat rental fee in exchange for the exclusive use of the property. The fee includes all of the costs associated with property ownership, including taxes, insurance, and utilities. Gross leases can be modified to meet the needs of the tenants and are commonly used in the commercial property rental market.





Key Takeaways

A gross lease is a lease that includes any incidental charges incurred by a tenant.The additional charges rolled into a gross lease include property taxes, insurance, and utilities.Gross leases are commonly used for commercial properties, such as office buildings and retail spaces.Modified leases and fully service leases are the two types of gross leases.Gross leases are different from net leases, which require the tenant to pay one or more of the costs associated with the property.


   How a Gross Lease Works  

A lease is a contract between a lessor or property owner and a lessee or tenant. This contract is often written and gives the tenant exclusive use of the property for a certain period of time. The tenant agrees to pay the owner a fixed sum of money on a regular basis, whether that's weekly, monthly, or annually.



A gross lease is a type of lease that allows the tenant to use the property exclusively by paying a flat fee. It is commonly used for rentals in commercial property, such as office buildings and retail spaces that have numerous lessees. Fees or rents are calculated by landlords to reasonably cover the operating costs of these spaces. These expenses include:



Property taxes
Insurance
Standard utilities
Other expected and everyday expenses



This rent calculation may be done through analysis or from historical property data. The landlord and tenant can also negotiate the amount and terms of the lease. For example, a tenant may ask the landlord to include janitorial or landscaping services.



Gross leases allow tenants to precisely budget their expenses. These leases are especially beneficial for those with limited resources or businesses that want to minimize variable costs to maximize profit. Companies can concentrate on growing their business without the complexities associated with net leases. 






When a gross lease excludes insurance and utilities, the tenant is required to absorb those costs.


   Types of Gross Leases  

Gross leases fall into two different categories. The first is called a modified gross lease while the other is called a fully service lease.


  Modified Gross Lease  

A modified gross lease contains the principal provisions associated with a gross lease, but it can be adjusted to suit the needs of the property owner and the tenant. It is essentially a combination of a gross lease and a net lease, where the tenant pays base rent at the lease's inception.



This kind of gross lease takes on a proportional share of some of the other costs associated with the property as well, such as property taxes, utilities, insurance, and maintenance. For instance, these modifications may state that the tenant is responsible for the costs associated with the electric utility, but that the property owner is responsible for waste pickup.



Modified gross leases are commonly used with commercial spaces where there is more than one tenant, such as office buildings. This type of lease typically falls between a gross lease, where the landlord pays for operating expenses, and a net lease, which passes on property expenses to the tenant.


  Fully Service Lease  

A fully service lease is one of the easiest gross lease options available. It requires the tenant to cover just the rent while the landlord assumes responsibility for every other cost. As such, the property owner calculates the cost of other expenses, such as utilities, property taxes, and maintenance, into the rental amount.



This type of gross lease allows the tenant to rent without having to budget for additional costs, including property maintenance. But because the landlord covers the extra costs, fully service leases can often be more expensive.






Be sure you read the fine print of any lease you sign.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Gross Lease  

As with any other type of contract, there are benefits and drawbacks to signing a gross lease for both the landlord and the tenant. We've listed some of the most common pros and cons below.


  Advantages and Disadvantages to the Landlord  

Property owners can benefit in several ways by choosing a gross lease to rent out their properties:



Commanding a higher amount by rolling the operating costs into the rental fee
Passing on any inflationary costs to the tenant when the cost of living increases annually



Despite these benefits, the drawbacks to landlords include:



Assuming the responsibility for any additional costs associated with property ownership, including unexpected costs such as maintenance or larger utility bills if a tenant misuses water or electricityAn increase in administrative duties for the property owner, such as taking the time to ensure that the bills and other expenses are paid on time


  Advantages and Disadvantages to the Tenant  

A gross lease help tenants in the following ways:



The cost of rent is fixed, so there are no additional costs associated with renting the spaceThere is a time-saving component since the tenant doesn't have to take care of any administrative duties associated with the property's finances



Some of the primary cons include:



Higher amount of rent, even though there are no additional costs to payA lax or unresponsive landlord who may not keep up-to-date with property maintenance





Pros

Landlords can roll additional costs into the rent
Landlords can pass on inflationary costs to the tenant
Tenants aren't responsible for any costs other than the rent
Tenants can focus their time on their business rather than the rental space



Cons

Landlords are responsible for any additional costs
Landlords must spend more time on administrative duties associated with paying the operating expenses
Tenants may have to pay a higher amount in rent than if they were also responsible for paying the bills
Tenants may have to deal with landlords who don't keep up-to-date with maintenance





   Gross Leases vs. Net Leases  

A net lease is the opposite of a gross lease. Under a net lease, the tenant is responsible for some or all costs associated with the property, such as utilities, maintenance, insurance, and other expenses. There are three types of net leases:



Single net lease: The tenant pays rent plus property taxes.
Double net lease: The tenant pays rent plus property taxes and insurance.
Triple net lease: The tenant pays rent plus property taxes, insurance, and maintenance.



Net leases may allow tenants more control over some costs and aspects of the property, but they come with an increased degree of responsibility. For instance, if maintenance is a cost borne by the tenant, they may have the ability to make cosmetic changes. However, they also absorb most repair costs.



Landlords often restrict or prohibit cosmetic changes to the property even when maintenance is a tenant expense. Tenants are also subject to variable utility costs. To regulate the expenses, they may employ different strategies to reduce consumption.


   Gross Lease FAQs  
  What Is the Different Between a Lease and Rent?  

A lease is a contract between a property owner and a lessee where the landlord agrees to give the tenant full access to the property. Rent, on the other hand, is the fee charged by a property owner for the exclusive use of their property by a tenant.


  What Are the Main Types of Commercial Leases?  

The main types of commercial leases are gross leases and net leases. These two categories are further broken down into modified gross leases, fully service gross leases, single net leases, double net leases, and triple net leases.


  What Is the Most Common Type of Commercial Lease?  

The most common and simplest type of lease is the gross lease. It is a contract between a landlord and tenant, wherein the lessee, in exchange for the exclusive use of a piece of property, agrees to pay the lessor a fixed sum of money for a certain period of time that encompasses rent and all costs associated with ownership, such as taxes, insurance, and utilities.
What Is the Gross Leverage Ratio?  

The gross leverage ratio is the sum of an insurance company’s net premiums written ratio, net liability ratio, and ceded reinsurance ratio. The gross leverage ratio is used to determine how exposed an insurer is to pricing and estimation errors, as well as its exposure to reinsurance companies.





KEY TAKEAWAYS

The gross leverage ratio is the sum of an insurance company’s net premiums written ratio, net liability ratio, and ceded reinsurance ratio.The gross leverage ratio is just one of several ratios used for analyzing the ability of a company to meet its financial obligations.The gross leverage ratio can be thought of as a first approximation of the exposure of an insurer to pricing and estimation errors.The net leverage ratio is generally lower than the gross leverage ratio, and it is usually more accurate.


   Understanding the Gross Leverage Ratio  

The ideal gross leverage ratio depends on what type of insurance a company is underwriting. However, the desired range typically falls below 5.0 for property insurers and 7.0 for liability insurers. An insurer's gross leverage will usually be higher than its net leverage because the gross leverage ratio includes ceded reinsurance leverage. Other insurance leverage ratios include net leverage, reinsurance recoverables to policyholders’ surplus, and Best’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (BCAR).






The gross leverage ratio can sometimes make an insurer's situation look more dangerous than it actually is because of the inclusion of ceded reinsurance.



An insurance company has to balance two primary goals. It must invest the premiums it receives from underwriting activities to return a profit and limit the risk exposure created by the policies that it underwrites. Insurers may cede premiums to reinsurance companies to move some of the risks off their books.



Credit rating agencies typically look at several different financial ratios when determining the health of an insurance company. These ratios are created through an examination of the insurer's balance sheet. The gross leverage ratio is just one type of leverage ratio. There are several financial measurements for analyzing the ability of a company to meet its financial obligations. Leverage ratios are important because companies rely on a mixture of equity and debt to finance their operations. Knowing the amount of debt held by a company is useful in evaluating whether it can make payments as they come due.



Insurers may set a target for an acceptable gross leverage ratio, similar to how a central bank may set an interest rate target. An insurer may accept a higher gross leverage ratio in some situations, such as when it uses debt to acquire another company.


   Gross Leverage Ratio vs. Net Leverage Ratio  

The gross leverage ratio can be thought of as a first approximation of the exposure of an insurer to pricing and estimation errors. The net leverage ratio is usually a better estimate of exposure, but it can be more challenging to obtain in actual practice. The gross leverage ratio will be higher than the net leverage ratio under normal conditions, so it tends to overestimate exposure. To see why this is true, we need to consider the definition of the gross leverage ratio.



The gross leverage ratio is defined as the net premiums written ratio plus the net liability ratio plus the ceded reinsurance ratio. It can also be expressed as (net premiums written / policyholders’ surplus) + (net liabilities / policyholders’ surplus) + (ceded reinsurance / policyholders’ surplus) or (net premiums written + net liabilities + ceded reinsurance) / (policyholders’ surplus). Net premiums written plus ceded reinsurance is equal to premiums written. So, it follows that the gross leverage ratio can be expressed as (premiums written + net liabilities) / (policyholders’ surplus).



We need only three pieces of data to compute the gross leverage ratio. They are premiums written, net liabilities, and policyholders’ surplus. However, the gross leverage ratio often overestimates liability. Most insurers rely on larger firms or groups of firms for reinsurance in case of disasters.



For example, a company that sells homeowners insurance in a particular area might cede some of their premiums to protect themselves if the area is flooded. You may even notice "flood damage" as an optional extra item on your homeowners insurance policy. When you select this option, the additional premium for flood damage may ultimately go to a separate reinsurance company. This ceded reinsurance is not usually part of an insurer's exposure.



Ceded reinsurance involves agreements between large companies, so it can be difficult to determine in some cases. Once we have it, we can subtract ceded reinsurance from premiums written to determine net premiums written. The net leverage ratio is equal to the net premiums written ratio plus the net liability ratio. It can also be expressed as (net premiums written / policyholders’ surplus) + (net liabilities / policyholders’ surplus) or (net premiums written + net liabilities) / (policyholders’ surplus).



The net leverage ratio is generally lower than the gross leverage ratio, and it is usually more accurate. However, even reinsurance firms can fail. The gross leverage ratio describes the insurer's exposure in a worst-case scenario where the insurer cannot rely on reinsurance.
What Is Gross Margin?  

The term gross margin refers to a profitability measure that looks at a company's gross profit compared to its revenue or sales. A company's gross margin is expressed as a percentage. Gross profit is determined by calculating gross sales. The higher the gross margin, the more capital a company retains, which it can then use to pay other costs or satisfy debt obligations. The revenue or sales figure is gross revenue or sales, less the cost of goods sold (COGS), which includes returns, allowances, and discounts.





Key Takeaways

Gross margin measures a company's gross profit compared to its revenues as a percentage.A higher gross margin means a company retains more capital.Gross margin is also commonly referred to as gross profit margin.If a company's gross margin drops, it may cut labor costs or source cheaper suppliers.While gross margin focuses on revenue and COGS, the net profit margin takes all of a business's expenses into account.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Gross Margin Formula and Calculation  
















Gross Margin


=


Net Sales


−


COGS
















where:
















Net Sales


=


Equivalent to revenue, or the total amount
















of money generated from sales for the period. It can also
















be called net sales because it can include discounts
















and deductions from returned merchandise.
















Revenue is typically called the top line because it sits
















on top of the income statement. Costs are subtracted
















from revenue to calculate net income or the bottom line.
















COGS


=


Cost of goods sold. The direct costs
















associated with producing goods. Includes both direct
















labor costs, and any costs of materials used in producing
















or manufacturing a company’s products.







\begin{aligned} &\text{Gross Margin} = \text{Net Sales} - \text{COGS} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Net Sales} = \text{Equivalent to revenue, or the total amount} \\ &\text{of money generated from sales for the period. It can also} \\ &\text{be called net sales because it can include discounts} \\ &\text{and deductions from returned merchandise.} \\ &\text{Revenue is typically called the top line because it sits} \\ &\text{on top of the income statement. Costs are subtracted} \\ &\text{from revenue to calculate net income or the bottom line.} \\ &\text{COGS} = \text{Cost of goods sold. The direct costs} \\ &\text{associated with producing goods. Includes both direct} \\ &\text{labor costs, and any costs of materials used in producing} \\ &\text{or manufacturing a company's products.} \\ \end{aligned}


​Gross Margin=Net Sales−COGSwhere:Net Sales=Equivalent to revenue, or the total amountof money generated from sales for the period. It can alsobe called net sales because it can include discountsand deductions from returned merchandise.Revenue is typically called the top line because it sitson top of the income statement. Costs are subtractedfrom revenue to calculate net income or the bottom line.COGS=Cost of goods sold. The direct costsassociated with producing goods. Includes both directlabor costs, and any costs of materials used in producingor manufacturing a company’s products.​
To illustrate an example of a gross margin calculation, imagine that a business collects $200,000 in sales revenue. Let's assume that the cost of goods consists of the $100,000 it spends on manufacturing supplies. Therefore, after subtracting its COGS from sales, the gross margin is $100,000. The gross margin is 50%, or ($200,000 - $100,000) ÷ $200,000.






If you find yourself struggling to calculate gross margin, you may find it easier to use some of the best accounting software currently available instead.


   What Does Gross Margin Tell You?  

A company's gross margin is the percentage of revenue after COGS. It is calculated by dividing a company's gross profit by its sales. Remember, gross profit is a company's revenue less the cost of goods sold. For example, if a company retains $0.35 from each dollar of revenue generated, this means its gross margin is 35%



Because COGS have already been taken into account, those remaining funds may consequently be channeled toward paying debts, general and administrative expenses, interest fees, and dividend distributions to shareholders.



Companies use gross margin, gross profit, and gross profit margin to measure how their production costs relate to their revenues. For example, if a company's gross margin is falling, it may strive to slash labor costs or source cheaper suppliers of materials.



Alternatively, it may decide to increase prices, as a revenue-increasing measure. Gross profit margins can also be used to measure company efficiency or to compare two companies of different market capitalizations.






Gross margin may also be referred to as gross profit margin.


   Gross Margin vs. Net Margin  

Gross margin focuses solely on the relationship between revenue and COGS. Net margin or net profit margin, on the other hand, is a little different. A company's net margin takes all of a business's expenses into account. Put simply, it's the percentage of net income earned of revenues received.



When calculating net margin and related margins, businesses subtract their COGS, as well as ancillary expenses. Some of these expenses include product distribution, sales representative wages, miscellaneous operating expenses, and taxes.



Gross margin helps a company assess the profitability of its manufacturing activities, while net profit margin helps the company assess its overall profitability. Companies and investors can determine whether the operating costs and overhead are in check and whether enough profit is generated from sales.


   Gross Margin vs. Gross Profit  

Gross margin and gross profit are among the different metrics that companies can use to measure their profitability. Both of these figures can be found on corporate financial statements, notably a company's income statement. Although they are commonly used interchangeably, these two figures are different.



As noted above, gross margin is a profitability measure that is expressed as a percentage. Gross profit, on the other hand, is expressed as a dollar figure. Gross profit can be calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold from a company's revenue. As such, it sheds a light on how much money a company earns after factoring in production and sales costs.




How Do We Calculate Gross Margin?
Gross margin is expressed as a percentage. In order to calculate it, first subtract the cost of goods sold from the company's revenue. This figure is known as the company's gross profit (as a dollar figure). Then divide that figure by the total revenue and multiply it by 100 to get the gross margin.




What Is the Difference Between Gross Margin and Gross Profit?
Gross margin and gross profit are often used interchangeably. They are two different metrics that companies use to measure and express their profitability. While they both factor in a company's revenue and the cost of goods sold, they are a little different. Gross profit is revenue less the cost of goods sold, which is expressed as a dollar figure. A company's gross margin is the gross profit compared to its sales and is expressed as a percentage.




What Is a Good Gross Margin?
The gross margin varies by industry, however, service-based industries tend to have higher gross margins and gross profit margins as they don't have large amounts of COGS. On the other hand, the gross margin for manufacturing companies will be lower as they have larger COGS.


   The Bottom Line  

There are different metrics to measure a company's profitability. The gross margin is just one of those figures. Gross margin, which may also be called gross profit margin, looks at a company's gross profit compared to its revenue or sales and is expressed as a percentage. This figure can help companies understand whether there are any inefficiencies and if cuts are required to address them and, therefore, increase profits. For investors, the gross margin is just one way to determine whether a company is a good investment.



Correction—Feb. 7, 2023: A previous version of this article defined gross margin incorrectly and used the wrong formula to calculate it. This was edited with the correct definition and formula.
What Is the Gross Margin Return on Investment (GMROI)?  

The gross margin return on investment (GMROI) is an inventory profitability evaluation ratio that analyzes a firm's ability to turn inventory into cash above the cost of the inventory. It is calculated by dividing the gross margin by the average inventory cost and is used often in the retail industry. GMROI is also known as the gross margin return on inventory investment (GMROII).





Key Takeaways

The GMROI shows how much profit inventory sales produce after covering inventory costs.A higher GMROI is generally better, as it means each unit of inventory is generating a higher profit.The GMROI can show substantial variance depending on market segmentation, the period, type of item, and other factors.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding the Gross Margin Return on Investment (GMROI)  

The GMROI is a useful measure as it helps the investor or manager see the average amount that the inventory returns above its cost. A ratio higher than one means the firm is selling the merchandise for more than what it costs the firm to acquire it and shows that the business has a good balance between its sales, margin, and cost of inventory.



The opposite is true for a ratio below 1. Some sources recommend the rule of thumb for GMROI in a retail store to be 3.2 or higher so that all occupancy and employee costs and profits are covered.


  How to Calculate the Gross Margin Return on Investment (GMROI)  

The formula for the GMROI is as follows:



﻿





G


M


R


O


I



=




Gross profit




Average inventory cost





\mathit{GMROI} = \frac{\text{Gross profit}}{\text{Average inventory cost}}


GMROI=Average inventory costGross profit​﻿



To calculate the gross margin return on inventory, two metrics must be known: the gross margin and the average inventory. The gross profit is calculated by subtracting a company's cost of goods sold (COGS) from its revenue. The difference is then divided by its revenue. The average inventory is calculated by summing the ending inventory over a specified period and then dividing the sum by the number of periods while considering the obsolete inventory portion scenarios as well.


  How to Use the Gross Margin Return on Investment (GMROI)  

For example, assume luxury retail company ABC has a total revenue of $100 million and COGS of $35 million at the end of the current fiscal year. Therefore, the company has a gross margin of 65%, which means it retains 65 cents for each dollar of revenue it has generated.



The gross margin may also be stated in dollar terms rather than in percentage terms. At the end of the fiscal year, the company has an average inventory cost of $20 million. This firm's GMROI is 3.25, or $65 million / $20 million, which means it earns revenues of 325% of costs. Company ABC is thus selling the merchandise for more than a $3.25 markup for each dollar spent on inventory.



Assume luxury retail company XYZ is a competitor to company ABC and has total revenue of $80 million and COGS of $65 million. Consequently, the company has a gross margin of $15 million, or 18.75 cents for each dollar of revenue it has generated.



The company has an average inventory cost of $20 million. Company XYZ has a GMROI of 0.75, or $15 million/ $20 million. It thus earns revenues of 75% of its costs and is getting $0.75 in gross margin for every dollar invested in inventory.



This means that company XYZ is making only $0.75 cents for each $1 spent on inventory, which is not enough to cover business expenses other than inventory such as selling, general, and administrative expense (SG&A), marketing, and sales. For that XYZ margins are sub-standard. In comparison to company XYZ, Company ABC may be a more ideal investment based on the GMROI.
What Is Gross Merchandise Value (GMV)?  

Gross merchandises value (GMV) is the total value of merchandise sold over a given period of time through a customer-to-customer (C2C) exchange site. It is a measure of the growth of the business or use of the site to sell merchandise owned by others.



Gross merchandise value (GMV) is often used to determine the health of an e-commerce site's business because its revenue will be a function of gross merchandise sold and fees charged. It is most useful as a comparative measure over time, such as current quarter value versus previous quarter value.



GMV is also known as gross merchandise volume; both phrases indicate the total monetary value of total sales.





Key Takeaways

Gross merchandise value (GMV) refers to the value of goods sold via customer-to-customer or e-commerce platforms.Gross merchandise value is calculated prior to the deduction of any fees or expenses.It is a measure of the growth of the business or use of the site to resell products owned by others through consignment.Analyzing GMV from one period to another allows management and analysts to determine the financial health of a company.GMV is not a true representation of a company's revenues, as a portion of the revenues goes to the original seller.


   Understanding Gross Merchandise Value (GMV)  

The gross merchandise value (GMV) is calculated prior to the deduction of any fees or expenses. It provides information that a retail business can use to measure growth, often on a month-over-month or year-over-year basis. Generally, a retail business can calculate the gross value of all completed sales, though merchandise returns may need to be removed from this number to provide an accurate calculation.






Accrued fees and expenses may include advertising, delivery, returns, and discounts.



To calculate GMV, simply multiply the number of goods sold by the sales price of the goods. The formula is: GMV = Sales Price of Goods x Number of Goods Sold.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of GMV  
  Advantages  

Since retailers may or may not be the producers of the goods they sell, measuring the gross value of all sales provides insight into the company’s performance. This is especially true in the customer-to-customer market, where the retailer serves as a third-party mechanism for connecting buyers and sellers without actually participating as either.



It may also provide value to retailers in the consignment sector, as they never officially purchase their inventory. Even though the items are often housed within a company’s retail location, the business functions as the authorized reseller, often for a fee, of another person’s or entity’s merchandise or property. Generally, they are never the true owner of the items, as the person or entity that placed the item on consignment may return and claim the item if they so choose.


  Disadvantages  

Although GMV represents the total value of goods sold on a C2C exchange, it doesn't truly reflect the profitability of a company; primarily the true revenue that a company earns from fees. For example, if a company's GMV was $500 for the month, that entire $500 does not go to the company; the majority of it will go to the individual who sold the goods. The company's true revenue would be the fee that it charges for the use of its site. If the fee was 2%, the company's true revenue would then be $500 x 2% = $10.



Depending on the type of e-commerce site, GMV can have other disadvantages. For example, if a company were an online retailer that produced and sold its own goods, GMV would indicate its revenues, but it would only be one metric, providing a limited view. It would not tell you the number of customers visiting the site or how much revenue is from repeat customers, which are important indicators in terms of customer satisfaction and thus the long-term health of the company.





Pros

Provides insight into a company's performance
Allows for comparison with competitors
Simple and quick calculation to perform



Cons

Not a true reflection of a company's actual revenue
A limited metric that does not take into consideration other factors, such as repeat customers





   Customer-to-Customer Retailers  

Customer-to-customer (C2C) retailers provide a framework, or system, for sellers to list items they have in inventory and for buyers to find items of interest. The retailer functions as an intermediary, facilitating the transaction, commonly for a fee, without actually being a buyer or seller at any point within the transaction.





$610 billion

The estimated Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) of Amazon (AMZN) in the year 2021, the most recent data available.



In many of these customer-to-customer sales, the retailer facilitating the transaction never comes in contact with any of the physical merchandise. Instead, the seller will send the item directly to the buyer once the financial portion of the sale is complete.



This model may differ drastically from other retail models in which the retailer purchases merchandise from producers, manufacturers, or distributors and then essentially functions as an authorized reseller of goods the company has purchased.


   Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) vs. Gross Transaction Value (GTV)  

While GMV can be defined as the total dollar value of everything sold through a marketplace in a given period of time, gross transaction value (GTV) is a calculation of the revenue in relation to commissions. GTV is used more in businesses that operate on commissions, as GTV is equal to the number of items sold multiplied by the price collected.



It is calculated by multiplying the number of transactions by the average order value by the total number of transactions made and items sold. It tends to be used by e-commerce companies with a marketplace where multiple sellers transact.


   Example of GMV  

Two of the most well-known C2C sites are eBay and Etsy. Say, during the first quarter of the fiscal year, eBay sold 100 goods. For simplicity's sake, all of those goods were priced at $5. For the first quarter, eBay's GMV would be 100 X $5 = $500.



Now, for example, say that in the same quarter, Etsy sold 80 goods, and again, for simplicity's sake, all of the goods were priced at $4. For the first quarter, Etsy's GMV would be 80 x $4 = $320.



In this example, eBay (EBAY) has a better GMV at $500 than Etsy (ETSY) does at $320. However, this does not tell the whole story. On these sites, a portion of the revenue has to go back to the seller that sold the goods; eBay and Etsy only keep the fees they charge, which is their actual revenue.



In this example, eBay charges a fee of 2%, and so it would bring in $10 ($500 x 2%). Etsy, on the other hand, charges a higher fee: 4% in this example. Etsy would bring in $12.80 ($320 x 4%). In this example, Etsy actually performed better because it brought in higher take-home revenues.




What Does GMV Mean?
GMV means gross merchandise value or gross merchandise volume, usually referring to the total value of merchandise sold over a given period of time through a customer-to-customer (C2C) exchange site.




Is Gross Merchandise Value the Same as Revenue?
Depending on the type of e-commerce site, GMV is the same as gross revenue. However, for sites like eBay, it is a reflection of the total value of goods sold, but not the actual revenue the company makes, as a portion of those revenues is for the sellers of the goods. The actual revenue that eBay makes would be from the fees it charges on the sales.




What Is Gross Merchandise Value in a Startup?
In a startup, GMV is the gross merchandise revenue: the total revenue that a company generates through the sale of its goods or services. It is important that GMV is measured in conjunction with net sales, which takes into account deductions.




How Is Gross Merchandise Value Calculated?
GMV is calculated by multiplying the total amount of goods sold by their sales price in a given period. GMV = Sales Price of Goods x Number of Goods Sold.


   The Bottom Line  

Gross merchandise value (GMV) is the total value of goods sold by a customer-to-customer (C2C) exchange site, but the metric is often applied to other types of retailers. Though GMV is a handy metric to calculate as it reports the total value of goods sold, it needs to be taken into consideration with other metrics, particularly for those companies that generate revenue through fees.
What Is Gross National Happiness (GNH)?  

Gross national happiness (GNH) is a measure of economic and moral progress that the king of the Himalayan country of Bhutan introduced in the 1970s as an alternative to gross domestic product. Rather than focusing strictly on quantitative economic measures, gross national happiness takes into account an evolving mix of quality-of-life factors.



The kingdom of Bhutan's first legal code, written at the time of unification in 1729, stated that “if the government cannot create happiness for its people, there is no purpose for the government."


   Understanding Gross National Happiness (GNH)  

King Jigme Singye Wangchuck told the Financial Times in a 1972 interview that “gross national happiness is more important than gross national product.” It is not clear how seriously King Jigme had thought through this new metric, but Bhutanese scholars have since picked up the idea and run with it. The GNH has evolved into a somewhat scientific measure of the once-isolated kingdom's economic and moral development.





Key Takeaways

Gross national happiness (GNH) is a measure of economic and moral progress that the country of Bhutan introduced in the 1970s as an alternative to gross domestic product.The "four pillars" of GNH are good governance, sustainable development, preservation and promotion of culture, and environmental conservation. The Bhutanese government takes the four pillars of GNH into account when deciding to pass laws.



In 1998, the government of Bhutan established the Center for Bhutan Studies and Gross National Happiness (CBSGNH) to conduct research on the topic. The institute’s mandate was to develop a GNH index and indicators that the government could build into its public policy decisions. Bhutan could then share this framework with the outside world, with which the isolated Himalayan country was increasingly in contact.



To that end, the GNH Center in Bumthang developed what it calls the four pillars of GNH. These are good governance, sustainable development, preservation and promotion of culture, and environmental conservation. The 2008 constitution dictates that lawmakers must take each into account when considering new legislation.



These pillars provide the foundation for the happiness, which is manifest in the nine domains of GNH: psychological well-being, standard of living, good governance, health, community vitality, cultural diversity, time use, and ecological resilience.


  The 2012 GNH Index Report  

The CBSGNH published an official report of its research into GNH in 2012. The report draws upon data collected and refined in pre-surveys in 2006 and 2008, then a formal survey in 2010. In this report, the center provides an overview of national performance across the nine domains described above. Each domain is weighted equally, but the indicators that go toward each domain’s rating are scaled according to the subjectivity of that indicator.



The research allows for so many components and domains of happiness because it operates on the assumption that happiness is a multidimensional concern. True contentment follows from the sense that others are happy, not just the self. In Bhutan, the pursuit of happiness is a collective one, though a significant portion of the sentiment comes from within. The nine-domain structure of GNH attempts to capture that multidimensional pursuit.
What Is Gross National Income (GNI)?  

Gross National Income (GNI) is the total amount of money earned by a nation's people and businesses. It is used to measure and track a nation's wealth from year to year. The number includes the nation's gross domestic product (GDP) plus the income it receives from overseas sources.



The more widely-known term GDP is an estimate of the total value of all goods and services produced within a nation for a set period, usually a year. GNI is an alternative to gross domestic product (GDP) as a means of measuring and tracking a nation's wealth and is considered a more accurate indicator for some nations. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Affairs (BEA) tracks the GDP to measure the health of the U.S. economy from year to year. The two numbers are not significantly different. Finally, there's gross national product (GNP), which is a broad measure of all economic activity.





Key Takeaways

Gross national income (GNI) is the total income earned by a country's people and businesses, no matter where it was earned.GNI is an alternative to gross domestic product (GDP) as a measure of wealth. It calculates income instead of output.GNI can be calculated by adding income from foreign sources to the country's gross domestic product.For many countries, there is little difference between GNI and GDP.Nations that have substantial foreign direct investment, foreign corporate presence, or foreign aid will show a significant difference between GNI and GDP.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Gross National Income (GNI)  

GNI calculates the total income earned by a nation's people and businesses, including investment income, regardless of where it was earned. It also covers money received from abroad such as foreign investment and economic development aid.



Residence, rather than citizenship, is the criterion for determining nationality in GNI calculations, as long as the residents spend their income within the country. GNI has come to be preferred to GDP by organizations such as the World Bank. It also is used by the European Union to calculate the contributions of member nations.



To calculate GNI, compensation paid to resident employees by foreign firms and income from overseas property owned by residents is added to GDP, while compensation paid by resident firms to overseas employees and income generated by foreign owners of domestic property is subtracted. Product and import taxes that are not already accounted for in GDP are also added to GNI, while subsidies are subtracted.



To convert a nation’s GDP to GNI, three terms need to be added to the former:



Foreign income paid to resident employeesForeign income paid to residential property owners and investorsNet taxes minus subsidies receivable on production and imports


   Real-World Examples of GNI  

For many nations, there is little difference between GDP and GNI, since the difference between income received by the country versus payments made to the rest of the world does not tend to be significant. For instance, the U.S. GNI for 2021 was about $23.6 trillion. The GDP in that same year was $23.3 trillion.



For some countries, however, the difference is significant. GNI can be much higher than GDP if a country receives a large amount of foreign aid or foreign investment. This is the case with Bangladesh, which recorded a 2021 GNI of $438 billion compared to a GDP of $416 billion. But it can be much lower if foreigners control a large proportion of a country's production, as is the case with Ireland, a low-tax jurisdiction where the European and U.S. subsidiaries of a number of multinational companies nominally reside. Ireland recorded a 2021 GNI of just over $382 billion while their GDP for the same period stood at $504 billion.


   GDP vs. GNI vs. GNP  

Of the three measures, GNP is the least used, possibly because it might be deceptive. For instance, if a nation's wealthiest citizens routinely move their money offshore, counting that money would inflate the nation's apparent wealth.



In fact, GNI may now be the most accurate reflection of national wealth given today's mobile population and global commerce.



GDP is the total market value of all finished goods and services produced within a country in a set time period.
GNI is the total income received by the country from its residents and businesses regardless of whether they are located in the country or abroad.
GNP includes the income of all of a country's residents and businesses whether it flows back to the country or is spent abroad. It also adds subsidies and taxes from foreign sources.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




How Does GNI Differ From GDP and GNP?
Gross national income (GNI) calculates the total income earned by a nation's people and businesses, including investment income, regardless of where it was earned. It also covers money received from abroad such as foreign investment and economic development aid. GDP is the total market value of all finished goods and services produced within a country in a set time period. GNP includes the income of all of a country's residents and businesses whether it flows back to the country or is spent abroad. It also adds subsidies and taxes from foreign sources.




How Is GNI Calculated?
To calculate GNI, compensation paid to resident employees by foreign firms and income from overseas property owned by residents is added to GDP, while compensation paid by resident firms to overseas employees and income generated by foreign owners of domestic property is subtracted. Product and import taxes that are not already accounted for in GDP are also added to GNI, while subsidies are subtracted.




When Is GNI Useful?
For nations like the US, there is little difference between GDP and GNI. The difference between income received versus payments made to the rest of the world does not tend to be significant. For some countries, however, the difference is significant. GNI can be much higher than GDP if a country receives a large amount of foreign aid, as is the case with East Timor. Conversely, it can be much lower if foreigners control a large proportion of a country's production, as is the case with Ireland, a low-tax jurisdiction where the European and U.S. subsidiaries of a number of multinational companies nominally reside.


   The Bottom Line  

Gross national income (GNI) is the total income earned by a country's people and businesses, even if it was earned outside the country. It's a measure of national wealth that can be used as an alternative to gross domestic product (GDP). To calculate GNI, add income from foreign sources to a country's GDP.



For many countries, there isn't much difference between GNI and GDP. However, if a country receives significant foreign investment or foreign aid, GNI may be much higher than GDP.
What Is Gross National Product (GNP)?  

Gross national product (GNP) is an estimate of the total value of all the final products and services turned out in a given period by the means of production owned by a country's residents. GNP is commonly calculated by taking the sum of personal consumption expenditures, private domestic investment, government expenditure, net exports, and any income earned by residents from overseas investments, then subtracting income earned by foreign residents. Net exports represent the difference between what a country exports minus any imports of goods and services.



GNP is related to another important economic measure called gross domestic product (GDP), which takes into account all output produced within a country's borders regardless of who owns the means of production. GNP starts with GDP, adds residents' investment income from overseas investments, and subtracts foreign residents' investment income earned within a country.





Key Takeaways

GNP measures the output of a country's residents regardless of the location of the actual underlying economic activity.Income from overseas investments by a country's residents counts in GNP, and foreign investment within a country's borders does not. This is in contrast to GDP which measures economic output and income based on location rather than nationality.GNP and GDP can have different values, and a large difference between a country's GNP and GDP can suggest a great deal of integration into the global economy.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding Gross National Product (GNP)  

GNP measures the total monetary value of the output produced by a country's residents. Therefore, any output produced by foreign residents within the country's borders must be excluded in calculations of GNP, while any output produced by the country's residents outside of its borders must be counted.



GNP does not include intermediate goods and services to avoid double-counting since they are already incorporated in the value of final goods and services.



The U.S. used GNP until 1991 as its main measure of economic activity. After that point, it started to use GDP in its place for two main reasons. First, GDP corresponds more closely to other U.S. economic data of interest to policymakers, such as employment and industrial production, which, like GDP, measure activity within the boundaries of the U.S. and ignore nationalities. Second, the switch to GDP was to facilitate cross-country comparisons because most other countries at the time primarily used GDP.


   The Difference Between GNP and GDP  

GNP and GDP are very closely related concepts, and the main differences between them come from the fact that there may be companies owned by foreign residents that produce goods in the country, and companies owned by domestic residents that produce goods for the rest of the world and revert earned income to domestic residents.



For example, there are a number of foreign companies that produce goods and services in the United States and transfer any income earned to their foreign residents. Likewise, many U.S. corporations produce goods and services outside of the U.S. borders and earn profits for U.S. residents. If income earned by domestic corporations outside of the United States exceeds income earned within the United States by corporations owned by foreign residents, the U.S. GNP is higher than its GDP.



Calculating both GNP and GDP can produce different results in terms of total output. For example, in 2021 (according to Q3 data), U.S. GDP was $23.2 trillion, while its GNP was $23.47 trillion.



While GDP is the most widely followed measure of a country's economic activity, GNP is still worth looking at because large differences between GNP and GDP may indicate that a country is becoming more engaged in international trade, production, or financial operations. The larger the difference between a country's GNP and GDP, the greater the degree of incomes and investment activity in that country involve transnational activities such as foreign direct investment one way or another.




What Does Gross National Product Measure?
Gross national product is one metric for measuring a nation’s economic output. Gross national product is the value of all products and services produced by the citizens of a country both domestically, and internationally minus income earned by foreign residents. For instance, if a country had production facilities in a neighboring country and its home country, gross national product would account for both of these production outputs.




What Is the Difference Between Gross National Product and Gross Domestic Product?
Gross national product accounts for its citizen’s productions both within and outside its borders. This figure then subtracts income earned by foreign residents within the country. By contrast, gross domestic product measures the production of goods and services made within a country’s borders by both citizens and foreign residents overall.




What Is an Example of Gross National Product?
Consider a country that has a gross national product that exceeds its gross domestic product. This indicates that its citizens, businesses, and corporations are providing net inflows to the country through their overseas operations. Consequently, this higher gross national product may signal that a country is increasing its international financial operations, trade, or production.
What Is the Gross National Product (GNP) Deflator?  

The gross national product deflator is an economic metric that accounts for the effects of inflation in the current year's gross national product (GNP) by converting its output to a level relative to a base period.



The GNP deflator can be confused with the more commonly used gross domestic product (GDP) deflator. The GDP deflator uses the same equation as the GNP deflator, but with nominal and real GDP rather than GNP.





Key Takeaways

The gross national product (GNP) deflator is an economic metric that accounts for the effects of inflation in the current year's GNP.The GNP deflator provides an alternative to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and can be used in conjunction with it to analyze some changes in trade flows and the effects on the welfare of people within a relatively open market country.The higher the GNP deflator, the higher the rate of inflation for the period.


   Understanding the Gross National Product (GNP) Deflator  

The GNP deflator is simply the adjustment for inflation that is made to nominal GNP to produce real GNP. The GNP deflator provides an alternative to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and can be used in conjunction with it to analyze some changes in trade flows and the effects on the welfare of people within a relatively open market country.



The CPI is based upon a basket of goods and services, while the GNP deflator incorporates all of the final goods produced by an economy. This allows the GNP deflator to more accurately capture the effects of inflation since it's not limited to a smaller subset of goods.


   Calculating the Gross National Product (GNP) Deflator  

The GNP deflator is calculated with the following formula:








GNP Deflator 


=


 



(



Nominal GNP


Real GNP



)



×


100



\text{GNP Deflator}\ = \ \left(\frac{\text{Nominal GNP}}{\text{Real GNP}}\right)\times 100


GNP Deflator = (Real GNPNominal GNP​)×100



The result is expressed as a percentage, usually with three decimal places.



The first step to calculating the GNP deflator is to determine the base period for analysis. In theory, you can work with GDP and foreign earnings data for the base period and current periods, and then extract the figures needed for the deflator calculation. However, nominal GNP and real GNP figures, as well as the deflator charted over time, can usually be accessed through releases from central banks or other economic entities.



In the United States, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, and others provide this data, as well as other indicators that track similar economic statistics that measure essentially the same thing but through different formulations. So actually calculating the GNP deflator is usually unnecessary. The more important task is how to interpret the data that the GNP deflator is applied to.


   Interpreting GNP Figures  

The GNP deflator, as mentioned, is just the inflation adjustment. The higher the GNP deflator, the higher the rate of inflation for the period. The relevant question is what having an inflation-adjusted gross national product—the real GNP—actually tells you.



The real GNP is simply the actual national income of the country being measured. It doesn't care where the production is located in the world as long as the earnings come back home.



In terms of differences between real GNP and real GDP, real GDP is the preferred measure of U.S. economic health. Real GNP shows how the U.S. is doing in terms of its foreign investments in addition to domestic production.
What Is Gross Net Written Premium Income (GNWPI)?  

Gross net written premium income (GNWPI) is the dollar amount of an insurance company’s premiums that are used to determine what portion of premiums is owed to a reinsurer. Gross net written premium income is the base to which the reinsurance premium rate is applied, taking into account cancellations, refunds, and premiums paid for reinsurance coverage.





Key Takeaways

Gross net written premium income (GNWPI) is the dollar amount of an insurer's premiums that are used to determine the amount owed to a reinsurer.GNWPI is the base to which the reinsurance premium rate is applied, taking into account cancellations, refunds, and premiums paid for reinsurance coverage. Reinsures are generally entitled to a portion of an insurer's premiums for taking on some of the insurer's risks. The rate used to determine the amount due to a reinsurer can be based on written premiums—where GNWPI is used—or earned premiums—where gross net earned premium income (GNEPI).  If the amount of risk taken on by the reinsurer increases over time, the written premium income will be higher than earned premium income.


   Understanding Gross Net Written Premium Income (GNWPI)  

When an insurance company enters into a reinsurance agreement, it reduces its overall risk exposure by ceding some risks to a reinsurer. In exchange for taking on these risks, the reinsurer is entitled to a portion of the insurer’s premiums.



In a non-proportional reinsurance agreement, the amount of premiums that the reinsurer is entitled to be determined by a fixed rate. This rate is multiplied by a base premium, which represents the dollar amount of an insurer’s premiums to which the reinsurer is entitled.


   Special Considerations  

The way that the subject premium is calculated is defined in the reinsurance contract. The parties agree to the reinsurance rate premium percentage that will be applied to the base premium, and whether the base premium—also called the subject premium or underlying premium—will be calculated using earned or written premiums.



If earned premiums are chosen, the calculation uses gross net earned premium income (GNEPI) as the base. This is the most common rating base for an excess of loss reinsurance. If the agreement uses written premiums, then GNWPI is used.



Gross net written premium income is calculated by taking the ceding insurer’s premium income, rather than premium receipts. The premiums are “net,” meaning that any cancelations, refunds, and premiums paid for reinsurance are deducted, and “gross” because expenses are not deducted. If the amount of risk taken on by the reinsurer increases over time, the written premium income will be higher than earned premium income.


   GNWPI vs. Gross Broking Income  

Gross net written premium income is a good measure of how well an insurer is doing, but it doesn’t consider earnings on investments such as equities or bonds. It also doesn’t take into account any assets that the insurer has. That's why many firms are more interested in broking gross income, which does include those figures. So, while GNWPI is a good indicator, you cannot rely on it solely to ascertain an insurer’s financial health.
What Is Gross Processing Margin (GPM)?  

The gross processing margin (GPM) is the difference between the cost of a raw commodity and the income it generates once sold as a finished product. The gross processing margin is affected by supply and demand. The prices for raw commodities fluctuate, creating an ever-changing spread between the raw inputs and the processed products.



Investors, traders, and speculators are able to trade futures based on the price difference between a raw commodity and the final product it produces. For example, a trader can go long on the commodity and short on the finished product of it.





Key Takeaways

The gross processing margin (GPM) is the difference between the cost of a raw commodity and the income generated once the commodity has been sold as a finished product.A good example of GPM is the cost of oil compared to the income earned from selling gasoline.GPM is used by traders to take advantage of price discrepancies between the raw form of a commodity and the finished good.Each commodity has its own terminology for GPM; e.g. crack spread, crush spread, and spark spread.


   Understanding Gross Processing Margin (GPM)  

The gross processing margin can go from generous to thin on a seasonal basis, as well as from unexpected weather events or regional turmoil in an area that is a significant producer of a commodity. When the spread for the gross processing margin widens, meaning that the pricing of the outputs is exceeding the cost of the inputs, that is generally seen as a signal for production capacity expansion.



The gross processing margin usually increases for one of two reasons. One, the input commodity sees a glut, possibly due to overproduction or simply luck, and therefore the price weakens significantly. Two, the price for the processed products rises due to increasing demand. For the health of the whole value chain, investors generally want to see the GPM increasing for the latter reason as it represents more sustainable industry growth.


   Gross Processing Margin (GPM) and the Type of Processor  

The gross processing margin for two businesses using the same raw commodity can be very different depending on the end product mix. This applies to everything from soybeans to crude, but it is easiest to understand in terms of livestock and meat. Two pork processors are working with the same raw commodity, but if one simply sells whole cuts frozen and the other sells a range of value-added products including bacon, sausages, and marinated loins, then their gross processing margins will likely reflect that product variance.



The frozen wholesaler has lower costs of production but similar procurement costs. The value-add focused processor puts more cost and time into the meat but should see a much higher premium upon sale.


   Commodity Specific Names for Gross Processing Margin (GPM)  

The gross processing margin may go by a different name depending on the commodity it is describing. For example, the GPM for oil is called the crack spread in a reference to the refining process of cracking hydrocarbons into petroleum products.



Simply put, the crack spread is the price difference between a barrel of crude oil and the resulting petroleum products. The crack is the industry term for breaking up crude oil into its components products which include propane, heating fuel, gasoline, and distillates like rocket fuel and grease.



For soybeans and canola, it's called the crush spread because soybeans are crushed to produce oil and meal. This is often used by traders to manage risk by combining soybean, soybean oil, and soybean meal futures into a single position. Combining separate positions into one is also done with crack spreads.


   Trading Gross Processing Margin (GPM)  

Let's use the example of crack spreads to explain trading GPM. crack spreads are covering the oil refinement margins and as such are heavily influenced by geopolitical issues. If there were to be a reduction in oil supply due to regional instabilities, the price of crude oil would rise. This would affect the crack spread by narrowing the spread, or margin.



A trader would determine that the price of the refined product, in this case, petroleum, is higher than the crude price, the margin is considered positive. However, traders expect that crude prices will fall once stability is regained in the region, so they will place their trades assuming the price of crude will fall, and the spread will widen.




What Is the Difference Between Gross Processing Margin and Gross Profit Margin?
Gross processing margin is the difference between a raw commodity and the price of its finished product when sold. Gross profit margin is the amount of money left over from product sales after subtracting the cost of goods sold (COGS). COGS can also be referred to as "cost of sales" and includes all of the costs and expenses directly related to the production of goods.




Can Gross Processing Margin Be Too High?
Although gross processing margins fluctuate continuously, a high GPM can be dangerous for both the business dealing with the commodity itself and the trader. However, large swings in GPM can be advantageous for strategic positioning, especially when hedging long-term positions.


   The Bottom Line  

Gross processing margin (GPM) is the margin resulting from the subtraction of the raw product's cost from the finished product's sale price. This margin is in a constant state of flux due to the economic pressures of supply and demand. This price action makes GPM an attractive play for certain traders who understand the commodities they are trading, and how to benefit from the spread.
What Is Gross Profit?  

Gross profit is the profit a company makes after deducting the costs associated with making and selling its products, or the costs associated with providing its services. Gross profit will appear on a company's income statement and can be calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold (COGS) from revenue (sales). These figures can be found on a company's income statement. Gross profit may also be referred to as sales profit or gross income.





Key Takeaways

Gross profit, also called gross income, is calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold from revenue.Generally, gross profit only includes variable costs and does not account for fixed costs.Gross profit assesses a company's efficiency at using its labor and supplies in producing goods or services.Gross profit, which only reflects the cost of goods sold, is different than net profit which factors in all company-wide expenses.A derivative of gross profit is gross margin, a margin that indicates what percent of revenue a company earns can be applied towards company operating costs.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Formula for Gross Profit  
















Gross profit


=


Net sales


−


CoGS
















where:
















Net sales


=


Equivalent to revenue, or the
















total amount of money generated from sales
















for the period. It can also be called net sales
















because it can include discounts and deduc-
















tions from returned merchandise. Revenue
















is typically called the top line because it sits
















on top of the income statement. Costs are
















subtracted from revenue to calculate net in-
















come or the bottom line.
















CoGS


=


Cost of goods sold. The direct costs
















associated with producing goods. Includes both
















direct labor costs, and any costs of materials
















used in producing or manufacturing a company’s
















products.







\begin{aligned}&\text{Gross profit}=\text{Net sales}-\text{CoGS}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{Net sales}=\text{Equivalent to revenue, or the}\\&\text{total amount of money generated from sales}\\&\text{for the period. It can also be called net sales}\\&\text{because it can include discounts and deduc-}\\&\text{tions from returned merchandise. Revenue}\\&\text{is typically called the top line because it sits}\\&\text{on top of the income statement. Costs are}\\&\text{subtracted from revenue to calculate net in-}\\&\text{come or the bottom line.}\\&\text{CoGS}=\text{Cost of goods sold. The direct costs}\\& \text{associated with producing goods. Includes both}\\&\text{direct labor costs, and any costs of materials}\\&\text{used in producing or manufacturing a company's}\\&\text{products.}\end{aligned}


​Gross profit=Net sales−CoGSwhere:Net sales=Equivalent to revenue, or thetotal amount of money generated from salesfor the period. It can also be called net salesbecause it can include discounts and deduc-tions from returned merchandise. Revenueis typically called the top line because it sitson top of the income statement. Costs aresubtracted from revenue to calculate net in-come or the bottom line.CoGS=Cost of goods sold. The direct costsassociated with producing goods. Includes bothdirect labor costs, and any costs of materialsused in producing or manufacturing a company’sproducts.​



   What Gross Profit Can Tell You  

Gross profit assesses a company's efficiency at using its labor and supplies in producing goods or services. The metric mostly looks at variable costs—that is, costs that fluctuate with the level of output, such as:



Materials
Direct labor, assuming it is hourly or otherwise dependent on output levels
Commissions for sales staff
Credit card fees on customer purchases
Equipment, perhaps including usage-based depreciation
Utilities for the production site
Shipping



As generally defined, gross profit does not include fixed costs (that is, costs that must be paid regardless of the level of output). Fixed costs include rent, advertising, insurance, salaries for employees not directly involved in the production, and office supplies.



However, it should be noted that a portion of the fixed cost is assigned to each unit of production under absorption costing, which is required for external reporting under the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



For example, if a factory produces 10,000 widgets in a given period, and the company pays $30,000 in rent for the building, a cost of $3 would be attributed to each widget under absorption costing.



Gross profit shouldn't be confused with operating profit. Operating profit is calculated by subtracting operating expenses from gross profit.






A company's gross profit will vary depending on whether it uses absorption costing (required for external reporting) or variable costing (disallowed for external reporting but useful for internal reporting).


   Gross Profit vs. Gross Profit Margin  

Gross profit can be used to calculate another metric, the gross profit margin. This metric is useful for comparing a company's production efficiency over time. Simply comparing gross profits from year to year or quarter to quarter can be misleading, since gross profits can rise while gross margins fall—a worrying trend that could land a company in hot water.



Although the terms are similar (and sometimes used interchangeably), gross profit is not the same as gross profit margin. Gross profit is expressed as a currency value, gross profit margin as a percentage. The formula for gross profit margin is as follows:


















Gross Profit Margin


=




Revenue


−


CoGS



Revenue

















where:
















CoGS


=


Cost of Goods Sold







\begin{aligned}&\text{Gross Profit Margin}=\frac{\text{Revenue}-\text{CoGS}}{\text{Revenue}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CoGS}=\text{Cost of Goods Sold}\end{aligned}


​Gross Profit Margin=RevenueRevenue−CoGS​where:CoGS=Cost of Goods Sold​



   Gross Profit vs. Net Income  

Gross profit is different from net profit, also referred to as net income. Though both are indicators of a company's financial ability to generate sales and profit, these two measurements have entirely different purposes.



Gross profit is calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold from net revenue. Then, by subtracting the remaining operating expenses of the company, you arrive at net income. Net income is the profit earned by a business after all expenses have been considered, while gross profit only considers product-specific costs of the goods that have been sold.



Because these are two different calculations, they have entirely different purposes for gauging how a company is doing. Gross profit is useful to determine how well a company is managing its production, labor costs, raw material sourcing, and spoilage due to manufacturing. Net income is useful to determine overall whether a company's enterprise-wide operation makes money when factoring in administrative costs, rent, insurance, and taxes.






Net income is often referred to as "the bottom line" because it resides at the end of an income statement. Alternatively, gross profit is often the third line to the top on an income statement (underneath net revenue and cost of goods sold).


   How to Calculate Gross Profit  

Here is an example of how to calculate gross profit and the gross profit margin, using Company ABC's income statement.









Revenues
(in USD millions)


Automotive
141,546


Financial services
10,253


Other
1


     Total revenues
151,800


Costs and expenses
 


Automotive cost of sales
126,584


Selling, administrative, and other expenses
12,196


Financial Services interest, operating, and other expenses
8,904


     Total costs and expenses
147,684






To calculate the gross profit, we first add up the cost of goods sold (COGS), which sums up to $126,584. We do not include selling, administrative and other expenses since these are mostly fixed costs. We then subtract the cost of goods sold from revenues to obtain a gross profit of $151,800 - $126,584 = $25,216 million.



To obtain the gross profit margin, we divide the gross profit by total revenues for a margin of $25,216 / $151,800 = 16.61%. This compares favorably to an automotive industry average of around 14%, suggesting that Ford operates more efficiently than its peers.


   Advantages of Using Gross Profit  

There's a few reasons why a company would want to analyze gross profit as opposed to net profit. Gross profit isolates performance of the product or service it is selling. By stripping away the "noise" of administrative or operating costs, a company can think strategically about how its products are performing or employ greater cost control strategies.



Gross profit is also generally more controllable than other aspects of a company. Consider costs such as utilities (for office operations), rent, insurance, or supplies Some of those expenses are unavoidable during the course of business and relatively uncontrollable in regards to the expenses incurred



On the other hand, gross profit is dictated by net revenue (largely driven by the price set by a company) and cost of goods sold (largely driven by the inputs a company pays for its product). A company can strategically alter more components of gross profit than it can net profit; therefore, there is value in sometimes limiting management's view to primarily what it can control.


   Limitations of Using Gross Profit  

Standardized income statements prepared by financial data services may give slightly different gross profits. These statements conveniently display gross profits as a separate line item, but they are only available for public companies.



Investors reviewing private companies' income should familiarize themselves with the cost and expense items on a non-standardized balance sheet that may or may not factor into gross profit calculations.



At a high level, gross profit is useful; however, a company will often need to dig deeper to better understand why it is underperforming. For example, imagine a company discovers its gross profit is 25% lower than its competitor. While gross profit is useful in identifying an issue, the company must now investigate all revenue streams and each component of cost of goods sold to truly understand why its performance is lacking.



Gross profit can also be a misnomer, especially when consider the profitability of service sector companies. Consider a law office with no cost of goods sold. In this example, the law office's gross profit is equal to its revenue. However, the rent expense of the company office is twice as high as monthly rent. Gross profit may indicate a company is performing exceptionally well, but be mindful of the "below the line" costs when analyzing gross profit.




What Does Gross Profit Measure?
Gross profit, also known as gross income, equals a company’s revenues minus its cost of goods sold (COGS). It is typically used to evaluate how efficiently a company is managing labor and supplies in production. Generally speaking, gross profit will consider variable costs, which fluctuate compared to production output. These costs may include labor, shipping, and materials, among others.




What Is an Example of Gross Profit?
Consider the following quarterly income statement where a company has $100,000 in revenues and $75,000 in cost of goods sold. Importantly, under expenses, your calculation would not include any selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses. To arrive at the gross profit total, the $100,000 in revenues would subtract $75,000 in cost of goods sold to equal $25,000.




What Is the Difference Between Gross Profit and Net Profit?
Gross profit is the income that is left after production costs have been subtracted from revenue, and helps investors determine how much profit a company earns from the production and sale of its products.By comparison, net profit, or net income, is the profit that is left after all expenses and costs have been removed from revenue. It helps demonstrate a company's overall profitability, which reflects on the effectiveness of a company's management.




How Do You Calculate Gross Profit?
Gross profit is the difference between net revenue and the cost of goods sold. Total revenue is income from all sales while considering customer returns and discounts. Cost of goods sold is the allocation of expenses required to produce the good or service for sale.


   The Bottom Line  

By subtracting its cost of goods sold from its net revenue, a company can gauge how well it is managing the product-specific aspect of its business. This calculation of gross profit helps determine whether products are being priced appropriately, whether raw materials are being inefficiently used, or whether labor costs are too high. In general, gross profit helps a company analyze how it is performing without including administrative or operating costs.
What Is Gross Profit Margin?  

The term gross profit margin refers to a financial metric that analysts use to assess a company's financial health. Gross profit margin is the profit after subtracting the cost of goods sold (COGS). Put simply, a company's gross profit margin is the money it makes after accounting for the cost of doing business. This metric is commonly expressed as a percentage of sales and may also be known as the gross margin ratio.





Key Takeaways

Gross profit margin is an analytical metric expressed as a company's net sales minus the cost of goods sold.Gross profit margin is often shown as the gross profit as a percentage of net sales.The gross profit margin shows the amount of profit made before deducting selling, general, and administrative costs, which is the firm's net profit margin.


   Formula and Calculation of Gross Profit Margin  

A company's gross profit margin is calculated using the following formula:















Gross Profit Margin


=




Net Sales 


−


 COGS



Net Sales








\begin{aligned} &\text{Gross Profit Margin}=\frac{\text{Net Sales }-\text{ COGS}}{\text{Net Sales}}\\ \end{aligned}


​Gross Profit Margin=Net SalesNet Sales − COGS​​
This requires first subtracting the COGS from a company's net sales or its gross revenues minus returns, allowances, and discounts. This figure is then divided by net sales, to calculate the gross profit margin in percentage terms.






Analysts use a company's gross profit margin to compare its business model with that of its competitors.


   How Gross Profit Margin Works  

Gross profit is the total profit a company makes after deducting the cost of doing business. Put simply, gross profit is a company's total sales or revenue minus its COGS. This figure is expressed as a dollar value. Gross profit margin, on the other hand, is the profit a company makes expressed as a percentage using the formula above.



It is one of the key metrics analysts and investors watch as it helps them determine whether a company is financially healthy. Companies can also use it to see where they can make improvements by cutting costs and/or improving sales. The sales and COGS can be found on a company's income statement. A high gross profit margin is desirable and means a company is operating efficiently while a low margin is evidence there are areas that need improvement.



Product pricing adjustments may influence gross profit margins. With all other things equal, a company has a higher gross margin if it sells its products at a premium. But this can be a delicate balancing act because if it sets its prices overly high, fewer customers may buy the product. As a result, the company may consequently hemorrhage market share.



A wildly fluctuating margin may signal poor management and/or inferior products. But these changes may be justified when sweeping operational changes are made. As such, any temporary volatility shouldn't be a concern. For instance, the initial investment may be high if a company automates certain supply chain formations, but the cost of goods ultimately decreases due to lower labor costs associated with the automation.






It's important to compare the gross profit margins of companies that are in the same industry. This way, you can determine which companies come out on top and which ones fall at the bottom.


   Gross Profit Margin vs. Net Profit Margin vs. Operating Profit Margin  

Gross profit margin is among the key profitability metrics that analysts and investors watch. The other two are net profit margin and operating profit margin


  Net Profit Margin  

Net profit margin is a key financial metric that also points to a company's financial health. Also referred to as net margin, it indicates the amount of profit generated as a percentage of a company's revenue. Put simply, a company's net profit margin is the ratio of its net profit to its revenues.



A company's management can use its net profit margin to find inefficiencies and see whether its current business model is working.



You can calculate a company's net profit margin by subtracting the COGS, operating and other expenses, interest, and taxes from its revenue. This figure is then divided by the total revenue during that period. To get the percentage, multiply the result by 100.


  Operating Profit Margin  

A company's operating profit margin or operating profit indicates how much profit it generates under its core operations by accounting for all operating expenses. This type of profit margin takes additional expenses into account, such as interest and expenses.



This metric is calculated by subtracting all COGS, operating expenses, depreciation, and amortization from a company's total revenue. Like the gross and net profit margins, the operating profit margin is expressed as a percentage by multiplying the result by 100.


   Example of Gross Profit Margin  

Let's assume that Company ABC and Company XYZ both produce widgets with identical characteristics and similar levels of quality.



If Company ABC finds a way to manufacture its product at one-fifth of the cost, it will command a higher gross margin because of its reduced costs of goods sold. This gives Company ABC a competitive edge in the market. But in an effort to make up for its loss in gross margin, XYZ counters by doubling its product price, as a method of bolstering revenue.



There is one downfall with this strategy as it may backfire if customers become deterred by the higher price tag, in which case, XYZ loses both gross margin and market share.




What Does Gross Profit Margin Indicate?
A company's gross profit margin indicates how much profit it makes after accounting for the direct costs associated with doing business. Put simply, it can tell you how well a company turns its sales into a profit. Expressed as a percentage, it is the revenue less the cost of goods sold, which include labor and materials.




What's the Difference Between a High and Low Gross Profit Margin?
Companies strive for high gross profit margins as they indicate greater degrees of profitability. When a company has a higher profit margin, it means that it operates efficiently. It can keep itself at this level as long as its operating expenses remain in check.A lower gross profit margin, on the other hand, is a cause for concern. It can impact a company's bottom line and means there are areas that can be improved.




How Does a Company Increase Its Gross Profit Margin?
There are several ways a company can increase its gross profit margin and, therefore, its profitability. These include:Reducing its operating expenses without lowering sales prices.Increasing its prices without increasing the cost of doing business.Improving its productivity and efficiencies.Relying on its existing customers to increase its average order value.


   The Bottom Line  

As an investor, you'll need to look at some key financial metrics so you can make well-informed decisions about the companies you add to your portfolio. Start by reviewing the gross profit margin of businesses you may find interesting. You can calculate this by subtracting the cost of goods sold from a company's revenue—both are figures you can find on the income statement. The higher the margin, the more profitable and efficient the company. But be sure to compare the margins of companies that are in the same industry as the variables are similar.
What Is the Gross Rate of Return?  

The gross rate of return is the total rate of return on an investment before the deduction of any fees, commissions, or expenses. The gross rate of return is quoted over a specific period of time, such as a month, quarter, or year. This can be contrasted with the net rate of return, which deducts fees and costs to provide a more realistic measurement of return.





Key Takeaways

A gross rate of return is reflective of an investment’s return before expenses or any deductions.A net rate of return is the investment’s return after costs, such as taxes, inflation, and other fees.The net rate of return is often more difficult to precisely calculate than the gross rate of return, so a fund’s expense ratio is often considered in weighing the return value of the fund.The Global Investment Performance Standards allows investors to compare the return characteristics of different funds. 


   Understanding Gross Rate of Return  

The gross rate of return on an investment is one measure of a project or investment's gross profit. It typically includes capital gains and any income received from the investment. By comparison, the net rate of return deducts fees and expenses from the investment’s final value. The formula for gross rate of return is: 



﻿




Gross rate of return


=




(


Final value


−


initial value


)




Initial value





\text{Gross rate of return} = \frac{(\text{Final value} - \text{initial value})}{\text{Initial value}}


Gross rate of return=Initial value(Final value−initial value)​﻿






The rate of return for any specific investment can be calculated in a number of ways, and it is important to understand the differences.


   Special Considerations   

Details on how an investment company calculates returns are often included in the fund’s prospectus. The gross rate of return is often quoted as the rate of return on an investment in fund marketing materials. Returns for more than a year are often annualized, which provides the geometric average return of an investment for each year over a given time period.



In investment management, the CFA Institute's Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) govern the calculation and reporting of returns. Investors can rely on the GIPS return standards for comparing investment-return characteristics across the industry.


   Types of Gross Return   

Investors often use return calculations when considering a new investment or assessing the performance of an investment. Net return is typically not as easily identified as a gross return. For this reason, investors often turn to the expense ratio in order to determine how the expenses affect the return of the fund. 



The expense ratio is a mutual fund characteristic that represents the percentage of fund assets paid for expenses. It is often used in conjunction with a fund’s total return and benchmark return to provide a comparison of the fund’s performance.



As an example, a fact sheet provided by one of the market’s top large-cap funds, the Quanti­fied STF Fund (MUTF: QSTFX), provides an example of how returns and expenses are expressed. The Quantified STF Fund reports a gross rate of return. It also provides a breakdown of the fund’s expenses and has an expense ratio of 1.71%.


   Gross Rate of Return vs. Net Return   

For net return, fees and commissions are deducted, as well as the effects of taxes and inflation. A currency loses purchasing power due to inflation, which also affects the return on an investment. Therefore, inflation should be included in the calculation of real return. If, for example, annual inflation is 2% and the nominal return on an investment is 1%, the investor will have made a negative real return in the course of one year.



Thus, the gross rate of return can be substantially different than the net rate of return, which deducts fees and expenses. For example, the gross return realized on a mutual fund that charges a 5.75% sales charge will be very different than the net return, which will be realized after the charge has been deducted.
What Are Gross Receipts?  

Gross receipts are sales of a business that form the basis for corporate taxation in a handful of individual states and certain local tax authorities. The components of gross receipts vary by state and municipality.


   Understanding Gross Receipts  

Gross receipts means the total amount of all receipts in cash or property without adjustment for expenses or other deductible items. Unlike gross sales, gross receipts capture anything that is not related to the normal business activity of an entity—tax refunds, donations, interest and dividend income, and others. Also, gross receipts do not account for discounts or price adjustments. Some states and local tax jurisdictions impose taxes on gross receipts instead of corporate income tax or sales tax.


   State Examples of Gross Receipts  

Texas Tax Code Section 171.103 defines gross receipts for a business as the sum of:



Each sale of tangible personal property if the property is delivered or shipped to a buyer in this state regardless of the FOB point or another condition of the sale
Each service performed in this state, except that receipts derived from servicing loans secured by real property are in this state if the real property is located in this state
Each rental of property situated in this state
The use of a patent, copyright, trademark, franchise or license in this state
Each sale of property located in this state, including royalties from oil, gas or other mineral interests
Other business transacted in this state﻿﻿



Ohio Revised Code Section 5751.01 defines gross receipts for the purposes of Commercial Activity Tax ("CAT") as "the total amount realized by a person, without deduction for the cost of goods sold or other expenses incurred, that contributes to the production of gross income of the person, including the fair market value of any property and any services received, and any debt transferred or forgiven as consideration."﻿﻿



Like the above, definitions of "gross receipts" are given by other tax authorities that use them as a taxation basis for businesses. Detailed lists of exclusions to gross receipts are also provided.
What Is Gross Sales?  

Gross sales is a metric for the total sales of a company, unadjusted for the costs related to generating those sales. The gross sales formula is calculated by totaling all sale invoices or related revenue transactions. However, gross sales do not include the operating expenses, tax expenses, or other charges—all of these are deducted to calculate net sales.


   The Formula for Gross Sales Is  

Gross sales are calculated by adding all sales receipts before discounts, returns, and allowances together.





Key Takeaways

Gross sales are calculated as the total sales before discounts or returns.They are generally only significant to companies that operate in the consumer retail industry. Analysts find it helpful to plot gross sales and net sales together on a graph to determine the trend. If both lines increase together, this could indicate trouble with product quality.


   What Gross Sales Can Tell You?  

Gross sales can be an important tool, specifically for stores that sell retail items, but it is not the final word in a company's revenue. Ultimately, it is a reflection of the total amount of revenue a business brings in during a certain period of time, but it does not account for all of the expenses accrued throughout the process of generating the products that have been sold. Gross sales are not typically listed on an income statement or often listed as total revenue. Net sales reflect a truer picture of a company's top line.



Analysts often find it helpful to plot gross sales lines and net sales lines together on a graph to determine how each value is trending over a period of time. If both lines increase together, this could indicate trouble with product quality because costs are also increasing, but it may also be an indication of a higher volume of discounts. These figures must be watched over a moderate period of time to make an accurate determination of their significance. Gross sales can be used to show consumer spending habits.


   Example of How to Use Gross Sales  

Most companies don’t provide gross sales in their publicly filed financial statements. Instead, it’s generally used as an internal number. For example, a company like Dollar General (NYSE: DG) or Target (NYSE: TGT) sells products to customers.



However, they offer discounts and experience product returns. These companies and many others choose not to report gross sales, instead of presenting net sales on their financial statements. Net sales already have discounts, returns and other allowances already factored in.


   The Difference Between Gross Sales and Net Sales  

Gross sales are the grand total of sale transactions within a certain time period for a company. Net sales are calculated by deducting sales allowances, sales discounts, and sales returns from gross sales.



Net sales reflect all reductions in the price paid by customers, discounts on goods, and any refunds paid out to customers after the time of sale. These three deductions have a natural debit balance whereas the gross sales account has a natural credit balance. Thus, the deductions are constructed to offset the sales account.


   Limitations of Using Gross Sales  

Gross sales are generally only significant to companies that operate in the consumer retail industry, reflecting the amount of a product that a business sells relative to its major competitors. A company may decide to present gross sales, deductions, and net sales on different lines within an income statement.



However, this is generally more confusing, so net sales are typically the only value presented. When gross sales are presented on a separate line, the figure is often misleading, because it tends to overstate the amount of sales performed and inhibits readers from determining the total of the various sales deductions.
What Is Gross Spread?  

The gross spread is the compensation that the underwriters of an initial public offering (IPO) receive. An IPO is the process of taking a private corporation public by issuing shares of stock. Gross spread is the difference between the underwriting price received by the issuing company and the actual price offered to the investing public. In other words, the gross spread is the financial institution's cut or profit from the IPO listing. Gross spread is also called "gross underwriting spread," "spread," or "production."





Key Takeaways

The gross spread is the compensation that the underwriters of an initial public offering (IPO).The majority of profits that the underwriting firm earns through the deal are often achieved through the gross spread.Funds produced by the gross spread cover management and underwriting fees as well as sales concessions to broker-dealers.


   Understanding the Gross Spread  

The gross spread covers the cost of the underwriting firm for doing an IPO. The majority of profits that the underwriting firm earns through the deal are often achieved through the gross spread. A company may choose more than one underwriter since they might have a specific area of expertise.



A company looking to raise funds or capital from investors would hire an investment bank to be the underwriter for its IPO. The investment bank's underwriters and the company determine how much money the IPO will raise and how much the bank will be paid for their services.



The company and the underwriters file a statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to register the IPO. In turn, the SEC reviews the application, and once it's determined that the necessary information has been provided, a filing date for the IPO is established.



The investment bank buys the shares to fund the IPO and sells the shares to its distribution network at a higher price. The difference between the purchase price and the sale price is the gross spread, which is the underwriter's profit.


   Gross Spread and Underwriting Costs  

Funds produced by the gross spread typically must cover several underwriting costs including the manager's fee as well as the underwriting fee, which is earned by members of the underwriter syndicate. The gross spread also covers the concession, which is the price spread earned by the broker-dealer selling the shares.



The manager is entitled to the entire gross spread. Each member of the underwriting syndicate gets a (not necessarily equal) share of the underwriting fee and the concession. A broker-dealer, who is not a member of the underwriter syndicate, but sells shares, receives only a share of the concession. The member of the underwriter syndicate that provides the shares to that broker-dealer would retain the underwriting fee. The gross spread also covers legal and accounting expenses as well as any registration fees.



Proportionately, the concession increases as the total gross spread rises. Meanwhile, the management and underwriting fees decrease with the gross spread. The effect of size on the division of fees is usually due to differential economies of scale. The extent of investment banker work, for example, in writing the prospectus and preparing the roadshow is somewhat fixed, while the amount of sales work is variable. Larger deals might not necessarily involve more work for the investment banker. However, a larger deal might involve much more of a sales effort, requiring an increase in the proportion of the selling concession. Alternatively, junior banks may join a syndicate, even if they receive a smaller share of the fees in the form of a lower selling concession.


   Example of Gross Spread  

Let's say, as an example, Company ABC, receives $36 per share for its initial public offering. If the underwriters turn around and sell the stock to the public at $38 per share, the gross spread–the difference between the underwriting price and the public offering price–would be $2 per share. The gross spread value can be influenced by variables such as the size of the issue, risk, and market price fluctuations or volatility.


  Gross Spread Ratio  

The gross spread can be expressed as a ratio. In the above example, the difference between the price the investment bank paid the issuer and the public offering price is $2 per share. As a result, the gross spread ratio is approximately 5.3% (or $2 / $38 per share).



The higher the gross spread ratio, the bigger the slice of the IPO proceeds goes to the investment bank. A gross spread ratio can vary between 3-7% depending on the size of the deal and the country of origin.
What Is Gross Working Capital?  

Gross working capital is the sum of a company's current assets (assets that are convertible to cash within a year or less). Gross working capital less current liabilities is equal to net working capital, or simply "working capital;" a more useful measure for balance sheet analysis.





Key Takeaways

Gross working capital is the total value of a company's current assets.Gross working capital includes accounts receivable, inventory, and marketable securities.On its own, gross working capital is not useful, as it does not give a full picture of a company's liquidity.Including current liabilities into the equation results in calculating working capital, which is a true picture of a company's liquidity and its ability to meet its short-term obligations.Like other financial measurements, gross working capital also has more value when a company tracks its changes over time or compares its figures to its competitors.


   Understanding Gross Working Capital  

Gross working capital, in practice, is not useful. It is just one half of a picture of a company's short-term financial health and the ability to use short-term resources efficiently. The other half is current liabilities. Gross working capital, or current assets, less current liabilities, equates to working capital. When working capital is positive, it means that current assets are greater than current liabilities. The preferred way to express positive working capital is the ratio of current assets to current liabilities (e.g., > 1.0).



If this ratio is less than 1.0, then a company may have trouble paying back its creditors in the short term. Negative working capital is when liabilities outstrip assets and indicate that a company may be in distress. A company needs just the right amount of working capital to function optimally.



With too much working capital, some current assets would be better put to use elsewhere. With too little working capital, a company may not be able to meet its day-to-day cash requirements. Managers aim for the correct balance through working capital management.



Some methods in which a company can improve its working capital ratio include a reduction in time to collect receivables from customers, extending payable time frames with suppliers, a reduction on the reliance on short-term debt, and appropriately managing inventory levels.






Gross working capital is used to gauge a company's liquidity as it helps assess a company's short-term ability to meet debt obligations. It is less of a gauge of solvency or the long-term financial health of a company.


   Gross Working Calculation  

Gross working capital includes assets such as cash, accounts receivable, inventory, short-term investments, and marketable securities. Unlike net working capital, gross working capital omits liabilities and only focuses on what the company owns. Gross working capital is the sum of current assets including:



Cash and cash equivalentsMarketable securitiesAccounts receivables to be collected within the next yearInterest receivable to be collected within the next year.Inventory expected to be sold within the next yearOther assets owned by the company expected to yield economic benefit within the next year.






Like other financial measurements, gross working capital is most useful when tracked over time or compared against competing companies.


   Example of Gross Working Capital  

An examination of gross working capital versus current liabilities provides many insights into a company's operations. The changes in the components of current assets and liabilities from period to period can lead to further financial analysis to assess the short-run financial condition of a company. Sometimes there may be a surprise to an investor that a working capital ratio fell below 1.0. Breaking down the components and following the money would explain why.



For example, Company ABC reported gross working capital of $7 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, versus $7.23 billion in current liabilities, for a working capital ratio of 0.97. The bulk of current liabilities is coming from the short-term debt of $3 billion.



At the end of the third quarter of 2022, ABC had paid off its entire $3 billion in debt, without taking on more debt. Gross working capital stood at $7.8 billion and current liabilities stood at $5 billion, resulting in a working capital ratio of 1.56. Between the end of 2021 and September 2022, the company repaid its short-term debt, thereby reducing current liabilities and sending the working capital ratio comfortably above 1.0.


  Real World Example of Gross Working Capital  

On its March 31, 2022 balance sheet, Microsoft reported $153.922 billion of total current assets. This was comprised of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories, and other current assets. The company reported total assets of $344.607 billion of total assets, though all long-term assets are excluded from gross working capital.



Microsoft also reported $77.4 billion of total current liabilities. While this amount would be subtracted from current assets to arrive at net working capital, it is excluded from consideration for gross working capital. Therefore, as of March 31, 2022, Microsoft carried $153.922 billion of gross working capital.




What Is Gross Working Capital?
Gross working capital is a company's net working capital before current liabilities have been deducted. It is the value of the gross amount of current assets a company owns that can be used to satisfy its short-term obligations.




How Do You Calculate Gross Working Capital?
Gross working capital is calculated in the same way as total current assets. It is the sum of current assets including cash, cash equivalents, receivables to be collected within one year, inventory (also assumed to be sold within a year), and other short-term assets.




What Is the Difference Between Gross Working Capital and Net Working Capital?
Gross working capital reflects a company's working capital prior to subtracting a company's short-term debt. Net working capital reflects a company's working capital after short-term debt has been omitted. Gross working capital only includes current assets, while net working capital reflects both current assets and current liabilities.
What Is a Gross-Up?  

A gross-up is an additional amount of money added to a payment to cover the income taxes the recipient will owe on the payment.



The gross-up is most often seen in executive compensation plans. For example, a company may agree to pay an executive's relocation expenses plus a gross-up to offset the expected income taxes that will be owed on the salary payment.





Key Takeaways

A gross-up is an additional amount of money added to a payment to cover the income taxes the recipient will owe on the payment.Grossing up is most often done for one-time payments, such as reimbursements for relocation expenses or bonuses.Grossing up can also be used to game executive compensation. Several companies have made headlines for employing gross-up tactics with egregious and controversial results.


   How a Gross-Up Works  

Grossing up a paycheck is essentially computing a paycheck but in reverse. Usually, employees are initially paid a gross paycheck amount from which deductions are thus withheld (such as taxes, retirement contributions, and social security) and the employees are paid the remainder as net pay. In a gross-up situation, the desired net pay is arranged in advance and the gross is sufficiently increased to ensure that the desired net pay is handed to the employee.



As a practice, grossing up is most often done for one-time payments, such as reimbursements for relocation expenses or end of year bonuses. Depending on a company's calculation method, an employee may still have an additional tax liability.



In truth, grossing up is mostly a matter of semantics. It merely restates an employee's salary as the take-home pay rather than gross pay before tax withholding. Some companies prefer the gross-up method, especially when compensating C-level executives and other high-paid employees. The technique can partially conceal salary expenses during financial reporting.


   Example of Grossing-Up  

As an example, consider a company offering an employee who has an income tax rate of 20% a net salary of $100,000 annually. The formula for grossing up is as follows:



Gross pay = net pay / (1 - tax rate)



The employer must gross-up the salary paid to the employee to $125,000 in order to account for the required 20% paid on income—because $125,000 x (1 - 0.20) = $100,000.


   The Gross-Up Controversy  

With executive pay coming under increased scrutiny in light of the 2008 financial crisis, grossing up has grown as an increasingly popular way to pay executives. Companies can efficiently increase executive pay by 30% or more, without it being apparent in their financial statements since those statements show only what employees net.



Nonetheless, several companies have made headlines for employing gross-up tactics with egregious and controversial results. In 2005, consulting firm Towers Perrin conducted a study revealing that 77% of companies, when changing management, grossed up severance packages for outgoing executives. One such company was Gillette, purchased by Procter & Gamble in 2005. Gillette's departing chief executive officer (CEO), James Kilts, received $13 million in gross-up payments in his severance package.



In addition, with the rise of the gig economy, work from home, and entrepreneurship, grossing up is hard to determine since the total income of the individual is unknown as it includes multiple streams of income in addition to the full-time jobs.




What Does It Mean to Gross Over?
Gross overs refers to the total amount earned before taxes are taken off.




What Is Adjusted Gross Income?
Adjusted gross income (AGI) is measure of income used by the IRS to asses a taxpayer's tax liability. It equals your gross income minus tax deductions and adjustments to income.




What Is Gross Profit Margin?
Gross profit margin is a financial metric that indicates how efficient a business is at managing its operations. It is shown as a ratio that indicates amount of a company's revenue after substracting the costs of goods sold, which include labor and materials.


   The Bottom Line  

Gross-up refers to any additional money that an employer may pay an employee to offset any additional income taxes the employee would owe the IRS when receiving a cash benefit from the company, such as relocation expenses or a bonus check.



Gross-up pay is calculated by dividing the employee’s wages by the net percentage of taxes that would be due.
What Is Gross Value Added (GVA)?  

Gross value added (GVA) is an economic productivity metric that measures the contribution of a corporate subsidiary, company, or municipality to an economy, producer, sector, or region.



GVA provides a dollar value for the amount of goods and services that have been produced in a country, minus the cost of all inputs and raw materials that are directly attributable to that production. GVA thus adjusts gross domestic product (GDP) by the impact of subsidies and taxes (tariffs) on products.





Key Takeaways

Gross value added (GVA) is an economic productivity metric that measures the contribution of a corporate subsidiary, company, or municipality to an economy, producer, sector, or region.GVA is the output of the country less the intermediate consumption, which is the difference between gross output and net output.GVA is important because it is used to adjust GDP, which is a key indicator of the state of a nation's total economy.It can also be used to measure how much money a product or service has contributed toward meeting a company's fixed costs.


   Understanding Gross Value Added (GVA)  

GVA is the output of the country less the intermediate consumption, which is the difference between gross output and net output. GVA is important because it is used in the calculation of GDP, a key indicator of the state of a nation's total economy. It can also be used to see how much value is added (or lost) from a particular region, state, or province.



At the national level, GVA is sometimes favored as a measure of total economic output and growth over GDP or gross national product (GNP). GVA is related to GDP through taxes on products and subsidies on products. It adds back subsidies that governments grant to certain sectors of the economy and subtracts taxes imposed on others.



At the company level, this metric is often calculated to represent the GVA by a particular product, service, or corporate unit that the company currently produces or provides. Once the consumption of fixed capital and the effects of depreciation are subtracted, the company knows how much net value a particular operation adds to its bottom line. In other words, the GVA number reveals the contribution made by that particular product to the company's profit.


   Formula for GVA  

﻿














GVA


=


GDP


+


SP


−


TP
















where:
















SP


=


 Subsidies on products
















TP


=


 Taxes on products







\begin{aligned} &\text{GVA}=\text{GDP} + \text{SP}-\text{TP}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{SP}=\text{ Subsidies on products}\\ &\text{TP}=\text{ Taxes on products} \end{aligned}


​GVA=GDP+SP−TPwhere:SP= Subsidies on productsTP= Taxes on products​﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿


   Gross Value Added Example  

Let's consider a hypothetical example for the fictitious country, Investopedialand. As a very simplified example of calculating GVA, consider the following data for our fictitious country:



Private consumption = $500 billionGross investment = $250 billionGovernment investment = $150 billionGovernment spending = $250 billionTotal exports = $150 billionTotal imports = $125 billionTotal taxes on products = 10%Total subsidies on products = 5%



Using this data, the GVA can be calculated. The first step is to calculate the GDP. Recall that GDP is computed as private consumption + gross investment + government investment + government spending + (exports - imports):



GDP = $500 billion + $250 billion + $150 billion + $250 billion + ($150 billion - $125 billion) = $1.175 trillion



Next, we calculate the subsidies and taxes on products. For simplicity's sake, assume that all private consumption is consumption of products. In that case, subsidies and taxes are as follows:



Subsidies on products = $500 billion x 5% = $25 billionTaxes on products = $500 billion x 10% = $50 billion



With this, the GVA can be calculated as follows:



Gross value added = $1.175 trillion + $25 billion - $50 billion = $1.15 trillion




How Does GVA Differ From GDP?
Gross domestic product (GDP) measures the value of all of the total goods and services produced in a country.Gross value added (GVA) is the value added to these products to enhance the various aspects of them. GVA takes the GDP and adds to the value of subsidies paid on those predicts and then subtracts out taxes paid on them.




What Is Value-Added for Companies?
The term "value-added" describes the economic value that a company grants to its products or services before offering them to customers. Value-added helps explain why companies are able to sell their goods or services for more than they cost to produce. 




What Is Cash Value Added?
Cash value added (CVA) measures a firm's profitability once the required return to investors has been met. Cash value added is a variation of the economic value added (EVA) metric.
What Is Gross Yield?  

The gross yield of an investment is its profit before taxes and expenses are deducted. Gross yield is expressed in percentage terms. It is calculated as the annual return on an investment (before taxes and expenses) divided by the current price of the investment.





Key Takeaways

Gross yield is the overall return on an investment without deducting taxes and expenses.Gross yield may be used to compare the relative returns of various investments including bonds, mutual funds, and rental property.Net yield is the real return to the investor.


   How Gross Yield Works  

Gross yield is a measurement used for many investments including real estate, fixed-income, and mutual funds. But it is only one way to measure the return on an investment. In the case of some investments such as rental property, the difference between gross and net yields can be significant since the income can be substantially eroded by operating expenses, such as maintenance expenditures, insurance, and property taxes.



Mutual fund investors need to carefully watch the difference between the gross and net yields on their investments in order to be certain that fund management fees and brokerage fees, or both, are not taking a big bite out of their real returns.


   Types of Yields  

Common types of yields include nominal yield, current yield, and yield-to-maturity (YTM).


  Nominal Yield  

Nominal yield is the coupon rate on a bond divided by its par value. It is the interest rate that a bond issuer promises to pay bond purchasers. The nominal rate is fixed and applies for the entire life of the bond. It may also be called the nominal rate, coupon yield, or coupon rate.


  Current Yield  

The current yield of a bond equals its annual earnings (or dividends) divided by its current market price. The current yield represents the return an investor would expect if the owner purchased the bond and held it for one full year.


  Yield-to-Maturity (YTM)  

Yield-to-maturity (YTM) is slightly more complex. This is the total return that a bond is anticipated to earn if it is held until it matures. YTM is a long-term bond's yield expressed as an annual rate. It can be thought of as the internal rate of return (IRR) of a bond if the investor holds the bond until maturity and receives all payments as scheduled. Yield to maturity is also called the book yield or redemption yield.


   Mutual Fund Yields  

Mutual fund yields are reported in two ways—dividend yield and SEC yield. Dividend yields are expressed as an annual percentage of a fund’s portfolio income, also based on the net income received after the fund's associated expenses have been paid.



The SEC yield is based on the yields reported by particular companies as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This is based on an assumption that all of the associated securities are held until maturity.
What Is a Ground Lease?  

A ground lease is an agreement in which a tenant is permitted to develop a piece of property during the lease period, after which the land and all improvements are turned over to the property owner.





Key Takeaways

A ground lease is an agreement in which a tenant can develop property during the lease period, after which it is turned over to the property owner.Ground leases commonly take place between commercial landlords, who typically lease land for 50 to 99 years to tenants who construct buildings on the property.Tenants who otherwise can't afford to buy land can build property with a ground lease, while landlords get a steady income and retain control over the use and development of their property.


   How a Ground Lease Works  

A ground lease indicates that improvements will be owned by the property owner unless an exception is created and stipulates that all relevant taxes incurred during the lease period will be paid by the tenant. Because a ground lease allows the landlord to assume all improvements once the lease term expires, the landlord may sell the property at a higher rate. Ground leases are also often called land leases, as landlords lease out the land only.



Although they are used primarily in commercial space, ground leases differ greatly from other types of commercial leases, like those found in shopping complexes and office buildings. These other leases typically don't assign the lessee to take on responsibility for the unit. Instead, these tenants are charged rent in order to operate their businesses. A ground lease involves leasing land for a long-term period—typically for 50 to 99 years—to a tenant who constructs a building on the property.






Tenants generally assume responsibility for all financial aspects of a ground lease, including rent, taxes, construction, insurance, and financing.



A 99-year lease is generally the longest possible lease term for a piece of real estate property. It used to be the longest possible under common law; however, 99-year leases continue to be common but are no longer the longest possible under the law. 



The ground lease defines who owns the land and who owns the building and improvements on the property. Many landlords use ground leases as a way to retain ownership of their property for planning reasons, to avoid any capital gains, and to generate income and revenue. Tenants generally assume responsibility for any and all expenses. This includes construction, repairs, renovations, improvements, taxes, insurance, and any financing costs associated with the property.


   Example of a Ground Lease  

Ground leases are often used by franchises and big box stores, as well as other commercial entities. The corporate headquarters will normally purchase the land, and allow the tenant/developer to construct and use the facility. There's a good chance that a McDonald's, Starbucks, or Dunkin Donuts near you are bound by a ground lease.



Many of Macy's stores are ground leased. Macy's owns the buildings but still pays rent on the ground the building is on. As of Jan. 28, 2023, Macy's reported long-term lease liabilities of $3 billion. This leased real estate includes small-format stores, distribution centers, office space, and full-line stores.



Some of the fundamentals of any ground lease should include:



Terms of the leaseRights of both the landlord and tenantConditions on financingUse provisionsFeesTitle insuranceDefault


   Subordinated vs. Unsubordinated Ground Leases  

Ground lease tenants often finance improvements by taking on debt. In a subordinated ground lease, the landlord agrees to a lower priority of claims on the property in case the tenant defaults on the loan for improvements. In other words, a subordinated ground lease-landlord essentially allows for the property deed to act as collateral in the case of tenant default on any improvement-related loan.



For this type of ground lease, the landlord may negotiate higher rent payments in return for the risk taken on in case of tenant default. This may also benefit the landlord because constructing a building on their land increases the value of their property.



In contrast, an unsubordinated ground lease lets the landlord retain the top priority of claims on the property in case the tenant defaults on the loan for improvements. Because the lender may not take ownership of the land if the loan goes unpaid, loan professionals may be hesitant to extend a mortgage for improvements. Although the landlord retains ownership of the property, they typically have to charge the tenant a lower amount of rent.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Ground Lease  

A ground lease can benefit both the tenant and the landlord.


  Tenant Benefits  

The ground lease lets a tenant build on property in a prime location they could not themselves purchase. For this reason, large chain stores such as Whole Foods and Starbucks often utilize ground leases in their corporate expansion plans.



A ground lease also does not require the tenant to have a down payment for securing the land, as purchasing the property would require. Therefore, less equity is involved in acquiring a ground lease, which frees up cash for other purposes and improves the yield on utilizing the land.



Any rent paid on a ground lease may be deductible for state and federal income taxes, meaning a reduction in the tenant's overall tax burden.


  Landlord Benefits  

The landowner gains a steady stream of income from the tenant while retaining ownership of the property. A ground lease typically contains an escalation clause that guarantees increases in rent and eviction rights that provide protection in case of default on rent or other expenses.



There are also tax savings for a landlord who uses ground leases. If they sell a property to a tenant outright, they will realize a gain on the sale. By executing this type of lease, they avoid having to report any gains. But there may be some tax implications on the rent they receive.



Depending on the provisions put into the ground lease, a landlord may also be able to retain some control over the property including its use and how it is developed. This means the landlord can approve or deny any changes to the land.


  Tenant Disadvantages  

Because landlords may require approval before any changes are made, the tenant may encounter roadblocks in the use or development of the property. As a result, there may be more restrictions and less flexibility for the tenant.



Costs associated with the ground lease process may be higher than if the tenant were to purchase a property outright. Rents, taxes, improvements, permitting, as well as any wait times for landlord approval, can all be costly.


  Landlord Disadvantages  

Landlords who don't put in the proper provisions and clauses in their leases stand to lose control of tenants whose properties undergo development. This is why it's always important for both parties to have their leases reviewed before signing.



Depending on where the property is located, using a ground lease may have higher tax implications for a landlord. Although they may not realize a gain from a sale, rent is considered income. So rent is taxed at the ordinary rate, which may increase the tax burden.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Ground Lease?
Some of the disadvantages of ground leases include the possibility of property loss, loss of higher income due to market changes if rent increases aren't built into the agreement, and tax drawbacks, such as depreciation and other expenses that can't offset income.




Is a Ground Lease a Good Investment?
It can be. A ground lease lets a tenant build on property in a prime location they could not themselves purchase. They can invest their money in improving the property. On the other hand, a tenant may face restrictions on what they can do with the property.




What Happens When a Ground Lease Expires?
Unless you or your landlord takes specific steps to end the agreement under the lease, it will simply continue on exactly the same terms. You do not need to do anything unless you receive a notice from your landlord.


   The Bottom Line  

A ground lease is an agreement in which a tenant can develop property during the lease period, after which it is turned over to the property owner. Ground leases commonly take place between commercial landlords, who typically lease land for 50 years to 99 years to tenants who construct buildings on the property.



Tenants who otherwise can't afford to buy land can build property with a ground lease, while landlords get a steady income and retain control over the use and development of their property.
What is the Group of 3?  

Group of 3 refers to a ten-year free trade agreement between Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela that began in 1995 and lasted until 2005. The pact covered numerous issues including intellectual property rights, public-sector investments and the easing of trade restrictions.



Venezuela, under the leadership of Hugo Chavez, opted to not continue in the Group of 3 when the original agreement came up for renewal in 2006. Venezuela instead joined Mercosur, another free trade area that predated the Group of 3. When Venezuela left, Colombia and Mexico agreed to continue as free trade partners for roughly nine more years.


   Understanding Group of 3 (G3)  

The Group of 3 was among several free trade agreements that the government of Mexico entered into, the largest of which was the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Mexico was the largest and most influential Group of 3 partner. The pact was part of the Mexican government’s agenda to extend free trade throughout much of Central America, including Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador.



Notable modifications to the agreement included a decree to boost free trade in additional industries in December 2004 and a change that Mexico and Colombia implemented in August 2011 to reduce tariffs on a range of additional products.



Mexico and Colombia ended their two-way alliance when each entered the Pacific Alliance with Chile and Peru in 2014. The goal of this agreement was to boost trade between all four countries and strengthen economic ties to Asia as each country borders the Pacific Ocean.


   Legacy of the Group of 3  

The Group of 3 did not last for long, and Venezuela arguably never became a very strong participant in the pact. However, the Group of 3 succeeded in boosting trade between Mexico and Colombia.



The Group of 3 did aid the region’s energy and utility sectors. One of the Group of 3's first projects was to link both power grids and gas pipelines from Mexico to Colombia and Venezuela. In October 2007, a gas pipeline opened between Colombia and western Venezuela, providing the opportunity for gas to flow to areas where it was not previously accessible.



From Mexico’s perspective, the Group of 3 became part of a strategy to open its trade policies in an effort to significantly boost exports. The Group of 3 offered Mexico a way to leverage labor markets throughout the region to produce finished goods that could then be sold into the United States and Canada via NAFTA. The Group of 3 did help to strengthen Mexico’s position as Central America’s most important trading partner, although other trade agreements arguably helped Mexico far more. The Group of 3 weakened partly due to other regional trade agreements as well as bilateral agreements between countries in Central America and the U.S.



Conversely, Colombia and Venezuela seemed to have hoped that the Group of 3 would provide an eventual entry for them to join NAFTA; this never occurred.
What Is the Group of Seven (G-7)?  

The Group of Seven (G-7) is an intergovernmental organization made up of the world's largest developed economies: France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Government leaders of these countries meet periodically to address international economic and monetary issues, with each member taking over the presidency on a rotating basis.



The G-7 was, for a while, known as the Group of Eight (G-8), until 2014 when former member Russia was removed after annexing the region of Crimea illegally from Ukraine. The European Union (EU) is sometimes considered to be a de-facto eighth member of the G-7 since it holds all the rights and responsibilities of full members except to chair or host meetings.





Key Takeaways

The Group of Seven (G-7) is an intergovernmental organization that meets periodically to address international economic and monetary issues.G-7 countries consist of the U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Canada, and Japan.The G-7 was formerly referred to as the G-8 until Russia was suspended from the group in 2014 after illegally annexing Crimea.The G-7 is not an official, formal entity and, therefore, has no legislative or authoritative power to enforce the recommended policies and plans it compiles.


   How the Group of Seven (G-7) Works  

The major purpose of the G-7 is to discuss and sometimes act in concert to help resolve global problems, with a special focus on economic issues. Since its inception in the early 1970s, the group has discussed financial crises, monetary systems, and major world crises, such as oil shortages.



The G-7 has also launched initiatives to fund issues and relieve crises where it sees an opportunity for joint action. Those efforts include several aimed at debt relief for developing nations.



In 1996, working with the World Bank, the G-7 launched an initiative for the 42 heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC), along with a Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), a 2005 pledge to cancel the International Development Association debt of countries that have gone through the MDRI program.





$300 million

The amount of money the G-7 provided in 1997 to help build the containment of the reactor meltdown at Chernobyl.



In 1999, the group also decided to get more directly involved in "managing the international monetary system" by creating the Financial Stability Forum (FSB). The FSB is made up of major national financial authorities, such as finance ministers, central bankers, and international financial bodies.


   History of the Group of Seven (G-7)  

The origins of the group date back to the early 1970s, when leaders of the U.S., U.K., France, West Germany, and Japan met informally in Paris to discuss the then recession and oil crisis. That, in turn, inspired French President Valéry Giscard d’Estaing to invite the leaders of those countries, plus Italy, to Rambouillet in 1975 for further discussions on global oil, this time with the country's leaders joining the finance ministers—an attendance roster that has endured. The next year, Canada was invited to join the group.



The host of the G7 summit, also known as the presidency, rotates annually among member countries in the following order: France, United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, Italy, and Canada.


  Expansion to G-8  

The G-7 has responded as the global economy has evolved, including when the Soviet Union pledged to create an economy with freer markets and held its first direct presidential election in 1991. Following a 1994 G-7 meeting in Naples, President Boris Yeltsin held meetings with G-7 member countries, in what became known as the P-8 (Political 8). In 1998, after urging from leaders including U.S. President Bill Clinton, Russia was added to the G-7 as a full member, creating a formal Group of Eight, or G-8.



The G-8 ended up being short-lived. In 2014, Russia was suspended from the group after the annexation of Crimea and tensions in Ukraine. As of 2021, Russia has not been invited back to the G-7.


   The Group of Seven (G-7) vs. the Group of 20 (G-20)  

As developing nations began to represent a larger part of the global economy, the absence of a forum about international financial matters that included those emerging economies became more glaring.



In response, the Group of 20 (G-20) was created in 1999, comprising all the members of the G-7, plus 12 additional countries and the EU. As the economies and trade activity of markets such as China, Brazil, India, Mexico, and South Africa—all G-20 members—surge, many observers now see the G-20 as usurping much of the role and eminence once held by the G-7.


   2021 G7 Summit  

From June 11 to June 13, 2021, the G7 met in Cornwall, England. According to statements released from the group, many of the discussions at the 2021 summit focused on two distinct issues: the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and the climate crisis. The G7 committed to distributing 1 billion vaccine doses over the next 12 months.



In response to the climate crisis, the group committed to the following actions: achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, limiting the increase in global temperatures to 1.5 degrees, increasing and improving climate finance, and conserving at least 30% of our land and oceans by 2030.
What Was the Group of Eight (G-8)?  

The Group of Eight (G-8) was an assembly of the world's largest developed economies that have established a position as pacesetters for the industrialized world. Leaders of member countries, the United States, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Canada, Germany, Japan, Italy, France, and until recently, Russia, meet periodically to address international economic and monetary issues.



In 2014, Russia was suspended indefinitely from the group after annexing Crimea, an autonomous republic of Ukraine. As a result, the G-8 is now referred to as the G-7.





Key Takeaways

The Group of Eight (G-8) was an intergovernmental organization that met periodically to address international economic and monetary issues.The G-8 is now referred to as the G-7 because Russia, one of the original eight, was suspended from the group in 2014 after annexing Crimea.The G-8 didn't have legislative or authoritative power to enforce the recommended policies and plans it compiles. Neither does the G-7.


   Understanding the Group of Eight (G-8)  

The G-8 was considered global policymaking at its highest level. Member nations wielded significant power, as their combined wealth and resources comprised roughly half of the entire global economy. Leaders from the G-8 nations, including presidents, prime ministers, cabinet members, and economic advisors, would assemble in this forum to exchange ideas, brainstorm solutions, and discuss innovative strategies that will benefit each individual nation, as well as the world as a whole.



The group's members occasionally worked together to help resolve global problems. In the past, they have discussed financial crises, monetary systems, and major world crises like oil shortages, terrorism, and climate change.






The G-7 meets every summer in whichever country holds the rotating, year-long presidency.



While the current G-7 holds significant sway, it is not an official, formal entity like the United Nations (UN) and therefore has no legislative or authoritative power. The goal is to find solutions to pressing issues and increase international cooperation, compiling recommended policies and plans that its members can work collaboratively to implement. None of the agreements reached, however, are legally binding.


   History of the Group of Eight (G-8)  

The origins of the group date back to the early 1970s, when leaders of the U.S., U.K., France, West Germany, Italy, and Japan met informally in Paris to discuss the then recession and oil crisis. Over the years, new members joined, starting with Canada in 1976 and then Russia in 1997. This lineup of eight countries remained active for 17 years until Russia was expelled in 2014.



Russia was suspended from the group after other members disagreed with its annexation of Crimea, an autonomous republic of Ukraine. By 2017, Russia announced its intention to permanently withdraw from the G-8, bringing the number of active members down to seven.


   Special Considerations  

Without Russia, the G-8 has become the G-7. However, there is still a chance that Russia could rejoin the group again.



Former U.S. President Donald Trump actively campaigned to readmit Russia to the organization and to be invited to the G-7 conference in 2020. French President Emmanuel Macron appeared to be in agreement with this idea on the condition Russian President Vladimir Putin end the Ukrainian conflict. However, the meeting was canceled due to the coronavirus pandemic.


   Criticisms of the Group of Eight (G-8)  

Anti-capitalism and anti-globalization protests, some of which have turned violent, have become a prominent fixture at G-8 and G-7 summits. Critics often describe the group as a type of rich countries' club that disregards poor nations in favor of pursuing their own interests.



A lot of complaints in the past have centered around the exclusion of representatives from emerging and developing nations. Critics point out these economies play an increasingly important role in the global marketplace yet continue to be shunned by the old guard.



Amid the criticisms of G-8, in 2005, the U.K. and France pushed to include five emerging economies into the group—Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa. These countries would join the talks periodically, leading those particular meetings to be referred to as G-8+5 or G13. The effort was short-lived.



Meanwhile, in 1999, a separate intergovernmental organization, known as G-20, was founded, consisting of the G-7 members, the European Union (EU), plus 12 other nations:



ArgentinaAustraliaBrazilChinaIndiaIndonesiaMexico Russia Saudi ArabiaSouth AfricaSouth KoreaTurkey



The G-20 has the mandate to promote global economic growth, international trade, and regulation of financial markets.
What Is the Group of Ten (G10)?  

The Group of Ten (G10) is one of five "group of" groups, not to be confused with the Groups of 7, 8, 20, or 24. Each of these consists of a group with similar economic interests. The G10 consists of eleven industrialized nations that meet on an annual basis or more frequently, as necessary, to consult each other, debate and cooperate on international financial matters. The member countries are Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States, with Switzerland playing a minor role.





Key Takeaways

The Group of Ten or G10 is a group of 11 industrialized nations that have similar economic interests.The G10 was formed when the wealthiest members of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) agreed to be part of the General Agreements to Borrow (GAB), so as to provide more funding for the IMF's usage.The group meets at least annually, if not more often, to discuss, debate and cooperate on financial matters that concern the member nations.The G10 is one of five "groups of" groups, comprised of a variety of nations. The other groups are the G7, G8, G20, and the G24.


   Understanding Group of Ten (G10)  

The G10 was established when the 10 wealthiest International Monetary Fund (IMF) member countries agreed to participate in the (GAB) General Agreements to Borrow. 


   G10 History  

The GAB was formed in 1962, when the governments of eight IMF members—Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States—and the central banks of Germany and Sweden, agreed to make resources available to the IMF. These resources were for drawings by both IMF participants and, under some circumstances, non-participants.



The GAB was reached as a supplementary borrowing agreement to backstop the IMF if it did not have sufficient resources to support a member country. The official language in the GAB states that these countries "stand ready to make loans to the Fund up to specified amounts...when supplementary resources are needed to forestall or cope with an impairment of the international monetary system." Switzerland signed the GAB in 1964, though not a member of the IMF at the time (Switzerland joined the IMF in 1992), thereby strengthening the agreement.



It was at a G10 Forum in 1971 where members worked to create The Smithsonian Agreement following the collapse of the Bretton Woods System, which replaced the fixed exchange rate system with a floating exchange rate one.


   G10 Functions and Critiques  

The Finance ministers and central bank governors from each of those countries gather in connection with annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to discuss financial and monetary policies that impact member countries, trade, and the global economy.



According to the IMF, the GAB is only activated when NAB participants reject a proposal to activate the New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) agreement (a credit arrangement between the IMF and its 38 member countries allowing for the borrowing of supplemental resources). 



Also, according to the IMF, the potential amount of credit available under the GAB totals 17.5 billion SDR, with an additional 1.5 billion SDR available under an arrangement with Saudi Arabia.



G10 governors usually meet every second month at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). The BIS is an international finance organization owned and operated by 60 member central banks that together comprise over 95% of the world's GDP. Its mission, according to its website, is to serve central banks in their pursuit of monetary and financial stability, foster cooperation among the banks, and serve as the central bank for them,



The BIS, European Commission, IMF and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), are all official observers.



The G10 has been criticized for its lack of responsiveness to the needs of developing countries. G10 meetings are politically charged events that often make headlines in the international press for the protests that follow them.
What Is Group of 11?  

The Group of 11 (G-11) is a group of developing countries created to ease members' debt burdens to direct their resources to economic development. The G-11 came into existence on Sept. 20, 2006, and was initially conceived by King Abdullah of Jordan. The group is mainly made up of lower-middle-income countries.



The G11 member countries are Croatia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Georgia, Honduras, Indonesia, Jordan, Morocco, Pakistan, Paraguay, and Sri Lanka. Originally, Tunisia was part of the original 11 but was replaced by El Salvador by 2007.


   Understanding Group of 11 (G11)  

The Group of 11 (G-11) member countries believe that their debt hinders their development in that it consumes much of their export earnings and fiscal revenues. They believe it is in the interest of more developed countries that their debt is written off and/or converted into assistance for economic development projects.



In addition, tariffs imposed by the G-7 and other developed countries also hamper the growth of national income and the improvement of living standards, which often pursue development via export-led growth. The group, therefore, also seeks to work with member countries of the Group of Seven (G-7) for increased market access, lower tariffs, and investment. G-11 members believe that the international donor community can help accelerate global peace and security by helping those countries achieve sustained economic growth.
What Is the Group of 20 (G-20)?  

The Group of 20, also called the G-20, is a group of finance ministers and central bank governors from 19 of the world's largest economies, including those of many developing nations, along with the European Union. Formed in 1999, the G-20 promotes global economic growth, international trade, and regulation of financial markets.



Because the G-20 is a forum, not a legislative body, its agreements and decisions have no legal impact, but they do influence countries' policies and global cooperation. Together, the economies of the G-20 countries represent more than 80% of the gross world product (GWP), 75% of world trade, and 60% of the world population. After its inaugural leaders' summit in 2008, the leaders of the G-20 announced that the group would replace the G-8 as the main economic council of nations.





Key Takeaways

The G-20 is a leading forum for global financial issues whose members include major developed and developing economies.Although not a legislative body, its discussions help shape financial policy within each of its member countries.Recent agenda items at G-20 meetings have included cryptocurrency, food security, and trade wars.


   Policy Focus of the Group of 20 (G-20)  

The agenda and activities of the G-20 are established by its rotating Presidencies, in cooperation with the membership. Initially, the group's discussion had a focus on the sustainability of sovereign debt and global financial stability. Those themes have continued as frequent topics at the G-20's summits, along with discussions about global economic growth, international trade, and the regulation of financial markets.



Under the current Indonesian Presidency, the G-20 is focused on three interconnected pillars of action: global health architecture, digital transformation, and sustainable energy transition. The 2021 summit was held in Rome on Oct. 30 and 31. Some of the topics at that summit included: supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and women-owned businesses, the role of the private sector in the fight against climate change, and sustainable development.



Previously, the 2019 G-20 Osaka summit focused on the global economy, trade and investment, innovation, the environment and energy, employment, women's empowerment, development, and wellness. In 2018, Argentina proposed a focus on the future of work, infrastructure for development, and a sustainable food future. That meeting also included talks on the regulation of cryptocurrencies and the U.S.-China trade war.





1999

The year the Group of 20 (G-20) was formed.


   The Group of 20 (G-20) vs. the Group of Seven (G-7)  

The G-20's ranks include all members of the Group of Seven (G-7), a forum of the European Union and the seven countries with the world's largest developed economies: France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Formed in 1975, the G-7 meets annually on international issues, including economic and monetary matters.



Apart from being older than the G-20, the G-7 has sometimes been described as a more political body because all of its meetings have long included not only finance ministers but chief ministers, including presidents and prime ministers. However, the G-20, since the global financial crisis of 2008, has increasingly held summits that include political leaders as well as finance ministers and bank governors.



And where the G-7 exclusively comprises developed countries, many of the additional 12 nations that make up the G-20 are drawn from those with developing economies. Indeed, having a forum at which developed and emerging nations could confer was part of the impetus for creating the G-20.


   Russia and the Group of 20 (G-20)  

In 2014, the G-7 and G-20 took different approaches to Russia's membership after the country made military incursions into Ukraine and eventually annexed the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. G-7, which Russia had formally joined in 1998 to create the G-8, suspended the country's membership in the group; Russia subsequently decided to formally leave the G-8 in 2017.



Though Australia, host of the 2014 G-20 summit in Brisbane, proposed to ban Russia from the summit over its role, Russia has remained a member of the larger group, in part because of strong support from Brazil, India, and China, who together with Russia are collectively known as the BRIC nations.






The debate over Russia's membership in the G-20 was renewed in March 2022 following its invasion of Ukraine. While attending G7 and NATO summits in Brussels on March 24, President Biden called for Russia's expulsion from the group. But Russian officials insisted Vladimir Putin would attend the G-20 summit scheduled to take place in Indonesia in November.


   Membership of the Group of 20 (G-20)  

Along with the members of the G-7, 12 other nations currently comprise the G-20: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, and Turkey.



In addition, the G-20 invites guest countries to attend their events. Spain is invited permanently as is the current chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); two African countries (the chair of the African Union and a representative of the New Partnership for Africa's Development) and at least one country invited by the presidency, usually from its own region.



International organizations such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the United Nations, the Financial Stability Board, and the World Trade Organization also attend the summits.



The work of ensuring the continuity of the G-20 is handled by a "Troika," represented by the country that holds the Presidency, its predecessor, and its successor. The current Troika countries include Italy, Indonesia, and India.






The G-20 has been criticized for lack of transparency, encouraging trade agreements that strengthen large corporations, being slow to combat climate change, and failing to address social inequality and global threats to democracy.


   Criticism of the Group of 20 (G-20)  

Since its inception, some of the G-20's operations have drawn controversy. Concerns include transparency and accountability, with critics calling attention to the absence of a formal charter for the group and the fact that some of the most important G-20 meetings are held behind closed doors.



Some of the group's policy prescriptions have also been unpopular, especially with liberal groups. Protests at the group's summits have, among other criticisms, accused the G-20 of encouraging trade agreements that strengthen large corporations, of being delinquent in combating climate change, and in failing to address social inequality and global threats to democracy.



The G-20's membership policies have come under fire, too. Critics say the group is overly restrictive, and its practice of adding guests, such as those from African countries, is little more than a token effort to make the G-20 reflective of the world's economic diversity. Former U.S. President Barack Obama noted the challenge of determining who can join such a powerful group: "Everybody wants the smallest possible group that includes them. So, if they're the 21st largest nation in the world, they want the G-21, and think it's highly unfair if they have been cut out."
What Is the Group of 30 (G-30)?  

The Group of 30, generally abbreviated to G-30, is a private, nonprofit international body composed of academic economists, company chiefs, and representatives of national, regional, and central banks. G-30 members meet twice a year to discuss and better undersand financial and economic issues in the private and public sectors worldwide.





Key Takeaways

The Group of 30 (G-30) is a nonprofit group of economists, bankers, and other influential leaders from the public and private sectors who meet to discuss global economics.The Group of 30 was founded in 1978.Their mission, according to their website, is to "deepen the understanding of international economic and financial issues and explore the international repercussions of decisions taken in the public and private sectors."The group meets twice yearly in Washington, D.C, and publishes free-to-download reports from its website.Topic covered by the Group of 30 range from global labor concerns to macroeconomic issues.


   Understanding the Group of 30 (G-30)  

The G-30 claims its mission is to deepen understanding of international economic and financial issues and explore the international repercussions of decisions taken in the public and private sectors." It sets out to achieve this by meeting twice yearly in Washington, D.C. Topics that often come up include foreign exchange, capital markets, central banks, and macroeconomic issues, such as global production and labor.



The events hosted by the G-30 are invitation-only, meaning that regular members of the public are not able to attend them. However, the group has made it possible to download its publications and research for free from its website.



Often, the G-30 reports generate little interest from the public due to their technical nature. That said, some of its findings have had a significant impact, including a paper it released on derivatives. At the time, many people were skeptical of derivatives, citing a lack of understanding and the complexity of financial securities, such as forwards, futures, options, swaps, and other similar market contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset.






Aside from meeting twice a year, the G-30 also organizes study groups and seminars based on topics of mutual interest to its membership. Areas of recent focus are said to include financial reform, lessons from the financial crisis, the credit market, and stability and growth.


   History of the Group of 30 (G-30)  

The G-30 was founded in 1978 by Geoffrey Bell under the directive and initial funding from the Rockefeller Foundation. Before the existence of the G-30, similar aims in understanding economic issues and crises were sought by an organization called the Bellagio Group.



The Bellagio Group, formed by Austrian economist Fritz Machlup, first met in the early 1960s to address international currency issues and the balance of payments (BOP) crisis facing the United States.



The G-30's first chair was Johannes Witteveen, the former managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As of 2021, the current chair of the G-30 is Jacob Frenkel, former governor of the Bank of Israel and former chairman of Chase International.


   Qualifications for the Group of 30 (G-30)  

The international body's present and alumni members list reads like a who's who of international finance. Members come from worldwide and are known for holding leadership positions in the public and private sectors. The majority of participants formerly held senior positions in central banking, while many still do.



Current members include Paul Krugman, economist and opinion writer for the New York Times; Jean-Claude Trichet, a former president of the European Central Bank (ECB); Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England (BoE), and William Dudley, a senior research scholar for economic policy studies at Princeton University, who until 2018 was the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
What Is a Group Health Insurance Plan?  

Group Insurance health plans provide coverage to a group of members, usually comprised of company employees or members of an organization. Group health members usually receive insurance at a reduced cost because the insurer’s risk is spread across a group of policyholders. There are plans such as these in both the U.S. and Canada.





Key Takeaways

Group members receive insurance at a reduced cost because the insurer’s risk is spread across a group of policyholders.Plans usually require at least 70% participation in the plan to be valid. Premiums are split between the organization and its members, and coverage may be extended to members' families and/or other dependents for an extra cost.Employers can enjoy favorable tax benefits for offering group health insurance to their employees.


   How Group Health Insurance Works  

Group health insurance plans are purchased by companies and organizations and then offered to their members or employees. Plans can only be purchased by groups, which means individuals cannot purchase coverage through these plans. Plans usually require at least 70% participation in the plan to be valid. Because of the many differences—insurers, plan types, costs, and terms and conditions—between plans, no two are ever the same.






Group plans cannot be purchased by individuals and typically require at least 70% participation by group members.



Once the organization chooses a plan, group members are given the option to accept or decline coverage. In certain areas, plans may come in tiers, where insured parties have the option of taking basic coverage or advanced insurance with add-ons. The premiums are split between the organization and its members based on the plan. Health insurance coverage may also be extended to the immediate family and/or other dependents of group members for an extra cost.



The cost of group health insurance is usually much lower than individual plans because the risk is spread across a higher number of people. Simply put, this type of insurance is cheaper and more affordable than individual plans available on the market because more people buy into the plan.


   History of Group Health Insurance  

The earliest known example of group coverage for health services dates to 1798, when Congress established the U.S. Marine Hospital for Navy seamen. Participation was compulsory, with deductions coming from salaries. Other examples include the mining, lumber, and railroad industries in the late 1800s, which had a vested interest in ensuring the health of its workers.



Montgomery Ward is credited with establishing the nation’s first group health insurance policy in 1910. The policy did not reimburse workers for medical expenses, but provided cash payments to workers equal to half their wages in the event of injury or illness.



The progressive political movement of the early 1900s led to several proposals to establish compulsory national health insurance. However, these proposals failed to counter opposition from doctors, who objected to uniform fee structures; labor groups, which felt their power would be weakened; and insurance companies, which feared encroachment on their business.



Employer-sponsored group health insurance grew rapidly in the 1940s as a way for employers to get around wage controls set during World War II. In 1943, the War Labor Board introduced wage caps but did not include insurance premiums as part of the cap. As such, employers were free to offer health insurance to attract and retain workers, resulting in a tripling of health insurance coverage by the end of the war.



But this failed to address the needs of retirees and other non-working adults. Federal efforts to provide coverage to those groups led to the Social Security Amendments of 1965, which laid the foundation for Medicare and Medicaid.


   Benefits of a Group Health Insurance Plan  

The primary advantage of a group plan is that it spreads risk across a pool of insured individuals. This benefits the group members by keeping premiums low, and insurers can better manage risk when they have a clearer idea of who they are covering. Insurers can exert even greater control over costs through health maintenance organizations (HMOs), in which providers contract with insurers to provide care to members.



The HMO model tends to keep costs low, at the cost of restrictions on the flexibility of care afforded to individuals. Preferred provider organizations (PPOs) offer the patient a greater choice of doctors and easier access to specialists but tend to charge higher premiums than HMOs.





48.5%

The percent of the U.S. population covered by employer-provided group health insurance in 2021.



The vast majority of group health insurance plans are employer-sponsored benefit plans. It is possible, however, to purchase group coverage through an association or other organizations. Examples of such plans include those offered by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), the Freelancers Union, and wholesale membership clubs.


   Insurance Options for Uninsured Individuals  

Not everyone is covered by a group health insurance plan. For many decades, these uninsured people were forced to bear the cost of healthcare on their own. But that has changed.



Government-sponsored health plans are an option for those left out of employer-sponsored group health insurance. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) adopted in 2010 created a marketplace for health insurance that provides coverage to 16.3 million people as of the 2022-2023 open enrollment season.



After the passage of the ACA, taxpayers were required to show they had health insurance coverage or qualified for an exemption, or else they were required to pay a penalty described as a “shared responsibility payment.” This mandated payment was eliminated with the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act beginning in the 2019 tax year.


   Example of Group Health Insurance  

United Healthcare, a division of UnitedHealth Group (UHC), is one of the nation's largest health insurers. It offers a buffet of group health insurance options for all types of businesses. Include are medical plans and specialty, supplemental plans, such as dental, vision, and pharmacy.



United Healthcare offers plans under the federally-sponsored Small Business Health Options (SHOP) program, a provision of the Affordable Care Act. In most states, employers must have 50 or fewer full-time employees, although some states allow for as many as 100 employees. Businesses that pay at least 50% of the insurance premium qualify for a 50% tax credit.



Midsize businesses, with between 51 and 2,999 employees, have various options available, including bundles. Large businesses, with 3,000 or more employees, qualify as national accounts, which have more services and healthcare features, including the ability to customize plan offerings.


  What Is a Group Health Plan?  

Group health plans are employer- or group-sponsored plans that provide healthcare to members and their families. The most common type of group health plan is group health insurance, which is health insurance extended to members, such as employees of a company or members of an organization.


  What Is a Group Health Cooperative?  

A group health cooperative, also known as mutual insurance, is a health insurance plan owned by the insured members. Insurance is offered at a reduced cost, and what they collect from members is based on claims paid. The cost of care is spread out across the insured population.


  How Many Employees Do You Need to Qualify for Group Health Insurance?  

Many group health insurers offer plans to companies with one or more employees. The type of plans available, however, may vary according to the size of the business. For example, United Healthcare provides various plans for small businesses with 1-50 employees, midsize businesses with 51-2,999, and large employers with 3,000 or more employees.


  What Are Group Health Insurance Benefits?  

Group health insurance plans offer medical coverage to members of an organization or employees of a company. They may also provide supplemental health plans—such as dental, vision, and pharmacy—separately or as a bundle. Risk is spread across the insured population, which allows the insurer to charge low premiums. And members enjoy low-cost insurance, which protects them from unexpected costs arising from medical events.


  How Much Does Group Health Insurance Cost?  

The average group health insurance policy costs roughly $7,400 annually for an individual, with the employee paying 17% of the premium. For family coverage, the average cost was about $21,000 per year, with the employee paying 27% of the premium.


   The Bottom Line  

Group health insurance plans are one of the most affordable types of health insurance plans available. Because risk is spread among insured persons, premiums are considerably lower than traditional individual health insurance plans. This is possible because the insurer assumes less risk as more people participate in the plan. For employees who ordinarily would not be able to afford individual health insurance, it is an attractive benefit.
What Is Group Life Insurance?  

Group life insurance is offered by an employer or another large-scale entity, such as an association or labor organization, to its workers or members. It is fairly inexpensive, may even be free for certain employees, and is pretty common nationwide.



Group life often has a relatively low coverage amount and is offered as a piece of a larger employer or membership benefit package. Members of a group life policy do not need to submit to a medical examination and are not subject to individual underwriting.





Key Takeaways

Group life insurance is offered by an employer or another large-scale entity, such as an association or labor organization, to its workers or members.Group life insurance is fairly inexpensive and may even be free since many members pay into the group policy.Some organizations require group members to participate for a minimum amount of time before they are granted coverage, which is generally pretty basic.Group life policies do not require individuals to complete a medical exam or underwriting.Group life policy death benefits are generally limited.


   Understanding Group Life Insurance  

Group life insurance is a single contract for life insurance coverage that extends to a group of people. By purchasing group life insurance policy coverage through an insurance provider on a wholesale basis for its members, companies are able to secure costs for each individual employee that are much lower than if they were to purchase an individual policy.



Those receiving group life insurance coverage may not have to pay anything out of pocket for policy benefits. People who choose to take more-advanced coverage alongside it may elect to have their portion of the premium payment deducted from their paycheck. Just as with regular insurance policies, insured parties are required to list one or more beneficiaries before the policy comes into effect. Beneficiaries can be changed at any point during the coverage period.



The typical group policy is for term life insurance, often renewable each year with a company’s open-enrollment process. This is in contrast to whole life insurance, which provides coverage no matter when you die. Whole life insurance policies are permanent, have higher premiums and death benefits, and constitute the most popular type of life insurance.



With group life insurance, the employer or organization purchasing the policy for its staff or members retains the master contract. Employees who elect coverage through the group policy usually receive a certificate of coverage, which is needed to provide to a subsequent insurance company in the event that an individual leaves the company or organization and terminates their coverage.


   Requirements for Group Life Insurance  

Group life insurance policies generally come with certain conditions. Some organizations require group members to participate for a minimum amount of time before they are granted coverage. For instance, an employee may need to pass a probationary period before being allowed to take part in employee health and life insurance benefits.



Coverage is normally only valid for as long as a member is part of the group. Once the member leaves, whether through resignation or firing, the coverage ends.






Group life insurance policies remain intact until insured parties are terminated or leave the group.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Group Life Insurance  

The biggest appeal group life insurance has for employees is its value for money. Group members typically pay very little, if anything at all. Any premiums are drawn directly from their weekly or monthly gross earnings. Qualifying for group policies is easy, with coverage guaranteed to all group members. Unlike individual policies, group insurance doesn’t require a medical exam.



However, low cost and convenience aren’t everything. Group life insurance generally comes with only basic coverage, which means it may not fulfill the needs of policyholders. Typical amounts are $20,000, $50,000, or one or two times the insured’s annual salary. That’s why experts say it should be treated as a perk and supplemented with a separate individual policy, rather than being seen as sufficient standalone coverage.



Another drawback is that the employer controls the policy, which means your premiums can increase based on decisions that your employer makes. If an organization opts to terminate group life insurance—or a person decides to switch jobs—coverage usually stops. However, the former employee does have an option to continue coverage at the individual level. This means the policy is converted from a group life policy to an individual one, which comes with higher premiums. While many people may not want the greater cost, those who are otherwise uninsurable will benefit from the conversion, as a medical exam still would not be required.



Some organizations allow group members to purchase more coverage than basic life insurance. That extra voluntary coverage may make financial sense because even the added premium will still be based on the less-expensive group rate. That part of the policy also may be portable between jobs. Unlike the basic group policy, additional coverage often requires applicants to answer a medical questionnaire, but it may not require an actual physical exam. That could be a good option for people whose health issues might make it difficult to qualify for an affordable individual policy.




Group Life

Pros

No medical underwriting
Inexpensive to buy (or paid by the employer in some cases)
May be able to add coverage for dependents



Cons

Relatively low death benefits
Not portable once you leave the organization
Organization controls the policy and its terms









When searching for a policy to supplement your employer's plan, thoroughly research and compare all of your options to make certain you're getting the best life insurance policy possible.




What Is the Purpose of Group Life Insurance?
Group life insurance is a common employee benefit that provides a death benefit to the insured's beneficiaries if they die while part of the organization. The purpose is to provide financial support to the families of such employees.




What Happens to Group Life Insurance Coverage After I Retire?
Once you leave the organization, group life insurance terminates (either immediately or after a short grace period). This includes being fired, quitting, changing jobs, or retirement. Certain employees may be able to convert their group coverage into an individual policy upon retirement, but the employer may not continue to pay these premiums.




What Are the Types of Group Life Insurance?
The most common type of group life insurance is group term insurance that renews yearly. This type of insurance provides only a death benefit and is the least expensive option. Group universal life is more expensive, but offers the opportunity to build cash value alongside the death benefit. Variable group universal life is similar but offers an investment option for increasing the potential returns on the cash value portion.
What Is Group Term Life Insurance?  

Group term life insurance is a type of temporary life insurance in which one contract is issued to cover multiple people. The most common group is a company where the contract is issued to the employer who then offers coverage to employees as a benefit. Many employers provide, at no cost, a base amount of group coverage plus options for employees to purchase supplemental coverage for themselves as well as their spouses and children. Group term is also sold by various associations and professional organizations.



Group term life insurance is relatively inexpensive compared to individual life insurance. As a result, participation is high.





Key Takeaways

Many employers offer basic group term life insurance at no cost to employees as part of a benefits package.You can often purchase additional coverage for yourself or your family members.When you leave a job, you may be able to convert a group term life insurance policy to an individual life insurance policy. However, the cost could go up.It may be prudent to have group term life insurance and an individual life insurance policy at the same time.


   How Group Term Life Insurance Works  

Life insurance is available to 57% of private company employees and 83% of government employees through the workplace, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Group life insurance policies are generally written as term insurance and offered to employees who meet eligibility requirements, such as being a permanent employee who has been with the company for at least 30 days. Group term life insurance coverage can be adjusted for qualifying life events or during an open enrollment period.



The standard amount of coverage is usually tied to the covered employee's annual salary, with premiums primarily based on the insured's age. Employers typically pay most or all of the premiums for basic coverage. Additional amounts, ordinarily in multiples of the employee's annual salary, may be offered for an extra premium paid by the employee. 



As with other types of life insurance, group term pays out a death benefit to the beneficiary you choose if you pass away while the policy remains in effect. Insured members often receive certificates of insurance as proof of coverage.






If your company offers group term life insurance, you may not be able to "take it with you" if you change jobs. Employer-provided group term life insurance is not always a portable benefit.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Group Term Life Insurance  

Group term coverage is generally inexpensive, especially for younger people. Participants are not normally required to go through an underwriting process, as all eligible employees are automatically covered. However, unlike individual term insurance plans, which typically lock in a rate for 20 to 30 years, most group plans have rate bands in which the cost of insurance automatically goes up in increments (for example, at ages 30, 35, 40, etc.). The premiums for each rate band are outlined in the plan document provided by the employer.



While inexpensive, the amount of coverage offered by group life insurance may not be enough for many families. Employers or association groups offering the insurance often limit the total coverage available to employees or members based on factors such as tenure, base salary, number of dependents, and employment status, Participants cannot customize group term coverage to meet individual needs like they could with their own policy.



Lastly, group term coverage often ends when an individual's employment terminates. Some employers do allow ex-employees to maintain the same coverage, known as porting the life insurance. Former employees could also possibly convert the group term to an individual permanent policy. The conversion options vary, may not be automatic, and could require underwriting. Consequently, an individual could be offered a policy with a much higher premium. Also, the policies available when converting may be limited and are not always the most competitive products.






Some employers only offer accidental death & dismemberment insurance. AD&D policies only cover deaths or severe injuries resulting from an accident (rather than from natural causes) and contain significant coverage limitations. Always read the fine print to be sure you understand your group coverage and benefits


   Requirements for Group Term Life Insurance  

Typically, all employees are automatically enrolled in the base coverage once they meet the eligibility requirements. Those requirements vary by plan and employer. They can include working a certain number of hours per week or being an employee for a certain period of time. Group term life sold by associations (such as fraternal organizations, trade groups, and charitable groups) includes other requirements, such as maintaining membership in the organization.



The availability of supplemental group term coverage also differs among employers. They may offer extra coverage for the employee beyond the base insurance, as well as optional insurance for a spouse and/or children. In some plans, individuals can only enroll for supplemental insurance when they are initially employed or upon a qualifying life event, such as the birth of a child. In other plans, supplemental group term coverage can be added during open enrollment periods.



Supplemental coverage may require underwriting. Usually, it is a simplified underwriting process whereby the insurance applicant answers some questions to determine eligibility rather than undergoing a physical exam. The carrier then decides whether or not it will offer the additional coverage. 


   Special Considerations  

Employers are allowed to provide employees with $50,000 of tax-free group term life insurance coverage as a benefit. Any amount of coverage above $50,000 that is paid for by an employer must be recognized as a taxable benefit and included on the employee's W-2.



It's worth comparing your employer's offering with what you could get buying your own individual policy to ensure you'll be receiving the best term life insurance policy possible. It is also important to revisit the coverage you selected during open enrollment each year to make sure the plan still fits your needs.






Consider your employer-sponsored group life insurance to be one piece of your insurance plan. To calculate your total needs, and understand how group insurance can play a part, it makes sense to determine:

How much life insurance, if any, do you need?
What kind of coverage (term or permanent) makes the most sense?
How long will you need the coverage to stay in force?





Does Group Term Life Insurance Provide Permanent Coverage?
No, group term life provides temporary coverage while you work for your employer, or while you pay premiums through a membership association. Unlike permanent insurance, term life does not last your entire lifetime and does not accumulate cash value.




Am I Required to Pass a Medical Exam to Apply for Group Term Insurance?
Most employer-based plans provide a standard amount of coverage to all eligible employees with no medical exam. However, if you want to purchase supplemental coverage for yourself or your family members, you may be required to take a medical exam or provide additional health information when you apply.




How Does Basic Group Term Life Differ From Supplemental Insurance?
Employers provide a basic level of group term life insurance at little or no cost to all eligible employees. Supplemental coverage is optional insurance at work that employees can purchase for an additional premium if they want more coverage for themselves, their spouse, or their children.




Is Supplemental Insurance a Good Choice?
It all depends on your insurance needs and what other coverage you already have. Supplemental insurance for yourself and your family members provides additional coverage beyond your employer's standard limits. While supplemental insurance offers fewer options than other types of policies, it can be worthwhile if your health history or age make it difficult to obtain coverage through a private insurer.


  The Bottom Line  

Group term life insurance through your employer or an association offers affordable, easy-to-get coverage that provides financial protection for your family if you die. However, employment-based group life is temporary coverage that may not provide a sufficient death benefit to meet all your family's financial needs. Consider combining group term with your own individual life insurance policy.
What Is a Group Universal Life Policy?  

A group universal life policy is a form of universal life insurance offered to a group of people at a lower cost than what is typically offered to an individual. Group universal life insurance is commonly purchased by corporations that want to provide their employees with life insurance coverage. These policies provide each insured party with permanent insurance coverage with an option to grow their savings.





Key Takeaways

A group universal life policy is universal life insurance offered to a group of people at a lower cost than what is typically offered to an individual.Employers may cover the entire cost of coverage or split premiums with employees through regular pre-tax payroll deductions.These policies also come with a savings component, allowing cash to accumulate in a guaranteed account with a fixed interest rate.Employees can choose to make withdrawals at any time without any tax penalties or leave the cash to accumulate.


   How Group Universal Life Policies Work  

Many businesses feature group universal life insurance as part of their employee benefits package. In some cases, coverage may be extended to spouses and other immediate family members of employees as well. Like other policies, group universal life insurance pays a death benefit to the insured party's beneficiaries but also features a savings component—two distinctly different financial benefits.



Policyholders choose coverage that starts with the amount of their base salary. From there, the amount of coverage depends on the individual's financial situation and the needs of their beneficiaries. For instance, someone who earns $50,000 per year may choose a coverage option of $150,000—three times their salary—based on their current situation. This amount is paid to their beneficiaries upon their death as long as the premiums are paid.



Employers may cover the cost of the premiums in their entirety, while others split the cost of coverage with their employees through pre-tax payroll deductions. The cost of coverage is much less than paying for an individual policy. It's akin to buying food items in bulk. The cost to cover each individual is much cheaper because the policy is designed to cover a large group, just as purchasing a large amount of a particular grocery item is cheaper on a per-item basis than buying each item separately.



Policies generally accumulate cash value after about a year—an amount that increases every year thereafter. These sums are relegated to a guaranteed account, earning the policyholder a minimum fixed interest rate. Cash value is available for withdrawal at any time, at any age— usually without tax penalties. Policyholders may choose to leave the savings in the policy and allow the cash value to grow. Employees can start, change, or stop additional premiums at any time, without charge. Policyholders also get the convenience of making contributions via payroll deductions, or they may contribute any lump sum in addition to their premiums.






Cash values generally accumulate after a year, grow at a fixed rate, and can be accessed tax-free at any time.


   Special Considerations  

A group universal life policy does not receive dividends. Some other types of life insurance may pay dividends. The amount of a dividend is set by a company’s board of directors each year and is not guaranteed. When a dividend is payable, a policyholder can take it in cash or use it to purchase more insurance. They may also be used to pay or reduce premiums. Earned dividends usually tend to fluctuate from year to year. If you are someone who would like to earn dividends, it's important to review other types of life insurance policies.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Group Universal Life Policy  

Life insurance can be expensive and may have many different requirements. Taking group coverage through your employer can be cheaper than taking out an individual policy on your own. You may also be able to get guaranteed coverage without having to answer too many medical questions.



Some employers also provide some other benefits with these policies:



Portable coverage: This allows you to continue coverage even when you change jobs or retire.
Accelerated benefits: This type of coverage is extended to anyone diagnosed with a terminal illness
Waiver of premium: You may not have to pay a premium if you become totally disabled.



There are also some distinct disadvantages to group coverage. First, if you don't have portable coverage, you will lose your policy if and when you leave or lose your job. Secondly, because the policy is provided through your employer, you may not be able to get as much coverage as you want and/or need. Keep in mind, if you want to increase the amount of coverage, you're probably going to have to pay more and you'll likely have to take a medical exam.




How do I get group universal life insurance?
This form of permanent life insurance is typically offered by an employer as a benefit to employees. One of the biggest advantages is that the cost is much lower for the customer than if they had purchased the policy on their own.




What are some other benefits?
These policies come with a cash-savings benefit that earns the policyholder a minimum fixed interest rate. They may be portable, permitting the owner to keep the policy if they change jobs or retire.




Do group universal life insurance policies have any disadvantages?
The policy is canceled when you leave or lose your job, unless you have a portability option. Another thing is that since your employer is offering the policy, you may not be able to get as much coverage as you want or need. If you want to increase coverage, you're probably going to have to pay more and get a medical exam.



Correction—Sept. 15, 2023: This article has been updated to state that dividends are not paid out on group universal life insurance policies.
What Is Groupon?  

Groupon is a website and mobile app that offers coupons, cashback on purchases and group deals to consumers. Restaurants, retailers, and manufacturers use Groupon deals in an effort to lure customers into their establishments or to purchase their products.



The word "Groupon" is a portmanteau of the words group and coupon. The company partners with providers of goods and services by hosting a discount deal and keeping a percentage of the profit as a marketing fee. That percent varies, but the reported average is 50%.



Unlike a standard coupon, a groupon lets consumers pay the discounted price for goods in advance by purchasing the deal. The average groupon grants a 15% to 30% discount, but it can be as high as 90%. For example, a merchant may offer $50 worth of food for $35 or a $200 spa package for $90.





Key Takeaways

Groupon started in 2008 as an online coupon site that offered daily deals as marketing promotions for local businesses.In recent years, Groupon has changed the daily deal function, and now it is more of a coupon and cashback site offering deals on a wider range of products and services, including vacations.At the end of 2019, Groupon was rumored to be investigating the acquisition of Yelp, an online review site, because its core business was stagnating.


   Understanding Groupon  

The original idea behind Groupon was to tap into the power of collective purchasing by offering a substantial discount to a group of people if they buy a product or service. That's the "group" in Groupon. Ostensibly, merchants would benefit because the discount offered through the coupon would be offset by the scale of new customers.



Until 2016, Groupon deals included a "tipping point," which requires a predetermined number of consumers, such as 200, to make a purchase before the merchant must honor the discount. This model's design helps the business make an initial profit to cover the upfront cost of providing the service. After 2016, Groupon no longer requires a tipping point because most deals reach high sales volumes in a short period of time.


   Real-World Examples of Groupons and Grouponing  

Consumers typically receive daily deal ads through the Groupon app, location-specific email lists, or social media sites. The company releases at least one local deal every day with a predetermined purchase period, ranging from a few hours to a few days. In most cases, the discount is valid for up to six months, and the groupon amount is redeemable indefinitely.



Consumers use a code or printed voucher for redemption at the time of service. Since the discount is prepaid, the customer owes the merchant only for services exceeding the value of the groupon. The "fine print" section of a groupon states the unique restrictions for each deal, such as excluded days or products. However, merchants may impose unadvertised limitations upon redemption, such as a limited menu or inflated pricing for Groupon customers.



Groupon has added new features in the last few years that expand its offerings beyond the original Groupon business model. Groupon Goods offers discounts on merchandise, Groupon Live is for ticketed events like concerts and sports events, and Groupon Getaways is for vacation packages and travel deals.


   Pros and Cons of Groupon for Businesses  

Groupon collects a percentage of the daily deal profit in exchange for providing merchants with a broad customer base through the company's extensive email list and social media presence. The merchant can profit from the discount if Groupon customers come back after redeeming the voucher, promote the business to their friends, or spend more than the value of the groupon. 



Groupon deals may be unprofitable for businesses with variable operating costs because they often need additional staff and supplies to satisfy a sudden increase in demand. Daily deals may also attract customers outside the merchant's target audience, reducing the rate of repeat visits.
What Is Groupthink?  

Groupthink is a phenomenon that occurs when a group of individuals reaches a consensus without critical reasoning or evaluation of the consequences or alternatives. Groupthink is based on a common desire not to upset the balance of a group of people.



This desire creates a dynamic within a group whereby creativity and individuality tend to be stifled in order to avoid conflict.





Key Takeaways

Groupthink is a phenomenon in which individuals overlook potential problems in the pursuit of consensus thinking.Any dissenters in the group who may attempt to introduce a rational argument are pressured to come around to the consensus and may even be censored.Groupthink is particularly dangerous in political situations where no single actor has all of the relevant information. Groupthink can be reduced by inviting criticism or appointing one person to act as a "devil's advocate" against the group.The Challenger shuttle disaster, the Bay of Pigs, Watergate, and the escalation of the Vietnam War are all considered possible consequences of groupthink.


   Understanding Groupthink  

In a business setting, groupthink can cause employees and supervisors to overlook potential problems in the pursuit of consensus thinking. Because individual critical thinking is de-emphasized or frowned upon, employees may self-censor and not suggest alternatives for fear of upsetting the status quo.



Yale University social psychologist Irving Janis coined the term groupthink in 1972. Janis theorized that groups of intelligent people sometimes make the worst possible decisions based on several factors. For example, the members of a group might all have similar backgrounds that could insulate them from the opinions of outside groups.



Some organizations have no clear rules upon which to make decisions. Groupthink occurs when a party ignores logical alternatives and makes irrational decisions.






Groupthink is not always problematic. In the best cases, it allows a group to make decisions, complete tasks, and finish projects quickly and efficiently. In the worst cases, it leads to poor decision-making and inefficient problem-solving.


   Groupthink Characteristics  

Janis identified eight signs, symptoms, or traits of groupthink, all of which lead to flawed conclusions. In summary, the group may have an illusion of invincibility and consider that nothing the group decides to do can go wrong.



The eight traits of groupthink, according to Janis, are:



Illusions of unanimity among key decision-makers that cause them to doubt their own misgivings.Unquestioned beliefs that lead group members to ignore potential consequences of the group's actions.Rationalization of potential warning signs that should cause group members to question their beliefs.Stereotyping of contrary viewpoints leading members of the group to reject perspectives that question or challenge the group's ideas."Mindguards" or members of the group who prevent troubling or contrarian viewpoints from circulating among group members. Rather than sharing important information, they may keep quiet or prevent other members from sharing.Illusions of invulnerability lead group members to engage in unjustified risky behaviors with an overly optimistic hope of success.Direct Pressure may silence group members who tend to pose inconvenient questions or raise objections that may be seen as evidence of disloyalty.



Collectively, these behaviors may make members of a group be excessively optimistic about their success, ignoring any possible negative outcomes. Members are convinced their cause is right and just, so they ignore any moral quandaries of the group's decisions. The group body tends to ignore the suggestions of anyone outside the group.



Any dissenters are pressured to come around to the consensus. After the pressure is exerted, members censor themselves to prevent further shunning. Once decisions are made, the group assumes them to be unanimous.



Some members of a group may act as a "mindguard;" these sentinels prevent any contrary advice from reaching the leaders of the organization. Time constraints may exacerbate all of these issues, and any decisions that need to be made fast may not undergo due diligence.






Groupthink is a dynamic that can lead to bad decisions and even disasters; it is a phenomenon in which a group of individuals may consider themselves infallible.


   What Causes Groupthink  

Janis also identified certain factors that may contribute to or exacerbate problems related to groupthink. One of the key factors is group identity: when there is a strong sense of shared identity, group members may place a higher value on in-group perspectives and disregard those perspectives from outside the group. Leadership influences may also be a factor: members may be more likely to ignore their own misgivings if the group has a powerful or charismatic leader.



Information levels and stress may also contribute to groupthink, by causing group members to act irrationally. If members of the group lack information or feel that other members are better-informed, they may be more likely to defer to others in group decision-making. High-stress situations can also contribute to poor decisions, by reducing the opportunities for careful discussion.



These issues may be exacerbated by extrinsic factors, such as the perception of an external threat to the group or isolation from outside sources of information. Group members might not be able to make rational decisions when they believe that they are under urgent pressure for immediate action.






Groupthink can be exacerbated by a strong leader, or a strong sense of pressure to make an immediate decision.


   Why Is Groupthink Dangerous?  

Groupthink may cause people to ignore or reject important information, ultimately leading to poor decisions and errors in leadership. These errors can sometimes result in disaster or unethical behavior because the key decision-makers are unaware of potential risks and contrarian viewpoints have been silenced.



Groupthink is particularly dangerous in political situations where decisions are made through collective deliberation, and no single member of the group has enough knowledge to make an informed decision. Members of the group may feel pressure to conform to the consensus or pressure other members to conform. This may result in the false perception that the group is unanimous, creating even more pressure for group members to hide their misgivings.


   How to Avoid Groupthink  

Even in highly cohesive groups, there are steps that can be taken to lessen the impact of groupthink on collective decision-making. Groupthink arises out of a natural pressure for conformity, so the problem can be alleviated by assigning one member to act as a "devil's advocate," intentionally raising every possible objection. Since this is an assigned role, the devil's advocate need not worry about the perception of being opposed to the group.



Group members may avoid speaking out to avoid contracting the group's leadership. To avoid that problem, leaders should step back from early discussions to allow lower-ranked members to air their views first. After discussion, leaders should consider holding a "second-chance" discussion for any objections that were not raised before.


   Example of Groupthink  

After the space shuttle Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff on the morning of Jan. 28, 1986, investigators discovered that a series of poor decisions led to the deaths of seven astronauts. The day before the launch, engineers from Morton Thiokol, the company that built the solid rocket boosters, had warned flight managers at NASA that the O-ring seals on the booster rockets would fail in the freezing temperatures forecast for that morning. The O-rings were not designed for anything below 53 degrees Fahrenheit.



NASA personnel overrode the scientific facts presented by the engineers who were experts in their fields and fell victim to groupthink. When flight readiness reviewers received the go-ahead for launch from lower-level NASA managers, no mention was made of Morton Thiokol's objections. The shuttle launched as scheduled, but the result was disastrous.



Other events that may be possible groupthink-involved failures include the Bay of Pigs invasion, Watergate, and the escalation of the Vietnam War.




Why Is Groupthink Often Bad?
Groupthink causes people to ignore or silence opposing viewpoints, creating the illusion that members of the group are in agreement. This may cause them to ignore potential dangers or take excessive risks. In military or political situations, groupthink can sometimes result in disasters or unethical actions because there is high pressure to agree with the group's consensus.




What Are the Symptoms of Groupthink?
Irving Janis identified eight signs that are closely associated with groupthink: illusions of unanimity, unquestioned beliefs, rationalization, stereotyping, "mindguards," illusions of invulnerability, and direct pressure on opposing views. Each of these signs leads members of the group to ignore dissenting viewpoints and to hide their own doubts. This enforces the illusion that the group's decisions are superior to individual judgment, and that any opposing views are contrary to the group's interests.




Under What Conditions Is Groupthink Most Likely to Occur?
Groupthink is most likely to occur in highly cohesive groups with a strong sense of shared identity, where there is a strong pressure to arrive at the correct decision. This pressure may lead some members of the group to withhold key information, in order to avoid undermining the sense of group agreement. A strong or charismatic leader is also a major contributor to groupthink since members will be under pressure to agree with the leader's decisions.


   The Bottom Line  

Groupthink occurs when people converge on the same idea with little critical thinking or opposition within the ranks. While groupthink can signal solidarity and may show respect or deference to more senior leaders, it also shuts down dissenting voices and alternative opinions. This means that wrong ideas or bad strategies can become amplified and ultimately implemented. Groupthink, therefore, can lead to suboptimal or even disastrous outcomes.
What Is a Growing-Equity Mortgage (GEM)?  

A growing-equity mortgage (GEM) is a type of fixed-rate mortgage where monthly payments increase over time according to a set schedule, rather than remaining fixed and equal over the loan term. The interest rate on the loan does not change, and there is never any negative amortization. Instead, the first payment is a fully-amortizing payment and as the payment amount increases over time, the additional amount beyond what would be a fully amortizing payment is applied directly to the remaining mortgage principal, shortening the life of the loan and increasing overall interest savings.





Key Takeaways

A growing-equity mortgage (GEM) is a variation on a fixed-rate mortgage where additional principal payments are pre-scheduled and increase over time, often at 5% a year.The additional payments allow the mortgage to be paid off quicker and with lower total interest payments.The FHA offers GEM loans to borrowers who have a high potential for earnings growth that can cover progressively increasing payments, where the FHA will insure the lender against losses.﻿﻿


   How Growing-Equity Mortgages Work  

A growing-equity mortgage effectively allows a borrower to accelerate repayment of their fixed-rate mortgage by scheduling additional principal payments that increase over time. In addition to paying off the loan early, a growing-equity mortgage helps to build up home equity faster that the borrower could leverage if needed. Payments for growth-equity mortgages typically rise annually, increasing up to 5% per year.



There is one caveat to this type of financing. Because payment amounts increase annually, homeowners' salaries (or their ability to pay) must also increase to accommodate the larger payments.



A growing-equity mortgage is not to be confused with a graduated payment mortgage. A graduated payment mortgage also has a fixed interest rate and payments that increase at set intervals. However, a graduated payment mortgage also has negative amortization. In other words, unlike a growing-equity mortgage, the initial payments on a graduated payment mortgage are set below what a fully amortizing payment would be (they are actually set below what an interest-only payment would be). This creates negative amortization, not interest savings.


   Other Considerations for GEMs  

Applying for a growing-equity mortgage can be the same as applying for other types of mortgages, with comparable credit requirements. There may be options for lower down payments associated with this type of mortgage. Some lenders who offer growing-equity mortgages target first-time home buyers who would otherwise might not be able to afford upfront purchasing costs.



Furthermore, these loans are offered to borrowers who might not qualify for conventional mortgages. The Federal Housing Administration offers a growing-equity mortgage program specifically for this purpose. FHA guidelines make growing equity mortgages available to borrowers with a limited income, but who also have a reasonable expectation of increases to their earnings.﻿﻿



When such mortgages are insured through the FHA, lenders are given protection in case of default by the borrower. FHA insurance for growing-equity mortgages can cover new purchases, refinancing, and rehabilitation of properties. The financing can also be for units in condominiums or shares in cooperative housing.﻿﻿
What Is a Growth and Income Fund?  

A growth and income fund is class of mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) that has a dual strategy of both capital appreciation (growth) and current income generated through dividends or interest payments. A growth and income fund may invest only in equities or in a combination of stocks, bonds, real estate investment trusts (REIT) and other securities.



A growth and income fund is a type of blend fund, which invests in both growth and value stocks.





Key Takeaways

A growth and income fund is a mutual fund or ETF strategy that seeks a total return for investors including capital gains and current income.The goal of a growth and income fund is to create a diversified portfolio that takes advantage of the capital gains potential of the growth segment and the dividend income and stability of the value segment.Because these funds come in many configurations, investors should research each potential fund strategy and use a style box for easier categorization.


   Understanding Growth and Income Funds  

Growth and income funds are popular among investors with moderate (but not excessive) appetites for risk—the ever-popular "balanced investor." Although returns will typically lag those of pure growth funds, sometimes high-yielding stocks become favored in the stock markets, driving growth and income funds to superior performance. The stability of these funds appears most attractive when the broad economy looks to be weakening.


   Growth and Time Horizons  

Investors in growth and income portfolios favor stability without forsaking returns that outpace inflation. Depending on risk tolerance, a balanced investment objective is adopted by individuals who either shun volatility completely or scale back growth objectives as retirement approaches. When planning investment strategies, the age of an investor is vital in determining asset allocation and risk tolerance. A 25-year-old investor initially entering the workforce holds a longer time horizon than a 70-year-old retiree. Investment advisers suggest that regardless of age, exposure to equities is a necessary for any portfolio.



However, the percentage of equity exposure shifts as time horizons shorten. A rule of thumb among financial professionals holds that growth allocations decrease as an investor ages. If individuals subtract their ages from 100, the remainder represents the percentage of stocks they should hold, with the balance in less volatile bonds and cash.



Investors can select from numerous funds that meet balanced objectives. Portfolios such as the John Hancock Balanced Fund ("SVBAX") exemplify low volatility with an average annual return of 7.84% for 10 years through June 30, 2022, falling short of the S&P 500 Index, which returned 12.96% over the same time frame.


   Income and Retirement Needs  

The investment objective of a retiree involves income needs, a scenario in which earnings are replaced by personal savings and dividend and interest income. Financial advisers recommend that retirees replace 75% of working wages with income-producing securities such as bonds and large-cap dividend-paying equities.



A balanced fund holds a considerable allocation of corporate and government bonds offering semi-annual interest payments while seeking to preserve capital. The less-volatile nature of U.S. Treasury and investment grade bonds couple with the growth potential of stocks, providing income and a potential rate of appreciation to combat rising prices of goods and services ensuring that an individual does not outlive his or her retirement savings. Growth and income funds fulfill both objectives within a single security.


   Examples of Growth and Income Funds  

The Dodge and Cox Balanced Fund ("DODBX") chalked up an annual average 10-year return of 9.91% as of June 30, 2022, a measure that exceeds its comparative index. However, its yield dropped below the yield on the 10-year Treasury, which had a 1 year return of around 2.832% as of Aug. 4 2022. Thus, growth and income funds fulfill dual investment objectives under one roof under certain circumstances, such as when interest rates are low.



Though they have the same objective of growth and income, investors should be aware that, just like other types of mutual funds, each fund will have a bias in its investment strategy. For instance, the Dodge & Cox Balanced Fund leans toward value stocks, seeking securities that appear undervalued by the market. Other funds may highlight either the growth or income side of the equation, or have higher exposure to bonds. Also, though these funds are considered a low-volatility category, some have more than others. For example, the Vanguard Growth and Income Fund Investor Shares ("VQNPX") is lists a key risk as volatility due to its full exposure to the stock market.
What Is Growth at a Reasonable Price (GARP)?  

Growth at a reasonable price (GARP) is an equity investment strategy that seeks to combine tenets of both growth investing and value investing to select individual stocks. GARP investors look for companies that are showing consistent earnings growth above broad market levels while excluding companies that have very high valuations. The overarching goal is to avoid the extremes of either growth or value investing; this typically leads GARP investors to growth-oriented stocks with relatively low price/earnings (P/E) multiples in normal market conditions.





Key Takeaways

Growth at a reasonable price (GARP) is an equity investment strategy that combines growth and value investing attributes.GARP investors focus on companies with earnings growth above broad market levels but without extremely high valuations.GARP stocks are growth-orientated with relatively low price/earnings (P/E) multiples.GARP investors typically use the price/earnings growth (PEG) ratio to make investment choices, seeking companies with a PEG of 1 or less.Instead of selecting individual securities, investors can apply the GARP strategy through index funds that track the S&P 500 GARP Index.


   Understanding Growth at a Reasonable Price (GARP)  

GARP investing was popularized by legendary Fidelity manager Peter Lynch. While the style may not have rigid boundaries for including or excluding stocks, a fundamental metric that serves as a solid benchmark is the price/earnings growth (PEG) ratio.



The PEG shows the ratio between a company's P/E ratio (valuation) and its expected earnings growth rate over the next several years. A GARP investor would seek out stocks that have a PEG of 1 or less, which shows that P/E ratios are in line with expected earnings growth. This helps to uncover stocks that are trading at reasonable prices.



In a bear market or other downturn in stocks, one could expect the returns of GARP investors to be higher than those of pure growth investors but subpar to strict value investors who generally purchase shares at P/Es under broad market multiples.


   GARP Investors vs. Value Investors  

Value investors try to buy stocks that are on sale. Value investors look for stocks at bargain prices for a) a larger chance to earn a future profit and b) less risk of losing your money if the stock doesn’t perform well as you had anticipated. This fundamental principle is called the margin of safety.



Value investors also do not buy into the efficient-market hypothesis, which postulates that stock prices already take the full spread of company, industry, and market information into account. Value investors believe that it’s possible to pick overvalued or undervalued stocks relative to their current market price. Value investors may perform a discounted cash flows analysis (DCF) to determine a stock’s intrinsic value.



Famous value investors include Warren Buffett, CEO, and chair of Berkshire Hathaway, which grew to become one of the largest publicly traded companies in the world.


   GARP Strategy  

One of the most straightforward ways to utilize the GARP strategy is by investing in an index fund that utilizes the strategy. This removes having to analyze your own stocks and come up with investments that fit the criteria of a GARP investment.



Standard and Poor's has created the S&P 500 GARP Index, which is an index that tracks "companies with consistent fundamental growth, reasonable valuation, solid financial strength, and strong earning power."



One fund that tracks the S&P 500 GARP Index is the Invesco S&P 500 GARP ETF (SPGP). It is an exchange traded fund that aims to invest 90% of its assets into the securities that make up the S&P 500 GARP Index.



The fund's largest holdings are in healthcare (29.39%) followed by information technology stocks (21.40%). Financials is the next heavily invested sector at 17.28%. The smallest invested sector is consumer staples at 3.71%. Above that is communication services at 5.61%. Well-known stocks include Meta (formerly Facebook), Adobe, and Cigna. The fund also comes with a low expense ratio of 0.36%, making it an affordable investment choice.
What Is a Growth Company?  

A growth company is any company whose business generates significant positive cash flows or earnings, which increase at significantly faster rates than the overall economy. A growth company tends to have very profitable reinvestment opportunities for its own retained earnings. Thus, it typically pays little to no dividends to stockholders, opting instead to put most or all of its profits back into its expanding business.





Key Takeaways

A growth company is one in which its business generates positive cash flows or earnings faster than the overall economy.Growth companies typically reinvest their earnings back into the company as opposed to paying out dividends to continue spurring growth.Growth companies stand in contrast to mature companies, those that tend to report stable earnings with little to no growth.Mature companies typically have an easier time obtaining financing than growth companies because of their established business and financials.Investors in growth companies are not focused on dividend income but rather on the appreciation of the company's share price.In today's economy, the technology sector is characterized as having many growth companies.


   Understanding a Growth Company  

Growth companies have characterized the technology industry. The quintessential example of a growth company is Google, which has grown revenues, cash flows, and earnings substantially since its initial public offering (IPO).



Growth companies such as Google are expected to increase their profits markedly in the future; thus, the market bids up their share prices to high valuations. This contrasts with mature companies, such as utility companies, which tend to report stable earnings with little to no growth.



Growth companies create value by continuing to expand above-average earnings, free cash flow, and spending on research and development. Growth investors are less worried about the dividend growth, high price-to-earnings ratios, and high price-to-book ratios that growth companies face because the focus is on sales growth and maintaining industry leadership. Overall, growth stocks pay lower dividends than value stocks because profits are reinvested in the business to drive earnings growth.


   Growth Companies During Bull and Bear Markets  

During bull markets, growth stocks are preferred and tend to outperform value stocks because of environmental risk and the perceived low risk in the markets. However, growth stocks tend to underperform value stocks during bear markets because weak economic activity hinders sales growth and the growth engine that drives the stocks higher.



Mature companies tend to weather bear markets better than growth companies as they are firmly rooted within their industry, have a dedicated consumer base, are well-known, and have stronger financials, such as larger cash reserves to ride out the poor performing economy.



Mature companies also have an easier time raising capital in difficult economic times because of the fact that they are established and their credit is proven; growth companies often have less established financials so obtaining a loan, for example, may be more difficult. This is why growth companies often receive capital from venture capital firms or angel investors. This additional capital can be imperative to helping some growth companies survive an economic downturn.


   Real World Examples  

The vast majority of growth companies reside in the technology sector where rapid innovation and growth spending is typical. Google (GOOGL), Tesla (TSLA), and Amazon (AMZN) are three classic examples of growth companies because they continue to focus on investing in innovative technologies, sales growth, and expansion into new businesses.



While these three growth stocks have more expensive valuations than the S&P 500, Google, Tesla, and Amazon are also the leaders in their respective niche industries. Google is continuing its technology conglomerate-status by expanding into new technologies such as artificial intelligence. Tesla is the popular electric car maker and undisputed leader of the industry. Meanwhile, Amazon continues to disrupt the retail sector through its e-commerce platform, which takes away business from traditional brick-and-mortar retail competitors. Those are attractive narratives for investors looking for growth to continue into the future.



That being said, these three companies are also now fairly established within their industries and are considered solid investments that have very different characteristics from when they started out as small companies years ago. Many growth companies exist in different sectors, one being Etsy (ETSY), the e-commerce retail platform that sells a large array of vintage and craft items.
What Is a Growth Curve?  

A growth curve is a graphical representation that shows the course of a phenomenon over time. An example of a growth curve might be a chart showing a country's population increase over time.



Growth curves are widely used in statistics to determine patterns of growth over time of a quantity—be it linear, exponential, or cubic. Businesses use growth curves to track or predict many factors, including future sales.





Key Takeaways

A growth curve shows the direction of some phenomena over time, in the past or into the future, or both.Growth curves are typically displayed on a set of axes where the x-axis is time and the y-axis shows an amount of growth.Growth curves are used in a variety of applications from population biology and ecology to finance and economics.Growth curves allow for the monitoring of change over time and what variables may cause this change. Businesses and investors can adjust strategies depending on the growth curve.


   Understanding a Growth Curve  

The shape of a growth curve can make a big difference when a business determines whether to launch a new product or enter a new market. Slow growth markets are less likely to be appealing because there is less room for profit. Exponential growth is generally positive but it also could mean that the market could see a lot of competitors.



Growth curves were initially used in the physical sciences such as biology. Today, they're a common component of social sciences as well.


  Digital Enhancements  

Advancements in digital technologies and business models now require analysts to account for growth patterns unique to the modern economy. For example, the winner-take-all phenomenon is a fairly recent development brought on by companies such as Amazon, Google, and Apple. Researchers are scrambling to make sense of growth curves that are unique to new business models and platforms.






Growth curves are often associated with biology, allowing biologists to study organisms and how these organisms behave in a specific environment and the changes to that environment in a controlled setting. This is used to help with medical treatments.



Shifts in demographics, the nature of work, and artificial intelligence will further strain conventional ways of analyzing growth curves or trends.



Analysis of growth curves plays an essential role in determining the future success of products, markets, and societies, both at the micro and macro levels.


   Example of a Growth Curve  

In the image below, the growth curve displayed represents the growth of a population in millions over a span of decades. The shape of this growth curve indicates exponential growth. That is, the growth curve starts slowly, remains nearly flat for some time, and then curves sharply upwards, appearing almost vertical.



This curve follows the general formula: V = S * (1 + R)t 



The current value, V, of an initial starting point subject to exponential growth, can be determined by multiplying the starting value, S, by the sum of one plus the rate of interest, R, raised to the power of t, or the number of periods that have elapsed.















By GenVal (Own work) [CC BY-SA 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons.



In finance, exponential growth appears most commonly in the context of compound interest.



The power of compounding is one of the most powerful forces in finance. This concept allows investors to create large sums with little initial capital. Savings accounts that carry a compounding interest rate are common examples.




What Are the 2 Types of Growth Curves?
The two types of growth curves are exponential growth curves and logarithmic growth curves. In an exponential growth curve, the slope grows greater and greater as time moves along. In a logarithmic growth curve, the slope grows sharply, and then over time the slope declines until it becomes flat.




Why Use a Growth Curve?
Growth curves are a helpful visual representation of change over time. Growth curves can be used to understand a variety of changes over time, such as developmental and economic. They allow for the understanding of the effect of policies or treatments.




What Is a Business Growth Model?
A business growth model provides a visual representation for businesses to track various metrics and key drivers, allowing businesses to map out growth and adjust the businesses accordingly to foster these metrics.
What Is a Growth Fund?  

A growth fund is a diversified portfolio of stocks that has capital appreciation as its primary goal, with little or no dividend payouts. The portfolio mainly consists of companies with above-average growth that reinvest their earnings into expansion, acquisitions, or research and development (R&D). Most growth funds offer higher potential capital appreciation but usually at above-average risk.





Key Takeaways

A growth fund is a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) that includes companies primed for revenue or earnings growth at a pace that is faster than that of either industry peers or the market overall.Growth funds are separated by market capitalization into small-, mid-, and large-cap.Most growth funds are high-risk, high-reward, and are therefore best suited to market participants with a long-term investment horizon and a healthy risk tolerance.


   How a Growth Fund Works  

The high-risk, high-reward mantra of growth funds can make them ideal for those not retiring anytime soon. Typically, investors need a tolerance for risk and a holding period with a time horizon of five to ten years. Growth fund holdings often have high price-to-earnings (P/E) and price-to-sales (P/S) multiples. This trade-off from investors is the above-average revenue and earnings gains these companies produce.


   Types of Growth Funds  

Growth funds, along with value funds and blend funds, are one of the main types of mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) They are more volatile than funds in the value and blend categories. Growth funds are typically split by market capitalization, with funds representing small-cap, mid-cap, and large-cap groupings.



Large-cap growth mutual funds are one of the largest types of mutual funds in terms of market share. Large-blend funds, which offer investors value and growth, are also very popular. Foreign large-cap growth funds are much lower in terms of market share.



Foreign growth funds are becoming more common for investors who want to take advantage of global growth. These funds invest in international stocks posting strong revenue and earnings growth. For international growth funds, technology and consumer sectors are the most common. Large internet names such as Tencent (TCTZF), Baidu (BIDU), and Alibaba (BABA) can be found among the top ten holdings for many international growth funds.


   Largest Growth Fund  

One of the largest growth funds is the Growth Fund of America (AGTHX) from American Funds. This mutual fund has over $253 billion in assets under management (AUM) as of March 2022 and the stock price is up 10% over the last year, despite the market volatility. The fund's average annual return has been 14.28% over the last ten years, as of Feb. 28, 2022.



The Growth Fund of America has Tesla, as its largest holding, representing 7.1% of assets. Technology stocks represent the largest sector weighting at 34.9%. Consumer Discretionary stocks follow closely behind with 24.3% of assets.






Technology stocks are a major part of growth funds. With high growth and high P/E and P/S ratios, technology stocks fit the criteria perfectly for growth funds.


   Performance of Growth Funds  

The majority of the best performing large-company stock funds over the last decade have been growth funds. For example, the Morgan Stanley Multi Cap Growth A (CPOAX) is the best performing large-company stock fund over the last ten years, with an annualized return of 23.3%. Currently, its top three holdings include Snowflake, Inc. (SNOW), Cloudflare, Inc. (NET), and The Trade Desk (TTD).
What Is a Growth Industry?  

A growth industry is that sector of an economy which experiences a higher-than-average growth rate as compared to other sectors. Growth industries are often new or pioneer industries that did not exist in the past. Their growth is a result of demand for new products or services offered by companies in the field. An example of a growth industry is the technology sector, whose products have become runaway hits with consumers and led to multibillion-dollar valuations for tech companies in the stock market.


   Understanding Growth Industries  

Several factors are responsible for catalyzing a growth industry.



One of them is the advent of new and innovative technologies that can drive entrepreneurs and startups to develop new products and services related to the industry. Given the constantly changing nature of technology, the rationale behind investing in such technologies is the promise of exponential future growth.



The smartphone industry, which packed multiple innovative technologies into a single phone, became a growth industry during the earlier part of this decade. In recent times, virtual reality (VR) and machine learning are two examples of such an approach. VR is an immersive, computer-generated scenario that can simulate a real-life experience. It has applications across many industries, from VR headsets for gaming to simulations for driving tests and for learning in medical schools.



Big data involves the processing of large amounts of data for research or to identify trends and statistical probabilities. Companies in big data provide services to large corporations or industries, such as healthcare. Startups and companies in the sector have multiplied as the technology becomes popular. Investors typically value companies at a multiple of their current earnings and their future growth potential.



Changes in regulations can also spur growth. For example, growth in the healthcare industry is mostly driven by changes in regulation relating to insurance. The deregulation of electricity markets and greater awareness about sustainable living has also led to investors putting their money into stocks for solar companies and renewable energy companies. Medical marijuana is another growth industry that came into being due to the relaxing of strict marijuana laws.



Tesla Inc. (TSLA), which has among the highest valuations of car companies, is an example of a company that benefits from changing regulations and its technology chops. Investors have flocked to the company due to its promise of a greener future as well as its cars, which incorporates state-of-the-art technology.



A third factor driving growth industries is a change in lifestyle and consumer preferences. With more leisure time and the availability of technology and transportation options, consumers have begun traveling more. Travel apps and websites have proliferated. Travel-related startups, such as Airbnb and Uber, have garnered record valuations in private markets and are considered hot commodities for public markets.





Key Takeaways

Growth industries are sectors of economies that experience higher-than-average growth due to new technologies or changes in societal preferences or government regulations.While they can be volatile and risky stocks, companies in growth industries are generally accompanied by press hype and steadily increasing sales figures.Analysts use CAGR to value growth industries.


   Characteristics of Growth Industries  

Particular characteristics of growth industries include companies across an industry exhibiting consistent and quickly growing sales figures and an influx of investments. This can often be accompanied by a lot of press hype. Growth industries tend to be composed of relatively volatile and risky stocks. Often investors are willing to accept increased risk in order to take part in the potentially large gains.



Additional risks that growth industries pose can include high rates of cash burn, lack of profitability despite consumer and investor excitement, bubbles, and technological setbacks that can obstruct progress.


   Growth Industries and CAGR  

Many analysts use the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) when determining the present viability and future potential of an investment. The CAGR is the mean annual growth rate of an investment over a set period of time longer than one year and can apply to companies in both growth and regular industries.



To calculate compound annual growth rate, analysts divide the value of an investment at the end of the period by its value at the beginning of the period. The analyst then raises the result to the power of one, divided by the period length, and subtracts one from the subsequent result:








CAGR


=




(



Ending Value


Beginning Value



)




(



1



#


 of years




)




−


1



\text{CAGR}=\left(\frac{\text{Ending Value}}{\text{Beginning Value}}\right)^{\left(\frac{1}{\#\ \text{of years}}\right)}-1


CAGR=(Beginning ValueEnding Value​)(# of years1​)−1



CAGR is widely used to calculate the average growth of an investment. An investment may increase in value by 6% in one year, decrease in value by 3% the following year, and increase again by 2% in the next. With inconsistent annual growth, CAGR may be used to give a broader picture of an investment’s progress; however, it doesn’t take into account external factors such as market volatility.


   Example of a Growth Industry  

The marijuana industry has become an example of a growth industry in recent times. Marijuana had a bad reputation and its possession and use was heavily regulated in the country. The situation has changed in the last decade as a groundswell of popular opinion has led to lawmakers changing their prohibitive stance on the plant. As of August 2022, 37 states have legalized medical marijuana and its use and possession is legal in 19 states. Universities are conducting research into its uses and applications to medical science. For example, New York University researchers are using it to treat incoming veterans with PTSD. Food entrepreneurs and beverage companies are infusing their products with marijuana chemicals. Investors have poured money into marijuana companies on growth expectations for the future.
What Is Growth Investing?  

Growth investing is an investment style and strategy that is focused on increasing an investor's capital. Growth investors typically invest in growth stocks—that is, young or small companies whose earnings are expected to increase at an above-average rate compared to their industry sector or the overall market.



Growth investing is highly attractive to many investors because buying stock in emerging companies can provide impressive returns (as long as the companies are successful). However, such companies are untried, and thus often pose a fairly high risk.



Growth investing may be contrasted with value investing. Value investing is an investment strategy that involves picking stocks that appear to be trading for less than their intrinsic or book value.





key takeaways

Growth investing is a stock-buying strategy that looks for companies that are expected to grow at an above-average rate compared to their industry or the broader market.Growth investors tend to favor smaller, younger companies poised to expand and increase profitability potential in the future.Growth investors often look to five key factors when evaluating stocks: historical and future earnings growth; profit margins; returns on equity (ROE); and share price performance.


   Understanding Growth Investing  

Growth investors typically look for investments in rapidly expanding industries (or even entire markets) where new technologies and services are being developed. Growth investors look for profits through capital appreciation—that is, the gains they'll achieve when they sell their stock (as opposed to dividends they receive while they own it). In fact, most growth-stock companies reinvest their earnings back into the business rather than paying a dividend to their shareholders.



These companies tend to be small, young companies with excellent potential. They may also be companies that have just started trading publicly. The idea is that the company will prosper and expand, and this growth in earnings or revenues will eventually translate into higher stock prices in the future. Growth stocks may therefore trade at a high price/earnings (P/E) ratio. They may not have earnings at the present moment but are expected to in the future. This is because they may hold patents or have access to technologies that put them ahead of others in their industry. In order to stay ahead of competitors, they reinvest profits to develop even newer technologies, and they seek to secure patents as a way to ensure longer-term growth.



Because investors seek to maximize their capital gains, growth investing is also known as a capital growth strategy or a capital appreciation strategy.


   Evaluating a Company's Potential for Growth  

Growth investors look at a company's or a market's potential for growth. There is no absolute formula for evaluating this potential; it requires a degree of individual interpretation, based on objective and subjective factors, plus personal judgment. Growth investors may use certain methods or criteria as a framework for their analysis, but these methods must be applied with a company's particular situation in mind: Specifically, its current position vis-a-vis its past industry performance and historical financial performance.



In general, though, growth investors look at five key factors when selecting companies that may provide capital appreciation. These include:


  Strong Historical Earnings Growth  

Companies should show a track record of strong earnings growth over the previous five to 10 years. The minimum earnings per share (EPS) growth depends on the size of the company: for example, you might look for growth of at least 5% for companies that are larger than $4 billion, 7% for companies in the $400 million to $4 billion range, and 12% for smaller companies under $400 million. The basic idea is that if the company has displayed good growth in the recent past, it’s likely to continue doing so moving forward.


  Strong Forward Earnings Growth  

An earnings announcement is an official public statement of a company’s profitability for a specific period—typically a quarter or a year. These announcements are made on specific dates during earnings season and are preceded by earnings estimates issued by equity analysts. It’s these estimates that growth investors pay close attention to as they try to determine which companies are likely to grow at above-average rates compared to the industry.


  Strong Profit Margins  

A company’s pretax profit margin is calculated by deducting all expenses from sales (except taxes) and dividing by sales. It’s an important metric to consider because a company can have fantastic growth in sales with poor gains in earnings—which could indicate management is not controlling costs and revenues. In general, if a company exceeds its previous five-year average of pretax profit margins—as well as those of its industry—the company may be a good growth candidate.


  Strong Return on Equity (ROE)  

A company’s return on equity (ROE) measures its profitability by revealing how much profit a company generates with the money shareholders have invested. It’s calculated by dividing net income by shareholder equity. A good rule of thumb is to compare a company’s present ROE to the five-year average ROE of the company and the industry. Stable or increasing ROE indicates that management is doing a good job generating returns from shareholders’ investments and operating the business efficiently.


  Strong Stock Performance  

In general, if a stock cannot realistically double in five years, it’s probably not a growth stock. Keep in mind, a stock’s price would double in seven years with a growth rate of just 10%. To double in five years, the growth rate must be 15%—something that’s certainly feasible for young companies in rapidly expanding industries.






You can find growth stocks trading on any exchange and in any industrial sector—but you’ll usually find them in the fastest-growing industries.


   Growth Investing vs. Value Investing  

Some consider growth investing and value investing to be diametrically opposed approaches. Value investors seek "value stocks" that trade below their intrinsic value or book value, whereas growth investors—while they do consider a company's fundamental worth—tend to ignore standard indicators that might show the stock to be overvalued.



While value investors look for stocks that are trading for less than their intrinsic value today—bargain-hunting so to speak—growth investors focus on the future potential of a company, with much less emphasis on the present stock price. Unlike value investors, growth investors may buy stock in companies that are trading higher than their intrinsic value with the assumption that the intrinsic value will grow and ultimately exceed current valuations.



Those interested in learning more about the growth investing, value investing, and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.


   Some Growth Investing Gurus  

One notable name among growth investors is Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., who is known as the father of growth investing. In 1950, Price set up the T. Rowe Price Growth Stock Fund, the first mutual fund to be offered by his advisory firm, T. Rowe Price Associates. This flagship fund averaged 15% growth annually for 22 years. Today, T. Rowe Price Group is one of the largest financial services firms in the world.



Philip Fisher also has a notable name in the growth investing field. He outlined his growth investment style in his 1958 book Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits, the first of many he authored. Emphasizing the importance of research, especially through networking, it remains one of the most popular growth investing primers today.



Peter Lynch, manager of Fidelity Investments' legendary Magellan Fund, pioneered a hybrid model of growth and value investing, which is now commonly referred to as "growth at a reasonable price" (GARP) strategy.


   Example of a Growth Stock  

Amazon Inc. (AMZN) has long been considered a growth stock. In 2021, it remains one of the largest companies in the world and has been for some time. As of Q1 2021, Amazon ranks in the top three U.S. stocks in terms of its market capitalization.



Amazon's stock has historically traded at a high price to earnings (P/E) ratio. Between 2019 and early 2020, the stock's P/E has remained upwards of 70, moderating to around 60 in 2021. Despite the company's size, earnings per share (EPS) growth estimates for the next five years still hover near 30% per year.



When a company is expected to grow, investors remain willing to invest (even at a high P/E ratio). This is because several years down the road the current stock price may look cheap in hindsight. The risk is that growth doesn't continue as expected. Investors have paid a high price expecting one thing, and not getting it. In such cases, a growth stock's price can fall dramatically.
What Are Growth Rates?  

Growth rates refer to the percentage change of a specific variable within a specific time period. Growth rates can be positive or negative, depending on whether the size of the variable is increasing or decreasing over time. Growth rates were first used by biologists studying population sizes, but they have since been brought into use in studying economic activity, corporate management, or investment returns. 



For investors, growth rates typically represent the compounded annualized rate of growth of an investment, or a company’s revenues, earnings, or dividends. Growth rates are also applied to more macro concepts, such as gross domestic product (GDP) and unemployment. Expected forward-looking or trailing growth rates are two common kinds of growth rates used for analysis.





Key Takeaways

Growth rates are used to express the annual change in a variable as a percentage.A positive growth rate indicates a variable is increasing over time; a negative growth rate indicates that it is decreasing.Growth rates can be beneficial in assessing a company’s performance and predicting future performance.Growth rates are computed by dividing the difference between the ending and starting values for the period being analyzed and dividing that by the starting value.Time periods used for growth rates are most often annually, quarterly, monthly, and weekly.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   ﻿Understanding Growth Rates  

At their most basic level, growth rates are used to express the annual change in a variable as a percentage. For example, an economy’s growth rate is derived as the annual rate of change at which a country’s GDP increases or decreases. This rate of growth is used to measure an economy’s recession or expansion. If the income within a country declines for two consecutive quarters, it is considered to be in a recession.



Conversely, if the country has grown its income for two consecutive quarters, it is considered to be expanding.


   How to Calculate Growth Rates  

Growth rates can be calculated in several ways, depending on what the figure is intended to convey. A simple growth rate simply divides the difference between the ending and starting value by the beginning value, or (EV-BV)/BV. The economic growth rate for a country’s GDP can thus be computed as:


















Economic Growth


=





GDP


2



−



GDP


1





GDP


1


















where:
















GDP


=


Gross domestic product of nation







\begin{aligned} &\text{Economic Growth} = \frac { \text{GDP}_2 - \text{GDP}_1 }{ \text{GDP}_1 } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{GDP} = \text{Gross domestic product of nation} \\ \end{aligned}


​Economic Growth=GDP1​GDP2​−GDP1​​where:GDP=Gross domestic product of nation​



This approach, however, may be overly simplistic.


  Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  

The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is a variation on the growth rate that is often used to assess an investment’s or company’s performance. The CAGR, which is not a true return rate, but rather a representation that describes the rate at which an investment would have grown if it had grown at the same rate every year and the profits were reinvested at the end of each year. The formula for calculating CAGR is:


















C


A


G


R


=




(




E


V




B


V




)




1


n




−


1
















where:
















E


V


=


Ending value
















B


V


=


Beginning value
















n


=


Number of years







\begin{aligned} &CAGR= \left ( \frac{EV}{BV} \right ) ^{\frac{1}{n}}-1\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EV = \text{Ending value}\\ &BV = \text{Beginning value}\\ &n = \text{Number of years} \end{aligned}


​CAGR=(BVEV​)n1​−1where:EV=Ending valueBV=Beginning valuen=Number of years​



The CAGR calculation assumes that growth is steady over a specified period of time. CAGR is a widely used metric due to its simplicity and flexibility, and many firms will use it to report and forecast earnings growth. 


  Dividend Growth and Securities Valuation  

Financial theory suggests that a company’s shares can be fairly valued using a dividend discount model (DDM), based on the hypothesis that present-day price is worth the sum of all of its future dividend payments when discounted back to its present value. As a result, dividend growth rates are important for valuing stocks.



The Gordon Growth Model (GGM) is a popular approach used to determine the intrinsic value of a stock based on a future series of dividends that grow at a constant rate. This dividend growth rate is assumed to be positive as mature companies seek to increase the dividends paid to their investors on a regular basis. Knowing the dividend growth rate is thus a key input for stock valuation.


   Using Growth Rates  
  Company and Investment Growth Rates  

Growth rates are utilized by analysts, investors, and a company’s management to assess a firm’s growth periodically and make predictions about future performance. Most often, growth rates are calculated for a firm’s earnings, sales, or cash flows, but investors also look at growth rates for other metrics, such as price-to-earnings ratios or book value, among others. When public companies report quarterly earnings, the headline figures are typically earnings and revenue, along with the growth rates—quarter over quarter, or year over year—for each. 



For example, Amazon reported full-year revenue of $232.89 billion for 2018; this represented growth of 30.93% from 2017 revenue of $177.9 billion. Amazon also reported that its earnings totaled $10.07 billion in 2018, compared to $3.03 billion in 2017, so the firm’s growth rate for earnings on a year-over-year basis was a whopping 232%.



The internal growth rate (IGR) is a specific type of growth rate used to measure an investment’s or project’s return or a company’s performance. It is the highest level of growth achievable for a business without obtaining outside financing, and a firm’s maximum IGR is the level of business operations that can continue to fund and grow the company.



Investors often look to rate of return (RoR) calculations to compute the growth rate of their portfolios or investments. While these generally follow the formulae for growth rate or CAGR, investors may wish to also know their real or after-tax rate of return. Thus, growth rates for investors will net out the impact of taxes, inflation, and transaction costs or fees.






Because stock prices are thought to reflect the discounted value of a firm’s future cash flows, a rising stock market implies improving forecasted growth rates for the company.


  Industry Growth Rates  

Specific industries also have growth rates. Each industry has a unique benchmark number for rates of growth against which its performance is measured. For instance, companies on the cutting edge of technology are more likely to have higher annual rates of growth compared to a mature industry such as retail. Industry growth rates can be used as a point of comparison for firms seeking to gauge their performance relative to their peers.



The use of historical growth rates is one of the simplest methods of estimating the future growth of an industry. However, historically high growth rates do not always indicate a high rate of growth looking into the future, as industrial and economic conditions change constantly and are often cyclical. For example, the auto industry has higher rates of revenue growth during periods of economic expansion, but in times of recession, consumers are more inclined to be frugal and not spend disposable income on a new car.



In addition to GDP growth, retail sales growth is another important growth rate for an economy because it can be representative of consumer confidence and customer spending habits. When the economy is doing well and people are confident, they increase spending, which is reflected in retail sales. When the economy is in a recession, people reduce spending, and retail sales decline.



For example, second-quarter (Q2) 2016 retail sales growth for Ireland was reported in July 2016, revealing that domestic retail sales flatlined through the quarter. It is believed that political instability within the country, combined with the results of the Brexit vote in June 2016, caused Ireland’s sales to stall. While some industries, such as agriculture and garden, showed positive growth, other industries within the retail sector counteracted that growth. Fashion and footwear had negative growth for the quarter.


   Example of a Growth Rate  

Say that we are comparing the annual growth rates of two countries’ GDP.



Country A is a developed economy with a large, skilled population and a high degree of technology. It had a GDP over three years of:year 1: $1.20 trillionyear 2: $1.26 trillion (growth y1 to y2 = 6/120 = 5.0%)year 3: $1.29 trillion (growth y2 to y3 = 3/126 = 2.4%)Country B is a developing economy with a rapidly growing population of unskilled but cheap labor and only a moderate degree of technology. Its GDP over the same period was:year 1: $20 billionyear 2: $25 billion (growth y1 to y2 = 50/200 = 25.0%)year 3: $35 billion (growth y2 to y3 = 100/250 = 40.0%)



First, we can look at the annual growth rates of each country for the first two years. Country A is growing at a modest rate that is declining over the three years. Country B is growing rapidly and at an increasing rate. This is not unusual for large, mature countries and emerging-markets economies, respectively. But also notice that in year 3, the size of Country A’s economy is still more than 36× larger than it.



We can also consider the CAGR of the two countries over the two-year period taking place between years 1 and 3. We then get:



CAGRA = (1.29/1.20)1/2 - 1 = 3.68% per yearCAGRB = (35/20)1/2 - 1 = 32.29% per year



Note that the CAGR annualized rates are slightly lower than the arithmetic average of the two years’ individual growth rates.


   Limitations of Growth Rates  

While growth rates are important for understanding how things change over time, they do come with some important limitations. First, the growth rate only considers the net change between two points in time, but it says nothing about the price movements or volatility that may have occurred in between. For instance, if some variable has a value of 10.00 today and 10.00 as well a year from now, the growth rate is zero. However, it could have fluctuated wildly—or not at all—during those 12 months. The annual growth rate, in this case, cannot tell us anything about that.



Growth rates also ignore the nominal amounts involved. For instance, Company A’s earnings may grow from $100,000 per year to $150,000 per year, representing 50% growth, but only a $50,000 change. A much larger Company B’s earnings may only grow at, say, 5% a year (10× less in terms of the growth rate) but amount to several millions of dollars in the company’s coffers.



Finally, growth rates are hard to compare across industries or other unlike variables. A 5% rate of growth for a company may be relatively good or bad depending on if it is a growth-oriented tech startup vs. a large, incumbent consumer staples manufacturer. Likewise, a 4% decline in unemployment does not necessarily carry the same impact as a 4% increase in GDP.




How do you calculate gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate?
The GDP growth rate, according to the formula above, takes the difference between the current and prior GDP level and divides that by the prior GDP level. The real economic (real GDP) growth rate will take into account the effects of inflation, replacing real GDP in the numerator and denominator, where real GDP = GDP / (1 + inflation rate since base year).




What is a normal growth rate for a company?
What is considered to be a good growth rate for a company will depend on several factors such as the industry it is in, whether it is new or well-established, the size of the company, and the overall condition of the economy. In general, a company’s growth rate should exceed the rate of nominal GDP growth as well as the rate of inflation. Newer companies in riskier industries will require a higher rate of growth to satisfy investors.




What is a good growth rate for a startup?
Startup companies, especially those in high-tech industries, are expected to grow quite rapidly. For Y Combinator companies (a well-known tech incubator), a good growth rate is considered to be 5% to 7% per week of revenues, while an exceptional growth rate is 10% per week. Thus, a startup may grow by 150% and more over the first few months. As the company matures, the growth rate will decrease.




How do you calculate growth rate in Excel?
Since growth rate calculations follow a fairly straightforward formula, they can be easily transported into a spreadsheet program like Microsoft Excel to speed up calculations and remove the chance of human error. You will simply need to provide the beginning values, ending values, and the number of periods (if using compound annual growth rate [CAGR], for instance). Note that newer versions of Excel also have a built-in rate of return (RoR) function that can compute CAGR in one step, known as [RRI]. Still, the RRI function uses three arguments: number of periods, start value, and end value.




How do you calculate the growth rate of a population?
Like any other growth rate calculation, a population’s growth rate can be computed by taking the current population size and subtracting the previous population size. Divide that amount by the previous size. Multiply that by 100 to get the percentage.


   The Bottom Line  

Growth rates measure how quickly variables increase or decrease, showing the net change in value over some period of time. First applied to the study of biological populations and diseases, growth rates today are an important factor for economists, policy makers, company managers, entrepreneurs, and investors. Calculating a growth rate is simply achieved by dividing the difference in value observed over some period (such as a year) by the starting value.
What Is a Growth Stock?  

A growth stock is any share in a company that is anticipated to grow at a rate significantly above the average growth for the market. These stocks generally do not pay dividends. This is because the issuers of growth stocks are usually companies that want to reinvest any earnings they accrue in order to accelerate growth in the short term. When investors invest in growth stocks, they anticipate that they will earn money through capital gains when they eventually sell their shares in the future.





Key Takeaways

Growth stocks are those companies expected to grow sales and earnings at a faster rate than the market average.Growth stocks often look expensive, trading at a high P/E ratio, but such valuations could actually be cheap if the company continues to grow rapidly which will drive the share price up.Since investors are paying a high price for a growth stock, based on expectation, if those expectations aren't realized growth stocks can see dramatic declines.Growth stocks typically don't pay dividends.Growth stocks are often put in contrast with value stocks.


   Understanding Growth Stocks  

Growth stocks may appear in any sector or industry and typically trade at a high price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. They may not have earnings at the present moment but are expected to in the future.



Investment in growth stocks can be risky. Because they typically do not offer dividends, the only opportunity an investor has to earn money on their investment is when they eventually sell their shares. If the company does not do well, investors take a loss on the stock when it's time to sell.



Growth stocks tend to share a few common traits. For example, growth companies tend to have unique product lines. They may hold patents or have access to technologies that put them ahead of others in their industry. In order to stay ahead of competitors, they reinvest profits to develop even newer technologies and patents as a way to ensure longer-term growth.



Because of their patterns of innovation, they often have a loyal customer base or a significant amount of market share in their industry. For example, a company that develops computer applications and is the first to provide a new service may become a growth stock by way of gaining market share for being the only company providing a new service. If other app companies enter the market with their own versions of the service, the company that manages to attract and hold the largest number of users has a greater potential for becoming a growth stock.



Many small-cap stocks are considered growth stocks. However, some larger companies may also be growth companies






You can find growth stocks trading on any exchange and in any industrial sector—but you’ll usually find them in the fastest-growing industries and on more innovative exchanges like the Nasdaq.






   Growth Stocks vs. Value Stocks  

Growth stocks differ from value stocks. Investors expect growth stocks to earn substantial capital gains as a result of strong growth in the underlying company. This expectation can result in these stocks appearing overvalued because of their generally high price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios.



On the contrary, value stocks are often underrated or ignored by the market, but they may eventually gain value. Investors also attempt to profit from the dividends they typically pay. Value stocks tend to trade at a low price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio.



Some investors may try to include both growth and value stocks in their portfolios for diversification. Others may prefer to specialize by focusing more on value or growth.



Some value stocks are underpriced simply due to poor earnings reports or negative media attention. However, one characteristic that they often have is strong dividend-payout histories. A value stock with a strong dividend track record can provide reliable income to an investor. Many value stocks are older companies that can be counted on to stay in business, even if they aren’t particularly innovative or poised to grow.


   Example of a Growth Stock  

Amazon Inc. (AMZN) has long been considered a growth stock. In 2021, it is one of the largest companies in the world and has been for some time. As of Sept. 24, 2021, Amazon ranks fourth among U.S. stocks in terms of its market capitalization.



Amazon's stock has historically traded at a high price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Between June 2020 and September 2021, the stock's P/E has ranged from around 58 to 106. Despite the company's size, earnings per share (EPS) growth estimates for 2022 is over 67.



When a company is expected to grow, investors remain willing to invest (even at a high P/E ratio). This is because several years down the road the current stock price may look cheap in hindsight. The risk is that growth doesn't continue as expected. Investors have paid a high price expecting one thing, and not getting it. In such cases, a growth stock's price can fall dramatically.




What Is Considered to Be a Growth Stock?
When it comes to stocks, "growth" means that the company has substantial room for capital appreciation. These tend to be newer and smaller-cap companies, and/or those in growth sectors like technology or biotech. Growth stocks may have low or even negative earnings, often making the high P/E stocks.




Are Growth Stocks Risky?
As with all investing, there is a fundamental trade-off between risk and return. Growth stocks provide a greater potential for future return, and they are thus equally matched by greater risk than other types of investments like value stocks or corporate bonds. The main risk is that the realized or expected growth doesn't continue into the future. Investors have paid a high price expecting one thing, and not getting it. In such cases, a growth stock's price can fall dramatically.




What Is an Example of a Growth Stock?
As a hypothetical example, a growth stock would be a biotech startup that has begun work on a promising new cancer treatment. Currently, the product is only in the Phase I stage of clinical trials, and there is uncertainty whether the FDA will approve the drug candidate to continue on to Phase II & III trials. If the drug passes and is ultimately approved for use, it could mean huge profits and capital gains. If, however, the drug either doesn't work as planned or causes severe side effects, all of that R&D spending may have been in vain.




How Do You Know If a Stock Is Growth or Value?
Instead of looking to future growth potential, value stocks are those that are thought to trade below what they are really worth and will thus theoretically provide a superior return as their stock prices catch up with fundamentals. Unlike growth stocks, which typically do not pay dividends, value stocks often have higher than average dividend yields. Value stocks also tend to have strong fundamentals with comparably low price-to-book (P/B) ratios and low P/E values—the opposite of growth stocks.
What Is Grunt Work?  

Grunt work is an expression used to describe thankless and menial work. Grunt work can also refer to jobs that either lack glamour and prestige or are boring and repetitive. In the context of the finance industry, grunt work could entail combing through a company's financial records, looking for positive and negative developments, or analyzing historical trading data in the hope of finding the perfect stop-limit order points.





Key Takeaways

Grunt work usually refers to jobs that either lack glamour and prestige or are boring and repetitive.In the finance industry, grunt work often includes coordinating presentations, compiling analytical data, and administrative duties.Grunt work, despite its lowly status, is often an essential component of advancing in the career ladder.


   Understanding Grunt Work  

Grunt work, despite its lowly status, is often an essential component of climbing the career ladder. Some banks and firms have their own hierarchies, but financial careers on Wall Street typically follow a path similar to the following:



Analyst
Associate
Vice President
Director
Managing Director



Grunt work often includes coordinating presentations, compiling analytical data, and administrative duties. For example, an analyst will likely be responsible for coordinating the publication of pitch books and marketing presentations for existing and prospective clients. Analytical work is Excel-heavy, including financial modeling, valuation, and credit analysis. Administrative work likely includes scheduling, coordinating meetings, and making travel arrangements. 



After the role of analyst, the next role in the traditional career progression of a finance professional is associate. Associates are either recruited directly out of MBA programs or are analysts that have been promoted after two years at the firm. The associate role is similar to the analyst role, with the additional responsibility of serving as a liaison between junior- and senior-level personnel.



In some instances, they may have opportunities to work directly with clients as well. Associates work closely with analysts, given their familiarity with and expectations for the role. Associates review the work of analysts, particularly when those individuals in the analyst role are working on any client-facing materials or analytical work.



Senior-level personnel–starting with vice presidents and moving on to directors and managing directors–assume additional responsibilities as they climb the career ladder and become decision-makers. Seniors prospect for deals and maintain client relationships, in addition to knowing how economic shifts and market dynamics can impact their industry at an expert level. The longer their tenure at the firm, the more institutional knowledge–or access to pertinent institutional knowledge–that can help them navigate that particular phase of their careers.



Grunt work has become a big topic of discussion for finance. In an effort to attract and retain top talent, which has become a challenge in recent years, many firms have been quickening the pace of promotion. Also, firms have been utilizing technology to reduce some of the labor-intensive grunt work typically associated with analyst- and associate-level positions, which often include long hours under deadline pressure. 



However, it could be said that for those just starting out in a career in the finance industry, grunt work is actually highly relevant because you need to master the grunt work if you are ever to be trusted with the higher-level, more complex tasks. Grunt work is a way for analysts and associates to demonstrate their competency by showing those in senior-level positions that they can effectively do the smaller or less important tasks first.
What Is the S&P GSCI?  

The S&P GSCI is a composite index of commodities that measures the performance of the commodities market. The index often serves as a benchmark for commodities investments. Investing in a GSCI fund provides a broadly diversified, unleveraged long-only position in commodity futures.



The S&P GSCI was simply called the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index (GSCI) before it was purchased by Standard & Poor’s in 2007. Although owned by S&P Dow Jones Indices, the GSCI should not be confused with the similar Dow Jones Commodity Index (DJCI).





Key Takeaways

The S&P GSCI is a benchmark commodities index that tracks the performance of the global commodities market.It is made up of 24 exchange-traded futures contracts that cover physical commodities spanning five sectors.The S&P GSCI is designed to be investable, and there are ETF products designed to track its performance.The S&P GSCI automatically rolls futures contracts, which may not be an optimal investment strategy.


   How the S&P GSCI Works  

The S&P GSCI is weighted by world production and comprises the physical commodities that have active, liquid futures markets. There is no limit on the number of commodities that may be included in the S&P GSCI; any commodity whose contract satisfies the eligibility criteria and the other conditions specified in this methodology are included. The S&P GSCI is designed to reflect the relative significance of each of the constituent commodities to the world economy, while preserving the tradability of the index by limiting eligible contracts to those with adequate liquidity. The calculation of the relative weights of commodities in the index involves a four-step process based on world production levels.



The methodology of the S&P GSCI was left unchanged when Standard & Poor's took over the index. The S&P GSCI is made up of 24 exchange-traded futures contracts that cover physical commodities spanning five sectors. The sectors currently include energy, industrial metals, precious metals, agriculture, and livestock. This sector mix has been consistent over the years, but the weighting shifts year to year.


  Trading the S&P GSCI  

The S&P GSCI is designed to be investable, and there are ETF products designed to track its performance. The S&P GSCI captures global inflation of core commodities. Therefore, it is useful for creating funds that have low correlations with traditional asset classes.



The iShares S&P GSCI Commodity Index ETF (GSG) is an ETF product that tracks the index.


   Components of the S&P GSCI  

The index's components qualify for inclusion in the index based on liquidity measures and are weighted in relation to their global production levels. That makes the GSCI valuable as both an economic indicator and a commodities market benchmark. Below is a table of the 2021 reference percentage dollar weights (RPDW) for the S&P GSCI.










GSCI Component Weights


Commodity Type
2021 RPDW(nearest %)
Included Commodities




Energy
54%
Crude oil, Refined oil products, Natural gas


Grains
15%
Wheat, Corn, Soybeans


Livestock
8%
Hogs, Cattle


"Soft" Agriculture
4%
Coffee, Sugar, Cocoa, Cotton


Industrial Metals
12%
Aluminum, Copper, Zinc, Nickel, Lead


Precious Metals
7%
Gold, Silver, Platinum



Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices



Energy was the largest sector at 54% of the index. Agriculture had a 27% share, while metals were 19%.


   Drawbacks of the S&P GSCI Index  

The S&P GSCI automatically rolls futures contracts, which may not be an optimal investment strategy. Futures contracts are affected by contango and backwardation, and they can cause commodity futures to perform differently than actual commodities.



In theory, professional commodities traders can also use contango and backwardation to profit at the expense of simple automatic rolling strategies. This may be a significant flaw in the S&P GSCI. It could also be more theoretical than real, like many early criticisms of stock market index funds.






The component mix of the S&P GSCI is reevaluated and rebalanced on an annual basis.


   Other Commodity Indexes  

Other widely watched and traded commodity indexes include the Credit Suisse Commodity Benchmark Index, the Rogers International Commodities Index, and the Bloomberg Commodity Total Return Index. The Dow Jones Commodity Index (DJCI) is a weighted index that tracks a wide range of 28 different commodity futures contracts, including metals, agricultural products, and energy commodities such as oil and gas.



It is essential to understand how commodity indexes are weighted and rebalanced. These differences will affect the performance of tracking products over time.
What Is Guanxi?  

Guanxi (pronounced gwan' CHē) is a Chinese term meaning relationships; in business, it commonly refers to the networks or connections used to open doors for new business and facilitate deals. The term refers not just to the existence of relationships but to their nature: to having personal trust and a strong relationship. It can also create moral obligations and require the exchanging of favors. A person who has a great deal of guanxi will be better positioned to generate business than someone who lacks it.



Closely intertwined with the Confucian philosophy that has shaped many Asian cultures, guanxi holds that the self extends to family, friends, and society to create a harmonious community. Guanxi implies an obligation that one has to another. In China, the belief is that the wheels of business are lubricated with guanxi.





Key Takeaways

Guanxi is a Chinese term describing an individual's ability to connect or network for productive business purposes.The Chinese symbols for guanxi essentially mean gateway to relationships.Guanxi is perhaps best encapsulated by the axiom, "it's not what you know, but who you know."Abusing guanxi through aggressive or dishonest business practices can jeopardize one's reputation or present opportunities for corruption.






The exchange of favors between people in a network need not be the same.



Merely saying that guanxi connects to Confucian philosophy does not complete the explanation of the term. Confucian thought dates back more than 2,000 years and continues to be highly influential in China today. Given the importance of Confucian thought, it should be no surprise that its stress on relationships and duty to others should be reflected in the notion of guanxi in Chinese business relationships.



Business comes before the personal in the Western business model, and the two do not often combine. In guanxi, however, the two are closely joined. Indeed, the original Chinese symbols relate to the concept of a gateway to a relationship, a neat and relatively accurate way to think of guanxi. In other words, the exercise of guanxi leads to the connections through which business can happen.


   How Guanxi Works  

Guanxi is perhaps best understood by the old axiom, "it's not what you know, but who you know that's important." Guanxi in the West comes in many forms—alumni networks, fraternity or sorority memberships, past and present places of employment, clubs, churches, families, and friends.



In social sciences, guanxi is similar to some concepts understood in network theory, such as the idea of information or connection brokerage by well-positioned individuals in a social network or their social capital.



Much of our lives today depends on networking, social networks like Facebook, business networks like LinkedIn. We are all building these intertwined networks of connections to improve our business lives every day.


   Understanding Guanxi  

The odds of gaining access to a business opportunity and then winning that opportunity are higher when you work your connections. If you are bidding for a contract in competition with others and know someone on the other side of the deal, naturally, you will try to utilize this contact to your advantage.



If you are a Wall Street executive with guanxi in Washington, you will undoubtedly make a few phone calls to make sure lawmakers remain at least neutral and regulators stay off your back. If you are a CEO who wants to make an acquisition, you will tap into your guanxi at the golf club to find a quicker route to your objective.


   Special Considerations  

Using your guanxi can be innocuous or hazardous depending on where you do business and how aggressive you are. Using connections may be commonly accepted as simply conducting business affairs in the West. Still, you must be careful of conflicts of interest, whether governed by law or a company's code of ethics. You can face severe consequences if your networking abroad violates the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).



In China, where the art of guanxi occurs in high form, calling upon connections is the norm to get things moving. However, even there, one can go too far. Business leaders with guanxi in the government have engaged in illegal activity with dire consequences. Abusing guanxi is a terrible idea virtually everywhere.




What Confucian Beliefs Are Key to Guanxi?
Confucianism is founded mainly on the five relationships and their importance to the individual. It looks to create social harmony based on these intertwined harmonious relationships and mutual courtesy in a well-ordered world.




Is Guanxi the Same as Networking?
Networking and guanxi have essentially the same linguistic meaning. However, networking in Western business is a recent concept that lies relatively lightly in our culture. In contrast, guanxi sits deeply in China's language and culture, forming the basis for virtually all social relationships.




How Do You Build Guanxi in China?
Building guanxi is usually a long-term process. Several techniques can help do so. You can begin by gaining knowledge about China's history and culture. Seeking formal introductions to individuals with whom you want to do business is also helpful to start relationships, especially where you make a conscious effort to create trust and social contact. Finally, gifts and entertaining, especially dinners, are traditional Chinese methods of building social capital.




What Are the Downsides to Guanxi?
Because it is so dependent on relationships, guanxi taken to its extremes can cause cronyism, nepotism, and corruption. On occasion, illegal acts result from misapplied guanxi. Further, guanxi often ignores the qualification or merit of the individual favored. In other words, guanxi can lead to the less qualified person obtaining a position or deal, leading to a less productive situation for the business.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding guanxi is essential to doing business successfully in China. Only by building social and business networks and contacts can a Western person fit well enough into the guanxi system to succeed.
What Is a Guarantee Company?  

A guarantee company is a type of corporation designed to protect members from liability. Guarantee companies often form when non-profit organizations wish to attain corporate status. Clubs, sports associations, students' unions, and other membership organizations, workers' co-operatives, social enterprises, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) may also form guarantee companies.



Typically, a guarantee company does not distribute profits to its members nor divide its assets into shares. Members of a guarantee company pay a specific sum of money to participate. This amount can vary by member, as well as the size of the guarantee company and whether it is public or private. Guarantee companies can appoint directors who are allowed to take a salary or bonus earned to them in agreement with the company.





Key Takeaways

Guarantee companies are organized to provide limited liability to their members.Many property management companies choose to become guarantee companies to shield themselves from certain legal claims.This form of company is most commonly found in England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.


   How a Guarantee Company Works  

Guarantee companies are common in the United Kingdom. They often form to protect the assets of non-profit organizations, unions, and membership organizations. They often use the word “limited” in their name although they may be exempt from doing so. Guarantee companies are also a popular choice for property management companies, which are created to hold an interest in property that is divided into units.



Guarantee companies are incorporated by having at least one director and one member, similar to a traditional corporation limited by share. If the company has any funds remaining from contributions from members, these are often used according to the purpose of the guarantee company, such as funding a museum or other public service projects.



A unique feature of guarantee companies is their limited liability. Members have legal protection to shield them from cases in which transactions might fail; however, each member will be responsible for a nominal sum of money if the guarantee dissolves. This nominal amount, set out in the company's articles, is usually £1, but it can be tailored to any amount that is fit for the situation.






Because a guarantee company doesn't have any shareholders receiving profits, its members are all equally responsible for paying creditors if the company goes under.


   Example of a Guarantee Company  

One example of a guarantee company is Cricket Australia, the central administrative body for cricket in the nation. Cricket Australia’s full name is Cricket Australia (Company Limited by Guarantee). It consists of six member associations (Cricket New South Wales, Queensland Cricket, South Australian Cricket Association, Cricket Tasmania, Cricket Victoria, and Western Australian Cricket Association) and has nine independent Directors.



Under its constitution, the liability of each Cricket Australia member is limited to $1,000 each. Cricket Australia receives all gate and signage revenue from international matches and distributes revenue to States under its minimum guarantee financial model. This de-risks States against volatile movements in gate revenue that might arise from the timing and duration of matches, weather, and other external factors.
What Are Guarantee Fees?  

The term guarantee fee refers to the sum of money paid to the issuer of a mortgage-backed security (MBS) by the holder. This charge helps the issuer pay for administrative costs and expenses related to the security and also cuts down on any risk or loss that may arise if any of the mortgages that back the security default. Also called g-fees, guarantee fees also refer to charges paid by a mortgagor to a guarantor for services rendered.





Key Takeaways

A guarantee fee is a sum paid to the issuer of a mortgage-backed security.These fees help the issuer pay for administrative costs and other expenses and also reduce the risk and potential for loss in the event of default of the underlying mortgages.G-fees are also charged by other guarantors for services rendered.Fees may be a percentage of the asset value or a fixed amount.


   Understanding Guarantee Fees  

Issuers of mortgage-backed security (MBS) providers like Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, and Fannie Mae charge lenders guarantee fees for the creation, servicing, and reporting of the asset, as well as for the guarantee that the provider will supplement it to make certain that payments of principal and interest are made even if borrowers default. While the fee is usually a certain percentage of the value of the asset, the issuer may also charge a fixed amount. This payment guarantee is the main component of the guarantee fees.



Providers like Fannie, Freddie, and Ginnie help banks by buying mortgages from mortgage companies, commercial banks, credit unions, aggregators, and so on. In most cases, these government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) pay for these mortgages by providing them back to the originators in the form of a securitized MBS that the recipient can then choose to sell or keep. The guarantee fee built into the MBS is the revenue generator for the MBS provider and these are ideally sufficient across all products to cover individual mortgage defaults.



Guarantee fees are primarily made up of the credit guarantee they provide to the end owner of the MBS, but they also cover the costs of managing and administering the securitized mortgage pools, reporting on the MBS to investors and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and other back-office tasks.



Although these fees are often referred to as a type of insurance for mortgage-backed securities, they also cover other services as mentioned. For instance, a bank may charge a g-fee to the bearer of a note or asset in order to provide a guarantee. They may also charge guarantee fees as part of the interest rate on a mortgage. Unlike other upfront fees—document and origination charges—these fees are imposed during the entire length of the loan.






Lenders may charge guarantee fees as part of the interest rate on a mortgage.


   Special Considerations  

Guarantee fees are set on the creditworthiness and size of the underlying mortgage pool. Prior to the mortgage meltdown and financial crisis, guarantee fees were a small deduction of 15 to 25 basis points. In exchange for this small fee, the mortgage originator received a sellable asset while also clearing the loan off the books to free up more credit. This was an excellent deal for lenders, as the MBS providers depended on the information from loan originators to set the guarantee fees. Banks took the opportunity to push the boundaries of who could reasonably be given a mortgage, resulting in NINJA loans and overall market distortion. Unfortunately, the guarantee fees were not being adjusted to reflect this reality, resulting in a massive mortgage meltdown where the U.S. government ultimately had to bail out MBS providers due to their guarantee fees being insufficient to cover the true liability. 



Guarantee fees saw a sharp increase since the financial crisis and the Great Recession. Compared to pre-meltdown averages of 15 to 25 basis points, the post-meltdown average is more than double. The Federal Housing and Finance Agency (FHFA) provides an annual analysis of guarantee fees charged by Freddie and Fannie. The FHFA reported an average guarantee fee of 58 basis points on a fixed-rate 30-year mortgage loan issued in 2019. Although guarantee fees generally don’t receive much attention outside of mortgage industry lobbying groups, there were political attempts to make across-the-board increases of an additional 10 basis points through the FHFA to reduce future risks to American taxpayers. These proposed increases were suspended prior to implementation.
What Is a Guaranteed Bond?  

A guaranteed bond is a debt security that offers a secondary guarantee that interest and principal payments will be made by a third party, should the issuer default due to reasons such as insolvency or bankruptcy. A guaranteed bond can be of either the municipal or corporate variety. It can be backed by a bond insurance company, a fund or group entity, a government authority, or the corporate parents of subsidiaries or joint ventures that are issuing bonds.





key takeaways

A guaranteed bond is a debt security which promises that, should the issuer default, its interest and principal payments will be made by a third party.Corporate or municipal issuers of bonds turn to guarantors—which can be financial institutions, funds, governments, or corporate subsidiaries—when their own creditworthiness is weak.On the upside, guaranteed bonds are very safe for investors, and enable entities to secure financing—often on better terms—than they'd be able to do otherwise.On the downside, guaranteed bonds tend to pay less interest than their non-guaranteed counterparts; they also are more time-consuming and expensive for the issuer, who has to pay the guarantor a fee and often submit to a financial audit.


   How a Guaranteed Bond Works  

Corporate and municipal bonds are financial instruments used by companies or government agencies to raise funds. In effect, they are loans: The issuing entity is borrowing money from investors who buy the bonds. This loan lasts for a certain period of time—however long the bond term is—after which the bondholders are repaid their principal (that is, the amount they . originally invested). During the life of the bond the issuing entity makes periodic interest payments, known as coupons, to bondholders as a return on their investment.






Many investors purchase bonds for their portfolios due to the interest income that is expected every year.



However, bonds have an inherent risk of default, as the issuing corporation or municipality may have insufficient cash flow to fulfill its interest and principal payment obligations. This means that a bondholder loses out on periodic interest payments, and—in the worst-case scenario of the issuer defaulting—may never get their principal back, either.



To mitigate any default risk and provide credit enhancement to its bonds, an issuing entity may seek out an additional guarantee for the bond it plans to issue, thereby, creating a guaranteed bond. A guaranteed bond is a bond that has its timely interest and principal payments backed by a third party, such as a bank or insurance company. The guarantee on the bond removes default risk by creating a back-up payer in the event that the issuer is unable to fulfill its obligation. In a situation whereby the issuer cannot make good on its interest payments and/or principal repayments, the guarantor would step in and make the necessary payments in a timely manner.



The issuer pays the guarantor a premium for its protection, usually ranging from 1% to 5% of the total issue.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Guaranteed Bonds  

Guaranteed bonds are considered very safe investments, as bond investors enjoy the security of not only the issuer but also of the backing company. In addition, these types of bonds are mutually beneficial to the issuers and the guarantors. Guaranteed bonds enable entities with poor creditworthiness to issue debt when they otherwise might not be able to do so, and for better terms. Issuers can often get a lower interest rate on debt if there is a third-party guarantor, and the third-party guarantor receives a fee for incurring the risk that comes with guaranteeing another entity's debt.



On the downside: Because of their lowered risk, guaranteed bonds generally pay a lower interest rate than an uninsured bond or bond without a guarantee. This lower rate also reflects the premium the issuer has to pay the guarantor. Securing an outside party's backing definitely increases the cost of procuring capital for the issuing entity. It can also lengthen and complicate the whole issuing process, as the guarantor naturally conducts due diligence on the issuer, checking its financials and creditworthiness.
What Is a Guaranteed Death Benefit?  

A guaranteed death benefit is a benefit term that guarantees that the beneficiary, as named in the contract, will receive a death benefit if the annuitant dies before the annuity begins paying benefits.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed death benefit is a benefit term that guarantees that the beneficiary will receive a death benefit if the annuitant dies before the annuity begins paying benefits.A guaranteed death benefit is a safety net if an annuitant dies while the contract is in the accumulation phase.The guaranteed death benefit received amount differs among companies and contracts, but the beneficiary is guaranteed an amount equal to what was invested or the value of the contract on the most recent policy anniversary statement, whichever is higher. 


   Understanding Guaranteed Death Benefit  

A guaranteed death benefit is a safety net if an annuitant dies while the contract is in the accumulation phase. This ensures that the annuitant’s estate or beneficiary will at least receive a specified minimum amount, even though the contract had not yet reached the point where it would start paying benefits. In some cases, the contract terms will stipulate that a designated individual will be instated as the new annuitant to assume the contract if the original annuitant dies during the accumulation period.



The guaranteed death benefit received amount differs among companies and contracts, but the beneficiary is guaranteed an amount equal to what was invested or the value of the contract on the most recent policy anniversary statement, whichever is higher. The structure of the death benefit payout can also vary. In some cases, it is paid as a one-time payoff in a lump sum, while other contracts dictate that it be allocated on a periodic, ongoing schedule.


   Guaranteed Death Benefit Details  

This type of clause is often encountered in relation to life insurance coverage. A guaranteed death benefit is frequently offered as an extra, optional benefit where a specific rider is added on to the primary policy to enhance the standard coverage and terms. In this case, the benefit proceeds are guaranteed as long as the premiums are paid, and the policy remains active. This is especially appealing for life insurance policies involving variable benefits tied to the performance of an underlying investment.



The contract holder benefits from this clause because they know that even in a worst-case scenario, their estate or beneficiary will at least get something, so the amount the contract holder had invested or paid in premiums was not wasted or forfeited completely. In this way, this term of the contract provides a form of protection and security for the contract holder’s heirs or beneficiaries.



This benefit gives the annuitant peace of mind by guaranteeing that his or her beneficiary will be protected from down markets and decreases in account value. For example, if there is an economic downturn and the overall market falls by 20% when the annuitant dies, the beneficiary will still receive the full guaranteed amount as dictated by the terms of the annuity and death benefit.


   Special Considerations  

Under the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act of 2019, several rule changes were implemented regarding annuities that are offered as investment options to employees via their 401(k) plans.



Prior to the SECURE Act, if an employee died and held an annuity in their 401(k) plan, this would trigger the annuity's death benefit clause, which could mean the beneficiary would be forced to liquidate the annuity. The SECURE Act, however, makes 401(k) annuity investments portable, allowing beneficiaries to move their inherited annuity to another direct trustee-to-trustee plan, thereby eliminating the need to liquidate the annuity and pay surrender charges and fees.
What Is a Canadian Guaranteed Investment Certificate?  

In Canada, a guaranteed investment certificate (GIC) is a deposit investment sold by Canadian banks and trust companies. People often purchase them for retirement plans because they provide a low-risk fixed rate of return and are insured, to a degree, by the Canadian government.



These are marketed in Canada in much the same way U.S. banks market Certificates of Deposit to their customers. In the United States, GICs are created and promoted by insurance companies and have a slightly different client focus.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed investment certificate (GIC) is an investment sold by Canadian financial institutions.When buying a GIC, investors deposit money in the bank for a fixed length of time, receiving interest on that money and the principal when the investment matures.


   Understanding Canadian Guaranteed Investment Certificates  

The GIC works much like a certificate of deposit in the U.S. In the case of GICs, you deposit money in the bank and earn interest on that money. The catch is, the money must be deposited for a fixed length of time, and interest rates vary according to how long that commitment is. When you buy a GIC, you are basically lending the bank money and getting paid interest in return for the favor.



GICs are considered safe investments because the financial institutions that sell them are legally obligated to return investors' principal and interest. Even if the bank fails, investors are insured for up to 100,000 Canadian dollars by the Canadian Deposit Insurance Corporation (GDIC).


   How Banks Profit From Guaranteed Investment Certificates  

A bank's profit is the difference between lending rates and the rates they pay on GICs. If mortgage rates are at 8% and GICs are at 5%, then that 3% difference is the bank's profit.



GICs offer a return that is slightly higher than Treasury bills (or T-bills), making them an excellent option to diversify a stream of liquid, safe securities in a portfolio. As noted above, many Canadian banks and trust companies sell GICs. While a trust company does not own the assets of its customers, it may assume some legal obligation to take care of them.



In these instances, trust companies act as fiduciaries, agents, or trustees on behalf of a person or business entity. They are a custodian and must safeguard and make investment selections that are solely in the interest of the outside party. GICs, along with T-bills, Treasury bonds, and other income-producing securities are often good options in these cases because they are safe, generally liquid, and produce streams of cash, particularly for older investors, retired, and might not have a steady salary anymore.


   GICs and U.S. Treasury Securities  

Other forms of safe and income-producing securities are U.S. Treasury securities, including T-bills, T-notes, and T-bonds.



T-Bills mature at either 4, 8, 13, 17, 26, and 52 weeks. They have the shortest maturities of any government bonds. The U.S. government issues T-Bills at a discount, and they mature at par value. The difference between the purchase and sale prices is essentially the interest paid on the bill.
T-Notes have longer maturity terms of 2, 3, 5, 7, and 10 years slightly. The U.S. government issues Treasury notes at a $1,000 par value, and they mature at the same price. T-notes pay interest semiannually.
Finally, T-Bonds (also referred to as the “long bond”) are essentially identical to T-Notes except that they mature at 20 or 30 years. Like T-notes, T-Bonds are issued and mature at a $1,000 par value and pay semi-annual interest.



GICs and U.S. government securities can be cornerstones of certain portfolio strategies—either those that rely on safe streams of income or as a base that balances out riskier investments such as growth stocks and derivatives.
What Is a Guaranteed Investment Contract (GIC)?  

A guaranteed investment contract (GIC) is a contract between an insurance company and an investor, typically a pension fund or an employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k). The investor agrees to deposit a sum of money with the insurer for a specified period of time, and the insurer promises to pay the investor an agreed-upon interest rate, as well as to return its principal.



Employees who participate in a 401(k) or similar plan often have GICs as one of their investment choices. GICs are sometimes called funding agreements.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed investment contract (GIC) is an agreement between an investor and an insurance company, typically used in retirement plans.The insurer guarantees the investor a certain rate of return in exchange for holding the deposit for a specified period.GICs typically appeal to investors who are either risk averse or looking for a conservative investment to balance out the more volatile portion of their portfolio.GICs pay a relatively low rate of interest, putting them at risk of inflation.


   How Guaranteed Investment Contracts Work  

A GIC works something like a certificate of deposit (CD) from a bank, although GICs are typically purchased by institutions rather than individuals and often come in much higher denominations. Like CDs, GICs are considered a relatively low-risk investment. They also provide a lower rate of return than many other investments.



In retirement plans, GICs typically appeal to risk-averse investors or those who want to balance out their portfolios by putting some of their money into a low-risk account. GICs are often offered to retirement plan participants as part of a stable value fund or similarly named conservative investment option.



Most GICs have either a fixed interest rate or a variable interest rate that adjusts periodically based on a particular index.


   What Does ‘Guaranteed’ Mean with a GIC?  

The word “guaranteed” in the term “guaranteed investment contract” can be misleading. While the insurance company guarantees that it will pay the agreed-upon interest rate and return the investor’s principal, that guarantee is only as solid as the insurer itself.



When the federal government bailed out the huge insurance company AIG during the 2007–2008 financial crisis, it said one reason was to keep AIG from defaulting on its GICs. As officials of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York later testified, “Pension plans that had placed funds in AIG guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, which function much like deposits in a bank, would have experienced significant losses, losses that would be passed along to retirees or to others whose aspirations to be retirees would surely have been changed.”



GIC investors also face interest rate risk. Since GICs pay relatively low rates of interest, it can be easy for inflation to outstrip their performance. For example, if a GIC pays 4% annual interest over its 10-year term, but inflation averages 6% during that same period, the purchaser will lose money in terms of purchasing power.




What Is a Synthetic Guaranteed Investment Contract (GIC)?
The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency defines a synthetic guaranteed investment contract (GIC) as “a diversified portfolio of fixed-income securities that are insulated from interest rate volatility by contracts (wraps) from banks and insurance companies. In this arrangement, the 401(k) plan and its participants own the underlying invested assets (the portfolio of fixed-income securities that supports the stable value fund).” With a regular GIC, by contrast, the insurance company owns the underlying assets as part of its general account.




What Is a Guaranteed Investment Certificate?
Not to be confused with a guaranteed investment contract, with which it shares the acronym GIC, a guaranteed investment certificate is a financial product in Canada. Guaranteed investment certificates are sold by Canadian banks, credit unions, and trust companies, often to individuals for their retirement accounts. The Canadian GIC is more like a U.S. CD than a U.S. GIC.




Are Guaranteed Investment Contracts Federally Insured?
No, there is no federal insurance for guaranteed investment contracts, unlike certificates of deposit (CDs), many of which are covered by either the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) or the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).Some insurance products are covered by state insurance guaranty associations. However, many of those associations do not extend their coverage to include GICs.


   The Bottom Line  

Guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) are contracts between an insurance company and an investor, typically a pension fund or an employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k). Employees who participate in a 401(k) or similar plan often have GICs as one of their investment choices, sometimes as part of a stable value fund. Because of their low interest rates, GICs are especially susceptible to the risk of inflation.
What Is Guaranteed Investment Income (GIF)?  

Guaranteed investment income is a type of investment product offered by insurance companies that allow clients to invest in equity, bond, and/or index fund while providing a promise of a predefined minimum value of the fund (usually, the initial investment amount) will be available at the fund's maturity or when the client dies.



Insurance companies typically charge up to 1% of the investment amount per year for this service.


   How Guaranteed Investment Fund (GIF) Works  

Some guaranteed investment income funds also allow people to reset the guaranteed amount during specific periods of time. This allows investors to lock in greater sums if they incur a large capital gain.



For example, suppose an investor near retirement age had invested $500,000 into this fund, and after an incredible bull run, their investment grows to $585,000 in a year. By resetting the guarantee at this point, the investor has now guaranteed that they will, at the very least, receive $585,000.





Key Takeaways

Guaranteed investment income is sold by insurance companies as an investment vehicle. There are many types of guaranteed investment income funds. Guaranteed investment funds promise that all or part of the invested capital will be secure at a specific, designated time. 


   Concepts of Guaranteed Investment Funds  

Guaranteed investment funds, as their name shows, guarantee that all or part of the invested capital will be secure for a specific date in the future. And in some cases, there is the possibility of almost guaranteed returns.


  Guaranteed Maturity Date  

A date in the future when all of the fund's shares are guaranteed to reach a specific net asset value (guaranteed net asset value). Only those shareholders that leave their investment until the maturity date will be entitled to the guarantee. If a redemption is made before that date, then there could be great losses.


  Guarantor  

An entity that commits to providing the funds required to ensure the investor keeps their initial investment if the guaranteed investment fund does not perform in a way that generates net asset value. When this amount is delivered directly to the fund, then there is an internal guarantee; if the shareholder receives the amount, then the guarantee is external.






A marketing period is a period during which shares can be purchased from a guaranteed fund without paying subscription fees.


  Guaranteed Fixed Yield  

These do more than ensure that starting capital is secure for the guarantee's maturity date, they also ensure set and predetermined returns (as stated in the brochure in terms of annual interest, APR).


  Liquidity Windows  

This means that some guaranteed funds set predetermined dates when the shareholder can receive a total or partial redemption without paying redemption fees. To do this, you must respect the notice periods stated in the brochure. Given that these redemptions are done according to the net asset value on that day, the guarantee is not applicable, and losses may be incurred.


  Guaranteed Variable Yield  

These only ensure starting investments on the guarantee's maturity date. They also offer the option to gain returns linked to how multiple financial assets or indicators perform (according to complex calculation formulas). Investors must take into account that if underlying instruments do not develop as expected, then it is possible not to gain any returns.
What Is Guaranteed Issue Life Insurance?  

Guaranteed issue life insurance, or guaranteed acceptance life insurance, is a type of whole life insurance policy that does not require you to answer health questions, undergo a medical exam, or allow an insurance company to review your medical and prescription records. You may also see it referred to as “no questions life insurance” or “no questions final expense insurance.”



Sounds great, right? Here’s the catch. Guaranteed issue life insurance always has a waiting period. If you die during the waiting period, your beneficiaries will not receive the policy’s death benefit. With most policies the waiting period is two years. With some it's three.



This is not some kind of scam. In fact, if you die during the waiting period, the insurance company will repay (to your beneficiaries) all your insurance premiums plus interest, usually at a rate of 10%.



Your beneficiaries will still get something; it will just be less than you’d like. Insurance companies put this waiting period in place because, if they didn’t, everyone could apply for insurance on their deathbed and pay a few hundred dollars to secure a $25,000 benefit for their family. No insurance company could stay in business this way. Guaranteed issue life insurance provides coverage to sick people who otherwise couldn’t get it.





Key Takeaways

Guaranteed issue life insurance is a small whole life insurance policy with no health qualifications.It pays a cash death benefit of $2,000 to $25,000 to the insured’s beneficiaries.﻿﻿Guaranteed issue life insurance does not pay death benefits during the first two or three years the policy is in force, but it does return the policy’s premiums plus 10% interest if the insured dies during this period.Guaranteed issue policies are designed for people with serious health conditions that keep them from buying policies that offer immediate death benefits.Compared with other types of life insurance, guaranteed policies generally have high premiums relative to their death benefits because their policyholders are in poor health.


   How Guaranteed Issue Life Insurance Works  

These policies get their name because the insurance company guarantees they will issue a policy to you as long as you are within the allowed age range when you apply. In other words, they are guaranteeing that they will accept you as a policyholder. The typical age range to qualify is 50 to 80 years old. If you are outside of this age range, you may still be able to get a guaranteed issue policy with some insurance companies, but you will have fewer options.



Given these age requirements and the lack of medical underwriting (health questions), you can see why insurance companies market guaranteed issue policies to this age group. Yet many people in this age group, even those with health problems, have options besides guaranteed issue life insurance. This type of insurance is best for people who have no other options because of their health—or who can’t afford any other options because of their health.



Which conditions will disqualify you from any other type of health insurance? Not as many as you might think.



You have a terminal illness with a life expectancy of less than two years.You have had or need an organ or a tissue transplant.You are on dialysis.You have Alzheimer’s or dementia.You are in a nursing home or in hospice.You have cancer (and it’s not basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer).You have AIDS or HIV.You are in a wheelchair because of a chronic illness or disease.



If you’ve ever had an elderly parent or grandparent, you probably know what a person with one or multiple conditions such as these looks like. They have good days and bad days. Sometimes you think they are on the brink of death, but then they suddenly turn around and seem better than ever. Their physical health, mental health, and physical abilities can seem really unstable. For most insurance companies this level of instability represents too much risk, but some specialize in taking it on.





Is Alex Trebek a Life Insurance Shill?

You might have heard about guaranteed issue life insurance from a 2018 television commercial. One from insurer Colonial Penn has "Jeopardy" host Alex Trebek advertising the company's guaranteed issue life insurance. Who doesn’t love and trust Trebek? He was a national treasure, like Mr. Rogers or Vin Scully. Having him pitch insurance was a great idea.All the information in the commercial is accurate—though most applicants will probably not be paying the teaser rate of $9.95 a month for their policy. Still, it’s true that insurers cannot deny you coverage, increase your premiums, or reduce your death benefit as long as you pay the premiums. These are all standard features of a whole life insurance policy, and guaranteed issue is a type of whole life insurance.


   Alternatives to Guaranteed Issue  

Life insurance premiums always depend on your age, height, weight, health, gender (in states that allow gender-based pricing), the death benefit, and the policy type. Insurance companies do not have different underwriting guidelines for different types of insurance, says Rick Sabo, a financial planner and insurance fraud expert in Gibsonia, Pa. Whether you’re buying term, whole, or universal, the insurance company will put you in the same risk category.



However, a different insurance company might put you in a different risk category. In other words, if you have a serious health condition, such as diabetes, one company might offer you a better policy than another.



Many applicants and applicants with health issues believe they could never qualify for a policy that requires medical underwriting, but that often isn’t the case. It depends on the health condition and the issuer. People can get life insurance with underwriting even if they have congestive heart failure, have had a heart attack in the last 12 months, or have had a stroke in the last 12 months, among other health conditions.



For most people it’s worth applying for several policies that ask health questions to see if they can get a better rate, more coverage, and immediate coverage. Those who only want a small policy should look into guaranteed universal life, which can provide coverage to age 100 or even 121, or final expense insurance. Guaranteed issue policies are useful, but only to applicants who don’t qualify for policies with medical underwriting.


   Guaranteed Issue: What’s the Catch?  

Except for the waiting period, guaranteed issue policies might sound too good to be true. Unhealthy people take out policies, pay their premiums, and die in a few months or a few years. The insurance company has to either return their money or pay a death benefit. How can insurers even afford to offer these policies?



“The way life insurance companies make a bulk of their profit is not via the collection of premiums minus death benefits,” says life insurance broker Anthony Martin, the CEO of Choice Mutual. “They make most of their money via investments.” Life insurance premiums are basically like interest-free loans to the insurance company, says Martin. The company invests that money.



In 2021, life insurance companies brought in $159.5 billion in premiums and $200.8 billion in net investment income, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a nonprofit communications organization supported by the insurance industry. Insurance companies invest in stocks, mortgages, real estate, derivatives, and other assets.



“For guaranteed issue, they do lose money on clients who die in the first two years,” says Martin. It takes five years for the insurance company to break even on this type of insurance, and it’s a win-win for the insured in most cases. “The only time the insured would not come out ahead would be if they live long enough where their premiums exceed the policy,” he continues.





Lapsed Insurance

Another reason insurance companies can afford to offer what seems like a no-lose proposition for the policyholder is because many people let their policies lapse. This means they pay premiums for a few years, then stop and lose their coverage. If they have any type of whole life insurance, they will receive their policy’s cash surrender value, but that sum will be much less than the premiums they paid in or the death benefit their heirs would have received. Life insurance companies paid out $362.7 billion on surrendered policies in 2021.


   When Guaranteed Issue Falls Short  

There are two scenarios in which a guaranteed issue policy might not pay off or be the best option. These are if the insured lives long enough that the premiums paid exceed the death benefit, or if the insured buys a guaranteed issue policy when they could have qualified for a policy that has medical underwriting.



Policies with medical underwriting have lower premiums for the death benefit they provide. They also offer immediate death benefits or a graded death benefit instead of having a waiting period.


   The Bottom Line  

Despite these factors, guaranteed issue can be a valuable financial asset for people who can’t otherwise get insurance. And those people aren’t always seniors; they may be younger or middle-aged adults in poor health who want to leave money for their families.



No two guaranteed issue life insurance policies are the same. So, as with other insurance policies, you should shop around for the one that best fits your needs. That way, you're more likely to find the best life insurance policies currently on the market. Look for affordable rates—something you know you’ll be able to keep up with even if your financial situation changes—because a lapsed policy won’t help anyone except the insurance company. Most importantly, don’t assume you can’t qualify for a policy that has a health questionnaire. You won’t know until you apply.
What Is a Guaranteed Lifetime Withdrawal Benefit (GLWB)?  

A guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB) is a rider to a variable annuity that provides a minimum payout level, even if market losses reduce the cash value of your contract. Most of these riders also allow you to make withdrawals from your cash value as needed. You typically pay for the GLWB rider with annual fees that can vary based on the issuer.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB) is a rider that can be added to a variable annuity that offers protection against market losses.Depending on the issuer and annuity, the GLWB may offer a “stepped-up” benefit if the investments in the annuity subaccounts gain value.The rider is often optional and comes with additional fees and charges that annuitants should understand before signing up.


   Understanding GLWBs  

An annuity is a contract between the purchaser, called the “annuitant,” and the issuer, in which the annuitant makes a one-time payment or regular payments to the issuer. In exchange, the issuer makes periodic payments back to the annuitant for the remainder of their life or for a specific number of years.



If you buy a fixed annuity, the issuer simply pays a fixed interest rate on the money you’ve paid to it. However, with a variable annuity, you can invest in the market through subaccounts. This feature offers greater growth potential, but it also subjects you to potential losses. A GLWB is a way to mitigate that risk.



The GLWB rider ensures that you receive a minimum lifetime payment that essentially counteracts any losses in your subaccounts. Most issuers also allow you to make additional withdrawals from your cash value; however, these typically reduce the guaranteed withdrawal amount.


   How GLWB Riders Work  

Variable annuities have a cash value that’s equal to the premiums you have paid plus or minus any market returns. With a GLWB rider, however, the contract has a separate benefit base—sometimes called a “withdrawal base”—that is used to calculate lifetime withdrawals.



Once you elect to receive your income stream, this benefit base is used to determine the amount of your minimum guaranteed withdrawal. Depending on the terms of the contract and your age, a certain percentage is applied to the benefit base to determine your guaranteed annual payment. It is usually determined by your age at the start of annuitization. For example, if you are 65 when you make your first withdrawal, your contract might stipulate a 5% withdrawal rate, whereas if you start receiving payouts at 70, your stipulated rate might be higher, say 5.25%.



A key feature of GLWB riders is that your withdrawal amount is based on either the benefit base or the cash value, whichever is higher at the time you start receiving guaranteed payments. Say, for example, that you invested $50,000 in premiums and have a withdrawal rate of 5%, but your cash value is only $35,000 at the time you elect to annuitize, due to poor market performance. The issuer would take the higher of these two amounts, your benefit base of $50,000, to calculate the guaranteed minimum withdrawals. This means you would receive $2,500 per year ($50,000 x 0.05 withdrawal rate).



GLWB riders may also allow you to make additional withdrawals from your cash value, even during the annuitization phase. However, doing so usually results in a reduction of your benefit base. For example, a withdrawal of 20% of your cash value would lead to a 20% decrease in the guaranteed minimum payments for the remainder of your life. In the example above, such a withdrawal would decrease the GLWB payment to $2,000 ($40,000 x 0.05 withdrawal rate).



Most insurance companies charge an annual fee for taking on the market risk that would ordinarily be borne by the customer. Those costs can vary widely, making it important to carefully review annuity documents before purchasing one.


   Potential Features  

Some GLWB riders come with additional benefits that can potentially increase the amount of your guaranteed withdrawal. The issuer may charge an additional fee or roll it into the fee for the rider itself. Among the more common examples are:


  Minimum Rate of Return  

The insurer may offer a minimum rate of return to your benefit base. The withdrawal amount is based on the higher of your benefit base (plus minimum return) or the cash value. Suppose, for example, that you paid $50,000 in premiums but had a guaranteed 4% rate of return, regardless of market conditions. In two years, that base would go up to $54,080 (add $2,000 after the first year, then $2,080 after the second year).



If the cash value remained at $50,000, the issuer would use the benefit base to calculate the lifetime payments. Assuming a 5% withdrawal percentage, you would receive annual payouts of $2,704 ($54,080 x 0.05 withdrawal rate).


  Step-Up Feature  

If the rider has a step-up feature, the insurer will periodically compare the current cash value in the account with the amount initially used to determine the GLWB. If the cash balance is higher, it will adjust the benefit accordingly.



Suppose, for instance, that the original withdrawal amount was based on a benefit base of $50,000, with a 5% withdrawal rate. That made the original guaranteed withdrawal $2,500 per year. However, if the cash balance five years later is now $60,000, the 5% withdrawal rate would be applied to that higher amount. Thus, going forward, you would receive $3,000 per year ($60,000 x 0.05 withdrawal rate).


   Pros and Cons of a GLWB  

The primary benefit of a GLWB rider is that it safeguards you from the possibility of receiving a lower lifetime payout if the market takes a hit. In addition, the rider allows you to access your cash value if you need it, which you cannot do with a traditional annuity, because it ties up the money you put into the contract once annuitization begins.



The downside, of course, is the additional cost of purchasing this protection. Those who start paying into the annuity well before they annuitize have a lower exposure to market risk as it is—that is, they have more time for the stocks and bonds in their subaccounts to recover. Therefore, customers with a longer time horizon may want to avoid the extra fee that comes with a GLWB rider.




What Is a Guaranteed Lifetime Withdrawal Benefit (GLWB)?
A guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB) is a rider that you may be able to add to your variable annuity contract. It guarantees a minimum payout level, even if market losses reduce the cash value of the contract. Most riders also allow you to make withdrawals from your cash value as needed.




What Are the Downsides of a GLWB?
The obvious pitfall to a GLWB rider on an annuity is the cost. The annual fee can range from 0.1% of the cash value on the contract to more than 1.0%. It’s important to read the annuity documents carefully before you purchase this coverage.




What Is the Step-Up Feature on a GLWB?
The step-up feature provides a larger guaranteed benefit each year if the cash value from the annuity’s subaccounts has grown. Every few years the annuity issuer compares the original benefit base amount with the current cash value. If the latter is bigger, it will use that figure as the basis for future guaranteed benefits.
What Is a Guaranteed Loan?  

A guaranteed loan is a loan that a third party guarantees—or assumes the debt obligation for—in the event that the borrower defaults. Sometimes, a guaranteed loan is guaranteed by a government agency, which will purchase the debt from the lending financial institution and take on responsibility for the loan.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed loan is a type of loan in which a third party agrees to pay if the borrower should default.A guaranteed loan is used by borrowers with poor credit or little in the way of financial resources; it enables financially unattractive candidates to qualify for a loan and assures that the lender won't lose money.Guaranteed mortgages, federal student loans, and payday loans are all examples of guaranteed loans.Guaranteed mortgages are usually backed by the Federal Housing Administration or the Department of Veteran Affairs; federal student loans are backed by the U.S. Department of Education; payday loans are guaranteed by the borrower's paycheck.


   How a Guaranteed Loan Works  

A guaranteed loan agreement may be made when a borrower is an unattractive candidate for a regular bank loan. It is a way for people who need financial assistance to secure funds when they otherwise may not qualify to acquire them. And the guarantee means that the lending institution does not incur excessive risk in issuing these loans.


   Types of Guaranteed Loans  

There are a variety of guaranteed loans. Some are safe and reliable ways to raise money, but others involve risks that can include unusually high interest rates. Borrowers should carefully scrutinize the terms of any guaranteed loan they are considering.


  Guaranteed Mortgages  

One example of a guaranteed loan is a guaranteed mortgage. The third party guaranteeing these home loans in most instances is the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).



Homebuyers who are considered risky borrowers—they don't qualify for a conventional mortgage, for example, or they don't have an adequate down payment and have to borrow close to 100% of the home's value—may get a guaranteed mortgage. FHA loans require that borrowers pay mortgage insurance to protect the lender in case the borrower defaults on their home loan.


  Federal Student Loans  

Another type of guaranteed loan is a federal student loan, which is guaranteed by an agency of the federal government. Federal student loans are the easiest student loans to qualify for—there is no credit check, for example—and they have the best terms and lowest interest rates because the U.S. Department of Education guarantees them with taxpayer dollars.



In order to apply for a federal student loan, you must complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, each year that you want to remain eligible for federal student aid. Repayment on these loans begins after the student leaves college or drops below half-time enrollment. Many loans also have a grace period.


   Payday Loans  

The third type of guaranteed loan is a payday loan. When someone takes out a payday loan, their paycheck plays the role of the third party that guarantees the loan. A lending organization gives the borrower a loan, and the borrower writes the lender a post-dated check that the lender then cashes on that date—typically two weeks later. Sometimes lenders will require electronic access to a borrower's account to pull out funds, but it's best not to sign onto a guaranteed loan under those circumstances, especially if the lender isn't a traditional bank.






Payday guaranteed loans often ensnare borrowers in a cycle of debt with interest rates as high as 400% or more.



The problem with payday loans is that they tend to create a cycle of debt, which can cause additional problems for people who are already in tough financial straits. This can happen when a borrower doesn't have the funds to repay their loan at the end of the typical two-week term. In such a scenario, the loan rolls into another loan with a whole new round of fees. Interest rates can be as high as 400% or more—and lenders typically charge the highest rates allowed under local laws. Some unscrupulous lenders may even attempt to cash a borrower's check before the post date, which creates the risk of overdraft.



Alternatives to payday guaranteed loans include unsecured personal loans, which are available through local banks or online, credit card cash advances (you can save considerable money over payday loans even with rates on advances as high as 30%), or borrowing from a family member.
What Is a Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit?  

The guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (GMAB) is a variable annuity rider that guarantees a minimum value to the annuitant after the accumulation period or another set period, usually somewhere close to 10 years. The GMAB rider protects the value of the annuity from market fluctuations. This optional benefit is available for an additional cost, which varies per insurance provider.





Key Takeaways

The guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (GMAB) is an optional annuity rider that guarantees to pay a minimum value to the annuitant after a holding period: the accumulation or other established period.The GMAB rider protects the account holder against market fluctuations.If the account's value exceeds the rider's minimum benefit, the account value is paid to the account owner.Other guaranteed minimum living benefit riders include the guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB), guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit, and standalone lifetime benefit.


   Understanding the Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit  

The guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit will only be used if the annuity’s market value falls below the minimum guaranteed value. In certain scenarios, the cumulative costs of the benefit are returned to the annuity if the value of the annuity is higher than the minimum benefit, eliminating the need to use the rider.



In addition to the guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit, which restricts withdrawals until after the accumulation period, other guaranteed minimum living benefit riders may or may not have a holding period or require annuitization. These include a guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) and a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB).






Additionally, there are two other riders: a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit and a standalone lifetime benefit.


   GMAB vs. Other Guaranteed Benefits  

A guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) guarantees the annuitant a minimum income during retirement, offering protection against market volatility. If the investor annuitizes the contract, payments will be based on the amount in the fund and a set interest rate. This kind of rider is subject to both age limits and holding periods.



A guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) is a hybrid product that guarantees that a percentage of the retirement fund will be eligible for annual withdrawals until the depletion of the initial investment. Percentages vary but typically range from 5% to 10%. The amount available for withdrawal may have age restrictions.



If the investments perform well, annuitants can take advantage of a step-up option, securing higher guaranteed withdrawals. A guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB), also considered a hybrid product, guarantees an investor a specific percentage of the fund’s value for withdrawal during their lifetime, offering further protection against market fluctuations. A GLWB is sometimes called a GMWB with a lifetime option.



A standalone lifetime benefit (SALB) is similar to the GLWB but doesn’t require the purchase of an annuity. Generally, an investor wanting access to their funds would have to annuitize or face penalties. The SALB offers lifetime access to the fund, regardless of market performance, with fees and certain restrictions.
What Is a Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit (GMIB)?  

A guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) is an optional rider that annuitants can purchase for their retirement annuities. When the annuity has been annuitized, this specific option guarantees that the annuitant will receive a minimum value of payments on a regular basis, regardless of other circumstances.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) is an optional rider attached to an annuity contract that guarantees a minimum level of payments once it has annuitized.GMIBs are often found with variable annuities, which contain some level of market risk.While handy, these riders will come at an additional cost to the annuity buyer.


   Understanding Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIBs)  

A guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) ensures that an annuitant will receive payments regardless of market conditions. This minimum payment amount is predetermined by assessing the future value of the initial investment. This option is only beneficial to annuitants who plan to annuitize their annuity.



The GMIB feature is typically found in variable annuities. When a person purchases a variable annuity, they will choose from a variety of underlying investment options. The annuity’s payments, once annuitized, will partly be based on the performance of the underlying investments. Variable annuities appeal to investors because they allow annuitants to participate in market growth. However, market declines can result in the annuity losing value and, consequently, lower annuity payouts.



For example, a GMIB feature may provide the annuity purchaser with the option to receive either a payment based on the actual market value of the variable annuity investment or the value of the initial investment compounding at six percent interest annually. Another type of GMIB feature may guarantee an annuity benefit based on the highest value the investment account ever reached.



Different annuity providers may call the GMIB by different names, such as Guaranteed Retirement Income Program, or GRIP, or Guaranteed Interest Account, or GIA.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a GMIB  

The Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit feature is one way to help offset the market risk that comes with investing in a variable annuity. By guaranteeing a minimum level of annuity payments regardless of investment performance, a GMIB feature can provide additional security for retirees who plan to live on their annuity income.



However, add-on annuity benefits such as a GMIB come with additional costs and fees, which can eat into any investment growth. Additionally, there are many complex factors that go into calculating annuity payments, particularly when a GMIB provision is involved. For this reason, it can be difficult to compare the different options offered by annuity providers against one another. Variable annuities also offer a limited menu of investment options, which may not meet the needs of all investors.
What Is a Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit (GMWB)?  

A guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) is a type of rider or contract attached to some annuity insurance policies. It guarantees the policyholder a steady stream of annual withdrawals via the return of all premiums paid into the contract, regardless of an investment's performance, through a series of annual withdrawals. A GMWB is unlike a guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB), where the latter offers a payout of specified minimum periodic income after a waiting period, regardless of the variable annuity's investment performance.





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) guarantees a policyholder's income through all types of market activity.Maximum withdrawals are usually between 5% to 10%.These types of riders are designed to protect policyholders during market downturns.


   Understanding Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit (GMWB)  

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) riders are available for some fixed annuity and variable annuity products. During market downturns, the policyholder, or annuitant, can withdraw a maximum percentage of their entire investments in the annuity. Annual maximum percentages available for withdrawal vary with contracts but are usually between 5% and 10%. of the initial investment amount. Until reaching the depletion of the total initial investment, the annuitant may continue to receive income during the withdrawal period.



A GMWB protects annuitants against investment losses without losing the benefit of upside gain. For example, suppose that Jamie's initial investment was $100,000. But because of downturns in the economy, that investment is now only worth $85,000. Since Jamie had purchased a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit with a rate of 10%, she will be able to activate the rider contract to withdraw a certain percentage each year ($8,500 in this case) until she recovers the entire $100,000 initial investment.



In some cases, GMWB riders include the ability to withdraw higher amounts when the market is booming, and the annuity fund is growing. Using these riders, the annuitant may potentially withdraw income higher than the maximum investment. Revisiting the example above, say the initial investment is now worth $150,000. If Jamie's rider includes a clause where she may realize 2% of the profits earned, she might withdraw more than the annual $8,500. This scenario is applicable if her rider included the ability to adjust to favorable market trends.


   How Is a GMWB Calculated?  

The amount available for withdrawal may also link to a policy holder's age when they begin to make withdrawals.



For example, the rider agreement may allow you to take 4% of your investments if you begin taking withdrawals between the ages of 60 and 64. Income increases to 4.5% if you start taking them between the ages of 65 and 69. Withdrawals after the age of 70 can be at 5%. Before the age of 59½, withdrawals from the annuity may be subject to early withdrawal penalties of 10% by the Internal Revenue Service.



The terms of GMWB riders including fees vary depending on the provider, which is typically an insurance company. Other available annuity riders include guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits.
What Are Guaranteed Payments to Partners?  

Guaranteed payments to partners are payments meant to compensate a partner for services rendered or use of capital. Essentially, they are the equivalent of a salary for partners or limited liability company (LLC) members. These kinds of payments eliminate the risk of a partner making personal contributions of time or property and then never getting compensated if the partnership does not prove to be successful.



The word “guaranteed” refers to the fact that these kinds of payments—known as “first-priority distributions”—are made without regard to the partnership’s profitability. In fact, such payments constitute a net loss for the partnership. They can create special and unexpected tax implications if they are not handled correctly. This can prove complicated, especially as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the courts have not agreed at times on what constitutes a guaranteed payment to a partner.





Key Takeaways

Guaranteed payments to partners are compensation to members of a partnership in return for time invested, serviced provided, or capital made available.The payments are essentially a salary for partners that is independent of whether the partnership is successful.Guaranteed payments to partners can have various tax implications that must be carefully considered so that beneficiaries can avoid fines or significant tax burdens.


   Understanding Guaranteed Payments to Partners  

Guaranteed payments to partners are outlined in Section 707(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), which defines such payments as those made by a partnership to an individual partner for services or providing capital and states that they are determined without regard to the income of the partnership.



When such payments meet this definition, they are considered made to a nonpartner for tax purposes for both the partnership (payer) and the recipient (payee). Guaranteed payments to partners are always treated as ordinary income for the partner. For the partnership, such payment is deductible under IRC Section 162 (as ordinary or necessary business expenses) or capitalized under IRC Section 263.



The concept of guaranteed payments to partners may seem pretty simple, but the details can make them complicated. Payments that have not been structured properly can lead to unexpected and expensive tax issues for both the partner receiving payment and the other partners.


   Tax Issues for Guaranteed Payments to Partners  

With regard to a partnership, it might have an agreement that a partner is to receive 20% of partnership income before any guaranteed payments happen, with a stipulation that they must receive at least $13,000. If partnership income is $100,000, the partner would get $20,000, none of which would be a guaranteed payment, so it could not be deducted by the partnership. However, if the partnership earned $30,000, then the partner would only get $6,000 as their share. As they are due a minimum of $13,000, the remaining $7,000 would be made in the form of a guaranteed payment and thus eligible for tax deduction by the partnership.



With regard to a partner, an ill-timed payment could increase their tax burden. Consider the timing issues under a scenario that has the partner using the calendar year as their fiscal year, while the partnership’s fiscal year ends on Sept. 30. If a partner were to receive a guaranteed payment after Sept. 30 but before Jan. 1, that income would have to be included in the partner’s following tax year, even though it occurred in the current year.



There are also special considerations that must be taken into account with guaranteed payments to partners and real estate, as local governments sometimes levy a tax on unincorporated businesses. For example, New York City, which functions under a complicated New York State business tax code, has its own unincorporated business tax (UBT) that applies to partnerships as well as sole proprietorships. While the tax burden can be significant, exempted from it is net income from renting and ownership of the rental real estate. Therefore, real estate partnerships should consider the tax implications of any guaranteed payment to a partner.



These can include when a real estate partnership makes a guaranteed payment as a retirement payment. It is classified as ordinary income for services rendered to the partner, making it earned income. As such, it is subject to self-employment tax, which can be expensive. However, if it were characterized as a distributive share, it would not be subject to self-employment tax, thanks to the above-mentioned exemption.




What Is the Purpose of Guaranteed Payments to Partners?
Guaranteed payments to partners are intended to compensate them for services made or the use of capital. They are made without any link to the partnership’s profitability and, indeed, represent a net loss to the partnership. In effect, they act as a salary for the partner, shielding partners from risk if the partnership is not successful.




What Are the Tax Implications of Guaranteed Payments to Partners?
These can get rather complicated, but basically a guaranteed payment to a partner is treated as ordinary income of the partner and taxed as such. The partnership can either take a guaranteed payment as a tax deduction or capitalize it.




What if the Partnership’s Fiscal Year Is Different From the Partner’s?
This can lead to an unintended income increase for the partner, as guaranteed payments made after the end of a partnership’s fiscal year but before the end of the partner’s fiscal year would get counted as income in the partner’s following fiscal year, not the one in which it is actually made.
What is a Guaranteed Renewable Policy?  

A guaranteed renewable policy is an insurance policy feature that ensures that an insurer is obligated to continue coverage as long as premiums are paid on the policy. While re-insurability is guaranteed, premiums can rise based on the filing of a claim, injury, or other factors that could increase the risk of future claims. 





Key Takeaways

A guaranteed renewable policy is an insurance policy feature that ensures that the insurer is obligated to continue coverage as long as premiums are paid on the policy.With a guaranteed renewable policy, re-insurability is guaranteed but premiums can rise based on the filing of a claim, injury, or other factors that could increase the risk of future claims. Most insurers offer both guaranteed renewable policies and non-cancellable policies; the non-cancellable policy will offer the double guarantee of re-insurability and locked-in premiums.


   Understanding Guaranteed Renewable Policies  

Most insurers offer both guaranteed renewable policies and non-cancellable policies. If premiums are similar for both a guaranteed and a non-cancellable policy, the non-cancellable policy is a better deal for the consumer because it offers the double guarantee of re-insurability and locked-in premiums.



In total, insurers typically offer three types of policies: non-cancellable plus guaranteed renewable, guaranteed renewable, and conditionally renewable.


  Non-Cancellable and Guaranteed Renewable Policy  

A non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policy guarantees that there will be no changes to your premium schedule, your monthly benefits or your policy benefits up to age 65 (or another specified age) unless you request them. The exception to this is if you file a claim, experience an injury, or if there is some other factor that the insurance company believes increases the risk of future claims. In this case, the insurance company can raise your premiums.



This type of policy is often elected when purchasing disability insurance. Most people cannot know for certain that their income will never go down in the future. If you purchase a non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policy—even if your income goes down later in life and you are totally disabled—the company will pay you the total disability benefit you originally placed in-force.



Even though there is not a drastic price difference, non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policies typically cost more than guaranteed renewable policies. Non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policies are generally preferred because the policyholder will not be impacted if an insurance company announces a massive rate increase in the future.


  Guaranteed Renewable Policy  

This insurance policy is not as comprehensive as a non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policy. With a non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable policy, the policyholder can choose to make changes to their premium schedule, monthly benefits, or policy benefits.



With a guaranteed renewable policy, that choice belongs to the insurance company and most insurance companies will try to decrease their liability if they can.


  Conditionally Renewable Policy  

A conditionally renewable policy offers the least benefits to the policyholder compared to the other two policies—non-cancellable and guaranteed renewable, and guaranteed renewable. A conditionally renewable policy offers no guarantee that your same benefits will be renewed every year; the insurance company can change the conditions of your policy every year if they choose to.
What Is Guaranteed Stock?  

Guaranteed stock has two meanings, one applied to dividends and one applied to inventory. The more common reference is to an infrequently used form of common or preferred stock, in which the dividends are guaranteed by one or more other companies. Guaranteed stock issues, like guaranteed bonds, have most often used by railroads and public utilities. The guaranteed dividend can increase the stock's price.



The second meaning for guaranteed stock correlates to a company's physical inventory. In this use of the term, guaranteed stock refers to commonly purchased items that a company always keeps a supply of for customers to purchase.





Key Takeaways

Guaranteed stock is a rarely used form of preferred stock, where a party other than the original company guarantees dividends will be paid.Guaranteed stock issues, like guaranteed bonds, have most often used by railroads and public utilities.Guaranteed stock can also be a reference to the physical inventory that a company has available, particularly in the retail industry.With guaranteed stock, a third party must come in to essentially vouch for a party that cannot guarantee dividends.By having guaranteed stock, or a full supply of all of its inventory, a company can acquire an advantage over competitors who do not have all their products available.


   Understanding Guaranteed Stock  

Guaranteed stock in the financial world is used, on rare occasions, when a company either can't pay dividends or is in danger of not being able to continue paying dividends. A company that doesn't earn a profit can't pay dividends. A company that can temporarily pay dividends but has considerable financial issues that could threaten future profitability cannot guarantee dividends in the future. In both scenarios, the company cannot guarantee that it will be able to pay dividends and continue doing so; as a result, a third party must come in to guarantee that the company will pay the dividend.



This is different from standard preferred stock, which is typically guaranteed, even in the case of bankruptcy. Preferred stockholders receive priority over common stockholders, who cannot receive a dividend until the preferred shareholders' dividend has been paid in full. If the company files for bankruptcy and must liquidate assets, preferred stockholders receive payments before the common stockholders, but not before the creditors, secured creditors, general creditors, and bondholders.






Guaranteed stock is used infrequently, on occasions when a company is unable to pay dividends or is unlikely to be able to continue paying dividends.


   Clarifying Guaranteed Stock Inventory  

However, there is some risk with this strategy, as the company faces the costs associated with carrying a large amount of inventory. It may not want to or be able to spend the money needed to have all of its inventory guaranteed.



In addition, if the inventory fails to sell by a certain time period, it may that it is stuck with a surplus, which it then has to sell at a discount, causing it to lose money. Even worse, particularly in terms of technology, inventory can become obsolete and potentially incapable of being sold.



By having guaranteed stock, or a full supply of all of its inventory, a company can acquire an advantage over competitors who do not have all their products available. Customers will have more and better options insofar as what they can buy, and any orders can be fulfilled and delivered faster.
What Is a Guarantor?  

A guarantor is a financial term describing an individual who promises to pay a borrower's debt if the borrower defaults on their loan obligation. Guarantors pledge their own assets as collateral against the loans. On rare occasions, individuals act as their own guarantors, by pledging their own assets against the loan. The term "guarantor" is often interchanged with the term "surety."





Key Takeaways

A guarantor guarantees to pay a borrower's debt if the borrower defaults on a loan obligation.The guarantor guarantees a loan by pledging their assets as collateral.A guarantor alternatively describes someone who verifies the identity of an individual attempting to land a job or secure a passport.Unlike a co-signer, a guarantor has no claim to the asset purchased by the borrower.If the borrower defaults on their loan, then the guarantor is liable for the outstanding obligation, which they must meet, otherwise, legal action may be brought against them.


   Understanding a Guarantor  

A guarantor is typically over the age of 18 and resides in the country where the payment agreement occurs. Guarantors generally exhibit exemplary credit histories and sufficient income to cover the loan payments if and when the borrower defaults, at which time the guarantor's assets may be seized by the lender. And if the borrower chronically makes payments late, the guarantor may be on the hook for additional interest owed or penalty costs.


   Types of Guarantors  

There are many different scenarios in which a guarantor would need to be used. This ranges from assisting people with poor credit histories to simply assisting those without a high enough income. Guarantors also don't necessarily need to be liable for the entire monetary obligation in the guarantee. Below are different situations that would require a guarantor as well as the type of guarantor in a specific guarantee.


  Guarantors as Certifiers  

In addition to pledging their assets as collateral against loans, guarantors may also help individuals land jobs and secure passport documents. In these situations, guarantors certify that they personally know the applicants and corroborate their identities by confirming photo IDs.


  Limited vs. Unlimited  

As defined under the terms of the loan agreement, a guarantor can either be limited or unlimited concerning timetables and levels of financial involvement. Case in point: a limited guarantor may be asked to guarantee a loan only up to a certain time, after which the borrower alone assumes responsibility for the remaining payments and alone suffers the consequences of defaulting.



A limited guarantor may also only be responsible for backing a certain percentage of the loan, referred to as a penal sum. This differs from unlimited guarantors, who are liable for the entire amount of the loan throughout the entire duration of the contract.


  Other Contexts for Guarantors  

Guarantors aren't solely used by borrowers with poor credit histories. Pointedly: landlords frequently require first-time property renters to provide lease guarantors. This commonly occurs with college students whose parents assume the role of the guarantor, in case the tenant is unable to make the rent or prematurely breaks the lease agreement.


   Guarantors vs. Co-signers  

A guarantor differs from a co-signer, who co-owns the asset, and whose name appears on titles. Co-signer arrangements typically occur when the borrower’s qualifying income is less than the figure stipulated in the lender's requirement. This differs from guarantors, who step in only when borrowers have sufficient income but are thwarted by lousy credit histories. Co-signers share ownership of an asset, while guarantors have no claim to the asset purchased by the borrower.



However, in the event the borrower has a claim against a third party that has caused the default, the guarantor has the right to invoke a process called "subrogation" ("step into the shoes of the borrower") to recover damages.



For example, in a rental agreement, a co-signer would be responsible for the rent from day one, whereas a guarantor would only be responsible for the rent if the renter fails to make a payment. This also applies to any loan. Guarantors are only notified when the borrower defaults, not for any payment before that.






In the event of a default, the guarantor’s credit history may be adversely affected, which may limit their chances of securing loans in the future.



In essence, a co-signer takes on more financial responsibility than a guarantor does as a co-signer is equally responsible from the onset of the agreement, whereas a guarantor is only responsible once the primary party to the contract fails to meet their obligation.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Guarantors  

In an agreement with a guarantor, the advantages usually lie with the primary party in the contract, whereas the disadvantages usually lie with the guarantor. Having a guarantor means that the loan or agreement has a higher chance of being approved and much more quickly. Most likely, it can allow for borrowing more and receiving a better interest rate. Though loans with guarantors tend to have higher interest rates.






In a rental agreement, one way to avoid needing a guarantor is by paying a few months of rent upfront if you are in a position to do so.



The disadvantages lie with the guarantor. If the person you are guaranteeing fails to pay their obligations, then you are on the hook for the amount. If you are not in the financial situation to make the payments, then you are still liable for the amount and your credit score will be negatively impacted and legal action may be taken against you. Also, if you guarantee a loan then your ability to borrow additional money for something else is limited because you are tied to an existing obligation.





Pros

Helps a borrower obtain a loan or a rental much easier.
Allows for the ability to borrow a higher amount.
Can help the borrower improve their credit history.



Cons

The guarantor may be liable for the outstanding obligation.
The guarantor's credit score could be negatively impacted.
The ability to obtain another loan for a separate use is limited.







Is a Guarantor a Co-signer?
Though the terms are used interchangeably, they are both different. A co-signer takes on equal responsibility in an agreement, co-owns the asset, and is responsible for payments from the start of the agreement. A guarantor is only responsible for payments once the primary party of the agreement defaults and is then notified by the lender. A co-signer has more financial responsibility than a guarantor.




Is a Parent a Guarantor?
A parent can act as a guarantor and often does for a child for their child's first rental property, as the child's income is usually not high enough at a young age.




How Do You Qualify As a Guarantor?
Different agreements and different lenders have different requirements for a guarantor. At the minimum, a guarantor will need to have a high credit score without any issues in their credit report. They will also have to have an income that is a certain multiple of the monthly or annual payments.




How Much Do You Need to Earn to Be a Guarantor?
There is no specific amount that an individual needs to earn to be a guarantor. The amount relates directly to the loan in question or the rent on a property. For rental agreements, landlords usually expect the guarantor to have an annual income that is at least 40 times the monthly rent.




What Happens If a Guarantor Cannot Pay?
If a guarantor cannot pay, both they and the tenant are liable for the obligations. The lender will begin collection proceedings against both the guarantor and the tenant, which will adversely impact the credit profile of both.


   The Bottom Line  

A guarantor is an individual that agrees to pay a borrower's debt if the borrower defaults on their obligation. A guarantor is not a primary party to the agreement but is considered to be an additional comfort for a lender. A guarantor will have a strong credit score and earn sufficient income to meet the obligation.



Having a guarantor on a loan agreement greatly benefits the borrower. It allows for an agreement to be approved much faster and often at a higher amount.



In the event a borrower defaults, the guarantor must meet the obligation. If they do not, they are still liable and can have a lawsuit brought against them for the outstanding amount. They will also see a negative hit on their credit score.
What Is Guerrilla Marketing?  

Guerrilla marketing is a marketing tactic in which a company uses surprise and/or unconventional interactions in order to promote a product or service. Guerrilla marketing is different from traditional marketing in that it often relies on personal interaction, has a smaller budget, emanates from an original idea to engage the target audience, and focuses on smaller groups of promoters that are responsible for getting the word out in a particular location or locations rather than through widespread uniform marketing campaigns.





Key Takeaways

Guerrilla marketing is the creating use of novel or unconventional methods in order to boost sales or attract interest in a brand or business.These methods are often low- or no-cost and involve the widespread use of more personal interactions or through viral social media messaging.This marketing method has increased in popularity with the rise of ubiquitous mobile and connected technologies that can amplify messaging and focus on target groups of consumers.Some consumers may be more attracted by guerrilla marketing campaigns as they may be more interesting and daring.Others may be turned off by the approach of ambush marketing or other disruptive techniques.


   Understanding Guerrilla Marketing  

Companies using guerrilla marketing rely on its in-your-face promotions to be spread through viral marketing, or word-of-mouth, thus reaching a broader audience for free. Connection to the emotions of a consumer is key to guerrilla marketing. The use of this tactic is not designed for all types of goods and services, and it is often used for more "edgy" products and to target younger consumers who are more likely to respond positively.



Guerrilla marketing takes place in public places that offer as big an audience as possible, such as streets, concerts, public parks, sporting events, festivals, beaches, and shopping centers. One key element of guerrilla marketing is choosing the right time and place to conduct a campaign so as to avoid potential legal issues. Guerrilla marketing can be indoor, outdoor, an "event ambush," or experiential, meant to get the public to interact with a brand.






Guerrilla marketing is legal, though some approaches may border the boundary of being ethical.


   Guerrilla Marketing History  

Guerrilla marketing is a product of the shift to electronic media from traditional print, radio, and television marketing. It was coined by Jay Conrad Levinson in his 1984 book Guerrilla Marketing. Its goal is to create buzz about a product or brand so that it increases the likelihood that a consumer will purchase the product or service, or talk about it with other potential buyers.



Guerrilla marketing can be very cost-effective for small businesses and startups if they manage to create a viral marketing phenomenon. This technique can be centered around the business' core mission such as education, giving, growth, technology, climate, or productivity, and then the company can design initiatives that promote those values in campaign forms, give back to the community, inspire, raise awareness, help, etc. These are more effective messages conveyed by the company's actions and shared via word of mouth by the beneficiaries of the campaigns.


   Guerrilla Marketing Types  

There are many kinds of guerrilla marketing. Some examples include:


  Viral or Buzz Marketing  

Buzz marketing is a marketing technique that focuses on word-of-mouth distribution. Often deployed in social media, this strategy relies on one user sharing content from a company with their social network, friends, or family. Instead of trying to generate excitement by itself, guerrilla marketing relies on customers to organically raise awareness of a product or company.


  Stealth Marketing  

Stealth marketing is a low cost strategy that strives to market to a customer without the customer realizing they are being marketed to. Consider the last time you watched TV. Although you may not be fully attentive during commercials, companies that deploy TV advertisements may be attempting to market products to you without you explicitly realizing it.


  Ambient Marketing  

Ambient marketing is a guerrilla marketing technique that strives to blend into a natural environment. As opposed to a more explicit form of advertising, ambient marketing such as promotions on a bus bench. Instead of creating a guerrilla marketing campaign that obviously sticks outs, some marketing departments may strive for more subtle guerrilla marketing campaigns to minimize the risk of turning off customers.


  Ambush Marketing  

Imagine watching a sporting event and seeing several advertisements of companies that sponsored the event. In many cases, companies may try to to employ coat-tail marketing which entails appearing like a sponsor although they are not. Popular within event sponsorships, ambush marketing is often employed as a guerrilla marketing strategy by companies looking to save money yet capitalize on a major event that is occurring.


  Projection Advertising  

Projection advertising entails placing large, captivating ads often on the sides of buildings or bland walls. This style of guerrilla marketing often allows companies to personalize promotions, especially for events. Instead of a more permanent form of advertising that requires capital investments or long-term agreements, projection advertising may be more informal and require less upfront capital.


  Grassroots Marketing  

Grassroots marketing is a guerrilla marketing approach that relies on fewer resources. Companies that embrace grassroots marketing often employ low-cost marketing strategies that rely on people's time (such as handing out flyers) as opposed to larger marketing strategies. Often employed by local or small companies, grassroots marketing is a more simplistic strategy to embarking on a marketing campaign.






The goal of a guerrilla marketing strategy is usually to spend less money. If this style of marketing is leading to higher costs, re-evaluate your spending as there may be more cost-effective approaches to marketing a brand.


   Guerrilla Marketing Advantages and Disadvantages  
  Pros of Guerrilla Marketing  

Management often embarks on guerrilla marketing because it is usually a budget-friendly option. Instead of needing to deploy lots of capital, guerrilla marketing is often less expensive than other marketing campaigns.



Start-ups, local businesses, or companies with less corporate restrictions often deploy guerrilla marketing techniques because this method also allows for greater creative capacity. Guerrilla marketing often relies on informal means of marketing information, allowing marketing professionals to utilize less traditional ways to deploy their strategies.



Because marketing professionals have the ability to be more creative, some guerrilla marketing campaigns have the ability to have a wider reach. Not only does this have the opportunity to be more profitable than other campaigns, marketing professionals may find guerrilla marketing campaigns more desirable and fun to deploy.


  Cons of Guerrilla Marketing  

Guerrilla marketing strategies are usually less structured; for this reason, guerrilla marketing endeavors are often less successful and have a greater risk of failure. As there is less structure, recipients of the marketing content may not get a consistent message or may misunderstand the messaging.



To some, guerrilla marketing is an adverse sense of marketing. Some may prefer not to receive such marketing. Therefore, some consumers are put at-risk of being adversely impacted by guerrilla marketing techniques.



Perhaps the greatest downside of guerrilla marketing is its unpredictability. Because there is less structure, marketing professionals may not be able to collect metrics to gauge whether the campaign is successful. It may also use untraditional guerrilla techniques that the company is unsure will be successful.





Pros

Often a less expensive option compared to other marketing campaign techniques
Usually allows for greater creativity
May reach a broader audience compared to traditional marketing campaigns
May be more fun for marketing professionals to embark on



Cons

Less structure often leads to less successful endeavors
May not deliver consistent messaging
May be seen as a "turn off" by some individuals
May be more unpredictability due to difficult to track or collect data for





   Guerrilla Marketing Examples  

Leading up to the release of Deadpool, the Marvel character was issued his own Tinder profile. As Tinder is not a typical avenue for promoting a movie, this absurd approach to advertising the film and character is a strong example of guerrilla marketing.



Unsuspecting collect students in Queens, New York received unsolicited doses of "happiness" from Coca-Cola in a guerrilla marketing campaign. Armed with real humans inside, a vending machine dubbed the "Happiness Machine" also offered pizzas, flowers, and a six-foot-long sandwich. This guerrilla marketing campaign went on to win awards.



Though never confirmed, some suspect a 2017 break-up played out on Burger King's Instagram was staged by the hamburger company. As the drama unfolded within the comment section of the company's social media account, more social media users became engrossed in the tale. Some suspect the entire situation was staged by Burger King to incite interest in the company's page and boost traffic.



Last, consider leaving a club and seeing a garbage can full of Red Bull cans. One must presume that the drink was popular and consumed by many within in the club, correct? It turns out that Red Bull may have embarked on an "empty can" guerrilla campaign. By placing empty cans in bins around clubs, the company presumably wanted to create the impression that the drink was popular at the club.


   Guerrilla Marketing Mistakes  

With the risks inherent to guerrilla marketing, and the sometimes uncharted territory it travels in, there are a number of examples of campaigns gone awry.



In 2007, the Cartoon Network promoted a show by placing LED signs resembling a character from the show all over Boston. The signs created a bomb scare and cost Turner Broadcasting (the network's parent) $2 million in fines.In a 2005 Guinness World Record attempt, Snapple promoted its new frozen treats by erecting a 25-foot popsicle in a New York City park. It melted faster than expected, covering the park in sticky goo requiring the fire department to come to hose it down.




Is Guerrilla Marketing Illegal?
Guerrilla marketing is completely legal. Although some techniques are ethically questionable, there is nothing illegal about these strategies. Often, companies embark on guerrilla marketing strategies because of a lack of resources or more creative approach to marketing.




Why Is It Called Guerrilla Marketing?
Guerrilla marketing is derived from guerrilla warfare, the technique of physical combat that relied to using different, unique techniques to gain an advantage. Instead of large, organized approach to gaining position, guerrilla warfare (and guerrilla marketing) rely on small tactics for success.




What Makes Guerrilla Marketing Campaigns Successful?
Guerrilla marketing works because is often a more memorable and unconventional approach to marketing. Convention marketing may be drier, more deliberate, and safer. On the other hand, consumers may be more likely to feel amazed or wowed by guerrilla marketing approached. The primary goal of a guerrilla marketing campaign is to make an impression on a client, and this approach may be more successful compared to more simplistic stragegies.




What Is the First Step of Guerrilla Marketing?
To deploy a guerrilla marketing strategy, a company must know its audience. The first step is to best understand who the company wants to market to and the product it is able to offer. Once a company best understands its market, it is able to decide which guerrilla marketing technique makes the most sense for not only its customers but the product is wants to offer.


   The Bottom Line  

Instead of using conventional marketing approaches, guerrilla marketing entails using unconventional approaches to attract interest in a company, product, or brand. Using low-cost or no-cost methods of marketing, the company embraces a more simplistic approach to marketing to attempt to lure customers using more interesting strategies.