What Is an A-B Trust?  

An A-B trust is a joint trust created by a married couple for the purpose of minimizing estate taxes. It is formed with each spouse placing assets in the trust and naming as the final beneficiary any suitable person except the other spouse. The trust gets its name from the fact that it splits into two separate entities when one spouse dies. Trust A is the survivor's trust and trust B is the decedent's trust.





Key Takeaways

An A-B trust is a joint trust created by a married couple; upon one spouse's death, the trust splits into a survivor portion (the A trust) and a bypass portion (the decedent's trust, or B trust). Via the split, the A-B trust effectively minimizes estate taxes and defers them until after the death of the surviving spouse.The surviving spouse has limited control over the decedent's trust but the terms of the decedent's trust can be set to allow the surviving spouse to access the assets, and even draw income from them.A-B trusts are no longer widely used as the estate tax exemption, which is now indexed to inflation, is sufficient for most estates.


   Understanding an A-B Trust  

Estate taxes can bite deeply into a deceased person's assets. For example, consider a married couple that has an estate worth $20 million by the time one of the spouses dies. The surviving spouse is left with the whole $20 million, which is not taxed due to the unlimited marital deduction for assets flowing from a deceased spouse to a surviving spouse.



But then, the other spouse dies, leaving the money to their children. The taxable portion of the estate (the amount that exceeds the 2023 exemption threshold of $12.92 million will be $7.08 million). This means that $7.08 million will be taxed at 40% ($4.25 million), leaving $17.17 million ($12.92 million + $4.25 million) for the beneficiaries.



To circumvent an estate from being subject to such steep taxes, many married couples set up a trust under their last will and testaments called an A-B trust. In the example above, if the couple instead had an A-B trust, the death of the first spouse would not trigger any estate taxes as a result of the lifetime exclusion; however, a sum of money equal to the current exemption amount will be transferred into an irrevocable trust called the bypass trust or B trust.



This trust is also known as the decedent’s trust. The remaining amount, $7.08 million, will be transferred to a survivor’s trust, or A trust, which the surviving spouse will have complete control over. The estate tax on the A trust is deferred until after the death of the surviving spouse.



It's important to note that if the surviving spouse elected portability when the first spouse died, the portion of the first spouse's exemption would pass to the surviving spouse, in this case, $12.92 million, which means that the entire $20 million would pass tax-free to the beneficiaries, as the combined exemption of both spouses would be $25.84 million. This removes the need for an A-B trust.


   Benefits of an A-B Trust  

The A trust contains the surviving spouse’s property interests, but they have limited control over the assets in the deceased spouse's trust; however, this limited control over the B trust will still enable the surviving spouse to live in the couple's house and draw income from the trust, provided these terms are stipulated in the trust.



While the surviving spouse can access the bypass trust, if necessary, the assets in this trust will bypass their taxable estate after they die. After the surviving spouse dies, only the assets in the A trust are subject to estate taxes. If the estate tax exemption for this spouse is also $12.92 million for 2023 and the value of assets in the survivor’s trust is still valued at $7.08 million, none of it will be subject to estate tax.



The federal tax exemption is transferable between married couples through a designation referred to as the portability of the estate tax exemption. If one spouse dies, the unused portion of their estate tax exemption can be transferred and added to the estate tax exemption of the surviving spouse. Upon the death of the surviving spouse, the property in the decedent's trust passes tax-free to the beneficiaries named in this trust.



This is because the B trust uses up the estate tax exemption of the spouse that died first, hence, any funds left in the decedent’s trust will be passed tax-free. As the decedent’s trust is not considered part of the surviving spouse's estate for purposes of the estate tax, double taxation is avoided.


   Net Worth and A-B Trusts  

If the deceased spouse’s estate falls under the amount of their tax exemption, then it may not be necessary to establish a survivor’s trust. The unused portion of the late spouse’s federal tax exemption can be transferred to the surviving spouse’s tax exemption by filling out IRS Form 706.



While A-B trusts are a great way to minimize estate taxes, they are not used much today. They were popular in the decades around the turn of the 21st century when the estate tax—which hadn't been adjusted for years—could be triggered on estates as small as $1 million or $2 million. Nowadays, each individual has a combined lifetime federal gift tax and estate tax exemption of $12.92 million ($25.84 million for married couples) in 2023.



So only people with estates valued over $12.92 million ($25.84 million for married couples) will opt for an A-B trust in 2023. With the portability provision, a surviving spouse can include the tax exemption of their late spouse, $25.84 million in 2023, which can be transferred tax-free to beneficiaries if filed within the 9-month period.




What Are the Benefits of an A-B Trust?
The benefits of an A-B trust include death tax exemptions, built-in trust protection, and the portability of exemption. Disadvantages include maintenance costs, complex structure, and the possibility of large capital gains taxes after both parties die.




Why Is an A-B Trust Obsolete?
A-B trusts aren't completely obsolete but they are not as common as they once were due to changes in estate tax law, primarily the fact that a couple now has extremely high estate tax exemptions. A-B trusts are primarily used to reduce estate taxes between married couples.




What Is Another Name for an A-B Trust?
A-B trusts are also known as bypass trusts or credit shelter trusts. The goal of these trusts is to reduce estate taxes between married couples.


   The Bottom Line  

A-B trusts are beneficial in estate planning to reduce taxes but have not been required in recent years due to the higher estate tax exemptions. It's worth working with a tax advisor to find ways you can minimize taxes when passing on your assets to your heirs.
What Are China A-Shares?  

China A-shares are the stock shares of mainland China-based companies that trade on the two Chinese stock exchanges, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). Historically, China A-shares were only available for purchase by mainland citizens due to China's restrictions on foreign investment.



However, since 2003, select foreign institutions have been able to purchase these shares through the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) system. Established in 2002, the QFII program allows specified licensed international investors to buy and sell on mainland China's stock exchanges.



A-shares are also known as domestic shares because they use the Chinese renminbi (RMB) for valuation.





Key Takeaways

China A-shares are the stock shares of mainland China-based companies that trade on the two Chinese stock exchanges, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE).Historically, China A-shares were only available for purchase by mainland citizens due to China's restrictions on foreign investment.China A-shares are different from B-shares; A-shares are only quoted in RMB, while B-shares are quoted in foreign currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, and are more widely available to foreign investors.


   China A-Shares vs. B-Shares  

China A-shares are different from B-shares. A-shares are only quoted in RMB, while B-shares are quoted in foreign currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, and are more widely available to foreign investors. Foreign investors may have difficulty accessing A-shares because of Chinese government regulations, and Chinese investors may have difficulty accessing B shares most notably for currency-exchange reasons. Some companies opt to have their stock listed on both the A-shares and B-shares market.



Due to the limited access of Chinese investors to B-shares, the stock of the same company often trades at much higher valuations on the A-shares market than on the B-shares market. Although foreign investors may now invest in A-shares, there is a monthly 20% limit on repatriation of funds to foreign countries.



The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publishes the key performance index for A-shares, known as the SSE 180 Index. In composing the index, the exchange selects 180 stocks listed on the SSE. The selection is diversified between sector, size, and liquidity to ensure adequate representation. Thus, the index's performance benchmark reflects the overall situation and operation of the Shanghai securities market.


   History of China A-Shares  

Since its inception in 1990, including a major reform in 2002, the index has seen great fluctuations. However, it has grown along with the Chinese economy. The years 2015 to 2016 were a particularly difficult period, with a 52-week performance of -21.55% as of July 20, 2016.



As China grows from an emerging market to an advanced economy, there is substantial demand for Chinese equity. Stock exchange regulators continue efforts to make A-shares more broadly available to foreign investors and have them recognized by the global investing community.



In June 2017, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index announced a two-phase plan in which it would gradually add 222 China A large-cap stocks. In May 2018, the index began to partially include China's large-cap A shares, which make up 5% of the index. Full inclusion would make up 40% of the index.



It is important for countries such as China to open their markets to global investors to stay competitive and thrive economically. China A-shares provide an alternative investment for those interested in trading in Chinese securities.
What Is a AAA Credit Rating?  

AAA is the highest possible rating that may be assigned to an issuer’s bonds by any of the major credit-rating agencies. AAA-rated bonds have a high degree of creditworthiness because their issuers are easily able to meet financial commitments and have the lowest risk of default.



Rating agencies Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Fitch Ratings use the letters AAA to identify bonds with the highest credit quality, while Moody’s uses a slightly different Aaa to signify a bond’s top-tier credit rating.





Key Takeaways

The highest possible rating that a bond may achieve is AAA, which is only bestowed upon those bonds that exhibit the highest levels of creditworthiness.This AAA rating is used by Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s, while Moody’s uses a similar Aaa lettering.Bonds that receive AAA ratings are viewed as the least likely to default. Issuers of AAA-rated bonds generally have no trouble finding investors, although the yield offered on these bonds is lower than other tiers because of the high credit rating.


   Understanding AAA Credit Ratings  

Credit ratings are assessments or opinions of the creditworthiness of a business or government. As such, they provide an alert of the likelihood that the subject will live up to their financial obligations by paying their bills. Investors can use these ratings to decide whether countries and bond offerings are safe investments. These ratings are assigned by credit rating agencies, notably S&P, Moody's, and Fitch.



AAA and Aaa ratings are considered to be investment grade. Since they are perceived to have the lowest risk of default, these instruments tend to offer the investors the lowest yields among bonds with similar maturity dates (lower risk equals lower return). The term default refers to a bond issuer failing to fulfill its obligations, namely failing to make semiannual interest payments or repay the principal amount when due.



AAA ratings are given to government debt and companies’ corporate bonds. The global credit crisis of 2008 resulted in a number of companies losing their AAA rating, most notably General Electric (GE). As of August 2023, only two companies held the AAA rating outright: Microsoft (MSFT) and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ). Apple (AAPL) is split, with an Aaa rating by Moody’s and an AA+ (one notch below AAA) from S&P.



Even the United States suffered a ratings cut by S&P, to AA+ in 2011—losing its vaunted AAA status due to political infighting over raising the debt ceiling. Moody’s and Fitch maintained the U.S. at Aaa and AAA ratings, respectively. That is, until August 2023 when Fitch downgraded the U.S.'s long-term ratings from AAA to AA+. The agency cited potential issues with financial deterioration over the next three years and rising national debt.






Rather than restricting their fixed-income exposure to AAA-rated bonds, investors should consider balancing those investments with higher income-producing bonds, such as high-yield corporates.


   Types of AAA-Rated Bonds  
  Municipal  

Municipal bonds can be issued as either revenue bonds or general obligation bonds, with each type relying on different sources of income.



Revenue bonds, for example, are paid using fees and other specific income-generating sources, like city pools and sporting venues. On the other hand, general obligation bonds are backed by the issuer’s ability to raise capital through levying taxes. State bonds rely on state income taxes, while local school districts depend on property taxes.


  Secured and Unsecured  

Issuers can sell both secured and unsecured bonds. Each type of bond carries with it a different risk profile.



A secured bond means that a specific asset is pledged as collateral for the bond, and the creditor has a claim on the asset if the issuer defaults. Secured bonds may be collateralized with tangible items such as equipment, machinery, or real estate. Secured collateralized offerings may have a higher credit rating than unsecured bonds sold by the same issuer.



Conversely, unsecured bonds are simply backed by the issuer’s promise to pay. Therefore, the credit rating of such instruments relies heavily on the issuer’s income sources and business outlook.


   Benefits of a AAA Rating  

A high credit rating lowers the cost of borrowing for the issuer (or borrower). Therefore, it stands to reason that companies with high ratings are better positioned to borrow large sums of money than fixed-income instruments with lesser credit ratings. And a low cost of borrowing affords firms a substantial competitive advantage by letting them easily access credit to grow their businesses.



For example, a business may use the incoming funds from a new bond issue to launch a new product line, set up a shop in a new location, or acquire a competitor. All of these initiatives can help a company increase its market share and thrive over the long haul.




Why Is a Credit Rating So Important?
The level of credit rating that an issuer receives has significant implications on the cost of borrowing in the open market. The better the credit rating—with AAA being the best—the lower the cost to borrow, and vice versa.As an investor, you’ll need to balance the risk you’re willing to take against the yield you’re seeking.




Who Decides What Credit Rating a Debt Issuer Receives?
There are three major credit rating agencies: Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s, and Fitch. They assess a debt issuer’s creditworthiness and ability to pay interest and principal on bonds based on multiple factors, such as the company’s cash flow, the amount of other outstanding debt, and the business outlook for the issuer, to name just a few criteria.




What Does the AAA Credit Rating Mean?
The AAA credit rating is only given to the most creditworthy debt issuers and allows investors to gauge the amount of risk in their fixed-income portfolio. Conservative investors will typically sacrifice return or yield to own the highest credit rating issues available.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit ratings are assigned to debt issues and bonds by the three major debt-rating agencies: S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch. Their credit ratings have a strong influence on the cost of borrowing for the issuer. The better the credit rating, the lower the cost to borrow.



AAA/Aaa ratings are the highest ratings issued by the credit-rating agencies and likely result in the lowest borrowing costs or yields. Investors seeking a better return should look down the credit-ratings scale for bond issuers with lower ratings and higher yields.
What Is AARP?  

The American Association of Retired Persons, commonly known by its acronym AARP, is America's leading organization for people aged fifty and older, providing member benefits, marketing services, and lobbying on their behalf.



Founded in 1958 by retired educator Dr. Ethel Percy Andrus as the American Association of Retired Persons,﻿ AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan association with a membership of more than 38 million.﻿





Key Takeaways

AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers retired people to choose how they live as they age.AARP offers membership benefits ranging from discounts, healthcare options, insurance products, travel-related services, education, and learning resources.AARP has grown to be a powerful organization, with over 38 million active members and a strong lobbying presence in Washington and state capitals.


   How AARP Works  

AARP provides information, education, research, advocacy, and community services through a nationwide network of local chapters and experienced volunteers. It focuses its work on consumer issues, economic security, work, health, and independent living issues, and engages in legislative, judicial, and consumer advocacy in these areas.



AARP is considered a powerful lobbying group as well as a successful business, selling life and health insurance, investment products, and other financial and non-financial services. It is also an independent publisher, offering Modern Maturity magazine and the monthly AARP Bulletin. AARP produced $1.70 billion in revenue in 2019, which came from a variety of endeavors, including advertising revenue from its publications, and from royalties for licensing its name and logo.﻿﻿



However, membership fees represent the most significant source of revenue. It is registered as a 501(c)(4) non-profit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which means it is permitted to engage in lobbying.﻿ It also administers some 501(c)(3) public charity operations while some of its other operations are for-profit.


   AARP Affiliates  

There are several AARP-affiliated organizations, and they include the following:



The AARP Foundation is a non-profit charity that assists people over age 50 who may be at economic and social risk. Within the foundation operates AARP Experience Corps., which encourages tutoring and mentoring of children, and AARP Institute, which holds its gift annuity funds.AARP Services develop and manage new products and services and are for-profit.Legal Counsel for the Elderly is a non-profit that provides legal services for seniors in Washington, D.C.AARP Financial Services holds AARP real estate and is for-profit.The AARP Insurance Plan administers some AARP group insurance plans.



AARP also has many other initiatives, including promoting driver safety (AARP Driver Safety), producing television programming that targets seniors, and engaging in sponsorships that support social causes, such as raising awareness of and fighting hunger in America.



AARP manages outreach programs that address housing issues and social isolation among seniors. AARP has also initiated and managed programs that advocate for the strengthening of Social Security and Medicare.


   Criticism of the AARP  

AARP is one of the strongest lobbying groups in America, and because of its efforts, it often receives attention for exerting its influence in Washington, D.C., and in state capitals. Its non-profit operations also receive millions of dollars per year in the form of federal grants. Some argue that its positions fall into the more liberal part of the political spectrum.
What is Abenomics?  

Abenomics is the nickname for the economic policies set out for Japan in 2012 when prime minister Shinzo Abe came into power for a second time. Abenomics involved increasing the nation’s money supply, boosting government spending, and enacting reforms to make the Japanese economy more competitive. The Economist outlined the program as a "mix of reflation, government spending, and a growth strategy designed to jolt the economy out of suspended animation that has gripped it for more than two decades."﻿﻿


   Understanding Abenomics  

Abenomics refers to the economic policies of a particular politician, in the same way, that Reaganomics or Clintonomics does. Abenomics was promoted as a way to shake Japan's economy out of a period of minimal growth and overall deflation. Japan's economic troubles dated back to the 90s, also known as the Lost Decade. It was a period of marked economic stagnation in Japan, following a massive real estate bubble burst in the 1980s, and Japan's asset price bubble burst in the early 90s.



The Japanese government responded to the economic fallout by running massive budget deficits to fund pubic works projects. In 1998, economist Paul Krugman argued in a paper titled "Japan's Trap" that Japan could raise inflation expectations by committing to an irresponsible monetary policy for a period of time, thereby cutting long-term interest rates and promoting the spending needed to break out of economic stagnation.﻿﻿ 





Key Takeaways

Abenomics is a set of economic policies championed by Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, when he came into power a second time in 2012.Abenomics was originally described as a three arrow approach of increasing the money supply, undertaking government spending to stimulate the economy, and undertaking economic and regulatory reforms to make Japan more competitive in the global market.Abenomics has grown as prime minister Abe continues to govern Japan, and now encompasses goals for female employment, sustainable growth, and a concept known as Society 5.0 which is aimed at the further digitalization of Japan. 



Japan adopted some of Krugman's recommendations, expanding the money supply domestically and keeping interest rates remarkably low. This facilitated an economic recovery, beginning in 2005, but it ultimately did not stop deflation. 



In July 2006, Japan ended its zero-rate policy as Abe took power in his first term as prime minister. Abe would resign as prime minister suddenly in 2007, but continued to serve in the ruling party. Though still having the lowest interest rates in the world, Japan could not stop deflation. The country saw the Nikkei 225 drop more than 50% between the end of 2007 and the beginning of 2009. In part due to the economic malaise Japan seemed unable to shake, Abe's party, the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan (LDP), lost power to the Democratic Party of Japan.


   Abenomics and the Three Arrows  

Abe began a second term in December 2012. Soon after resuming office, he launched his Abenomics plan to bolster Japan’s stagnant economy. In a speech following his election, Abe announced that he and his cabinet would "implement bold monetary policy, flexible fiscal policy and a growth strategy that encourages private investment, and with these three pillars, achieve results."



Abe’s program consisted of three “arrows.” The first was printing additional currency – between 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen – to make Japanese exports more attractive and generate modest inflation—roughly 2%. The second arrow was new government spending programs to stimulate demand and consumption—to stimulate short-term growth, and to achieve a budget surplus over the long term. 



The third component of Abenomics was more complex—a reform of various regulations to make Japanese industries more competitive and to encourage investment in and from the private sector. This included corporate governance reform, easing of restrictions on hiring foreign staff in special economic zones, making it easier for companies to fire ineffective workers, liberalizing the health sector, and implementing measures the help domestic and foreign entrepreneurs. The proposed legislation also aimed to restructure the utility and pharmaceutical industries and modernize the agricultural sector. Most important, perhaps, was the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which was described by economist Yoshizaki Tatsuhiko as potentially the "linchpin of Abe's economic revitalization strategy," by making Japan more competitive through free trade.


   Did Abenomics Work?  

Like all Japanese economic policy since the bubble burst, Abenomics has worked well at times and stalled at others. Inflation targets have been met and Japan's unemployment rate is more than 2% lower than when Abe came to power for the second time. Similarly, nominal GDP has increased and corporate pre-tax profit and tax revenues have both seen significant rises. However, Japan's periods of success have been halted at times by global economic forces and the country's most significant economic problem - a rapidly aging population - has increasingly taken the forefront.
What Is Ability-To-Pay Taxation?  

The ability-to-pay philosophy of taxation maintains that taxes should be levied according to a taxpayer's ability to pay. The idea is that people, businesses, and corporations with higher incomes can and should pay more in taxes. 





Key Takeaways

The ability-to-pay principle holds that those who have a greater ability to pay taxes—measured by income and wealth—should pay more.One idea behind "ability to pay" is that those who have enjoyed success should be willing to give back a little more to the society that helped make that success possible.Proponents of "ability to pay" argue that a single dollar ultimately means less to a rich person than a wage earner, so the rich should pay more to equalize their sacrifice.


   Understanding the Ability-To-Pay Principle  

Ability-to-pay taxation argues that those who earn higher incomes should pay a greater percentage of those incomes in taxes compared with those who earn less. For example, in 2020 individuals in the United States with taxable income less than $9,875 faced a 10% income tax rate, while those with taxable income of more than $518,000 faced a rate of 37%, the nation's top individual rate. Earnings between those amounts face tax rates as set by income brackets.



The idea underlying ability-to-pay taxation is that everyone should make an equal sacrifice in paying taxes, and because people with more money effectively have less use for a given dollar, paying more of them in taxes does not impose a greater burden. Think of it this way: To a person with earns $1 million a year, $10,000 will make very little difference in their life, while it will make a big difference to a person earning only $60,000 a year.


   History of Ability-to-Pay Taxation  

The idea of a progressive income tax—that is, that people with the ability to pay more should pay a higher percentage of their income—is centuries old. In fact, it was espoused by none other than Adam Smith, considered the father of economics, in 1776.



Smith wrote: “The subjects of every state ought to contribute toward the support of the government, as near as possible, in proportion to their respective abilities; that is in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the state.”


   Arguments for Progressive Taxation  

Advocates of ability-to-pay taxation argue that those who have benefitted most from the nation’s way of life in the form of higher incomes and greater wealth can afford and should be obligated to give back a little more to keep the system running.



The argument is that the society that government tax revenue has helped build—infrastructure such as highways and fiberoptic communications networks, a strong military, public schools, a free market system—provide the environment in which their success is possible and in which they can continue to enjoy that success.


   Criticism of Ability-to-Pay Taxation  

Critics of progressive taxation argue that it is fundamentally unfair. They say it penalizes hard work and success and reduces the incentive to make more money. Many argue that everyone should pay the same income-tax rate—a "flat tax"—to make the system more equitable.


   Progressive Taxation and Inequality  

While the U.S. still maintains a progressive tax system, tax rates for the rich have plummeted over the past several decades. When President Ronald Reagan took office in 1981, the highest income tax bracket for individuals was 70%. In 2020, the top rate for incomes is 37%. Meanwhile, inequality has reached levels not seen in at least a century. The top 1% now holds more wealth than the bottom 90%.
What Is an Abnormal Return?  

An abnormal return describes the unusually large profits or losses generated by a given investment or portfolio over a specified period. The performance diverges from the investments' expected, or anticipated, rate of return (RoR)—the estimated risk-adjusted return based on an asset pricing model, or using a long-run historical average or multiple valuation techniques.



Returns that are abnormal may simply be anomalous or they may point to something more nefarious such as fraud or manipulation. Abnormal returns should not be confused with "alpha" or excess returns earned by actively managed investments.





Key Takeaways

An abnormal return is one that deviates from an investment's expected return.The presence of abnormal returns, which can be either positive or negative in direction, helps investors determine risk-adjusted performance.Abnormal returns can be produced by chance, due to some external or unforeseen event, or as the result of bad actors.A cumulative abnormal return (CAR) is the sum total of all abnormal returns and can be used to measure the effect lawsuits, buyouts, and other events have on stock prices.


   Understanding Abnormal Returns  

Abnormal returns are essential in determining a security or portfolio's risk-adjusted performance when compared to the overall market or a benchmark index. Abnormal returns could help to identify a portfolio manager's skill on a risk-adjusted basis. It will also illustrate whether investors received adequate compensation for the amount of investment risk assumed.



An abnormal return can be either positive or negative. The figure is merely a summary of how the actual returns differ from the predicted yield. For example, earning 30% in a mutual fund that is expected to average 10% per year would create a positive abnormal return of 20%. If, on the other hand, in this same example, the actual return was 5%, this would generate a negative abnormal return of 5%.






The abnormal return is calculated by subtracting the expected return from the realized return and may be positive or negative.


   Cumulative Abnormal Return (CAR)  

Cumulative abnormal return (CAR) is the total of all abnormal returns. Usually, the calculation of cumulative abnormal return happens over a small window of time, often only days. This short duration is because evidence has shown that compounding daily abnormal returns can create bias in the results.



Cumulative abnormal return (CAR) is used to measure the effect lawsuits, buyouts, and other events have on stock prices and is also useful for determining the accuracy of asset pricing models in predicting the expected performance.



The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is a framework used to calculate a security or portfolio's expected return based on the risk-free rate of return, beta, and the expected market return. After the calculation of a security or portfolio's expected return, the estimate for the abnormal return is calculated by subtracting the expected return from the realized return.


   Example of Abnormal Returns  

An investor holds a portfolio of securities and wishes to calculate the portfolio's abnormal return during the previous year. Assume that the risk-free rate of return is 2% and the benchmark index has an expected return of 15%.



The investor's portfolio returned 25% and had a beta of 1.25 when measured against the benchmark index. Therefore, given the amount of risk assumed, the portfolio should have returned 18.25%, or (2% + 1.25 x (15% - 2%)). Consequently, the abnormal return during the previous year was 6.75% or 25 - 18.25%.



The same calculations can be helpful for a stock holding. For example, stock ABC returned 9% and had a beta of 2, when measured against its benchmark index. Consider that the risk-free rate of return is 5% and the benchmark index has an expected return of 12%. Based on the CAPM, stock ABC has an expected return of 19%. Therefore, stock ABC had an abnormal return of -10% and underperformed the market during this period.
What Is Absolute Advantage?  

Absolute advantage is the ability of an individual, company, region, or country to produce a greater quantity of a good or service with the same quantity of inputs per unit of time, or to produce the same quantity of a good or service per unit of time using a lesser quantity of inputs, than its competitors.



Absolute advantage can be accomplished by creating the good or service at a lower absolute cost per unit using a smaller number of inputs, or by a more efficient process.





Key Takeaways

Absolute advantage is when a producer can provide a good or service in greater quantity for the same cost, or the same quantity at a lower cost, than its competitors.A concept developed by Adam Smith, absolute advantage can be the basis for large gains from trade between producers of different goods with different absolute advantages.By specialization, division of labor, and trade, producers with different absolute advantages can always gain more than producing and consuming in isolation.Absolute advantage can be contrasted with comparative advantage, which is the ability to produce goods and services at a lower opportunity cost.












ï»¿Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Absolute Advantage  

The concept of absolute advantage was developed by 18th-century economist Adam Smith in his book The Wealth of Nations to show how countries can gain from trade by specializing in producing and exporting the goods that they can produce more efficiently than other countries. Countries with an absolute advantage can decide to specialize in producing and selling a specific good or service and use the generated funds to purchase goods and services from other countries.



Smith argued that specializing in the products that they each have an absolute advantage in and then trading the products can make all countries better off, as long as they each have at least one product for which they hold an absolute advantage over other nations.



Absolute advantage explains why it makes sense for individuals, businesses, and countries to trade with each other. Since each has advantages in producing certain goods and services, both entities can benefit from the exchange.



This mutual gain from trade forms the basis of Smith’s argument that specialization, the division of labor, and subsequent trade lead to an overall increase in prosperity from which all can benefit. This, Smith believed, was the root source of the eponymous "Wealth of Nations."


   Absolute Advantage vs. Comparative Advantage  

Absolute advantage can be contrasted with comparative advantage, which is when a producer has a lower opportunity cost to produce a good or service than another producer. An opportunity cost is the potential benefits an individual, investor, or business misses out on when choosing one alternative over another.



Absolute advantage leads to unambiguous gains from specialization and trade only in cases where each producer has an absolute advantage in producing some good. If a producer lacks any absolute advantage, then Adam Smith’s argument would not necessarily apply.



However, the producer and its trading partners might still be able to realize gains from trade if they can specialize based on their respective comparative advantages instead. In his book On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, David Ricardo argued that even if a country has an absolute advantage over trading many kinds of goods, it can still benefit by trading with other countries if that have different comparative advantages.


   Assumptions of the Theory of Absolute Advantage  

Both Smith's theory of absolute advantage, and Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage, rely on certain assumptions and simplifications in order to explain the benefits of trade.


  Barriers to Trade  

Both theories assume that there are no barriers to trade. They do not account for any costs of shipping or additional tariffs that a country might raise on another's imported goods. In the real world, though, shipping costs impact how likely both the importer and exporter are to engage in trade. Countries can also leverage tariffs to create advantages for themselves or disadvantages for competitors.


  Factors of Production  

Both theories also assume that the factors of production are immobile. In these models, workers and businesses do not relocate in search of better opportunities. This assumption was realistic in the 1700s.



In modern trade, however, globalization has now made it easy for companies to move their factories abroad. It has also increased the rate of immigration, which impacts a country's available workforce. In some industries, businesses will work with governments to create immigration opportunities for workers that are essential to their business operations.


  Consistency and Scale  

More crucially, these theories both assume that a country's absolute advantage is constant and scales equally. In other words, it assumes that producing a small number of goods has the same per-unit cost as a larger number and that countries are unable to change their absolute advantages.



In reality, countries often make strategic investments to create greater advantages in certain industries. Absolute advantage can also change for reasons other than investment. Natural disasters, for example, can destroy farmland, factories, and other factors of production.


   Pros and Cons of Absolute Advantage  

One advantage of the theory of absolute advantage is its simplicity: The theory provides an elegant explanation of the benefits of trade, showing how countries can benefit by focusing on their absolute advantages.



However, the theory of comparative advantage does not fully explain why nations benefit from trade. This explanation would later fall to Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage: Even if one country has an absolute advantage in both types of goods, it will still be better off through trade. In other words, if one country can produce all goods more cheaply than its trading partners, it will still benefit by trading with other countries.



Also, as explained earlier, the theory also assumes that absolute advantages are static—a country cannot change its absolute advantages, and they do not become more efficient with scale. Actual experience has shown this to be untrue: Many countries have successfully created an absolute advantage by investing in strategic industries.



In fact, the theory has been used to justify exploitative economic policies in the postcolonial era. Reasoning that all countries should focus on their advantages, major bodies like the World Bank and IMF have often pressured developing countries to focus on agricultural exports, rather than industrialization. As a result, many of these countries remain at a low level of economic development.




Pros and Cons of Theory of Absolute Advantage

Pros

Simple illustration of why countries can benefit by trading on their advantages.



Cons

Lacks the explanatory power of the theory of comparative advantage.
Does not account for costs or barriers to trade.
Has been used to justify exploitative policies.





   Example of Absolute Advantage  

Consider two hypothetical countries, Atlantica and Pacifica, with equivalent populations and resource endowments, with each producing two products: butter and bacon. Each year, Atlantica can produce either 12 tubs of butter or six slabs of bacon, while Pacifica can produce either six tubs of butter or 12 slabs of bacon.



Each country needs a minimum of four tubs of butter and four slabs of bacon to survive. In a state of autarky, producing solely on their own for their own needs, Atlantica can spend one-third of the year making butter and two-thirds of the year making bacon, for a total of four tubs of butter and four slabs of bacon.



Pacifica can spend one-third of the year making bacon and two-thirds making butter to produce the same: four tubs of butter and four slabs of bacon. This leaves each country at the brink of survival, with barely enough butter and bacon to go around. However, note that Atlantica has an absolute advantage in producing butter and Pacifica has an absolute advantage in producing bacon.



If each country were to specialize in their absolute advantage, Atlantica could make 12 tubs of butter and no bacon in a year, while Pacifica makes no butter and 12 slabs of bacon. By specializing, the two countries divide the tasks of their labor between them.



If they then trade six tubs of butter for six slabs of bacon, each country would then have six of each. Both countries would now be better off than before, because each would have six tubs of butter and six slabs of bacon, as opposed to four of each good which they could produce on their own.




How Can Absolute Advantage Benefit a Nation?
The concept of absolute advantage was developed by Adam Smith in The Wealth of Nations to show how countries can gain by specializing in producing and exporting the goods that they produce more efficiently than other countries, and by importing goods that other countries produce more efficiently. Specializing in and trading products that they have an absolute advantage in can benefit both countries as long as they each have at least one product for which they hold an absolute advantage over the other.




How Does Absolute Advantage Differ From Comparative Advantage?
Absolute advantage is the ability of an entity to produce a product or service at a lower absolute cost per unit using a smaller number of inputs or a more efficient process than another entity producing the same good or service. Comparative advantage refers to the ability to produce goods and services at a lower opportunity cost, not necessarily at a greater volume or quality.




What Are Examples of Nations With an Absolute Advantage?
A clear example of a nation with an absolute advantage is Saudi Arabia, a country with abundant oil supplies that provide it with an absolute advantage over other nations.Other examples include Colombia and its climate—ideally suited to growing coffee—and Zambia, possessing some of the world’s richest copper mines. For Saudi Arabia to try and grow coffee and Colombia to drill for oil would be an extremely costly and, likely, unproductive undertaking.


   The Bottom Line  

The theory of absolute advantage represents Adam Smith's explanation of why countries benefit from trade, by exporting goods where they have an absolute advantage and importing other goods. While the theory is an elegant and simple illustration of the benefits of trade, it did not fully explain the benefits of international trade. That would later fall to David Ricardo's theory of comparative advantages.
What Is Absolute Return?  

Absolute return is the return that an asset achieves over a specified period. This measure looks at the appreciation or depreciation, expressed as a percentage, that an asset, such as a stock or a mutual fund, achieves over a given period.



Absolute return differs from relative return because it is concerned with the return of a particular asset and does not compare it to any other measure or benchmark.





Key Takeaways

Absolute return is the return that an asset achieves over a certain period.Returns can be positive or negative and may be considered unrelated to other market activities.Absolute return, unlike relative return, does not make any comparison against other possible investments or to a benchmark.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   How Absolute Return Works  

Absolute return refers to the amount of funds that an investment has earned. Also referred to as the total return, the absolute return measures the gain or loss experienced by an asset or portfolio independent of any benchmark or other standard. Returns can be positive or negative and may be considered uncorrelated to other market activities.


  Relative and Absolute Returns  

In general, a mutual fund seeks to produce returns that are better than its peers, its fund category, and the market as a whole. This type of fund management is referred to as a relative return approach to fund investing. The success of the asset is often based on a comparison to a chosen benchmark, industry standard, or overall market performance.



As an investment vehicle, an absolute return fund seeks to make positive returns by employing investment management techniques that differ from traditional mutual funds. Absolute return investment strategies include using short selling, futures, options, derivatives, arbitrage, leverage, and unconventional assets. Absolute returns are examined separately from any other performance measure, so only gains or losses on the investment are considered.


  The History of Absolute Return Funds  

Alfred Winslow Jones is credited with forming the first absolute return fund in New York in 1949. In recent years, the absolute return approach to fund investing has become one of the fastest-growing investment products in the world and is more commonly referred to as a hedge fund.


  Hedge Funds  

A hedge fund is not a specific form of investment; it is an investment structured as a pool and set up as either a limited partnership or limited liability company (LLC). A hedge fund manager raises funds by working with outside investors. The manager uses the funds to invest based on a declared strategy involving only the purchase of long equities, such as common stock.



Hedge funds may specialize in specific areas, such as real estate or patents, and may also engage in private equity activities. While anyone may invest in a hedge fund, participants are traditionally accredited and sophisticated investors.


   Example of Absolute Return  

As a historical example, the Vanguard 500 Index ETF (VOO) delivered an absolute return of 150.15% over the 10-year period ending Dec. 31, 2017. This differed from its 10-year annualized return of 8.37% over the same period. Further, because the S&P 500 Index had an absolute return of 153.07% over the same period, absolute return differed from the relative return, which was -2.92%.
What Is Absorption Costing?  

Absorption costing, sometimes called “full costing,” is a managerial accounting method for capturing all costs associated with manufacturing a particular product. All direct and indirect costs, such as direct materials, direct labor, rent, and insurance, are accounted for when using this method.



Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), U.S. companies may use absorption costing for external reporting, however variable costing is disallowed.





Key Takeaways

Absorption costing differs from variable costing because it allocates fixed overhead costs to each unit of a product produced in the period.Absorption costing allocates fixed overhead costs to a product whether or not it was sold in the period.This type of costing method means that more cost is included in the ending inventory, which is carried over into the next period as an asset on the balance sheet.Because more expenses are included in ending inventory, expenses on the income statement are lower when using absorption costing.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Absorption Costing  

Absorption costing includes anything that is a direct cost in producing a good in its cost base. Absorption costing also includes fixed overhead charges as part of the product costs. Some of the costs associated with manufacturing a product include wages for employees physically working on the product, the raw materials used in producing the product, and all of the overhead costs (such as all utility costs) used in production.



In contrast to the variable costing method, every expense is allocated to manufactured products, whether or not they are sold by the end of the period.





Higher and Lower Items 

Absorption costing means that ending inventory on the balance sheet is higher, while expenses on the income statement are lower.


   Components of Absorption Costing  

The components of absorption costing include both direct costs and indirect costs. Direct costs are those costs that can be directly traced to a specific product or service. These costs include raw materials, labor, and any other direct expenses that are incurred in the production process.



Indirect costs are those costs that cannot be directly traced to a specific product or service. These costs are also known as overhead expenses and include things like utilities, rent, and insurance. Indirect costs are typically allocated to products or services based on some measure of activity, such as the number of units produced or the number of direct labor hours required to produce the product.



In absorption costing, both direct and indirect costs are included in the cost of a product. This means that the cost of each unit of a product includes not only the direct costs of producing that unit, but also a portion of the indirect costs that were incurred in the production process. The total manufacturing costs are then divided by the number of units produced to determine the cost of each unit. The formula for absorption costing can be written as follows:



Absorption cost = (Direct labor costs + Direct material costs + Variable manufacturing overhead costs + Fixed manufacturing overhead) / Number of units produced.


   Absorption Costing vs. Variable Costing  

Absorption costing and variable costing are two different methods of costing that are used to calculate the cost of a product or service. While both methods are used to calculate the cost of a product, they differ in the types of costs that are included and the purposes for which they are used. The differences between absorption costing and variable costing lie in how fixed overhead costs are treated.



Under absorption costing, all manufacturing costs, both direct and indirect, are included in the cost of a product. This means that the cost of each unit of a product includes not only the direct costs of producing that unit, such as raw materials and labor, but also a portion of the indirect costs that were incurred in the production process, such as overhead expenses. Absorption costing is typically used for external reporting purposes, such as calculating the cost of goods sold for financial statements.



Variable costing, on the other hand, only includes direct costs in the cost of a product. Indirect costs, or overhead expenses, are not included in the cost of the product under variable costing. Instead, they are treated as a period expense and are recorded in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. Variable costing is typically used for management decision-making and planning purposes, as it provides a more accurate representation of the incremental costs associated with producing an additional unit of a product.



Variable costing does not determine a per-unit cost of fixed overheads, while absorption costing does. Variable costing will yield one lump-sum expense line item for fixed overhead costs when calculating net income on the income statement. Absorption costing will result in two categories of fixed overhead costs: those attributable to the cost of goods sold, and those attributable to inventory.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Higher Net Income

Absorption costing results in a higher net income compared with variable costing.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Absorption Costing  

Assets, such as inventory, remain on the entity’s balance sheet at the end of the period. Because absorption costing allocates fixed overhead costs to both cost of goods sold and inventory, the costs associated with items still in ending inventory will not be captured in the expenses on the current period’s income statement. Absorption costing reflects more fixed costs attributable to ending inventory.



Absorption costing ensures more accurate accounting for ending inventory because the expenses associated with that inventory are linked to the full cost of the inventory still on hand. In addition, more expenses are accounted for in unsold products, which reduces actual expenses reported in the current period on the income statement. This results in a higher net income calculation compared with variable costing calculations.



Because absorption costing includes fixed overhead costs in the cost of its products, it is unfavorable compared with variable costing when management is making internal incremental pricing decisions. This is because variable costing will only include the extra costs of producing the next incremental unit of a product.



In addition, the use of absorption costing generates a situation in which simply manufacturing more items that go unsold by the end of the period will increase net income. Because fixed costs are spread across all units manufactured, the unit fixed cost will decrease as more items are produced. Therefore, as production increases, net income naturally rises, because the fixed-cost portion of the cost of goods sold will decrease.




Pros and Cons of Absorption Costing

Pros

Provides a more complete picture of the total cost of a product by including both direct and indirect costs.
Helps in determining the total actual cost of goods sold and the cost of inventory on the balance sheet.
Allows a company to understand the full cost of each product or service it provides.



Cons

May not accurately reflect the incremental costs associated with producing an additional unit of a product, as it includes fixed overhead costs that do not vary with production volume.
Can lead to distorted cost data if there are significant changes in production volume.
May not provide as much information for management decision-making as variable costing.





   Example of Absorption Costing  

Assume that ABC Company makes widgets. In January, it makes 10,000 widgets, of which 8,000 are sold by the end of the month, leaving 2,000 still in inventory. Each widget uses $5 of labor and materials directly attributable to the item. In addition, there are $20,000 of fixed overhead costs each month associated with the production facility. Under the absorption costing method, ABC will assign an additional $2 to each widget for fixed overhead costs ($20,000 total ÷ 10,000 widgets produced in the month).



The absorption cost per unit is $7 ($5 labor and materials + $2 fixed overhead costs). As 8,000 widgets were sold, the total cost of goods sold is $56,000 ($7 total cost per unit × 8,000 widgets sold). The ending inventory will include $14,000 worth of widgets ($7 total cost per unit × 2,000 widgets still in ending inventory).




What’s the Difference Between Variable Costing and Absorption Costing?
Absorption costing and variable costing treat fixed overhead costs differently. Absorption costing allocates fixed overhead costs across all units produced for the period. Variable costing, on the other hand, adds all fixed overhead costs together and reports the expense as one line item separate from the cost of goods sold or still available for sale. In other words, variable costing will yield one lump-sum expense line item for fixed overhead costs when calculating net income, while absorption costing will result in two categories of fixed overhead costs: those attributable to the cost of goods sold, and those attributable to inventory.




What Are the Advantages of Absorption Costing?
The main advantage of absorption costing is that it complies with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which are required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Furthermore, it takes into account all of the costs of production (including fixed costs), not just the direct costs, and more accurately tracks profit during an accounting period.




What Are the Disadvantages of Absorption Costing?
The main disadvantage of absorption costing is that it can inflate a company’s profitability during a given accounting period, as all fixed costs are not deducted from revenues unless all of the company’s manufactured products are sold. Additionally, it is not helpful for analysis designed to improve operational and financial efficiency or for comparing product lines.




When Is It Appropriate to Use Absorption Costing?
Absorption costing is typically used in situations where a company wants to understand the full cost of producing a product or providing a service. This includes cases where a company is required to report its financial results to external stakeholders, such as shareholders or regulatory agencies.Absorption costing is also often used for internal decision-making purposes, such as determining the selling price of a product or deciding whether to continue producing a particular product. In these cases, the company may use absorption costing to understand the full cost of producing the product and to determine whether the product is generating sufficient profits to justify its continued production.




What Are the Types of Absorption Costing?
There are two main types of absorption costing: full absorption costing and partial absorption costing:Full absorption costing includes all of the costs associated with producing a product or providing a service, including both fixed and variable costs. Under full absorption costing, the total cost of a product or service is absorbed, or spread out, over the units produced. This means that the cost of each unit produced includes a portion of the fixed costs, as well as the variable costs associated with that unit.Partial absorption costing includes only some of the costs associated with producing a product or providing a service. Under partial absorption costing, only a portion of the fixed costs are included in the cost of each unit produced. The remainder of the fixed costs are treated as a period cost and are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.


   The Bottom Line  

Absorption costing is a method of costing that includes all manufacturing costs, both fixed and variable, in the cost of a product. It is also known as full costing or full absorption costing. Absorption costing is used to determine the cost of goods sold and ending inventory balances on the income statement and balance sheet, respectively. It is also used to calculate the profit margin on each unit of product and to determine the selling price of the product.



Under absorption costing, the fixed manufacturing overhead costs are included in the cost of a product as an indirect cost. These costs are not directly traceable to a specific product but are incurred in the process of manufacturing the product. The fixed manufacturing overhead costs are allocated to each unit of product based on a predetermined overhead allocation rate, which is calculated by dividing the total estimated fixed manufacturing overhead costs by the total number of units that are expected to be produced. In addition to the fixed manufacturing overhead costs, absorption costing also includes the variable manufacturing costs in the cost of a product. These costs are directly traceable to a specific product and include direct materials, direct labor, and variable overhead.
What Is Absorption Rate?  

Absorption rate most commonly refers to a metric used in the real estate market to evaluate the rate at which available homes are sold in a specific market during a given time period. It is calculated by dividing the number of homes sold in the allotted time period by the total number of available homes. This equation can also be reversed to identify the amount of time it would take for the supply to be sold.



Absorption rate is also a key part of the accounting industry. In this context, absorption rate refers to the way in which businesses calculate their overhead costs.





Key Takeaways

The absorption rate is commonly used in the real estate market to determine how many homes are sold in a market at a particular time.The equation can also be used to figure out how long it would take to sell the supply of homes on the market.Realtors, appraisers, and lending institutions use absorption rates to understand market conditions and adjust terms accordingly.An absorption rate above 20% typically signals a seller's market and an absorption rate below 15% is an indicator of a buyer's market.Absorption rates are also used to determine and allocate overhead costs in accounting.


   Understanding Absorption Rate  

Absorption rate provides insight into how quickly or slowly houses are selling in the real estate market. Absorption rate does not take into account additional homes that enter the market at various times. While an absorption rate calculation can be projected, it's most commonly used based on current available data and actual inventory.



A high absorption rate may indicate that the supply of available homes will shrink rapidly. A homeowner is typically able to sell their property faster during periods of high absorption. However, the time period associated with an absorption rate calculation is important to consider.



Traditionally, an absorption rate above 20% signaled a seller's market in which homes are sold quickly. An absorption rate below 15% is an indicator of a buyer's market in which homes are not being sold as fast.






Real estate professionals, such as brokers, use the absorption rate in pricing homes. During periods of higher absorption rates, homes are often priced higher.


   Influence in the Real Estate Market  

In market conditions with low absorption rates, a real estate agent may be forced to reduce a listing price to entice a sale. Alternatively, the agent can increase the price without sacrificing demand for the home if the market has a high absorption rate. The absorption rate is also important for buyers and sellers to follow as they make decisions on the timing of purchases and sales.



The absorption rate is also a signal for developers to start building new homes, though developers often use long lead times to forecast periods of higher absorption. During market conditions with a high absorption rate, demand may be high enough to warrant the further development of properties. Meanwhile, periods with lower absorption rates indicate a cooling period for construction.



Appraisers use the absorption rate to determine the value of a property. Some procedures require an addendum showing that absorption rates were considered in appraisal calculations. In general, appraisers are responsible for analyzing market conditions and maintaining an awareness of the absorption rates for all types of appraisal values.



Most appraisers include this data metric in the neighborhood section of the appraisal forms. The current valuation of a home would be reduced during periods of decreased absorption rates and increased when absorption rates are high.



Lenders and banking institutions will also consider market conditions when evaluating loan and credit terms. During periods of low absorption, banks may feel tempted to entice clients to borrow money with more favorable loan terms. Alternatively, lenders can be more selective during high absorption periods as they are more likely to have a broader portfolio of prospective borrowers.


   Example of the Absorption Rate  

Suppose a city has 1,000 homes currently on the market to be sold. If buyers purchase 100 homes per month, the absorption rate is 10% (100 homes sold per month divided by 1,000 homes available for sale). This also indicates that the supply of homes will be exhausted in 10 months (1,000 homes divided by 100 homes sold/month).






Want to know if it's time to sell your home? Look up the number of homes sold in your area from the MLS website and use the formula above to determine how long it will take to sell your property.


   Absorption Rate in Accounting  

Absorption rate is also used in an entirely different manner in accounting.



In accounting, absorption rate (or the rate of absorption) is the rate at which companies calculate and allocate their overhead expenses. These are the costs associated with providing goods and services to their customers, though these expenses aren't directly traceable to end products. As such, it's also often called an overhead absorption rate.



Companies often have to use estimates to determine their overhead costs. That's because they don't know what the actual costs are until they come in. In order to determine their overhead, companies divide the total budgeted overhead costs divided by the total budgeted production base. This requires an adjustment at the end of the accounting period to make up for any difference between the predicted and actual costs.



Alternatively, a company may know its actual overhead costs but not know how to trace those costs to final products or services. To overcome this hurdle, companies use estimated cost drivers to guess what non-financial measures cause changes in financial measures.



This can be problematic, especially when companies use very conservative estimates to predict their costs. Doing so may throw off their balance sheets because the actual costs may be higher at the end of the reporting period or if costs fluctuate. However, this practice has the benefit of making sure all costs including estimated amounts and estimated allocations are included when evaluating their products.




What Does Absorption Rate Mean?
Absorption rate is most often associated with real estate and the rate at which houses are being bought. Absorption rate (and absorption costing) are also used in cost accounting to assign overhead costs.




What Does a High Absorption Rate Mean?
A high absorption rate means a higher proportion of houses are being purchased. Otherwise, a low absorption rate means a lower proportion of houses are being purchased. This information is used by relators, financial institutions, and appraisers as the rate at which houses are being bought drives a home's value and price.




What Is the Formula for Absorption Rate in Real Estate?
To find out the absorption rate in real estate, divide the total number of homes sold in a specific period of time by the total number of homes available in that market.




What Is a 6-Month Absorption Rate?
Absorption rates indicate how long it takes to sell homes in a given market. A six-month absorption rate indicates a balanced market, so buyers and sellers equally benefit during this environment.




How Do You Calculate a Monthly Absorption Rate?
In order to determine a monthly absorption rate, take the total number of homes sold in the market and divide that by 12. Then, divide this monthly average number of homes sold by the total number of homes available for sale.


   The Bottom Line  

The absorption rate is a very important metric used in the real estate and accounting.



Realtors use it to determine how many homes are sold in a particular area at any given time. These professionals can also use the rate to determine the kind of market they are facing, whether that's a buyer's, seller's, or a balanced market. This rate is also important for the construction industry, as it indicates when developers should start buying.



Equally important, absorption rate is used in the accounting field—notably for companies to estimate their overhead. Absorption costing entails estimating overhead costs, determining overhead cost drivers, and having products absorb these untraceable costs.
What Is Accelerated Depreciation?  

Accelerated depreciation is any method of depreciation used for accounting or income tax purposes that allows greater depreciation expenses in the early years of the life of an asset. Accelerated depreciation methods, such as double-declining balance (DDB), means there will be higher depreciation expenses in the first few years and lower expenses as the asset ages. This is unlike the straight-line depreciation method, which spreads the cost evenly over the life of an asset.





Key Takeaways

Accelerated depreciation is any depreciation method that allows for the recognition of higher depreciation expenses during the earlier years. The key accelerated depreciation methods include double-declining balance and sum of the years’ digits (SYD). Accelerated depreciation is unlike the straight-line depreciation method, where the latter spreads the depreciation expenses evenly over the life of the asset.  Companies may use accelerated depreciation for tax purposes, as these methods result in a deferment of tax liabilities since income is lower in earlier periods.


   Understanding Accelerated Depreciation  

Accelerated depreciation methods tend to align the recognized rate of an asset’s depreciation with its actual use, although this isn’t technically required. This alignment tends to occur because an asset is most heavily used when it’s new, functional, and most efficient. 



Because this tends to occur at the beginning of the asset’s life, the rationale behind an accelerated method of depreciation is that it appropriately matches how the underlying asset is used. As an asset age, it is not used as heavily, since it is slowly phased out for newer assets.


   Special Considerations  

Using an accelerated depreciation method has financial reporting implications. Because depreciation is accelerated, expenses are higher in earlier periods compared to later periods. Companies may utilize this strategy for taxation purposes, as an accelerated depreciation method will result in a deferment of tax liabilities since income is lower in earlier periods.



Alternatively, public companies tend to shy away from accelerated depreciation methods, as net income is reduced in the short-term.


   Types of Accelerated Depreciation Methods  
  Double-Declining Balance Method    

The double-declining balance (DDB) method is an accelerated depreciation method. After taking the reciprocal of the useful life of the asset and doubling it, this rate is applied to the depreciable base—also known as the book value, for the remainder of the asset’s expected life.



For example, an asset with a useful life of five years would have a reciprocal value of 1/5 or 20%. Double the rate, or 40%, is applied to the asset's current book value for depreciation. Although the rate remains constant, the dollar value will decrease over time because the rate is multiplied by a smaller depreciable base each period.


  Sum of the Years’ Digits (SYD)  

The sum-of-the-years’-digits (SYD) method also allows for accelerated depreciation. To start, combine all the digits of the expected life of the asset. For example, an asset with a five-year life would have a base of the sum-of-the-digits one through five, or 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15. 



In the first depreciation year, 5/15 of the depreciable base would be depreciated. In the second year, only 4/15 of the depreciable base would be depreciated. This continues until year five depreciates the remaining 1/15 of the base.
What Is an Acceleration Clause?  

An acceleration clause is a contract provision that allows a lender to require a borrower to repay all of an outstanding loan if certain requirements are not met. An acceleration clause outlines the reasons that the lender can demand loan repayment and the repayment required.



It is also known as an "acceleration covenant."





Key Takeaways

An acceleration clause or covenant is a contract provision that allows a lender to require a borrower to repay all of an outstanding loan if specific requirements are not met. The acceleration clause clearly outlines the reasons that the lender can demand loan repayment and the repayment required, such as maintaining a certain credit rating.An acceleration clause helps to protect lenders who extend financing to businesses in need of capital. 


   Acceleration Clause Explained  

An acceleration clause allows the lender to require payment before the standard terms of the loan expire. Acceleration clauses are typically contingent on on-time payments.



Acceleration clauses are most common in mortgage loans and help to mitigate the risk of default for the lender. They are usually based on payment delinquencies but they can be structured for other occurrences as well. In most cases, an acceleration clause will require the borrower to immediately pay the full balance owed on the loan if terms have been breached. With full payment of the loan the borrower is relieved of any further interest payments and essentially pays off the loan early at the time the acceleration clause is invoked.



An acceleration clause is usually based on payment delinquency, however the number of delinquent payments can vary. Some acceleration clauses may invoke immediate payoff after one payment is missed while others may allow for two or three missed payments before demanding that the loan be paid in full. Selling or transferring the property to another party can also potentially be a factor associated with an acceleration clause.



For example, assume a borrower with a five year mortgage loan fails to make a payment in the third year. The terms of the loan include an acceleration clause which states the borrower must repay the remaining balance if one payment is missed. The borrower would immediately be contacted by the lender to pay the remaining balance in full. If the borrower pays then they receive the title to the home and takes full ownership of the property. If the borrower cannot pay then they are considered in breach of contract and the lender can foreclose and seize the property for resale.


   Invoking the Acceleration Clause  

Acceleration clauses are most commonly found in mortgage and real estate loans. Since these loans tend to be so large, the clause helps protect the lender from the risk of borrower default. A lender may choose to include an acceleration clause to mitigate potential losses and have greater control over the real estate property tied to a mortgage loan. With an acceleration clause, a lender has greater ability to foreclose on the property and take possession of the home. This may be advantageous to the lender if the borrower defaults and the lender believes they can obtain value through a resale.
What Is Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)?  

The acceptable quality level (AQL) is a measure applied to products and defined in ISO 2859-1 as the “quality level that is the worst tolerable.” The AQL tells you how many defective components are considered acceptable during random sampling quality inspections. It is usually expressed as a percentage or ratio of the number of defects compared to the total quantity.





Key Takeaways

The acceptable quality level (AQL) is the worst quality level that is tolerable for a product.The AQL differs from product to product. Products that might cause more of a health risk will have a lower AQL.Batches of products that do not meet the AQL, typically based on a percentage measurement, are rejected when tested during pre-shipment inspections.


   How Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) Works  

Goods in a sample are tested at random, and if the number of defective items is below the predetermined amount, that product is said to meet the acceptable quality level (AQL). If the acceptable quality level (AQL) is not reached for a particular sampling of goods, manufacturers will review the various parameters in the production process to determine the areas causing the defects.






The AQL of a product can vary from industry to industry; medical products, for example, have stringent AQLs because defective products are a health risk.



As an example, consider an AQL of 1% on a production run. This percentage means that no more than 1% of the batch can be defective. If a production run is composed of 1,000 products, only 10 products can be defective. If 11 products are defective, the entire batch is scrapped. This figure of 11 or more defective products is known as the rejectable quality level (RQL).



The AQL is an important statistic for companies seeking a Six Sigma level of quality control, which is a quality-control methodology developed in 1986 by Motorola, Inc. AQL is also known as the acceptable quality limit.


   Industry Differences in AQL Standards  

The AQL of a product can vary from industry to industry. For example, medical products are more likely to have more stringent AQL because defective products can result in health risks.



In contrast, a product with benign side effects from a possible defect may have a less strict AQL, such as the remote control for a TV. Companies have to weigh the added cost associated with stringent testing and potentially higher spoilage due to a lower defect acceptance with the potential cost of a product recall.



Customers would, of course, prefer zero-defect products or services; the ideal acceptable quality level. However, sellers and customers usually try to arrive at and set acceptable quality limits based on factors typically related to business, financial, and safety concerns.


   Using AQL Tables  

AQL tables (also sometimes called AQL charts) are designed to allow users to reference a standard for what qualifies as an acceptable number of defects in manufacturing. They allow a person to see how many defects would be allowed for a company to achieve a certain AQL. The tables are part of ISO 2859.



So for example, let's say a company orders 30,000 hats from a clothing manufacturer that will be produced in one batch, and the buyer and producer have agreed on AQL 0.0 for critical defects, AQL 3.0 for major defects, and AQL 5.0 for minor defects. Referencing the AQL tables would allow the buyer and producer to determine how many hats would need to be inspected to ensure that the agreed upon AQL is being met during production.


  AQL Defects  

Instances of failure to meet customer quality requirements are termed as defects. In practice, there are three categories of defects:



Critical defects: Defects that, when accepted, could harm users. Such defects are unacceptable. Critical defects are defined as 0% AQL.Major defects: Defects usually not acceptable by the end-users, as they are likely to result in failure. The AQL for major defects is 2.5%.Minor defects: Defects not likely to reduce materially the usability of the product for its intended purpose but that differ from specified standards; some end users will still buy such products. The AQL for minor defects is 4%.


  AQL in Practice  

Acceptable quality level (AQL): AQL is typically considered to be the worst quality level that is still considered satisfactory. It is the maximum percent defective that can be considered satisfactory. The probability of accepting an AQL lot should be high. A probability of 0.95 translates to a risk of 0.05.



Rejectable quality level (RQL): This is considered an unsatisfactory quality level and is sometimes known as lot tolerance percent defective (LTPD). The consumer’s risk has been standardized in some tables as 0.1. The probability of accepting an RQL lot is low.



Indifference quality level (IQL): This quality level is somewhere between AQL and RQL. Different companies maintain different interpretations of each defect type. However, buyers and sellers agree on an AQL standard that is appropriate to the level of risk each party assumes. These standards are used as a reference during a pre-shipment inspection.




What Factors Are Used to Determine if AQL Is Being Met?
To calculate AQL, you need the lot or batch size, the inspection type, inspection level, and the desired AQL. There are AQL calculators available online. If your lot or batch size is 50,000, your inspection type is general, your inspection level is 2, and your AQL level is 2.5, you would need a sample size of 500 units with only 21 defects. Anything over that has reached the rejection point.




What Does an AQL of 2.5 Mean?
An AQL of 2.5 means that only 2.5% of an order can be defective in order for it to be acceptable. If more than 2.5% of the other is defective, then it doesn't meet the agreement between the buyer and producer. So for example, if 20,000 pairs of shorts are ordered, only 1,250 can be defective to reach an AQL of 2.5.




What Is the Standard AQL?
There is no standard AQL. AQL changes based on product and industry. For example, in the medical industry, AQL must be very low, because defects in medical equipment or products can be harmful to consumers. In clothing manufacturing, AQL might be higher. However, it all comes down to what the buyer and producer agree upon when making the order.


   The Bottom Line  

AQL can be a useful figure to help ensure that large orders for manufacturing are completed to a level of standard that a buyer demands. It also allows the seller to be efficient in their production while maintaining the standard set by the buyer. It is generally used in large-scale orders of production, and is helpful in keeping both buyer and seller happy while producing good quality products.
What Does Accepting Risk Mean?  

Accepting risk, or risk acceptance, occurs when a business or individual acknowledges that the potential loss from a risk is not great enough to warrant spending money to avoid it. Also known as "risk retention," it is an aspect of risk management commonly found in the business or investment fields.



Risk acceptance posits that infrequent and small risks—ones that do not have the ability to be catastrophic or otherwise too expensive—are worth accepting with the acknowledgment that any problems will be dealt with if and when they arise. Such a trade-off is a valuable tool in the process of prioritization and budgeting.





Key Takeaways

Accepting risk, or risk retention, is a conscious strategy of acknowledging the possibility for small or infrequent risks without taking steps to hedge, insure, or avoid those risks.The rationale behind risk acceptance is that the costs to mitigate or avoid risks are too great to justify given the small probabilities of a hazard, or the small estimated impact it may have.Self-insurance is a form of risk acceptance. Insurance, on the other hand, transfers risk to a third-party.


   Accepting Risk Explained  

Many businesses use risk management techniques to identify, assess and prioritize risks for the purpose of minimizing, monitoring, and controlling said risks. Most businesses and risk management personnel will find that they have greater and more numerous risks than they can manage, mitigate, or avoid given the resources they are allocated. As such, businesses must find a balance between the potential costs of an issue resulting from a known risk and the expense involved in avoiding or otherwise dealing with it. Types of risks include uncertainty in financial markets, project failures, legal liabilities, credit risk, accidents, natural causes and disasters, and overly aggressive competition.



Accepting risk can be seen as a form of self-insurance. Any and all risks that are not accepted, transferred or avoided are said to be "retained." Most examples of a business accepting a risk involve risks that are relatively small. But sometimes entities may accept a risk that would be so catastrophic that insuring against it is not feasible due to cost. In addition, any potential losses from a risk not covered by insurance or over the insured amount is an example of accepting risk.


   Some Alternatives to Accepting Risk  

In addition to accepting risk, there are a few ways to approach and treat risk in risk management. They include:



Avoidance: This entails changing plans to eliminate a risk. This strategy is good for risks that could potentially have a significant impact on a business or project.
Transfer: Applicable to projects with multiple parties. Not frequently used. Often includes insurance. Also known as "risk sharing," insurance policies effectively shift risk from the insured to the insurer.
Mitigation: Limiting the impact of a risk so that if a problem occurs it will be easier to fix. This is the most common. Also known as "optimizing risk" or "reduction," hedging strategies are common forms of risk mitigation.
Exploitation: Some risks are good, such as if a product is so popular there are not enough staff to keep up with sales. In such a case, the risk can be exploited by adding more sales staff.
What Is Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) Insurance?  

Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance is insurance—usually added as a rider to a health or life insurance policy—that covers the unintentional death or dismemberment of the insured. Dismemberment includes the loss, or the loss of use, of body parts or functions (such as limbs, speech, eyesight, and hearing).



Because of coverage limitations, prospective buyers should carefully read the terms of the policy. For instance, AD&D insurance is limited and generally covers unlikely events. Also, it is supplemental life insurance and is not an acceptable substitute for a full life insurance policy.





Key Takeaways

Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance is usually added as a rider to a life insurance policy.AD&D insurance pays benefits in the case of a person’s accidental death or dismemberment: the loss—or loss of use—of body parts or functions.AD&D insurance usually comes with significant coverage limitations, so always read the fine print.AD&D does not pay if the insured died due to natural causes, such as cancer or heart disease.Known as double indemnity, AD&D may pay a benefit equal to or a multiple of (usually 2x) the regular policy's face amount.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) Insurance Works  

AD&D insurance contains a schedule that details the terms and percentages of the various benefits and covered special circumstances. For example, if an insured dies from injuries sustained in an accident, the death must occur within a specified period for benefits to be paid.


   Accidental Death  

When adding an AD&D rider, also known as a “double indemnity” rider, to a life insurance policy, the designated beneficiaries receive benefits from both the rider and the underlying policy if the insured dies accidentally.



Benefits typically cannot exceed a certain amount, as detailed in the rider. As most AD&D insurance payments mirror the face value of the original life insurance policy, the beneficiary normally receives a benefit twice the amount of the life insurance policy’s face value upon the accidental death of the insured.



Typically, accidental death covers exceptional circumstances, such as exposure to the elements, traffic accidents, homicide, falls, drowning, and accidents involving heavy equipment.






AD&D insurance is supplemental life insurance and not an acceptable substitute for a full life insurance policy.


  Dismemberment  

Most AD&D policies pay a percentage for the loss of a limb, partial or permanent paralysis, or the loss of use of specific body parts, such as the loss of sight, hearing, or speech. The types and extent of injuries covered are particular to and defined by each insurer and policy. 


  Voluntary AD&D  

Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment (VAD&D) insurance is an optional financial protection plan that provides a beneficiary with cash if the policyholder is accidentally killed or loses certain body parts. VAD&D is also a limited form of life insurance and is generally less expensive than a full life insurance policy.



Premiums are based on the amount of insurance purchased. VAD&D insurance is typically purchased by workers in occupations that place them at high risk of physical injury. Most policies are renewed periodically with revised terms.



How much such a policy pays depends not only on the amount of coverage purchased but also on the type of claim filed. For example, the policy might pay 100% if the policyholder is killed or becomes quadriplegic, but only 50% for the loss of a hand or the permanent loss of hearing in one ear or sight in one eye.


   Common Exclusions  

Each insurance provider includes a list of exclusions. In most instances, the list includes suicide, death from illness or natural causes, and wartime injuries.



Other common exclusions include death resulting from the overdose of toxic substances, death while under the influence of nonprescription drugs, suicide, certain recreational activities, and the injury or death of a professional athlete during a sporting event.



Usually, if the insured’s loss occurs because of a felonious act on his or her part, no benefit is payable. People working in high-risk jobs (such as public safety and the military) may not qualify for AD&D coverage.






Accidents are the fourth leading cause of death in the United States.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of AD&D Insurance  
  Advantages  

Financial assistance: An accidental death impacts the surviving loved ones emotionally as well as financially, as they must now deal with a sudden loss of income. The death benefit from an AD&D policy can add peace of mind by lessening that burden.



Supplements lost income: Because the loss of income will carry forward, AD&D policies provide funds in addition to the death benefit offered through the traditional life insurance on the insured. The death benefit amount is usually equal to or some multiple of the traditional policy's death benefit amount. This extra benefit may be known as double indemnity, as the death benefit usually doubles with this added feature.



Lower premiums: Because coverage is limited to certain events causing accidental death or loss of limb, premiums are relatively inexpensive. If offered through an employer, it may only cost participating employees a few dollars per month. Even when purchased individually, the costs are considerably less than rates for term insurance offering the same face amount.



No medical exam: Most insurance companies do not require a medical exam to obtain AD&D coverage (particularly group AD&D offered through an employer).


  Disadvantages  

Only pays for certain incidents: This limited coverage can be disadvantageous to policyholders because it only pays upon certain events. If death occurs outside of these limitations, the AD&D policy does not pay. Premiums paid are forfeited and remain with the insurer. 



For example, if someone dies as the result of a terrorist attack, no benefit is paid because that is considered a wartime act. Insurers have the ability to make exceptions to this, as was done for victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in the United States.



Low likelihood of payout: The leading cause of death in the United States is heart-related issues, while accidents rank fourth. Therefore, it is more likely that someone will die from natural causes than  from an accident, especially older adults and those not engaged in risky work.



Group coverage lost when you change jobs: If coverage is group or employer-sponsored, it may not be portable if the insured leaves the group or employer. Often, coverage ends upon the termination of the insured's affiliation with the sponsor, leaving them unprotected until new coverage is issued.



False sense of security: Having AD&D may give policyholders a false sense of security if they include the face amount in their cumulative life insurance totals during planning. Because AD&D only pays upon certain events, it should not be used to determine whether your life insurance portfolio is sufficient. Traditional life insurance should be adequate to provide necessary financial support to the beneficiaries. AD&D supplements that payout in the unlikely event that death occurs from an accident. Still, it adds an extra benefit with the sudden and unexpected departure of the insured.




What Is AD&D Insurance?
Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance pays benefits in the case of a person’s accidental death or dismemberment. While it is usually added as a rider on a life insurance policy, it can also be purchased as standalone coverage.




What Is the Difference Between Life Insurance and AD&D Insurance?
Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) coverage only pays a benefit if death results from a covered accident or upon the loss (or loss of use) of a limb. In contrast, coverage is broader with life insurance. Life insurance policies pay benefits upon the death of the insured, despite how the death occurred. (Note: Exceptions apply depending on policy terms.)




What Is Voluntary AD&D Insurance?
Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment (VAD&D) insurance is an optional financial protection plan typically sold in the workplace that covers the same situations that regular AD&D insurance does. It is often purchased by workers in occupations that come with physical risk.




Does AD&D Cover Heart Attacks?
Although unexpected, a heart attack is considered a natural cause of death and is, therefore, typically excluded from AD&D coverage. There is one exception to this exclusion. If the heart attack was precipitated by the accident, most AD&D policies will pay the stated benefit. For example, if an insured with no underlying heart issues has a heart attack immediately after a catastrophic car accident and subsequently dies, the policy may pay.




How Much Does AD&D Insurance Cost?
AD&D coverage is relatively inexpensive compared to traditional (term) and whole life insurance. Costs can be as little as a few dollars per month. However, rates vary according to the type of AD&D coverage issued and the insurer.


   The Bottom Line  

Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) is a type of insurance policy that pays a benefit upon the accidental death of an insured or upon the loss of a limb due to an accident. AD&D is designed to supplement regular life insurance, as coverage is limited to certain types of accidents. No benefit is payable if the death is due to natural causes or other excludable events. Still, AD&D can be a cost-effective way to supplement insurance and provide additional financial assistance to families of the deceased.
What Is an Accidental Death Benefit?  

Accidental death benefit is a payment due to the beneficiary of an accidental death insurance policy, which is often a clause or rider connected to a life insurance policy. The accidental death benefit (ADB) life insurance policy usually pays in addition to the standard benefit payable if the insured died of natural causes.



Depending on the policy’s issuer, an accidental death benefit may extend up to a year after the initial accident occurs, provided that the accident led to the insured’s death.





Key Takeaways


An accidental death benefit is paid to the beneficiary of an accidental death insurance policy.
Accidental death benefit riders often end at a specific age, which is set by the insurance company.
Insurance companies often have strict perimeters of what constitutes an accidental death.
Accidental death benefits are optional riders, so they aren’t included in standard life insurance policies.
Certain jobs and workers in dangerous environments should consider an accidental death benefit rider.



   Understanding Accidental Death Benefits  

Accidental death benefits are riders or provisions that may be added to basic life insurance policies at the request of the insured party. Some people add accidental death benefit riders to their policies to protect their beneficiaries if an accident occurs. This is important, as accidents are hard to predict and can lead to financial struggles if a sudden death occurs.



Accidental death benefits are important for people who work in or around potentially hazardous environments. Even those who drive more than average—either professionally or as a commuter—should consider accidental death benefit riders.



As an optional feature, the insured party must pay an additional fee on top of their regular premiums to purchase this benefit. Then, the accidental death benefit increases the payout to a policy’s beneficiary. So, the beneficiary essentially receives the death benefit paid by the policy itself plus any additional accidental death benefit covered by the rider. These riders typically end once the insured person reaches a certain age, such as 60, 70, or 80.


   What Is Considered Accidental Death?  

Insurance companies define accidental death as an event that strictly occurs as a result of an accident. Deaths from car crashes, slips, choking, drowning, machinery, and any other situations that can’t be controlled are deemed accidental. In the case of a fatal accident, death usually must occur within a period specified in the policy.



Some policies’ accidental death benefits may also cover dismemberment—total or partial loss of limbs—burns, instances of paralysis, and other similar cases. These riders are called accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance.






Accidents typically exclude things like acts of war and death caused by illegal activities. Death from an illness is also excluded. Any hazardous hobbies that the insured regularly engages in—race car driving, bungee jumping, or other risky activities—are often excluded as well.


   Types of Accidental Death Benefit Plans  
  Group Life Supplement  

With a group life supplement, the accidental death benefit plan is included as part of a group life insurance contract, such as those offered by your employer. The benefit amount is usually the same as that of the group life benefit.


  Voluntary  

A voluntary accidental death benefit plan is offered to members of a group as a separate, elective benefit. Offered by your employer, premiums are your responsibility. You generally pay these premiums through regular payroll deductions. Employees are covered for accidents that occur while on the job. Policies pay out benefits for voluntary accident insurance even if the insured party isn’t at work.


  Travel Accident  

The accidental death benefit plan with travel accident insurance is provided through an employee benefit plan and provides supplemental accident protection to workers while they are traveling on company business. Unlike voluntary accident insurance, the employer usually pays the entire premium for this coverage.


  Dependents  

Some group accidental death benefit plans also provide coverage for dependents. If you have a spouse or partner, or children who depend on your salary to pay bills and other costs, it may be a good idea to enroll in an accidental death benefit.



This additional insurance could help them out by providing money to pay bills, pay off a mortgage, or provide money to your children for future events, like college. In addition, if you co-own a business, your business partner could be listed on your insurance policy to cover any outstanding debts in the event of your death.


   Example of Accidental Death Benefit  

As a hypothetical example, assume you have a $500,000 life insurance policy with a $1 million accidental death benefit rider. If you die due to a heart attack—a natural cause—the insurance company will pay your beneficiary $500,000. If you die as a result of a car accident, your beneficiary will receive the $500,000 life insurance benefit plus the $1 million accidental death benefit for a total payout of $1.5 million.




What Is Considered Accidental Death for Insurance Purposes?
Insurance companies consider accidental death to be an event that causes your death as the result of an accident. For example, most car crashes, falls down the stairs, machinery, choking, and even drowning are circumstances beyond your control, and thus counted as accidental.  




What Is Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance?
Accidental death and dismemberment insurance covers you in the case of accidental death, or if you lose a limb (or other significant injuries) in an accident that causes you to stop working. Besides being dismembered, the insurance may include workplace injuries, injuries caused by a fire or flood, accidents with firearms, or a serious fall.




Are Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) Insurance and Accidental Death Benefit (ADB) the Same Thing?
Accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) and accidental death benefit (ADB) policies both pay a benefit. The main difference is that an AD&D policy will pay if the insured is dismembered or injured, whereas the ADB only pays a benefit if the insured dies.


   The Bottom Line  

Accidental death benefits are paid to beneficiaries of an accidental death insurance policy. Insurance companies often have strict perimeters of what constitutes an accidental death. Accidental death benefits are optional riders, so they aren’t included in standard life insurance policies. These riders often end at a specific age, which is set by the insurance company. If you work in a dangerous environment, you may want to consider adding an accidental death benefit rider to your insurance policy.
What Is an Account Balance?  

An account balance is the amount of money in a financial repository, such as a savings or checking account. The account balance factors all debits and credits. An account balance is also evident on billing statements for credit cards, utilities, and loans.





Key Takeaways

An account balance represents the current value of a financial account, such as a checking, savings, or investment account.Financial institutions provide account balances on paper statements and online.For investments in brokerage accounts, an account balance can change daily as security prices rise and fall in the market.


   Calculating Account Balances  

An account balance reflects total assets minus total liabilities. In banking, the account balance is the money available in a checking or savings account. The account balance is the net amount available after all deposits and credits have been balanced with any charges or debits.



For investments in brokerage accounts, an account balance can change daily as security prices rise and fall in the market. Other accounts have an account balance, such as a utility bill or a mortgage loan. The account balance for these accounts shows the amount owed.






A bank account balance can be inaccurate if a check has yet to clear the bank or a pending transaction has not yet gone through.


   Examples of Account Balances  

For a credit card, various purchases may include $100, $50, and $25, and a returned item that costs $10. The account balance includes the purchases, which total $175, and the item returned for $10. The net of the debits and credits is $165, or $175 minus $10, which is the account balance.



For a checking account, if the starting balance is $500, and a check is received for $1,500, but an automatic payment is scheduled for $750, the account balance might show $2,000 immediately, but the account balance is $1,250.


   Account Balance vs. Available Credit  

For credit cards, account balances represent the total amount of debt owed at the start of the statement date and include any debt rolled over from previous months with interest charges. Available credit is the term used alongside the account balance to indicate how much of the credit line is left to spend.




How Can Individuals Check a Bank Account Balance?
Account holders can check balances by signing in to their bank's app or website and looking at their latest transactions or by visiting the local branch and speaking with a representative.




What Kinds of Accounts Have Account Balances?
Checking, savings, and brokerage accounts all have account balances. However, expenses like utility bills, mortgage loans, or credit cards also have account balances.




What's Available Credit?
Available credit refers to the amount remaining on the credit line. The available credit can be determined by subtracting the account balance from the credit limit.


   The Bottom Line  

An account balance represents the available funds in a financial account, such as a checking, savings, or investment account. An account balance in a brokerage account can change daily as security prices rise and fall in the market. A bank account balance can be inaccurate if pending transactions exist.
What Is an Account in Trust?  

An account in trust or trust account refers to any type of financial account that is opened by an individual and managed by a designated trustee for the benefit of a third party per agreed-upon terms.



For example, a parent can open a bank account for the benefit of their minor child and stipulate rules as to when the minor can access the funds or assets in the account as well as any income they generate. In most cases, the trustee who manages the funds and assets in the account acts as a fiduciary, meaning the trustee has a legal responsibility to manage the account prudently and manage assets in the best interests of the beneficiary.





Key Takeaways

Trust accounts are managed by a trustee on behalf of a third party.Parents often open trust accounts for minor children.An account in trust can include cash, stocks, bonds, and other types of assets.Totten or Payable on Death (POD) trust accounts allow beneficiaries to claim the account's assets upon the death of the account holder.Account in Trust accounts generally avoid probate, making it easier and faster for the account to be settled.


   How an Account in Trust Works  

Accounts in trust can hold different assets, including cash, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, real estate, and other property and investments. Trustees can vary, as well. They can be the person opening the account, someone else they designate as a trustee, or a financial institution, such as a bank or brokerage firm.



Trustees have the option to make certain changes to the account in trust. These can include naming a successor trustee or another beneficiary. A trustee may even close the account in trust or open a subsidiary account, to which they can transfer some or all of the assets in the account in trust. However, the trustee is obligated to follow the instructions of the document that established the account in trust.


   Types of Accounts in Trust  

The specifics of accounts in trust can vary depending on the type of account, terms outlined in any trust agreements, as well as applicable state and federal laws.


  Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA)  

One example of an account in trust is a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA) account. This type of account in trust created allows minors to legally own the assets held in these accounts. However, they can't have access to the account's principal and income until they reach legal age. This type of account in trust is typically opened by parents to fund their children's higher education expenses and to secure certain tax protections.






A Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) account differs from a UGMA account in that it allows for the donation of non-basic assets, such as life insurance and stocks, and the length of maturity is extended.



UGMA accounts are managed by a custodian, who is appointed by the donor. The custodian must manage the account for the benefit of the minor. They can invest the funds, withdraw money—within limits—for the minor's care and needs. Also, contributions can be made to the account with no limits.


  Payable on Death (POD)  

Another type of account in trust is a Payable on Death (POD) trust also called a Totten Trust. These accounts are essentially bank accounts with named beneficiaries who can legally take possession of the trust's assets and income upon the death of the individual who opened the account. POD trusts are protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as are traditional bank accounts. In addition, this type of account does not need to clear probate for assets to transfer to the rightful beneficiary upon the death of the initial owner.



There are events, however, that prevent the named beneficiary from obtaining the full value of the account upon the death of the account owner. In community property states, the spouse of the decedent may be entitled to half of the account. Although, the spouse is not entitled to funds accumulated before marriage. Also, the beneficiary does not receive a benefit from a jointly owned account if the joint owner is still living. The benefit is payable upon the death of the last surviving owner.


  Housing Accounts in Trust  

In the housing world, an account in trust is a type of account usually opened by a mortgage lender. The lender uses this account to pay property taxes and insurance on a homeowner's behalf. This type of account in trust is also called an escrow account, and funds to be deposited into it are usually included in the monthly mortgage payment.



The two main types of escrow accounts are the purchase escrow account and refinance escrow account.﻿﻿ A purchase escrow account holds funds related to the purchase of a home and is managed by an escrow agent. Earnest money, presented by the buyer to the seller, and other real estate transaction fees, such as loan fees, agent commissions, and appraisal fees, are held in a purchase escrow account.



A refinance escrow account, much like a purchase escrow account, holds fees related to the transaction, which, in this case, is the refinance of a home. Such fees include appraisal and attorney fees.


   How to Set Up an Account in Trust  

Before setting up the account in trust, review your available options and choose the one that best suits your needs. There are several details to consider beforehand, however. For example, identify who you want to manage the trust and how you want it managed during your life and upon death. Considering death, identify who you want as your beneficiary or beneficiaries, and how you want them to receive the assets. Determine what assets the trust will hold and under what condition they can be disbursed or disposed of.



Once the details are confirmed, complete and file the appropriate paperwork, according to the rules of your state. It might be best to consult an attorney to ensure that the account in trust is established according to your preferences.


   Benefits of an Account in Trust  

Accounts in trust are preferred by many because they avoid probate, enabling a quicker and easier distribution of assets. These accounts also may provide favorable tax benefits, such as the IRS considering income as trust income (for irrevocable trusts), which usually results in a lower tax liability.﻿﻿



Accounts in Trust allow the wishes of the donor to be carried out during their lifetime and/or upon death. They can specify how they want their assets managed, how and when they will be dispersed, and who will manage them.


   Example of an Account in Trust  

Mr. and Mrs. Q. Sample are school teachers with a goal to retire in 15 years. They have three adult children and 2 infant grandchildren. Hoping to secure their assets and create college funds for their grandchildren, they explore accounts in trust as options.



After meeting with an attorney, they decided to protect their assets in a revocable trust, whereby they serve as co-trustees and their eldest child as a successor trustee. Their assets, including real estate, stocks, and other investments, will be managed in the trust. Upon death, all assets will be distributed equally among their children, who are named as the beneficiaries.



They also established education trust accounts for each grandchild, initially depositing $5,000 into each account. Their goal is to invest $2,000 per account each year until the grandchildren reach the age of majority. The funds can only be used for educational purposes. However, if the grandchild does not attend college or trade school, the funds will be dispersed in monthly installments beginning at age 25.


   Account in Trust FAQs  
  Should I Setup a Trust Account?  

If you have assets and specific preferences in how and to whom they are distributed, a trust account might be beneficial. Speak with an expert, such as an estate planner, advisor, or attorney to explore what trust accounts are available and which ones are advantageous for you.


  How to Create a Trust Account?  

After deciding which trust account to establish, outline the conditions you want to be specified within the trust. Draft the trust document, according to the rules for your state. Be sure to name the parties (trustees) to manage the trust, as well as the beneficiaries. Then, create an account for and transfer assets into the trust; this can be done with most banks and financial institutions. Before establishing a trust, it might be helpful to seek advice and guidance from a professional.


  What Is the Difference Between a Revocable and Irrevocable Trust?  

A revocable trust is a trust in which the terms can be modified or revoked by the grantor. In contrast, an irrevocable trust is a trust in which the terms cannot be modified or revoked without the written consent of the beneficiaries.


  What Is the Difference Between a Will and a Trust?  

The terms will and trust are often used interchangeably, but they are quite different. A will is a legal document outlining the final wishes of a person upon their death. It is only effective after its originator dies.



Trusts are effective upon their creation. Trusts can outline how assets are to be treated during the life of the grantor and upon death.



Whereas an executor or executrix is appointed to ensure that a will is executed according to its specifications, a trustee is appointed to ensure that the conditions of the trust are met. Unlike wills, trusts are not subject to probate and cannot be contested.
What Is a Bank Account Number?  

A bank account number is a unique string of numbers and, sometimes, letters and other characters that identify a particular bank account and grant access to it. This often is one of the most important account numbers people have for transacting business.





Key Takeaways

A bank account number is a unique identifier of the owner of a bank account and permits access to it.In online banking, account numbers are vulnerable to fraud.Multi-factor identification and other security measures work to protect bank account numbers, along with passwords.You can find your bank account number on the bottom of a paper check, just after the routing number.


   How a Bank Account Number Works  

A bank checking account's number is located at the bottom of the paper check. You'll see three sets of numbers in a computer-readable font at the bottom of the check:



The first set of numbers on the left is the nine-digit bank routing number.The middle numbers are your account number.The third number is the number of the check.



Payroll processing offices use checking account numbers to set up direct deposit payments for employees.


   Protecting Bank Account Numbers  

Bank account numbers are vulnerable to identity theft and fraud. This is why you have to answer questions about your mother's maiden name when you try to make routine changes to an account like your bank account. The means of making it difficult for hackers to steal account numbers have in recent years taken the form of password managers along with multi-factor authentication, or MFA, systems.



Businesses now often employ a hard-to-hack master password to unlock an electronic vault of customers' bank account numbers and other sensitive data. Consumers are becoming accustomed to multifactor authentication, which adds another step before granting access to a bank account, such as requiring a fingerprint, voice activation, or a time-sensitive code sent to the cellphone number on record.



These are just some of the means of protecting users’ bank account numbers in an increasingly vulnerable online environment.






The traditional check layout applies to most personal checks, but some business checks and bank-printed checks have other formats.


   Account Number vs. Routing Number  

On a paper check, the nine-digit routing number identifies specific financial institutions within the U.S. The number identifies the check as having been issued by a federal- or state-chartered bank that maintains an account with the Federal Reserve.



This system dates back to 1910 and was developed initially as a way to help bank clerks sort through piles of checks and assign them to the correct drawer. Today, electronic services use them in much the same way for wire transfers, to draw a payment from a deposit at the correct institution.



The individual's bank account number works together with the routing number to identify the right account holder at the right institution.


   How to Locate Your Bank Account Number  

You can find your bank account number on your monthly bank statement, or by visiting a branch of your bank.



If you are using a checking account, the account number is also printed on your paper checks. You can find it printed between the bank's routing number and the check number, as shown below.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




How Do You Find the Account Number on a Check?
You can find your bank account number printed at the bottom of your paper check. This is the second sequence of numbers, printed between the nine-digit routing number and the shorter check number. This number can also be found on your account statement.




How Long Is a Bank Account Number?
A bank account number is usually eight to 12 digits long, but some account numbers have up to 17 digits. Note that this is not the same as your debit card number or credit card number.




How Do You Find Out Your Account Number?
You can find your bank account number on your bank statements, printed at the bottom of a paper check, or by logging on to the bank's website. If you can't find it in these ways, try visiting a bank branch in person.


   The Bottom Line  

A bank account number is a unique identifier for each account at a bank or other financial institution that you have. Along with the routing number, the bank uses this number to make payments and accept deposits. Due to the increase in identity theft and fraud, it is important to actively protect your bank account number and other banking information.
What Is an Account Statement?  

An account statement is a periodic summary of account activity with a beginning date and an ending date. The most commonly known are checking account statements, usually provided monthly, and brokerage account statements, which are provided monthly or quarterly. Monthly credit card bills are also considered account statements.





Key Takeaways

An account statement is a periodic statement summarizing account activity over a set period of time.Account statements can be thought of as a summary of the account and include statements of services provided, fees charged, and money owed.Account statements should be scrutinized for accuracy, and historical statements are critical for budgeting.Account statements may often be received electronically, as distributors may charge fees for paper copies. Account statements usually contain a unique identifier, starting information, ending information, and transactions.


   Understanding Account Statements  

Account statements refer to almost any official summary of an account, wherever the account is held. Insurance companies may provide account statements summarizing paid-in cash values, for example. Statements can be generated for almost any type of accounts that represent ongoing transactions where funds are repeatedly exchanged. This can include online payment accounts such as PayPal, credit card accounts, brokerage accounts, and savings accounts.



Utility companies, as well as telephone and subscription television service providers, usually generate account statements for their customers detailing their usage and any overages during the payment cycle. Such statements typically list debits paid, incoming funds or credits received by the account holder, and fees associated with maintaining the account. For example, certain types of savings accounts might incur regular maintenance fees unless a certain minimum balance of funds is maintained in the account. Cable television subscriptions may include state taxes and other surcharges that are included in providing regular service.






Account statements don't necessarily need to be financial. Consider an account statement that tracks a company's environmental impact from one period to the next.


   Elements of Account Statements  

Though account statements may vary based on the issuer and underlying service, you may come across the same elements across statements. These elements may include but aren't limited to:



A Unique Identifier. Account statements are often tied to a unique identifier such as an account number or bank account number. The statement may only display part of the account number for security reasons.
Personal Information. Your account information, including your account number, the name of the account holder, and any contact information that is associated with the account, will typically be displayed on the statement.
A Start Date and/or End Date. This is the timeframe that is covered by the statement, such as a particular month or a quarter. It can also be referred to as the statement period.
Opening and Closing Balances: Both the opening and closing balances of your account will be displayed on the statement that is sent to you at the end of the billing cycle.
Transactions: The transaction history is a comprehensive description of all of the activities that took place on the account during the billing cycle. This includes all deposits, withdrawals, purchases, payments, and other types of account activity. Typically, the date, a brief description, and the total amount are recorded next to each transaction.
Fees and Service Charges: The statement may list any fees or service charges that are associated with your account, such as monthly maintenance fees, ATM fees, or overdraft costs. In some contexts, this account statement may be the only instance in which the fees are communicated to the account holder.
Information About Entity: The statement issuer could send you crucial messages or notifications regarding your account, forthcoming changes to the business, or promotional offers.


   How Account Statements Are Used  

Account statements should be scrutinized for accuracy, and historical statements are critical for budgeting. A credit or loan account statement, for example, may show not only the outstanding balance due but the interest rate charged on that debt and any fees that have been added during the payment cycle. This can include late charges for payments not received by their due date as well as overdraft fees when bank account holders overspend. Your account statements are a window into your finances.



The statement may also list financial information that relates to the account holder such as their credit score, or the estimated time it will take to completely pay off a debt via installment payments. Alerts and notices to the account holder may also appear on these statements, calling attention to matters with the account that need to be addressed, such unusual charges that should be reviewed and verified.






Account statements are often recurring and should arrive at a set cadence. Contact your account administrator to best understand when statement periods occur and when you may expect statements.


   Red Flags on Account Statements  

Anomalous items on an account statement may be a sign the account has been compromised, perhaps through a stolen credit or debit card or through identity thieves who gained access to account information. For example, an account holder or the financial institution might spot a charge for concert tickets or a luxury item that seems out of the ordinary.



Account holders may be able to dispute such out-of-place charges and file a claim that they did not make the purchase themselves. Reviewing your account statements as they come in is a good financial habit that can catch these red flags before they become a financial disaster.


   Electronic Statements vs. Paper Statements  

Account statements may be delivered electronically or via paper. Electronic account statements are delivered digitally in formats like PDF, HTML, or through online portals. They offer convenience, reduce impacts to the environmental, and can often be easily stored.



The primary aim of electronic statements is to reduce paper usage, save space, and reduce the risk of unauthorized access compared to paper statements. Electronic statements may be password-protected and delivered through secure channels, reducing the risk of theft or interception. Electronic statements may also be more easily shared by other individuals needed copies



Paper account statements are printed on paper and sent via postal mail to the account holder's physical address. Proper disposal of paper statements is crucial to protect sensitive information and prevent unauthorized access to personal financial information.



Paper statements do not require an internet connection or electronic device to access. This can be beneficial for individuals in areas with limited connectivity or those who prefer to review their financial information offline. In case of technical issues or loss of access to electronic records (both temporarily or permanently), individuals can rely on their paper statements as a secondary source of information.




What Should I Do If I Notice an Error or Discrepancy on My Account Statement?
If you notice an error or discrepancy on your account statement, contact your bank immediately. Provide them with the details of the incorrect transaction, and they will initiate an investigation to rectify the issue and ensure your account is accurate.




How Long Should I Keep My Account Statements?
The recommended duration for keeping account statements varies, but it's generally advised to retain them for a minimum of one to three years. However, consult with a financial advisor if you're unsure what account information should be retained especially related to tax statements, investment statements, or banking statements.




Are There Any Fees Associated with Receiving Paper Account Statements?
Some financial institutions may charge fees for providing paper account statements. Electronic statements are often offered as a free alternative or may have lower associated costs. Check with your bank for their specific fee structure and any incentives for switching to electronic statements.




How Can I Use My Account Statements for Budgeting and Financial Planning?
Account statements can be used for budgeting and financial planning by analyzing income, expenses, and patterns of spending. Review your statements to track where your money goes, identify areas for potential savings, and make informed decisions about budget adjustments or financial goals.


   The Bottom Line  

Account statements provide a comprehensive overview of transactions, balances, and activities in a bank, financial, or other account. They include details such as deposits, withdrawals, interest earned, fees charged, and the current balance (if applicable). Account holders can access statements electronically or in paper format, and they play a crucial role in tracking finances, reconciling records, identifying errors, and aiding in budgeting and financial planning.
What Is Accountability?  

Accountability is an acceptance of responsibility for honest and ethical conduct towards others. In the corporate world, a company's accountability extends to its shareholders, employees, and the wider community in which it operates. In a wider sense, accountability implies a willingness to be judged on performance.





Key Takeaways

Accountability is the acceptance of responsibility for one's own actions. It implies a willingness to be transparent, allowing others to observe and evaluate one's performance.In the U.S. financial world, accountability includes a requirement that public corporations make accurate financial records available to all stakeholders.Regardless of one's profession, there are various ways to be accountable in the workplace including setting deadlines, delegating tasks, defining ownership, and rewarding success.Accountability may help invoke confidence from external investors, loyalty from employees, and better company returns. In recent years, there has been an increased focus on other elements of corporate accountability such as ethical conduct, environmental impact, a commitment to diversity, and fair treatment of employees.


   Understanding Accountability  

Accountability has become an essential concept in corporate finance. It is particularly relevant to the accounting practices that a company adopts when it prepares the financial reports that are submitted to shareholders and the government. Without checks, balances, and consequences for wrongdoing, a company cannot retain the confidence of its customers, regulators, or the markets.



However, in recent years corporate accountability has come to encompass the company's activities as they affect the community. A company's environmental impact, its investment decisions, and its treatment of its own employees all have come under public scrutiny.






Each industry has its own standards and rules for accountability that may evolve over time. For example, the rules for social media accountability are being written now.


   Types of Accountability  

The concept of accountability runs throughout all industries, sectors, companies, and professions. Here is an overview of where accountability is most prevalent in the business sector.


  Corporate Accountability  

At its most prosaic, accountability is about the numbers. Every public company is required to publish a financial report quarterly and annually detailing its income and expenses. An independent auditor reviewing a company's financial statements is responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from any material misstatements caused by error or fraud. This auditor is holding the company accountable for its reporting.



Accountability requires corporate accountants to be careful and knowledgeable, as they can be held legally liable for negligence. An accountant is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the company's financial statements, even if an error or misstatement was made by others in the organization. This is why independent outside accountants audit the financial statements. Public companies are required to have an audit committee within the board of directors. Their job is to oversee the audit.


  Political Accountability  

Political accountability can relate to political contributions and how candidates use resources. For example, the non-partisan Center for Political Accountability and the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania jointly publish an annual index rating the disclosure and oversight policies of major public corporations regarding their donations to political causes and candidates.



These scandals resulted in tougher regulations, and there are armies of regulators and private watchdogs working to make sure that companies report their earnings correctly, that the exchanges execute trades in a timely fashion, and that information provided to investors is timely and accurate.



The Center shines a spotlight on corporate spending to influence politicians. Recently, the Center reported in-depth on a campaign by the pharmaceutical industry to head off a proposal to allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices with vendors. The report named the names of members of Congress who accepted political donations from drugmakers.






Accountability is results-oriented. For example, after reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 44%, HP got top marks for environmental accountability.


  Government Accountability  

The role of corporate cash is only one of the global issues regarding government accountability.



USAID, the federal agency that administers civilian foreign aid, defines measures government accountability by these key factors: a free and fair political justice system; protection of human rights; a vibrant civil society; public confidence in the police and courts, and security sector reform.



To aid in protecting citizens, the Government Accountability program protects federal, state, and local whistleblowers who spot problems and report them to appropriate agencies. In this model, governments are held accountable through unofficial, internal audit. Anyone can report anyone else for improper behavior, forcing accountability to be systematic and prevalent throughout organizations.


  Media Accountability  

The media in the U.S. is uniquely protected by the First Amendment from interference by Congress. This does not mean that it is free from accountability.



The media have long been under the constant scrutiny of a number of watchdogs, internal and external. In the internet era, these have been augmented by independent fact-checking organizations such as FactCheck.org, Snopes, and PolitiFact. These and other organizations monitor the media for bias and errors and publish their findings for all to see.



Now, through the introduction of social media, individuals can now easily contribute to media. There is arguement whether the platforms (i.e. Facebook) it is a publisher or if the users of the platform are the publishers. In either case, social media continues to be under fire for spreading dangerous misinformation, providing a platform for hate speech, and having a generally lacking sense of accountability.


   Accountability in the Workplace  

For companies to be successful, employees must conduct themselves with accountability. This is done is several ways.



First, there are soft skill aspects of accountability. Accountability includes showing up to work when expected and showing up to work prepared for the tasks for the day. Accountability extends to every department and every employee, as it starts with being present, honest, and engaged in every day tasks outside of one's job.



There is also a deep rooted sense of accountability in specific positions. Professionals who handle physical or digital money have a standard of accountability to be honest and responsible with funds that do not belong to them personally. Managers have a duty of accountability to properly oversee employees, treat them well, and guide them through growth opportunities.



There's a few ways a company builds, manages, and sustains accountable practices, such as:



Making employees verbally commit to completing certain tasks and ensuring them follow through with these tasks.Having upper management set expectations on the duties to be completed and the associated deadlines. Creating a safe environment where taking risks is rewarded and learning occurs in a natural, non-threatening way.Defining ownership of tasks, projects, or other aspects of work. Should there be a problem, the owner of that task or project must be held accountable.


   Benefits of Accountability  

Accountability will be different at every company. However, there are overarching benefits that accountability can provide should a business be able to appropriately execute accountability practices:



Accountability promotes operational excellence. When employees understand that their work is being looked at and will be evaluated, they are more likely to put forth stronger effort as it is understood that what they do matters. This is especially true when employees are rewarded for strong accountability with raises, promotions, and public recognition. Accountability safeguards company resources. Accountability is not limited to just doing your job; it is the practice of being honest and responsible for your actions in all situations. When employees are accountable, they are held to a standard that company resources are to be respected, and employees are less like to mistreat company assets as they understand there will be consequences for their actions. Accountability yields more accurate results. Companies with a standard of accountability will have boundaries of acceptable deviation. For example, a company may allow for a certain dollar threshold of financial misstatement due to immateriality. If a company holds itself accountable to a low threshold of materiality, it will not accept larger errors, unexplainable variances, or delays in reporting. Accountability builds external investor trust. An investor's confidence in a company is only driven so far based off of the prospect of financial success. Investors must believe that a company is well-run, honest, competent, and efficient with its resources. If a company can demonstrate their accountability, they will be seen more favorable, especially compared against an untrustworthy adversary. 






A 2020 research study by Pew Research found that 58% found that "cancel culture" was a movement to hold people accountable for their actions, while 38% saw the movement as punishment for people who didn't deserve it.


   Accountability in the Real World  

Corporate accountability can be hard to quantify but that doesn't stop anyone from trying.



The publication Visual Capitalist ranked the best performing U.S. corporations on environmental, social, and corporate governance issues. The top performer on environmental issues was HP, which has decreased its greenhouse gas emissions by 44% since 2015. General Motors got the highest marks for social responsibility as the only U.S. company with a woman as both CEO and CFO. Qualcomm topped the list in corporate governance due to its introduction of STEM programs for women and minorities.



Some high-profile accounting scandals in the past demonstrated that a public company cannot continue to exist if it loses the trust of the financial markets and regulators.



The erstwhile energy giant Enron collapsed in 2001, taking the venerable accounting firm Arthur Andersen with it after its false accounting methods were exposed. The global financial crisis in 2008–2009 revealed gross financial speculation by some of the nation's biggest banking institutions. The LIBOR scandal revealed currency rate manipulation by several London banks.



But many leaders have called for the creation of a new culture of accountability in finance—one that comes from within.




What Does Accountability Mean?
Accountability is the practice of being held to a certain standard of excellence. It is the idea that an individual is responsible for their actions and, if that individual chooses unfavorable actions, they will face consequences. Accountability strives to promote a high level of work, promote honesty, encourage dependability, and garner trust from members around you.




What Is an Example of Accountability?
A company can foster a sense of accountability by setting expectations with employees, delegating tasks to different members of a team, and explaining consequences if the tasks are completed incorrectly or late. Another example of accountability is a financial advisor managing a client's funds. The advisor must not only be held to a standard of fiduciary duty, they must realize there are consequences for their actions and what they choose to do today with their client's money will have downstream effects (either positive or negative).




How Is Accountability Defined in the Workplace?
To management coaches, accountability in the workplace goes beyond giving each employee a task to complete in a project. It also means making each individual accountable for the success or failure of their contribution to the overall project. In other words, it's all about ownership of success—or failure.




What Does the Government Accountability Office Do?
The Government Accountability Office is the audit agency of the U.S. government.It evaluates the effectiveness of U.S. programs and proposed programs. For example, one of its ongoing reviews examined the effectiveness of $4.8 trillion in federal spending related to the COVID-19 pandemic and made recommendations for changes to prevent misuse of funds, fraud, and errors in relief payments. Interestingly, the agency's own reporting indicates that only 33 of a proposed 209 recommendations for improvement had been "fully adopted" as of the end of October 2021.




What Is the Difference Between Accountability and Responsibility?
A responsibility is an assigned (or self-assigned) task or project. Accountability implies a willingness to be judged on the performance of the project. Accountability does not exist in a vacuum. It requires transparency and effective communication of results with all parties that may be affected.


   The Bottom Line  

Accountability can be a management buzzword, or it can be a real framework for evaluating the success or failure of an individual or an entity. The concept of corporate accountability has always meant honest and transparent financial reporting. In recent years that concept has expanded to encompass a corporation's performance and responsiveness to environmental, social, and community issues.
What Is an Accountant?  

The term accountant refers to a professional who performs accounting functions such as account analysis, auditing, or financial statement analysis. Accountants work with accounting firms or internal account departments with large companies. They may also set up their own, individual practices. After meeting state-specific educational and testing requirements, these professionals are certified by national professional associations.





Key Takeaways


An accountant is a professional who performs accounting functions such as account analysis, auditing, or financial statement analysis.
Accountants can find employment with an accounting firm or a large company with an internal accounting department, or they can set up an individual practice. 
Many accountants choose to become Certified Public Accountants because the CPA designation is considered the gold standard in the accounting profession.



   Understanding Accountants  

Accountants are financial professionals who take charge of a series of accounts—either private or public. These accounts may be owned by either a corporation or individuals. As such, they may find work with corporations of different sizes—small to large—governments, different organizations like non-profits, or they may set up their own private practice and work with individuals who enlist their services.



They perform multiple accounting duties which vary based on where they work. Accountants perform account analysis, review financial statements, documents, and other reports to ensure they are accurate, conduct routine and annual audits, review financial operations, prepare tax returns, advise on areas that require more efficiencies and cost-savings, and provide risk analysis and forecasting.



An accountant's duties often depend on the type of educational background and designation they receive. Most professionals in the field possess bachelor's degrees and—if employed by a corporation—may require certification to move up within the firm. Certification requirements vary, with some roles requiring additional educational requirements above the bachelor's degree and successful completion of rigorous examinations. Accountants can have more than one designation. But the most common accounting designations are the Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), Certified Management Accountant (CMA), and Certified Public Accountant (CPA). A Certified Internal Auditor doesn't need to receive any license in order to practice, and neither do Certified Management Accountants.  






Although your accountant may have more than one designation, the most common are Certified Internal Auditor, Certified Management Accountant, and Certified Public Accountant.



Many accountants choose to become CPAs because the designation is considered the gold standard in the accounting profession. In the United States, certification requirements for accountants can vary from state to state. But there is one requirement that is uniform in every state—the passing of the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination. This is an exam that is written and graded by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).


   Special Considerations  

Accountants must abide by the ethical standards and guiding principles of the region where they practice, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The IFRS is a set of rules issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). These rules promote consistency and transparency in financial statements. GAAP, on the other hand, is a set of standards that accountants must adhere to when they complete financial statements for any publicly-traded companies.



Certified public accounts are legally and ethically responsible to be honest, trustworthy, and to avoid negligence in their duties. CPAs have real influence over their clients, which means their judgment and work can affect not just an individual but an entire company—including its employees, its board, and its investors. Accountants may be held liable for paying uninsured losses to creditors and investors in the case of a misstatement, negligence, or fraud.



Accountants can be held liable under two different types of law—common law and statutory law. Common law liability includes negligence, fraud, and breach of contract, while statutory law includes any state or federal securities laws. 


   History of Accountants  

The first professional association for accountants, the American Association of Public Accountants, was formed in 1887, and CPAs were first licensed in 1896.Accounting grew as an important profession during the industrial revolution. This was largely due to the fact that businesses grew in complexity and the shareholders and bondholders, who were not necessarily a part of the company but were monetarily invested, wanted to know more about the financial well-being of the companies they were invested in. 



After the Great Depression and the formation of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), all publicly traded companies were required to issue reports written by accredited accountants. This change increased the need for corporate accountants even further. Today, accountants remain a ubiquitous and crucial part of any business.
What is Accountant Responsibility?  

Accountant responsibility is the ethical responsibility an accountant has to those who rely on their work. According to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), accountants have a duty to serve the public interest and uphold the public trust in the profession. An accountant has a responsibility to his clients, his company's managers, investors, and creditors, as well as to outside regulatory bodies. Accountants are responsible for the validity of the financial statements they work on, and they must perform their duties following all applicable principles, standards, and laws.





Key Takeaways

Accountant responsibility is the ethical responsibility an accountant has to those who rely on their work.An accountant's responsibility may vary depending on the industry and type of accounting, auditing, or tax preparation being performed.All accountants must perform their duties following all applicable principles, standards, and laws.


   Understanding Accountant Responsibility  

Accountant responsibility varies slightly based on the accountant's relationship with the tax filer or business in question. Independent accountants with some clients see confidential information, ranging from personal Social Security numbers to business sales data, and must observe accountant-client privilege. They cannot share private personal or business data with competitors or others.



Accountants who work for accounting firms also have a responsibility to keep information private, but they also have a responsibility to their firm. Namely, they must accurately track their hours and tasks completed. For example, an accountant performing an audit should only record items he has actually completed, rather than pretending he has completed items he has not in order to speed up the process or bolster his logged hours.



If an accountant works directly for a business, as an in-house accountant, he has access to information many others in the company do not, ranging from payroll figures to news about staff layoffs, and he also has to treat this information discretely. In addition to having a responsibility to the people who work at the company, in-house accountants are also responsible to stockholders and creditors. If accountants do not uphold their responsibilities, it can have a broad effect on the accounting industry and even the financial markets.


   Accountant Responsibility and the Internal Revenue Service  

Although accountants have a great deal of responsibility to their clients, if the Internal Revenue Service finds an error in an individual's tax return, it does not hold the tax preparer or accountant responsible. Rather, the IRS adjusts the return and holds the taxpayer responsible for the additional tax, fees, and penalties. However, an individual who has been wronged by an accountant's misconduct can bring a claim of negligence against the accountant based on the fact the accountant breached his duty to the client and caused personal or financial damages.



The IRS also accepts complaints about tax return preparers who have committed fraud, and anyone with an issue may submit a complaint using Form 14157, Complaint: Tax Return Preparer. In-house accountants who cook the books or purposefully include erroneous data in their company's tax returns or accounting documents are responsible for misconduct and may even be criminally liable.


   Accountant Responsibility and External Audits  

According to the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), accountants performing external audits have the responsibility to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the client's financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether caused by error or fraud. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) added new audit responsibilities relating to fraud. External auditors now have to certify that a client's internal controls are adequate in addition to expressing an opinion on the financial statements.
What Is Accounting?  

Accounting is the process of recording financial transactions pertaining to a business. The accounting process includes summarizing, analyzing, and reporting these transactions to oversight agencies, regulators, and tax collection entities. The financial statements used in accounting are a concise summary of financial transactions over an accounting period, summarizing a company's operations, financial position, and cash flows. 





Key Takeaways

Regardless of the size of a business, accounting is a necessary function for decision making, cost planning, and measurement of economic performance.A bookkeeper can handle basic accounting needs, but a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) should be utilized for larger or more advanced accounting tasks.Two important types of accounting for businesses are managerial accounting and cost accounting. Managerial accounting helps management teams make business decisions, while cost accounting helps business owners decide how much a product should cost.Professional accountants follow a set of standards known as the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) when preparing financial statements.Accounting is an important function of strategic planning, external compliance, fundraising, and operations management. 












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   What Is the Purpose of Accounting?  

Accounting is one of the key functions of almost any business. It may be handled by a bookkeeper or an accountant at a small firm, or by sizable finance departments with dozens of employees at larger companies. The reports generated by various streams of accounting, such as cost accounting and managerial accounting, are invaluable in helping management make informed business decisions. 



The financial statements that summarize a large company's operations, financial position, and cash flows over a particular period are concise and consolidated reports based on thousands of individual financial transactions. As a result, all professional accounting designations are the culmination of years of study and rigorous examinations combined with a minimum number of years of practical accounting experience.


   History of Accounting  

The history of accounting has been around almost as long as money itself. Accounting history dates back to ancient civilizations in Mesopotamia, Egypt, and Babylon. For example, during the Roman Empire, the government had detailed records of its finances. However, modern accounting as a profession has only been around since the early 19th century.



Luca Pacioli is considered "The Father of Accounting and Bookkeeping" due to his contributions to the development of accounting as a profession. An Italian mathematician and friend of Leonardo da Vinci, Pacioli published a book on the double-entry system of bookkeeping in 1494.



By 1880, the modern profession of accounting was fully formed and recognized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. This institute created many of the systems by which accountants practice today. The formation of the institute occurred in large part due to the Industrial Revolution. Merchants not only needed to track their records but sought to avoid bankruptcy as well.






The Alliance for Responsible Professional Licensing (ARPL) was formed in August 2019 in response to a series of state deregulatory proposals making the requirements to become a CPA more lenient. The ARPL is a coalition of various advanced professional groups including engineers, accountants, and architects.


   What Are the Different Types of Accounting?  

Accountants may be tasked with recording specific transactions or working with specific sets of information. For this reason, there are several broad groups that most accountants can be grouped into.


  Financial Accounting  

Financial accounting refers to the processes used to generate interim and annual financial statements. The results of all financial transactions that occur during an accounting period are summarized in the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement. The financial statements of most companies are audited annually by an external CPA firm.



For some, such as publicly-traded companies, audits are a legal requirement. However, lenders also typically require the results of an external audit annually as part of their debt covenants. Therefore, most companies will have annual audits for one reason or another.


  Managerial Accounting   

Managerial accounting uses much of the same data as financial accounting, but it organizes and utilizes information in different ways. Namely, in managerial accounting, an accountant generates monthly or quarterly reports that a business's management team can use to make decisions about how the business operates. Managerial accounting also encompasses many other facets of accounting, including budgeting, forecasting, and various financial analysis tools. Essentially, any information that may be useful to management falls underneath this umbrella.


  Cost Accounting  

Just as managerial accounting helps businesses make decisions about management, cost accounting helps businesses make decisions about costing. Essentially, cost accounting considers all of the costs related to producing a product. Analysts, managers, business owners, and accountants use this information to determine what their products should cost. In cost accounting, money is cast as an economic factor in production, whereas in financial accounting, money is considered to be a measure of a company's economic performance.


  Tax Accounting  

While financial accountants often use one set of rules to report the financial position of a company, tax accountants often use a different set of rules. These rules are set at the federal, state, or local level based on what return is being filed. Tax accounts balance compliance with reporting rules while also attempting to minimize a company's tax liability through thoughtful strategic decision-making. A tax accountant often oversees the entire tax process of a company: the strategic creation of the organization chart, the operations, the compliance, the reporting, and the remittance of tax liability.


   What Types of Careers Are in the Accounting Field?  

While basic accounting functions can be handled by a bookkeeper, advanced accounting is typically handled by qualified accountants who possess designations such as Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Certified Management Accountant (CMA) in the United States.



In Canada, the three legacy designations—the Chartered Accountant (CA), Certified General Accountant (CGA), and Certified Management Accountant (CMA)—have been unified under the Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) designation.



A major component of the accounting professional is the "Big Four". These four largest accounting firms conduct audit, consulting, tax advisory, and other services. These firms, along with many other smaller firms, comprise the public accounting realm that generally advises financial and tax accounting.



Careers in accounting may vastly difference by industry, department, and niche. Some relevant job titles may include:



Auditor (internal or external): ensures compliance with reporting requirements and safeguarding of company assets.
Forensic Accountant: monitors internal or external activity to investigate the transactions of an individual or business.
Tax Accountant: strategically plans the optimal business composition to minimize tax liabilities as well as ensures compliance with tax reporting.
Managerial Accountant: analyzes financial transactions to make thoughtful, strategic recommendations often related to the manufacturing of goods.
Information and Technology Analyst/Accountant: maintains the system and software in which accounting records are processed and stored.
Controller: oversees the accounting functions of financial reporting, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and procurement.






As of May 2023, the average Certified Public Accountant in the United States made $113,095 per year.


   What Are Accounting Standards?  

In most cases, accountants use generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) when preparing financial statements in the U.S. GAAP is a set of standards and principles designed to improve the comparability and consistency of financial reporting across industries. Its standards are based on double-entry accounting, a method in which every accounting transaction is entered as both a debit and credit in two separate general ledger accounts that will roll up into the balance sheet and income statement.



In most other countries, a set of standards governed by the International Accounting Standards Board named the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is used.



Tax accountants overseeing returns in the United States rely on guidance from the Internal Revenue Service. Federal tax returns must comply with tax guidance outlined by the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Tax accounts may also lean in on state or county taxes as outlined by the jurisdiction in which the business conducts business. Foreign companies must comply with tax guidance in the countries in which it must file a return.


   What Are Major Accounting Software Platforms?  

Accountants often leverage software to aid in their work. Some accounting software is considered better for small businesses such as QuickBooks, Quicken, FreshBooks, Xero, SlickPie, or Sage 50. Larger companies often have much more complex solutions to integrate with their specific reporting needs. This includes add-on modules or in-home software solutions. Large accounting solutions include Oracle, NetSuite, or Sage products.


  What Is the Accounting Cycle?  

Financial accountants typically operate in a cyclical environment with the same steps happening in order and repeating every reporting period. These steps are often referred to as the accounting cycle, the process of taking raw transaction information, entering it into an accounting system, and running relevant and accurate financial reports. The steps of the accounting cycle are:



Collect transaction information such as invoices, bank statements, receipts, payment requests, uncashed checks, credit card statements, or other mediums that may contain business transactions.
Post journal entries to the general ledger for the items in Step 1, reconciling to external documents whenever possible.
Prepare an unadjusted trial balance to ensure all debits and credits balance and material general ledger accounts look correct.
Post adjusting journal entries at the end of the period to reflect any changes to be made to the trial balance run in Step 3.
Prepare the adjusted trial balance to ensure these financial balances are materially correct and reasonable.
Prepare the financial statements to summarize all transactions for a given reporting period.


  Cash Method vs. Accrual Method of Accounting  

Financial accounts have two different sets of rules they can choose to follow. The first, the accrual basis method of accounting, has been discussed above. These rules are outlined by GAAP and IFRS, are required by public companies, and are mainly used by larger companies.



The second set of rules follow the cash basis method of accounting. Instead of recording a transaction when it occurs, the cash method stipulates a transaction should be recorded only when cash has exchanged. Because of the simplified manner of accounting, the cash method is often used by small businesses or entities that are not required to use the accrual method of accounting.



Imagine a company buys $1,000 of inventory on credit. Payment is due for the inventory in 30 days.



Under the accrual method of accounting, a journal entry is recorded when the order is placed. The entry records a debit to inventory (asset) for $1,000 and a credit to accounts payable (liability) for $1,000. When 30 days has passed and the inventory is actually paid for, the company posts a second journal entry: a debit to accounts payable (liability) for $1,000 and a credit to cash (asset) for $1,000.Under the cash method of accounting, a journal entry is only recorded when cash has been exchanged for inventory. There is no entry when the order is placed; instead, the company enters only one journal entry at the time the inventory is paid for. The entry is a debit to inventory (asset) for $1,000 and a credit to cash (asset) for $1,000.



The difference between these two accounting methods is the treatment of accruals. Naturally, under the accrual method of accounting, accruals are required. Under the cash method, accruals are not required and not recorded.






The Securities and Exchange Commission has an entire financial reporting manual outlining reporting requirements of public companies.


   Why Accounting Is Important  

Accounting is a back-office function where employees may not directly interface with customers, product developers, or manufacturing. However, accounting plays a key role in the strategic planning, growth, and compliance requirements of a company.



Accounting is necessary for company growth. Without insight into how a business is performing, it is impossible for a company to make smart financial decisions through forecasting. Without accounting, a company wouldn't be able to tell which products are its best sellers, how much profit is made in each department, and what overhead costs are holding back profits.
Accounting is necessary for funding. External investors want confidence that they know what they are investing in. Prior to private funding, investors will usually require financial statements (often audited) to gauge the overall health of a company. The same rules pertain to debt financing. Banks and other lending institutions will often require financial statements in compliance with accounting rules as part of the underwriting and review process for issuing a loan.
Accounting is necessary for owner exit. Small companies that may be looking to be acquired often need to present financial statements as part of acquisition or merger efforts. Instead of simply closing a business, a business owner may attempt to "cash-out" of their position and receive compensation for building a company. The basis for valuing a company is to use its accounting records. 
Accounting is necessary to make payments. A company naturally incurs debt, and part of the responsibility of managing that debt is to make payments on time to the appropriate parties. Without positively fostering these business relationships, a company may find itself with a key supplier or vendor. Through accounting, a company can always know who it has debts to and when those debts are coming due.
Accounting is necessary to collect payments. A company may agree to extend credit to its customers. Instead of collecting cash at the time of an agreement, it may give a customer trade credit terms such as net 30. Without accounting, a company may have a hard time keeping track of who owes it money and when that money is to be received. 
Accounting may be required. Public companies are required to issue periodic financial statements in compliance with GAAP or IFRS. Without these financial statements, a company may be de-listed from an exchange. Without proper tax accounting compliance, a company may receive fines or penalties. 


   Example of Accounting  

To illustrate double-entry accounting, imagine a business sends an invoice to one of its clients. An accountant using the double-entry method records a debit to accounts receivables, which flows through to the balance sheet, and a credit to sales revenue, which flows through to the income statement.



When the client pays the invoice, the accountant credits accounts receivables and debits cash. Double-entry accounting is also called balancing the books, as all of the accounting entries are balanced against each other. If the entries aren't balanced, the accountant knows there must be a mistake somewhere in the general ledger.




What Are the Responsibilities of an Accountant?
Accountants help businesses maintain accurate and timely records of their finances. Accountants are responsible for maintaining records of a company’s daily transactions and compiling those transactions into financial statements such as the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows. Accountants also provide other services, such as performing periodic audits or preparing ad-hoc management reports.




What Skills Are Required for Accounting?
Accountants hail from a wide variety of backgrounds. Generally speaking, however, attention to detail is a key component in accountancy, since accountants must be able to diagnose and correct subtle errors or discrepancies in a company’s accounts. The ability to think logically is also essential, to help with problem-solving. Mathematical skills are helpful but are less important than in previous generations due to the wide availability of computers and calculators.




Why Is Accounting Important for Investors?
The work performed by accountants is at the heart of modern financial markets. Without accounting, investors would be unable to rely on timely or accurate financial information, and companies’ executives would lack the transparency needed to manage risks or plan projects. Regulators also rely on accountants for critical functions such as providing auditors’ opinions on companies’ annual 10-K filings. In short, although accounting is sometimes overlooked, it is absolutely critical for the smooth functioning of modern finance.
What Is Accounting Conservatism?  

Accounting conservatism is a set of bookkeeping guidelines that call for a high degree of verification before a company can make a legal claim to any profit. The general concept is to factor in the worst-case scenario of a firm’s financial future. Uncertain liabilities are to be recognized as soon as they are discovered. In contrast, revenues can only be recorded when they are assured of being received.





Key Takeaways

Accounting conservatism is a principle that requires company accounts to be prepared with caution and high degrees of verification.All probable losses are recorded when they are discovered, while gains can only be registered when they are fully realized.If an accountant has two solutions to choose from when facing an accounting challenge, the one that yields inferior numbers should be selected.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   How Accounting Conservatism Works  

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) insist on a number of accounting conventions being followed to ensure that companies report their financials as accurately as possible. One of these principles, conservatism, requires accountants to show caution, opting for solutions that reflect least favorably on a company’s bottom line in situations of uncertainty.



Accounting conservatism is not intended to manipulate the dollar amount or timing of reporting financial figures. It is a method of accounting that provides guidance when uncertainty and the need for estimation arise: cases where the accountant has the potential for bias.



Accounting conservatism establishes the rules when deciding between two financial reporting alternatives. If an accountant has two solutions to choose from when facing an accounting challenge, the one that yields inferior numbers should be selected.



A cautious approach presents the company in a worst-case scenario. Assets and revenue are intentionally reported at figures potentially understated. Liabilities and expenses, on the other hand, are overstated. If there is uncertainty about incurring a loss, accountants are encouraged to record it and amplify its potential impact. In contrast, if there is a possibility of a gain coming the company's way, they are advised to ignore it until it actually occurs.


  Recording Revenue  

Accounting conservatism is most stringent in relation to revenue reporting. It requires that revenues are reported in the same period as related expenses were incurred. All information in a transaction must be realizable to be recorded. If a transaction does not result in the exchange of cash or claims to an asset, no revenue may be recognized. The dollar amount must be known to be reported.


   Advantages of Accounting Conservatism  

Understating gains and overstating losses means that accounting conservatism will always report lower net income and lower financial future benefits. Painting a bleaker picture of a company’s financials actually comes with several benefits.



Most obviously, it encourages management to exercise greater care in its decisions. It also means there is more scope for positive surprises, rather than disappointing upsets, which are big drivers of share prices. Like all standardized methodologies, these rules should also make it easier for investors to compare financial results across different industries and time periods.


   Disadvantages of Accounting Conservatism  

On the flip side, GAAP rules such as accounting conservatism can often be open to interpretation. That means that some companies will always find ways to manipulate them to their advantage.



Another issue with accounting conservatism is the potential for revenue shifting. If a transaction does not meet the requirements to be reported, it must be reported in the following period. This will result in the current period being understated and future periods to be overstated, making it difficult for an organization to track business operations internally. 


   Using Accounting Conservatism  

Accounting conservatism may be applied to inventory valuation. When determining the reporting value for inventory, conservatism dictates the lower of historical cost or replacement cost is the monetary value.



Estimations such as uncollectable account receivables (AR) and casualty losses also use this principle. If a company expects to win a litigation claim, it cannot report the gain until it meets all revenue recognition principles.



However, if a litigation claim is expected to be lost, an estimated economic impact is required in the notes to the financial statements. Contingent liabilities such as royalty payments or unearned revenue are to be disclosed, too.
What Is the Accounting Cycle?  

The accounting cycle is a collective process of identifying, analyzing, and recording the accounting events of a company. It is a standard 8-step process that begins when a transaction occurs and ends with its inclusion in the financial statements and the closing of the books.



The key steps in the eight-step accounting cycle include recording journal entries, posting to the general ledger, calculating trial balances, making adjusting entries, and creating financial statements.





Key Takeaways

The accounting cycle is a process designed to make the financial accounting of business activities easier for business owners.The first step in the eight-step accounting cycle is to record transactions using journal entries.The eighth and final step is the closing of the books after preparing financial statements.The accounting cycle generally comprises a year or other accounting period.Accounting software today mostly automates the accounting cycle. 












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How the Accounting Cycle Works   

The accounting cycle is a methodical set of rules that can help ensure the accuracy and conformity of financial statements. Computerized accounting systems and the uniform process of the accounting cycle have helped to reduce mathematical errors.



Today, most software fully automates the accounting cycle, which results in less human effort and errors associated with manual processing.


  Steps of the Accounting Cycle  

There are eight steps to the accounting cycle.



Identify Transactions: An organization begins its accounting cycle with the identification of those transactions that comprise a bookkeeping event. This could be a sale, refund, payment to a vendor, and so on.
Record Transactions in a Journal: Next comes the recording of transactions using journal entries. The entries are based on the receipt of an invoice, recognition of a sale, or completion of other economic events.
Posting: Once a transaction is recorded as a journal entry, it should post to an account in the general ledger. The general ledger provides a breakdown of all accounting activities by account.
Unadjusted Trial Balance: After the company posts journal entries to individual general ledger accounts, an unadjusted trial balance is prepared. The trial balance ensures that total debits equal total credits in the financial records.
Worksheet: The fifth step is to create and analyze a worksheet of debits and credits to identify necessary adjusting entries, if there are discrepancies.
Adjusting Journal Entries: At the end of the period, adjusting entries are made. These result from corrections made on the worksheet and the passage of time. For example, an adjusting entry may involve interest revenue that has been earned over time.
Financial Statements: Upon the posting of adjusting entries, a company prepares an adjusted trial balance followed by the actual, formal financial statements.
Closing the Books: An entity finalizes temporary accounts, revenues, and expenses, at the end of the period using closing entries. These closing entries include transferring net income to retained earnings. Finally, a company prepares the post-closing trial balance to ensure debits and credits match and the cycle can begin anew.






An accounting cycle is used by most but not all businesses. Sole proprietorships, other small businesses, and entrepreneurs may not follow it.


   Timing of the Accounting Cycle  

The accounting cycle is started and completed within an accounting period, the time in which financial statements are prepared. Accounting periods vary and depend on different factors. However, the most common type of accounting period is the annual period.



During the accounting cycle, many transactions occur and are recorded. At the end of the fiscal year, financial statements are prepared (and are often required by government regulation).



For example, public entities are required to submit financial statements by certain dates. All public companies that do business in the U.S. are required to file registration statements, periodic reports, and other forms to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore, their accounting cycles are tied to reporting requirement dates.


   Accounting Cycle vs. Budget Cycle  

The accounting cycle is different from the budget cycle. The accounting cycle focuses on historical events and ensures that incurred financial transactions are reported correctly.



Alternatively, the budget cycle relates to future operating performance and planning for future transactions. The accounting cycle assists in producing information for external users, while the budget cycle is mainly used for internal management purposes.




Why Is the Accounting Cycle Important?
It's important because it can help ensure that the financial transactions that occur throughout an accounting period are accurately and properly recorded and reported. This can provide businesses with a clear understanding of their financial health and ensure compliance with federal regulations.




What Are Benefits of the Accounting Cycle?
The accounting cycle can aid a company in keeping accurate books (and not losing important financial information), analyzing financial events, preparing required financial statements, and, overall, managing a business successfully.




Who Is Responsible for Performing the Accounting Cycle?
Usually, accountants are employed to manage and conduct the accounting tasks required by the accounting cycle. If a small business or one-person shop is involved, the owner may handle the tasks, or outsource the work to an accounting firm.


   The Bottom Line  

The accounting cycle is a comprehensive accounting process that begins and ends in an accounting period. It involves eight steps that ensure the proper recording and reporting of financial transactions. Once a company's books are closed and the accounting cycle for a period ends, it begins anew with the next accounting period and financial transactions.
What Is the Accounting Equation?  

The accounting equation states that a company's total assets are equal to the sum of its liabilities and its shareholders' equity.



This straightforward relationship between assets, liabilities, and equity is considered to be the foundation of the double-entry accounting system. The accounting equation ensures that the balance sheet remains balanced. That is, each entry made on the debit side has a corresponding entry (or coverage) on the credit side.



The accounting equation is also called the basic accounting equation or the balance sheet equation.





Key Takeaways

The accounting equation is considered to be the foundation of the double-entry accounting system.The accounting equation shows on a company's balance that a company's total assets are equal to the sum of the company's liabilities and shareholders' equity.Assets represent the valuable resources controlled by the company. The liabilities represent their obligations.Both liabilities and shareholders' equity represent how the assets of a company are financed.Financing through debt shows as a liability, while financing through issuing equity shares appears in shareholders' equity.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding the Accounting Equation  

The financial position of any business, large or small, is based on two key components of the balance sheet: assets and liabilities. Owners’ equity, or shareholders' equity, is the third section of the balance sheet.



The accounting equation is a representation of how these three important components are associated with each other.



Assets represent the valuable resources controlled by the company, while liabilities represent its obligations. Both liabilities and shareholders' equity represent how the assets of a company are financed. If it's financed through debt, it'll show as a liability, but if it's financed through issuing equity shares to investors, it'll show in shareholders' equity.



The accounting equation helps to assess whether the business transactions carried out by the company are being accurately reflected in its books and accounts. Below are examples of items listed on the balance sheet.


  Assets  

Assets include cash and cash equivalents or liquid assets, which may include Treasury bills and certificates of deposit.



Accounts receivables list the amounts of money owed to the company by its customers for the sale of its products. Inventory is also considered an asset.



The major and often largest value asset of most companies be that company's machinery, buildings, and property. These are fixed assets that are usually held for many years.


  Liabilities  

Liabilities are debts that a company owes and costs that it needs to pay in order to keep the company running.



Debt is a liability, whether it is a long-term loan or a bill that is due to be paid.



Costs include rent, taxes, utilities, salaries, wages, and dividends payable.


  Shareholders' Equity  

The shareholders' equity number is a company's total assets minus its total liabilities. 



It can be defined as the total number of dollars that a company would have left if it liquidated all of its assets and paid off all of its liabilities. This would then be distributed to the shareholders.



Retained earnings are part of shareholders' equity. This number is the sum of total earnings that were not paid to shareholders as dividends.



Think of retained earnings as savings, since it represents the total profits that have been saved and put aside (or "retained") for future use.


   Accounting Equation Formula and Calculation  






Assets


=


(


Liabilities


+


Owner’s Equity


)



\text{Assets}=(\text{Liabilities}+\text{Owner's Equity})


Assets=(Liabilities+Owner’s Equity)



The balance sheet holds the elements that contribute to the accounting equation:



Locate the company's total assets on the balance sheet for the period.Total all liabilities, which should be a separate listing on the balance sheet.Locate total shareholder's equity and add the number to total liabilities.Total assets will equal the sum of liabilities and total equity.



As an example, say the leading retailer XYZ Corporation reported the following on its balance sheet for its latest full fiscal year:



Total assets: $170 billionTotal liabilities: $120 billionTotal shareholders' equity: $50 billion



If we calculate the right-hand side of the accounting equation (equity + liabilities), we arrive at ($50 billion + $120 billion) = $170 billion, which matches the value of the assets reported by the company.


   About the Double-Entry System  

The accounting equation is a concise expression of the complex, expanded, and multi-item display of a balance sheet. 



Essentially, the representation equates all uses of capital (assets) to all sources of capital, where debt capital leads to liabilities and equity capital leads to shareholders' equity.



For a company keeping accurate accounts, every business transaction will be represented in at least two of its accounts. For instance, if a business takes a loan from a bank, the borrowed money will be reflected in its balance sheet as both an increase in the company's assets and an increase in its loan liability.



If a business buys raw materials and pays in cash, it will result in an increase in the company's inventory (an asset) while reducing cash capital (another asset). Because there are two or more accounts affected by every transaction carried out by a company, the accounting system is referred to as double-entry accounting.



The double-entry practice ensures that the accounting equation always remains balanced, meaning that the left side value of the equation will always match the right side value.



In other words, the total amount of all assets will always equal the sum of liabilities and shareholders' equity.



The global adherence to the double-entry accounting system makes the account keeping and tallying processes more standardized and more fool-proof.



The accounting equation ensures that all entries in the books and records are vetted, and a verifiable relationship exists between each liability (or expense) and its corresponding source; or between each item of income (or asset) and its source.


   Limits of the Accounting Equation  

Although the balance sheet always balances out, the accounting equation can't tell investors how well a company is performing. Investors must interpret the numbers and decide for themselves whether the company has too many or too few liabilities, not enough assets, or perhaps too many assets, or whether its financing is sufficient to ensure its long-term growth.


   Real-World Example  

Below is a portion of Exxon Mobil Corporation's (XOM) balance sheet in millions as of Dec. 31, 2019:



Total assets were $362,597Total liabilities were $163,659Total equity was $198,938



The accounting equation is calculated as follows:



Accounting equation = $163,659 (total liabilities) + $198,938 (equity) equals $362,597, (which equals the total assets for the period)












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




Why Is the Accounting Equation Important?
The accounting equation captures the relationship between the three components of a balance sheet: assets, liabilities, and equity. All else being equal, a company’s equity will increase when its assets increase, and vice-versa. Adding liabilities will decrease equity while reducing liabilities—such as by paying off debt—will increase equity. These basic concepts are essential to modern accounting methods.




What Are the 3 Elements of the Accounting Equation?
The three elements of the accounting equation are assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity. The formula is straightforward: A company's total assets are equal to its liabilities plus its shareholders' equity. The double-entry bookkeeping system, which has been adopted globally, is designed to accurately reflect a company's total assets.




What Is an Asset in the Accounting Equation?
An asset is anything with economic value that a company controls that can be used to benefit the business now or in the future. They include fixed assets such as machinery and buildings. They may include financial assets, such as investments in stocks and bonds. They also may be intangible assets like patents, trademarks, and goodwill.




What Is a Liability in the Accounting Equation?
A company's liabilities include every debt it has incurred. These may include loans, accounts payable, mortgages, deferred revenues, bond issues, warranties, and accrued expenses.




What Is Shareholders' Equity in the Accounting Equation?
Shareholders' equity is the total value of the company expressed in dollars. Put another way, it is the amount that would remain if the company liquidated all of its assets and paid off all of its debts. The remainder is the shareholders' equity, which would be returned to them.
What is an Accounting Information System (AIS)?  

An accounting information system (AIS) involves the collection, storage, and processing of financial and accounting data used by internal users to report information to investors, creditors, and tax authorities. It is generally a computer-based method for tracking accounting activity in conjunction with information technology resources. An AIS combines traditional accounting practices, such as the use of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), with modern information technology resources.


   How an Accounting Information Systems (AIS) is Used  

An accounting information system contains various elements important in the accounting cycle. Although the information contained in a system varies among industries and business sizes, a typical AIS includes data relating to revenue, expenses, customer information, employee information, and tax information. Specific data includes sales orders and analysis reports, purchase requisitions, invoices, check registers, inventory, payroll, ledger, trial balance, and financial statement information.



An accounting information system must have a database structure to store information. This database structure is typically programmed with query language that allows for table and data manipulation. An AIS has numerous fields to input data as well as to edit previously stored data. In addition, accounting information systems are often highly secured platforms with preventative measures taken against viruses, hackers, and other external sources attempting to collect information. Cybersecurity is increasingly important as more and more companies store their data electronically.



The various outputs of an accounting information system exemplify the versatility of its data manipulation capabilities. An AIS produces reports including accounts receivable aging reports based on customer information, depreciation schedules for fixed assets, and trial balances for financial reporting. Customer lists, taxation calculations, and inventory levels may also be reproduced. However, correspondences, memos, or presentations are not included in the AIS because these items are not directly related to a company’s financial reporting or bookkeeping.


   Benefits of Accounting Information Systems  
  Interdepartmental Interfacing  

An accounting information system strives to interface across multiple departments. Within the system, the sales department can upload the sales budget. This information is used by the inventory management team to conduct inventory counts and purchase materials. Upon the purchase of inventory, the system can notify the accounts payable department of the new invoice. An AIS can also share information about a new order so that the manufacturing, shipping, and customer service departments are aware of the sale.


  Internal Controls  

An integral part of accounting information systems relates to internal controls. Policies and procedures can be placed within the system to ensure that sensitive customer, vendor, and business information is maintained within a company. Through the use of physical access approvals, login requirements, access logs, authorizations, and segregation of duties, users can be limited to only the relevant information necessary to perform their business function.
What Is an Accounting Method?  

An accounting method refers to the rules a company follows in reporting revenues and expenses. The two primary methods of accounting are accrual accounting (generally used by companies) and cash accounting (generally used by individuals).



Cash accounting reports revenues and expenses as they are received and paid through cash inflows and outflows; accrual accounting reports them as they are earned and incurred through sales and purchases on credit and by using accounts receivable & accounts payable. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires accrual accounting.





Key Takeaways

An accounting method consists of the rules and procedures a company follows in reporting its revenues and expenses.The two main accounting methods are cash accounting and accrual accounting.Cash accounting records revenues and expenses when they are received and paid.Accrual accounting records revenues and expenses when they occur. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires accrual accounting.The Internal Revenue Services (IRS) requires accrual accounting for businesses making an average of $25 million or more in sales for the preceding three years.Once a company chooses an accounting method, it has to stick to that method per rules set by the IRS and requires approval if it wants to change its accounting method.


   Understanding an Accounting Method  

All businesses need to keep accounting records. Public companies are required to do so. Accounting allows a business to monitor every aspect of its finances, from revenues to costs to taxes and more. Without accurate accounting, a business would not know where it stood financially, most likely resulting in its demise.



Accounting is also needed to pay accurate taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If the IRS ever conducts an audit on a company, it looks at a company's accounting records and methods. Furthermore, the IRS requires taxpayers to choose an accounting method that accurately reflects their income and to be consistent in their choice of accounting method from year to year.



This is because switching between methods would potentially allow a company to manipulate revenue to minimize their tax burdens. As such, IRS approval is required to change methods. Companies may use a hybrid of the two methods, which is allowable under IRS rules if specified requirements are met.


   Types of Accounting Methods  
  Cash Accounting  

Cash accounting is an accounting method that is relatively simple and is commonly used by small businesses. In cash accounting, transactions are only recorded when cash is spent or received.



In cash accounting, a sale is recorded when the payment is received and an expense is recorded only when a bill is paid. The cash accounting method is, of course, the method most people use in managing their personal finances and it is appropriate for businesses up to a certain size.



If a business generates more than $25 million in average annual gross receipts for the preceding three years, however, it must use the accrual method, according to Internal Revenue Service rules.﻿﻿


  Accrual Accounting  

Accrual accounting is based on the matching principle, which is intended to match the timing of revenue and expense recognition. By matching revenues with expenses, the accrual method gives a more accurate picture of a company's true financial condition.



Under the accrual method, transactions are recorded when they are incurred rather than awaiting payment. This means a purchase order is recorded as revenue even though the funds are not received immediately. The same goes for expenses in that they are recorded even though no payment has been made.


   Example of an Accounting Method  

The value of accrual accounting becomes more evident for large, complex businesses. A construction company, for example, may undertake a long-term project and may not receive complete cash payments until the project is complete.



Under cash accounting rules, the company would incur many expenses but would not recognize revenue until cash was received from the customer. So, the accounting book of the company would look weak until the revenue actually came in. If this company was looking for debt financing from a bank, for example, the cash accounting method makes it look like a poor bet because it is incurring expenses but no revenue.



Under accrual accounting, the construction company would recognize a percentage of revenue and expenses corresponding to the portion of the project that was complete. This is known as the percentage of completion method. How much actual cash coming into the company, however, would be evident in the cash flow statement. This method would show a prospective lender a much more complete and accurate picture of the company's revenue pipeline.
What Are Accounting Policies?  

Accounting policies are the specific procedures implemented by a company's management team that are used to prepare its financial statements. These include any accounting methods, measurement systems, and procedures for presenting disclosures. Accounting policies differ from accounting principles in that the principles are the accounting rules, and the policies are a company's way of adhering to those rules.





Key Takeaways

Accounting policies are procedures that a company uses to prepare financial statements. Unlike accounting principles, which are rules, accounting policies are the standards for following those rules. Accounting policies may be used to manipulate earnings legally.A company's choice in accounting policies will indicate whether management is aggressive or conservative in reporting its earnings.Accounting policies still need to adhere to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).


   How Accounting Policies Are Used  

Accounting policies are a set of standards that govern how a company prepares its financial statements. These policies are used to deal specifically with complicated accounting practices such as depreciation methods, recognition of goodwill, preparation of research and development (R&D) costs, inventory valuation, and the consolidation of financial accounts. These policies may differ from company to company, but all accounting policies are required to conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and/or international financial reporting standards (IFRS).



Accounting principles can be thought of as a framework in which a company is expected to operate. However, the framework is somewhat flexible, and a company's management team can choose specific accounting policies that are advantageous to the financial reporting of the company. Because accounting principles are lenient at times, the specific policies of a company are very important.



Looking into a company's accounting policies can signal whether management is conservative or aggressive when reporting earnings. This should be taken into account by investors when reviewing earnings reports to assess the quality of earnings. Also, external auditors who are hired to review a company's financial statements should review the company's policies to ensure they conform to GAAP.





Important

Company management can select accounting policies that are advantageous to their own financial reporting, such as selecting a particular inventory valuation method.


   Example of an Accounting Policy  

Accounting policies can be used to legally manipulate earnings. For example, companies are allowed to value inventory using the average cost, first in first out (FIFO), or last in first out (LIFO) methods of accounting. Under the average cost method, when a company sells a product, the weighted average cost of all inventory produced or acquired in the accounting period is used to determine the cost of goods sold (COGS). Under the FIFO inventory cost method, when a company sells a product, the cost of the inventory produced or acquired first is considered to be sold. Under the LIFO method, when a product is sold, the cost of the inventory produced last is considered to be sold.



In periods of rising inventory prices, a company can use these accounting policies to increase or decrease its earnings. For example, a company in the manufacturing industry buys inventory at $10 per unit for the first half of the month and $12 per unit for the second half of the month. The company ends up purchasing a total of 10 units at $10 and 10 units at $12 and sells a total of 15 units for the entire month. 



If the company uses FIFO, its cost of goods sold is: (10 x $10) + (5 x $12) = $160. If it uses average cost, its cost of goods sold is: (15 x $11) = $165. If it uses LIFO, its cost of goods sold is: (10 x $12) + (5 x $10) = $170. It is therefore advantageous to use the FIFO method in periods of rising prices in order to minimize the cost of goods sold and increase earnings.




What Is the Difference Between Accounting Policies and Principles?
While an accounting principle is the standardized rule set forth by a governing body, an accounting policy is the method or guideline used by management to adhere to the rule and generate financial statements.In the United States, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are the accounting standards accepted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certain accounting principles allow for management discretion, and that is where accounting policies come into play.




What Are Some Examples of Accounting Policies?
Accounting policies appear in a business when accounting principles allow leeway in how the rules are applied to a situation. Situations that involve management discretion include:Valuation of inventoryValuation of investmentsValuation of fixed assetsDepreciation methodsCosts of R&DTranslation of foreign currency




What Is the Difference Between Conservative and Aggressive Accounting?
Conservative accounting uses accounting policies that tend to understate revenue and/or overstate expenses. On the other hand, aggressive accounting uses policies that tend to overstate revenue and/or understate expenses.A company using conservative accounting policies will have lower earnings in the current year, while a company using aggressive accounting policies will show better financial performance in the current year. Conservative accounting policies will tend toward better financial performance in the long run, while aggressive accounting policies tend to lead to a decline in financial performance over the long run.


   The Bottom Line  

Accounting policies are different from accounting principles, which are the accounting rules to which all accounting policies must conform. A company's management team can choose specific accounting policies that are advantageous to the firm's financial reporting. The team might use either conservative or aggressive accounting policies, which will determine how a company's financial performance appears in a given year.
What Are Accounting Principles?  

Accounting principles are the rules and guidelines that companies and other bodies must follow when reporting financial data. These rules make it easier to examine financial data by standardizing the terms and methods that accountants must use.



The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is the most widely used set of accounting principles, with adoption in 167 jurisdictions. The United States uses a separate set of accounting principles, known as generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).





Key Takeaways

Accounting standards are implemented to improve the quality of financial information reported by companies.In the United States, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).GAAP is required for all publicly traded companies in the U.S.; it is also routinely implemented by non-publicly traded companies as well.Internationally, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issues International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).The FASB and the IASB sometimes work together to issue joint standards on hot-topic issues, but there is no intention for the U.S. to switch to IFRS in the foreseeable future.












Ryan Oakley / Investopedia


   The Purpose of Accounting Principles  

The ultimate goal of any set of accounting principles is to ensure that a company’s financial statements are complete, consistent, and comparable.



This makes it easier for investors to analyze and extract useful information from the company’s financial statements, including trend data over a period of time. It also facilitates the comparison of financial information across different companies. Accounting principles also help mitigate accounting fraud by increasing transparency and allowing red flags to be identified.






The ultimate goal of standardized accounting principles is to allow financial statement users to view a company’s financials with certainty that the information disclosed in the report is complete, consistent, and comparable.


  Comparability  

Comparability is the ability for financial statement users to review multiple companies’ financials side by side with the guarantee that accounting principles have been followed to the same set of standards.



Accounting information is not absolute or concrete, and standards are developed to minimize the negative effects of inconsistent data. Without these rules, comparing financial statements among companies would be extremely difficult, even within the same industry. Inconsistencies and errors also would be harder to spot.


   What Are the Basic Accounting Principles?  

Some of the most fundamental accounting principles include the following:



Accrual principleConservatism principleConsistency principleCost principleEconomic entity principleFull disclosure principleGoing concern principleMatching principleMateriality principleMonetary unit principleReliability principleRevenue recognition principleTime period principle



The most notable principles include the revenue recognition principle, matching principle, materiality principle, and consistency principle. Completeness is ensured by the materiality principle, as all material transactions should be accounted for in the financial statements. Consistency refers to a company’s use of accounting principles over time.






When accounting principles allow a choice among multiple methods, a company should apply the same accounting method over time or disclose its change in accounting method in the footnotes to the financial statements.


   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are uniform accounting principles for private companies and nonprofits in the U.S. These principles are largely set by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), an independent nonprofit organization whose members are chosen by the Financial Accounting Foundation.



A similar organization, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), is responsible for setting the GAAP standards for local and state governments. And a third body, the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), publishes the accounting principles for federal agencies.



Although privately held companies are not required to abide by GAAP, publicly traded companies must file GAAP-compliant financial statements to be listed on a stock exchange. Chief officers of publicly traded companies and their independent auditors must certify that the financial statements and related notes were prepared in accordance with GAAP.



Privately held companies and nonprofit organizations also may be required by lenders or investors to file GAAP-compliant financial statements. For example, annual audited GAAP financial statements are a common loan covenant required by most banking institutions. Therefore, most companies and organizations in the U.S. comply with GAAP, even though it is not a legal requirement.






Accounting principles differ around the world, meaning that it’s not always easy to compare the financial statements of companies from different countries.


   International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issues International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These standards are used in more than 120 countries, including those in the European Union (EU).



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the U.S. government agency responsible for protecting investors and maintaining order in the securities markets, has expressed interest in transitioning to IFRS. However, because of the differences between the two standards, the U.S. is unlikely to switch in the foreseeable future.



However, the FASB and the IASB continue to work together to issue similar regulations on certain topics as accounting issues arise. For example, in 2014, the FASB and the IASB jointly announced new revenue recognition standards.



Since accounting principles differ around the world, investors should take caution when comparing the financial statements of companies from different countries. The issue of differing accounting principles is less of a concern in more mature markets. Still, caution should be used, as there is still leeway for number distortion under many sets of accounting principles.




Who sets accounting principles and standards?
Various bodies are responsible for setting accounting standards. In the United States, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are regulated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). In Europe and elsewhere, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are established by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).




How does IFRS differ from GAAP?
IFRS is a standards-based approach that is used internationally, while GAAP is a rules-based system used primarily in the U.S. IFRS is seen as a more dynamic platform that is regularly being revised in response to an ever-changing financial environment, while GAAP is more static.Several methodological differences exist between the two systems. For instance, GAAP allows companies to use either first in, first out (FIFO) or last in, first out (LIFO) as an inventory cost method. LIFO, however, is banned under IFRS.




When were accounting principles first set forth?
Standardized accounting principles date all the way back to the advent of double-entry bookkeeping in the 15th and 16th centuries, which introduced a T-ledger with matched entries for assets and liabilities. Some scholars have argued that the advent of double-entry accounting practices during that time provided a springboard for the rise of commerce and capitalism. What would become the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) attempted to launch the first accounting standards to be used by firms in the United States in the 1930s.




What are some critiques of accounting principles?
Critics of principles-based accounting systems say they can give companies far too much freedom and do not prescribe transparency. They believe because companies do not have to follow specific rules that have been set out, their reporting may provide an inaccurate picture of their financial health. In the case of rules-based methods like GAAP, complex rules can cause unnecessary complications in the preparation of financial statements. These critics claim having strict rules means that companies must spend an unfair amount of their resources to comply with industry standards.


   The Bottom Line  

Accounting principles are rules and guidelines that companies must abide by when reporting financial data. Whether it’s GAAP in the U.S. or IFRS elsewhere, the overarching goal of these principles is to boost transparency and basically make it easier for investors to compare the financial statements of different companies.



Without these rules and standards, publicly traded companies would likely present their financial information in a way that inflates their numbers and makes their trading performance look better than it actually was. If companies were able to pick and choose what information to disclose and how, it would be a nightmare for investors.
What Is Accounting Profit?  

Accounting profit is a company's total earnings, calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). It includes the explicit costs of doing business, such as operating expenses, depreciation, interest, and taxes.





Key Takeaways

Accounting profit shows the amount of money left over after deducting the explicit costs of running the business.Explicit costs include labor, inventory needed for production, and raw materials, together with transportation, production, and sales and marketing costs.Accounting profit differs from economic profit as it only represents the monetary expenses a firm pays and the monetary revenue it receives.Accounting profit also differs from underlying profit, which seeks to eliminate the impact of nonrecurring items.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Accounting Profit Works  

Profit is a widely monitored financial metric that is regularly used to evaluate the health of a company. 



Firms often publish various versions of profit in their financial statements. Some of these figures take into account all revenue and expense items, laid out in the income statement. Others are creative interpretations put together by management and their accountants.



Accounting profit, also referred to as bookkeeping profit or financial profit, is net income earned after subtracting all dollar costs from total revenue. In effect, it shows the amount of money a firm has left over after deducting the explicit costs of running the business.



The costs that need to be considered include the following:



Labor, such as wagesInventory needed for productionRaw materialsTransportation costsSales and marketing costsProduction costs and overhead


   Accounting Profit vs. Economic Profit  

Like accounting profit, economic profit deducts explicit costs from revenue. Where they differ is that economic profit also uses implicit costs; the various opportunity costs a company incurs when allocating resources elsewhere.



Examples of implicit costs include:



Company-owned buildingsPlant and equipmentSelf-employment resources



For example, if a person invested $100,000 to start a business and earned $120,000 in profit, their accounting profit would be $20,000. Economic profit, however, would add implicit costs, such as the opportunity cost of $50,000, which represents the salary they would have earned if they kept their day job. As such, the business owner would have an economic loss of $30,000 ($120,000 - $100,000 - $50,000).



Economic profit is more of a theoretical calculation based on alternative actions that could have been taken, while accounting profit calculates what actually occurred and the measurable results for the period. Accounting profit has many uses, including for tax declarations. Economic profit, on the other hand, is mainly just calculated to help management make a decision.


   Accounting Profit vs. Underlying Profit  

Companies often choose to supplement accounting profit with their own subjective take on their profit position. One such example is underlying profit. This popular, widely-used metric often excludes one-time charges or infrequent occurrences and is regularly flagged by management as a key number for investors to pay attention to.



The goal of underlying profit is to eliminate the impact that random events, such as a natural disaster, have on earnings. Losses or gains that do not regularly crop up, such as restructuring charges or the buying or selling of land or property, are usually not taken into account because they do not occur often and, as a result, are not deemed to reflect the everyday costs of running the business.


   Example of Accounting Profit  

Company A operates in the manufacturing industry and sells widgets for $5. In January, it sold 2,000 widgets for a total monthly revenue of $10,000. This is the first number entered into its income statement.



The cost of goods sold (COGS) is then subtracted from revenue to arrive at gross revenue. If it costs $1 to produce a widget, the company's COGS would be $2,000, and its gross revenue would be $8,000, or ($10,000 - $2,000).



After calculating the company's gross revenue, all operating costs are subtracted to arrive at the company's operating profit, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). If the company's only overhead was a monthly employee expense of $5,000, its operating profit would be $3,000, or ($8,000 - $5,000).



Once a company derives its operating profit, it then assesses all non-operating expenses, such as interest, depreciation, amortization, and taxes. In this example, the company has no debt but has depreciating assets at a straight line depreciation of $1,000 a month. It also has a corporate tax rate of 35%.



The depreciation amount is first subtracted to arrive at the company's earnings before taxes (EBT) of $1,000, or ($2,000 - $1,000). Corporate taxes are then assessed at $350, to give the company an accounting profit of $650, calculated as ($1,000 - ($1,000 * 0.35).
What Is the Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)?  

The accounting rate of return (ARR) is a formula that reflects the percentage rate of return expected on an investment or asset, compared to the initial investment's cost. The ARR formula divides an asset's average revenue by the company's initial investment to derive the ratio or return that one may expect over the lifetime of an asset or project. ARR does not consider the time value of money or cash flows, which can be an integral part of maintaining a business.





Key Takeaways

The accounting rate of return (ARR) formula is helpful in determining the annual percentage rate of return of a project.ARR is calculated as average annual profit / initial investment.ARR is commonly used when considering multiple projects, as it provides the expected rate of return from each project.One of the limitations of ARR is that it does not differentiate between investments that yield different cash flows over the lifetime of the project.ARR is different than the required rate of return (RRR), which is the minimum return an investor would accept for an investment or project that compensates them for a given level of risk.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding the Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)  

The accounting rate of return is a capital budgeting metric that's useful if you want to calculate an investment's profitability quickly. Businesses use ARR primarily to compare multiple projects to determine the expected rate of return of each project, or to help decide on an investment or an acquisition.



ARR factors in any possible annual expenses, including depreciation, associated with the project. Depreciation is a helpful accounting convention whereby the cost of a fixed asset is spread out, or expensed, annually during the useful life of the asset. This lets the company earn a profit from the asset right away, even in its first year of service.


   The Formula for ARR  

The formula for the accounting rate of return is as follows:








A


R


R


=




A


v


e


r


a


g


e


A


n


n


u


a


l


P


r


o


f


i


t




I


n


i


t


i


a


l


I


n


v


e


s


t


m


e


n


t





ARR = \frac{Average\, Annual\, Profit}{Initial\, Investment}


ARR=InitialInvestmentAverageAnnualProfit​


   How to Calculate the Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)  

Calculate the annual net profit from the investment, which could include revenue minus any annual costs or expenses of implementing the project or investment.
If the investment is a fixed asset such as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E), subtract any depreciation expense from the annual revenue to achieve the annual net profit.
Divide the annual net profit by the initial cost of the asset or investment. The result of the calculation will yield a decimal. Multiply the result by 100 to show the percentage return as a whole number.


   Example of the Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)  

As an example, a business is considering a project that has an initial investment of $250,000 and forecasts that it would generate revenue for the next five years. Here's how the company could calculate the ARR:



Initial investment: $250,000Expected revenue per year: $70,000Time frame: 5 yearsARR calculation: $70,000 (annual revenue) / $250,000 (initial cost)ARR = 0.28 or 28% 


   Accounting Rate of Return vs. Required Rate of Return  

The ARR is the annual percentage return from an investment based on its initial outlay of cash. Another accounting tool, the required rate of return (RRR), also known as the hurdle rate, is the minimum return an investor would accept for an investment or project that compensates them for a given level of risk.






The required rate of return (RRR) can be calculated by using either the dividend discount model or the capital asset pricing model.



The RRR can vary between investors as they each have a different tolerance for risk. For example, a risk-averse investor likely would require a higher rate of return to compensate for any risk from the investment. It's important to utilize multiple financial metrics including ARR and RRR to determine if an investment would be worthwhile based on your level of risk tolerance.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Accounting Rate of Return (ARR)  
  Advantages  

The accounting rate of return is a simple calculation that does not require complex math and is helpful in determining a project's annual percentage rate of return. Through this, it allows managers to easily compare ARR to the minimum required return. For example, if the minimum required return of a project is 12% and ARR is 9%, a manager will know not to proceed with the project.



ARR comes in handy when investors or managers need to quickly compare the return of a project without needing to consider the time frame or payment schedule but rather just the profitability or lack thereof.


  Disadvantages  

Despite its advantages, ARR has its limitations. It doesn't consider the time value of money. The time value of money is the concept that money available at the present time is worth more than an identical sum in the future because of its potential earning capacity.



In other words, two investments might yield uneven annual revenue streams. If one project returns more revenue in the early years and the other project returns revenue in the later years, ARR does not assign a higher value to the project that returns profits sooner, which could be reinvested to earn more money.






The time value of money is the main concept of the discounted cash flow model, which better determines the value of an investment as it seeks to determine the present value of future cash flows.



The accounting rate of return does not consider the increased risk of long-term projects and the increased uncertainty associated with long periods.



Also, ARR does not take into account the impact of cash flow timing. Let's say an investor is considering a five-year investment with an initial cash outlay of $50,000, but the investment doesn't yield any revenue until the fourth and fifth years.



In this case, the ARR calculation would not factor in the lack of cash flow in the first three years, while in reality, the investor would need to be able to withstand the first three years without any positive cash flow from the project.





Pros

Determines a project's annual rate of return
Simple comparison to minimum rate of return
Ease of use/Simple Calculation
Provides clear profitability



Cons

Does not consider the time value of money
Does not factor in long-term risk
Does not account for cash flow timing







How Does Depreciation Affect the Accounting Rate of Return?
Depreciation will reduce the accounting rate of return. Depreciation is a direct cost and reduces the value of an asset or profit of a company. As such, it will reduce the return of an investment or project like any other cost.




What Are the Decision Rules for Accounting Rate of Return?
When a company is presented with the option of multiple projects to invest in, the decision rule states that a company should accept the project with the highest accounting rate of return as long as the return is at least equal to the cost of capital.




What Is the Difference Between ARR and IRR?
The main difference between ARR and IRR is that IRR is a discounted cash flow formula while ARR is a non-discounted cash flow formula. A non-discounted cash flow formula does not take into consideration the present value of future cash flows that will be generated by an asset or project. In this regard, ARR does not include the time value of money whereby the value of a dollar is worth more today than tomorrow because it can be invested.


   The Bottom Line  

The accounting rate of return (ARR) is a simple formula that allows investors and managers to determine the profitability of an asset or project. Because of its ease of use and determination of profitability, it is a handy tool in making decisions. However, the formula does not take into consideration the cash flows of an investment or project, the overall timeline of return, and other costs, which help determine the true value of an investment or project.
What Is an Accounting Ratio?  

Accounting ratios, an important sub-set of financial ratios, are a group of metrics used to measure the efficiency and profitability of a company based on its financial reports. They provide a way of expressing the relationship between one accounting data point to another and are the basis of ratio analysis.





Key Takeaways

Accounting ratios, an important sub-set of financial ratios, are a group of metrics used to measure the efficiency and profitability of a company based on its financial reports.An accounting ratio compares two line items in a company’s financial statements, namely made up of its income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement.These ratios can be used to evaluate a company’s fundamentals and provide information about the performance of the company over the last quarter or fiscal year.Common accounting ratios include the debt-to-equity ratio, the quick ratio, the dividend payout ratio, gross margin, and operating margin.Accounting ratios are used by both the company itself to make improvements or monitor progress as well as by investors to determine the best investment option.


   Understanding an Accounting Ratio  

An accounting ratio compares two line items in a company’s financial statements, namely made up of its income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement. These ratios can be used to evaluate a company’s fundamentals and provide information about the performance of the company over the last quarter or fiscal year.



Analyzing accounting ratios is an important step in determining the financial health of a company. It can often point out areas that are bringing the profitability of a company down and therefore need improvement. The efficacy of new management plans, new products, and changes in operational procedures, can all be determined by analyzing accounting ratios.



Accounting ratios also work as an important tool in company comparison within an industry, for both the company itself and investors. A company can see how it stacks up against its peers and investors can use accounting ratios to determine which company is the better option.



A thorough accounting analysis can be a complex task, but calculating accounting ratios is a simple process of dividing two line items found on a financial statement, that provide a quick form of clear analysis to a business owner or investor.


   Types of Accounting Ratios  
  Gross Margin and Operating Margin  

The income statement contains information about company sales, expenses, and net income. It also provides an overview of earnings and the number of shares outstanding used to calculate earnings per share (EPS). These are some of the most popular data points analysts use to assess a company’s profitability.



Gross profit as a percent of sales is referred to as gross margin. It is calculated by dividing gross profit by sales. For example, if gross profit is $80,000 and sales are $100,000, the gross profit margin is 80%. The higher the gross profit margin, the better, as it indicates that a company is keeping a higher proportion of revenues as profit rather than expenses.



Operating profit as a percentage of sales is referred to as operating margin. It is calculated by dividing operating profit by sales. For example, if the operating profit is $60,000 and sales are $100,000, the operating profit margin is 60%.


  Debt-To-Equity Ratio  

The balance sheet provides accountants with a snapshot of a company’s capital structure, one of the most important measures of which is the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio. It is calculated by dividing debt by equity. For example, if a company has debt equal to $100,000 and equity equal to $50,000, the debt-to-equity ratio is 2 to 1. The debt-to-equity ratio shows how much a business is leveraged; how much debt it is using to finance operations as opposed to its own internal funds.


  The Quick Ratio  

The quick ratio, also known as the acid-test ratio, is an indicator of a company’s short-term liquidity and measures a company’s ability to meet its short-term obligations with its most liquid assets. Because we're only concerned with the most liquid assets, the ratio excludes inventories from current assets.


  Dividend Payout Ratio  

The cash flow statement provides data for ratios dealing with cash. For example, the dividend payout ratio is the percentage of net income paid out to investors through dividends. Both dividends and share repurchases are considered outlays of cash and can be found on the cash flow statement.



For example, if dividends are $100,000 and income is $400,000, the dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing $100,000 by $400,000, which is 25%. The higher the dividend payout ratio the higher percentage of income a company pays out as dividends as opposed to reinvesting back into the company.



The examples above are just a few of the many accounting ratios that corporations and analysts utilize to evaluate a company. There are many more that highlight different aspects of a company.
What Is an Accounting Standard?  

An accounting standard is a common set of principles, standards, and procedures that define the basis of financial accounting policies and practices.





Key Takeaways

An accounting standard is a set of practices and policies used to systematize bookkeeping and other accounting functions across firms and over time.Accounting standards apply to the full breadth of an entity’s financial picture, including assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and shareholders' equity.Banks, investors, and regulatory agencies count on accounting standards to ensure information about a given entity is relevant and accurate.







GAAP


   Understanding Accounting Standards  

Accounting standards improve the transparency of financial reporting in all countries. In the United States, the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) form the set of accounting standards widely accepted for preparing financial statements. International companies follow the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are set by the International Accounting Standards Board and serve as the guideline for non-U.S. GAAP companies reporting financial statements.



The generally accepted accounting principles are heavily used among public and private entities in the United States. The rest of the world primarily uses IFRS. Multinational entities are required to use these standards. The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) establishes and interprets the international communities' accounting standards when preparing financial statements.



Accounting standards relate to all aspects of an entity’s finances, including assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and shareholders' equity. Specific examples of accounting standards include revenue recognition, asset classification, allowable methods for depreciation, what is considered depreciable, lease classifications, and outstanding share measurement.



The American Institute of Accountants, which is now known as the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the New York Stock Exchange attempted to launch the first accounting standards in the 1930s. Following this attempt came the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which created the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accounting standards have also been established by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board for accounting principles for all state and local governments.



Accounting standards specify when and how economic events are to be recognized, measured, and displayed. External entities, such as banks, investors, and regulatory agencies, rely on accounting standards to ensure relevant and accurate information is provided about the entity. These technical pronouncements have ensured transparency in reporting and set the boundaries for financial reporting measures.


   U.S. GAAP Accounting Standards  

The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants developed, managed, and enacted the first set of accounting standards. In 1973, these responsibilities were given to the newly created Financial Accounting Standards Board. The Securities and Exchange Commission requires all listed companies to adhere to U.S. GAAP accounting standards in the preparation of their financial statements to be listed on a U.S. securities exchange.



Accounting standards ensure the financial statements from multiple companies are comparable. Because all entities follow the same rules, accounting standards make the financial statements credible and allow for more economic decisions based on accurate and consistent information.


   Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)  

An independent nonprofit organization, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has the authority to establish and interpret generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States for public and private companies and nonprofit organizations. GAAP refers to a set of standards for how companies, nonprofits, and governments should and present their financial statements.




Why Are Accounting Standards Useful?
Accounting standards improve the transparency of financial reporting in all countries. They specify when and how economic events are to be recognized, measured, and displayed. External entities, such as banks, investors, and regulatory agencies, rely on accounting standards to ensure relevant and accurate information is provided about the entity. These technical pronouncements have ensured transparency in reporting and set the boundaries for financial reporting measures.




What Are Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)?
In the United States, the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) form the set of accounting standards widely accepted for preparing financial statements. Its aim is to improve the clarity, consistency, and comparability of the communication of financial information. Basically, it is a common set of accounting principles, standards, and procedures issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Public companies in the United States must follow GAAP when their accountants compile their financial statements.




What Are International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)?
International companies follow the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are set by the International Accounting Standards Board and serve as the guideline for non-U.S. GAAP companies reporting financial statements. They were established to bring consistency to accounting standards and practices, regardless of the company or the country. IFRS is thought to be more dynamic than GAAP in that it is regularly being revised in response to an ever-changing financial environment.
What Is Accounting Theory?  

Accounting theory is a set of assumptions, frameworks, and methodologies used in the study and application of financial reporting principles. The study of accounting theory involves a review of both the historical foundations of accounting practices, as well as the way in which accounting practices are changed and added to the regulatory framework that governs financial statements and financial reporting.





Key Takeaways

Accounting theory provides a guide for effective accounting and financial reporting.Accounting theory involves the assumptions and methodologies used in financial reporting, requiring a review of accounting practices and the regulatory framework.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) which aim to improve comparability and consistency in accounting information.Accounting theory is a continuously evolving subject, and it must adapt to new ways of doing business, new technological standards, and gaps that are discovered in reporting mechanisms.


   Understanding Accounting Theory  

All theories of accounting are bound by the conceptual framework of accounting. This framework is provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), an independent entity that works to outline and establish the key objectives of financial reporting by businesses, both public and private. Further, accounting theory can be thought of as the logical reasoning that helps evaluate and guide accounting practices. Accounting theory, as regulatory standards evolve, also helps develop new accounting practices and procedures.






Accounting theory is more qualitative than quantitative, in that it is a guide for effective accounting and financial reporting.



The most important aspect of accounting theory is usefulness. In the corporate finance world, this means that all financial statements should provide important information that can be used by financial statement readers to make informed business decisions. This also means that accounting theory is intentionally flexible so that it can produce effective financial information, even when the legal environment changes.



In addition to usefulness, accounting theory states that all accounting information should be relevant, reliable, comparable, and consistent. What this essentially means is that all financial statements need to be accurate and adhere to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adherence to GAAP allows the preparation of financial statements to be both consistent to a company's past financials and comparable to the financials of other companies.



Finally, accounting theory requires that all accounting and financial professionals operate under four assumptions. The first assumption states that a business is a separate entity from its owners or creditors. The second affirms the belief that a company will continue to exist and not go bankrupt. The third assumes that all financial statements are prepared with dollar amounts and not with other numbers like units of production. Finally, all financial statements must be prepared on a monthly or annual basis.


   Special Considerations  

Accounting as a discipline has existed since the 15th century. Since then, both businesses and economies have greatly evolved. Accounting theory is a continuously evolving subject, and it must adapt to new ways of doing business, new technological standards, and gaps that are discovered in reporting mechanisms.



For example, organizations such as the International Accounting Standards Board help create and revise practical applications of accounting theory through modifications to their International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Professionals such as Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) help companies navigate new and established accounting standards.
What Are Accounts Payable (AP)?  

Accounts payable (AP), or "payables," refer to a company's short-term obligations owed to its creditors or suppliers, which have not yet been paid. Payables appear on a company's balance sheet as a current liability.



Another, less common usage of "AP," refers to the business department or division that is responsible for making payments owed by the company to suppliers and other creditors.



Accounts payable can be compared with accounts receivable.





Key Takeaways

Accounts payable (AP) are amounts due to vendors or suppliers for goods or services received that have not yet been paid for.The sum of all outstanding amounts owed to vendors is shown as the accounts payable balance on the company's balance sheet.The increase or decrease in total AP from the prior period appears on the cash flow statement.Management may choose to pay its outstanding bills as close to their due dates as possible in order to improve cash flow.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Understanding Accounts Payable (AP)  

A company's total accounts payable balance at a specific point in time will appear on its balance sheet under the current liabilities section. Accounts payable are obligations that must be paid off within a given period to avoid default. At the corporate level, AP refers to short-term payments due to suppliers. The payable is essentially a short-term IOU from one business to another business or entity. The other party would record the transaction as an increase to its accounts receivable in the same amount.



AP is an important figure in a company's balance sheet. If AP increases over a prior period, that means the company is buying more goods or services on credit, rather than paying cash. If a company's AP decreases, it means the company is paying on its prior period obligations at a faster rate than it is purchasing new items on credit. Accounts payable management is critical in managing a business's cash flow.



When using the indirect method to prepare the cash flow statement, the net increase or decrease in AP from the prior period appears in the top section, the cash flow from operating activities. Management can use AP to manipulate the company's cash flow to a certain extent. For example, if management wants to increase cash reserves for a certain period, they can extend the time the business takes to pay all outstanding accounts in AP.



However, this flexibility to pay later must be weighed against the ongoing relationships the company has with its vendors. It's always good business practice to pay bills by their due dates.


   Recording Accounts Payable  

Proper double-entry bookkeeping requires that there must always be an offsetting debit and credit for all entries made into the general ledger. To record accounts payable, the accountant credits accounts payable when the bill or invoice is received. The debit offset for this entry generally goes to an expense account for the good or service that was purchased on credit. The debit could also be to an asset account if the item purchased was a capitalizable asset. When the bill is paid, the accountant debits accounts payable to decrease the liability balance. The offsetting credit is made to the cash account, which also decreases the cash balance.



For example, imagine a business gets a $500 invoice for office supplies. When the AP department receives the invoice, it records a $500 credit in accounts payable and a $500 debit to office supply expense. The $500 debit to office supply expense flows through to the income statement at this point, so the company has recorded the purchase transaction even though cash has not been paid out. This is in line with accrual accounting, where expenses are recognized when incurred rather than when cash changes hands. The company then pays the bill, and the accountant enters a $500 credit to the cash account and a debit for $500 to accounts payable.



A company may have many open payments due to vendors at any one time. All outstanding payments due to vendors are recorded in accounts payable. As a result, if anyone looks at the balance in accounts payable, they will see the total amount the business owes all of its vendors and short-term lenders. This total amount appears on the balance sheet. For example, if the business above also received an invoice for lawn care services in the amount of $50, the total of both entries in accounts payable would equal $550 prior to the company paying off those obligations.


   Accounts Payable vs. Trade Payables  

Although some people use the phrases "accounts payable" and "trade payables" interchangeably, the phrases refer to similar but slightly different situations. Trade payables constitute the money a company owes its vendors for inventory-related goods, such as business supplies or materials that are part of the inventory. Accounts payable include all of the company's short-term obligations.



For example, if a restaurant owes money to a food or beverage company, those items are part of the inventory, and thus part of its trade payables. Meanwhile, obligations to other companies, such as the company that cleans the restaurant's staff uniforms, fall into the accounts payable category. Both of these categories fall under the broader accounts payable category, and many companies combine both under the term accounts payable.


   Accounts Payable vs. Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable (AR) and accounts payable are essentially opposites. Accounts payable is the money a company owes its vendors, while accounts receivable is the money that is owed to the company, typically by customers. When one company transacts with another on credit, one will record an entry to accounts payable on their books while the other records an entry to accounts receivable.




What Are Some Examples of Payables?
A payable is created any time money is owed by a firm for services rendered or products provided that has not yet been paid for by the firm. This can be from a purchase from a vendor on credit, or a subscription or installment payment that is due after goods or services have been received.




Where Do I Find a Company's Accounts Payable?
Accounts payable are found on a firm's balance sheet, and since they represent funds owed to others they are booked as a current liability.




How Are Payables Different From Accounts Receivable?
Receivables represent funds owed to the firm for services rendered and are booked as an asset. Accounts payable, on the other hand, represent funds that the firm owes to others. For example, payments due to suppliers or creditors. Payables are booked as liabilities.




Are Accounts Payable Business Expenses?
No. Some people mistakenly believe that accounts payable refer to the routine expenses of a company’s core operations, however, that is an incorrect interpretation of the term. Expenses are found on the firm's income statement, while payables are booked as a liability on the balance sheet.


   The Bottom Line  

Accounts payable (AP) refer to the obligations incurred by a company during its operations that remain due and must be paid in the short term. As such, AP is listed on the balance sheet as a current liability. Typical payables items include supplier invoices, legal fees, contractor payments, and so on.
What Is the Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio?  

The accounts payable turnover ratio is a short-term liquidity measure used to quantify the rate at which a company pays off its suppliers. Accounts payable turnover shows how many times a company pays off its accounts payable during a period.



Accounts payable are short-term debt that a company owes to its suppliers and creditors. The accounts payable turnover ratio shows how efficient a company is at paying its suppliers and short-term debts.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   The AP Turnover Ratio Formula  

﻿















AP Turnover


=




TSP




(


BAP + EAP


)


/


2


















where:
















AP = Accounts payable
















TSP = Total supply purchases
















BAP = Beginning accounts payable
















EAP = Ending accounts payable








\begin{aligned} &\text{AP Turnover}=\frac{\text{TSP}}{(\text{BAP + EAP})/2}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{AP = Accounts payable}\\ &\text{TSP = Total supply purchases}\\ &\text{BAP = Beginning accounts payable}\\ &\text{EAP = Ending accounts payable}\\ \end{aligned}


​AP Turnover=(BAP + EAP)/2TSP​where:AP = Accounts payableTSP = Total supply purchasesBAP = Beginning accounts payableEAP = Ending accounts payable​﻿


   Calculating the Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio  

Calculate the average accounts payable for the period by adding the accounts payable balance at the beginning of the period from the accounts payable balance at the end of the period.



Divide the result by two to arrive at the average accounts payable. Take total supplier purchases for the period and divide it by the average accounts payable for the period.





Key Takeaways

The accounts payable turnover ratio is a short-term liquidity measure used to quantify the rate at which a company pays off its suppliers. Accounts payable turnover shows how many times a company pays off its accounts payable during a period.Ideally, a company wants to generate enough revenue to pay off its accounts payable quickly, but not so quickly the company misses out on opportunities because they could use that money to invest in other endeavors.


   Decoding Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio  

The accounts payable turnover ratio shows investors how many times per period a company pays its accounts payable. In other words, the ratio measures the speed at which a company pays its suppliers. Accounts payable is listed on the balance sheet under current liabilities.  



Investors can use the accounts payable turnover ratio to determine if a company has enough cash or revenue to meet its short-term obligations. Creditors can use the ratio to measure whether to extend a line of credit to the company.


   A Decreasing AP Turnover Ratio  

A decreasing turnover ratio indicates that a company is taking longer to pay off its suppliers than in previous periods. The rate at which a company pays its debts could provide an indication of the company's financial condition. A decreasing ratio could signal that a company is in financial distress. Alternatively, a decreasing ratio could also mean the company has negotiated different payment arrangements with its suppliers.


   An Increasing Turnover Ratio  

When the turnover ratio is increasing, the company is paying off suppliers at a faster rate than in previous periods. An increasing ratio means the company has plenty of cash available to pay off its short-term debt in a timely manner. As a result, an increasing accounts payable turnover ratio could be an indication that the company managing its debts and cash flow effectively.



However, an increasing ratio over a long period could also indicate the company is not reinvesting back into its business, which could result in a lower growth rate and lower earnings for the company in the long term. Ideally, a company wants to generate enough revenue to pay off its accounts payable quickly, but not so quickly the company misses out on opportunities because they could use that money to invest in other endeavors.


   AP Turnover vs. AR Turnover Ratios  

The accounts receivable turnover ratio is an accounting measure used to quantify a company's effectiveness in collecting its receivables or money owed by clients. The ratio shows how well a company uses and manages the credit it extends to customers and how quickly that short-term debt is collected or is paid.



The accounts payable turnover ratio is used to quantify the rate at which a company pays off its suppliers. Accounts payable turnover shows how many times a company pays off its accounts payable during a period.



Accounts receivable turnover shows how quickly a company gets paid by its customers while the accounts payable turnover ratio shows how quickly the company pays its suppliers.


   Limitations of AP Turnover Ratio  

As with all financial ratios, it's best to compare the ratio for a company with companies in the same industry. Each sector could have a standard turnover ratio that might be unique to that industry.



A limitation of the ratio could be when a company has a high turnover ratio, which would be considered as a positive development by creditors and investors. If the ratio is so much higher than other companies within the same industry, it could indicate that the company is not investing in its future or using its cash properly.



In other words, a high or low ratio shouldn't be taken on face value, but instead, lead investors to investigate further as to the reason for the high or low ratio.


   Example of the Accounts Payable Turnover Ratio  

Company A purchases its materials and inventory from one supplier and for the past year had the following results:



Total supplier purchases were $100 million for the year.Accounts payable was $30 million for the start of the year while accounts payable came in at $50 million at the end of the year.The average accounts payable for the entire year is calculated as follows:($30 million + $50 million) / 2 or $40 millionThe accounts payable turnover ratio is calculated as follows:$100 million / $40 million equals 2.5 for the yearCompany A paid off their accounts payables 2.5 times during the year.



Assume that during the same year, Company B, a competitor of Company A had the following results for the year:



Total supplier purchases were $110 million for the year.Accounts payable of $15 million for the start of the year and by the end of the year had $20 million.The average accounts payable is calculated as follows:($15 million + $20 million) / 2 or $17.50 millionThe accounts payable turnover ratio is calculated as follows:$110 million / $17.50 million equals 6.29 for the yearCompany B paid off their accounts payables 6.9 times during the year. Therefore, when compared to Company A, Company B is paying off its suppliers at a faster rate.
What Are Accounts Receivable (AR)?  

Accounts receivable (AR) are the balance of money due to a firm for goods or services delivered or used but not yet paid for by customers. Accounts receivable are listed on the balance sheet as a current asset. Any amount of money owed by customers for purchases made on credit is AR.





Key Takeaways

Accounts receivable (AR) are an asset account on the balance sheet that represents money due to a company in the short term.Accounts receivable are created when a company lets a buyer purchase their goods or services on credit.Accounts payable are similar to accounts receivable, but instead of money to be received, they are money owed. The strength of a company’s AR can be analyzed with the accounts receivable turnover ratio or days sales outstanding. A turnover ratio analysis can be completed to have an expectation of when the AR will actually be received.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable refer to the outstanding invoices that a company has or the money that clients owe the company. The phrase refers to accounts that a business has the right to receive because it has delivered a product or service. Accounts receivable, or receivables, represent a line of credit extended by a company and normally have terms that require payments due within a relatively short period. It typically ranges from a few days to a fiscal or calendar year.



Companies record accounts receivable as assets on their balance sheets because there is a legal obligation for the customer to pay the debt. They are considered a liquid asset, because they can be used as collateral to secure a loan to help meet short-term obligations. Receivables are part of a company’s working capital.



Furthermore, accounts receivable are current assets, meaning that the account balance is due from the debtor in one year or less. If a company has receivables, this means that it has made a sale on credit but has yet to collect the money from the purchaser. Essentially, the company has accepted a short-term IOU from its client.






Many businesses use accounts receivable aging schedules to keep tabs on the status and well-being of AR.


   Accounts Receivable vs. Accounts Payable  

When a company owes debts to its suppliers or other parties, these are accounts payable. Accounts payable are the opposite of accounts receivable. To illustrate, imagine Company A cleans Company B’s carpets and sends a bill for the services. Company B owes them money, so it records the invoice in its accounts payable column. Company A is waiting to receive the money, so it records the bill in its accounts receivable column.


   Benefits of Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable are an important aspect of a business’s fundamental analysis. Accounts receivable are a current asset, so it measures a company’s liquidity or ability to cover short-term obligations without additional cash flows. 



Fundamental analysts often evaluate accounts receivable in the context of turnover, also known as accounts receivable turnover ratio, which measures the number of times a company has collected on its accounts receivable balance during an accounting period. Further analysis would include assessing days sales outstanding (DSO), the average number of days that it takes to collect payment after a sale has been made.


   Example of Accounts Receivable  

An example of accounts receivable includes an electric company that bills its clients after the clients received the electricity. The electric company records an account receivable for unpaid invoices as it waits for its customers to pay their bills. 



Most companies operate by allowing a portion of their sales to be on credit. Sometimes, businesses offer this credit to frequent or special customers that receive periodic invoices. The practice allows customers to avoid the hassle of physically making payments as each transaction occurs. In other cases, businesses routinely offer all of their clients the ability to pay after receiving the service.




What are examples of receivables?
A receivable is created any time money is owed to a firm for services rendered or products provided that have not yet been paid. This can be from a sale to a customer on store credit, or a subscription or installment payment that is due after goods or services have been received.




Where do I find a company’s accounts receivable?
Accounts receivable are found on a firm’s balance sheet. Because they represent funds owed to the company, they are booked as an asset. Investors need to dig into the numbers shown under accounts receivable to determine if the company follows sound practices.




What happens if customers never pay what’s due?
When it becomes clear that an account receivable won’t get paid by a customer, it has to be written off as a bad debt expense or one-time charge. Companies might also sell this outstanding debt to a third party—known as accounts receivable discounted or as AR factoring.




How are accounts receivable different from accounts payable?
Accounts receivable represent funds owed to the firm for services rendered, and they are booked as an asset. Accounts payable, on the other hand, represent funds that the firm owes to others—for example, payments due to suppliers or creditors. Payables are booked as liabilities.
What Is Accounts Receivable Aging?  

Accounts receivable aging is a periodic report that categorizes a company's accounts receivable according to the length of time an invoice has been outstanding. It is used as a gauge to determine the financial health and reliability of a company's customers.



If the accounts receivable aging shows a company's receivables are being collected much more slowly than normal, this is a warning sign that business may be slowing down or that the company is taking greater credit risk in its sales practices.





Key Takeaways

Accounts receivable aging is the process of distinguishing open accounts receivables based on the length of time an invoice has been outstanding.Accounts receivable aging is useful in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts.The aged receivables report tabulates those invoices owed by length, often in 30-day segments, for quick reference.Accounts receivable aging is used to estimate the value of receivables that the company does not expect to collect. This information is used to adjust the company's financial statements to avoid overstating its income. 












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Accounts Receivable Aging Works  

Accounts receivable aging, as a management tool, can indicate that certain customers are becoming credit risks, and may reveal whether the company should keep doing business with customers that are chronically late payers. 



Accounts receivable aging has columns that are typically broken into date ranges of 30 days each and shows the total receivables that are currently due, as well as those that are past due for each 30-day time period.


  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

Accounts receivable aging is useful in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts. When estimating the amount of bad debt to report on a company’s financial statements, the accounts receivable aging report is useful to estimate the total amount to be written off.



The primary useful feature is the aggregation of receivables based on the length of time the invoice has been past due. Accounts that are more than six months old are unlikely to be collected, except through collections or a court judgment.



Companies apply a fixed percentage of default to each date range. Invoices that have been past due for longer periods of time are given a higher percentage due to increasing default risk and decreasing collectibility. The sum of the products from each outstanding date range provides an estimate regarding the total of uncollectible receivables.






The IRS allows companies to write off aged receivables, but only if the company has given up on collecting the debt.


  Aged Receivables Report  

The aged receivables report is a table that provides details of specific receivables based on age. The specific receivables are aggregated at the bottom of the table to display the total receivables of a company, based on the number of days the invoice is past due.



The typical column headers include 30-day windows of time, and the rows represent the receivables of each customer. Here's an example of an accounts receivable aging report.














Accounts Receivable Aging




 
 Current
1-30 days 
31-60 days 
61-90 days 
Over 90 days 
Total 


Company ABC 
$200 
$400
$0
$0
$0
$600


XYZ LLC 
$0
$500
$100
$0
$0
$600


UVW Inc.
$0
$0
$1,000
$5,000
$2,500
$8,500


 Total
 $200
$900
$1,100
$5,000
$2,500
$9,700





   Benefits of Accounts Receivable Aging  

The findings from accounts receivable aging reports may be improved in various ways. First, accounts receivable are derivations of the extension of credit. If a company experiences difficulty collecting accounts, as evidenced by the accounts receivable aging report, problem customers may be required to do business on a cash-only basis. Therefore, the aging report is helpful in laying out credit and selling practices.



Accounts receivable aging reports are also required for writing off bad debts. Tracking delinquent accounts allows the business to estimate the number of accounts that they will not be able to collect. It also helps to identify potential credit risks and cash flow issues.



Companies will use the information on an accounts receivable aging report to create collection letters to send to customers with overdue balances. Accounts receivable aging reports may be mailed to customers along with the month-end statement or a collection letter that provides a detailed account of outstanding items. Therefore, an accounts receivable aging report may be utilized by internal as well as external individuals.




How Do You Calculate Accounts Receivable Aging?
Accounts receivable aging sorts the list of open accounts in order of their payment status. There are separate buckets for accounts that are current, those that are past due less than 30 days, 60 days, and so on. Based on the percentage of accounts that are more than 180 days old, a company can estimate the expected amount of unpaid accounts receivables for future write-offs.




Why Is Accounts Receivable Aging Important?
There are two main reasons for a company to track accounts receivable aging. The first is to keep track of overdue or delinquent accounts so that the company can continue to pursue old debts. These may be sold to collections, pursued in court, or simply written off. The second reason is so that the company can calculate the number of accounts for which it does not expect to receive payment. Using the allowance method, the company uses these estimates to include expected losses in its financial statement.




What Is the Typical Method for Aging Accounts?
The aging method is used to estimate the number of accounts receivable that cannot be collected. This is usually based on the aged receivables report, which divides past due accounts into 30-day buckets. Each bucket is assigned a percentage, based on the likelihood of payment. By multiplying the total receivables in each bucket by the assigned percentage, the company can estimate the expected amount of uncollectable receivables.
What Is Accounts Receivable Financing?  

Accounts receivable (AR) financing is a type of financing arrangement in which a company receives financing capital related to a portion of its accounts receivable. Accounts receivable financing agreements can be structured in multiple ways usually with the basis as either an asset sale or a loan.


   Understanding Accounts Receivable Financing  

Accounts receivable financing is an agreement that involves capital principal in relation to a company’s accounts receivables. Accounts receivable are assets equal to the outstanding balances of invoices billed to customers but not yet paid. Accounts receivables are reported on a company’s balance sheet as an asset, usually a current asset with invoice payment required within one year.



Accounts receivable are one type of liquid asset considered when identifying and calculating a company’s quick ratio which analyzes its most liquid assets:



Quick Ratio = (Cash Equivalents + Marketable Securities + Accounts Receivable Due within One Year) / Current Liabilities



As such, both internally and externally, accounts receivable are considered highly liquid assets which translate to theoretical value for lenders and financiers. Many companies may see accounts receivable as a burden since the assets are expected to be paid but require collections and can’t be converted to cash immediately. As such, the business of accounts receivable financing is rapidly evolving because of these liquidity and business issues. Moreover, external financiers have stepped in to meet this need.



The process of accounts receivable financing is often known as factoring and the companies that focus on it may be called factoring companies. The best factoring companies will usually focus substantially on the business of accounts receivable financing but factoring in general may be a product of any financier. Financiers may be willing to structure accounts receivable financing agreements in different ways with a variety of different potential provisions.​





Key Takeaways

Accounts receivable financing provides financing capital in relation to a portion of a company’s accounts receivable.Accounts receivable financing deals are usually structured as either asset sales or loans.Many accounts receivable financing companies link directly with a company’s accounts receivable records to provide fast and easy capital for accounts receivable balances.


   Structuring  

Accounts receivable financing is becoming more common with the development and integrations of new technologies that help to link business accounts receivable records to accounts receivable financing platforms. In general, accounts receivable financing may be slightly easier for a business to obtain than other types of capital financing. This can be especially true for small businesses that easily meet accounts receivable financing criteria or for large businesses that can easily integrate technology solutions.



Overall, there are a few broad types of accounts receivable financing structures.



Asset Sales



Accounts receivable financing is typically structured as an asset sale. In this type of agreement, a company sells accounts receivable to a financier. This method can be similar to selling off portions of loans often done by banks.



A business receives capital as a cash asset replacing the value of the accounts receivable on the balance sheet. A business may also need to take a write-off for any unfinanced balances which would vary depending on the principal to value ratio agreed on in the deal.



Depending on the terms, a financier may pay up to 90% of the value of outstanding invoices. This type of financing may also be done by linking accounts receivable records with an accounts receivable financier. Most factoring company platforms are compatible with popular small business bookkeeping systems such as Quickbooks. Linking through technology helps to create convenience for a business, allowing them to potentially sell individual invoices as they are booked, receiving immediate capital from a factoring platform.



With asset sales, the financier takes over the accounts receivable invoices and takes responsibility for collections. In some cases, the financier may also provide cash debits retroactively if invoices are fully collected.



Most factoring companies will not be looking to buy defaulted receivables, rather focusing on short-term receivables. Overall, buying the assets from a company transfers the default risk associated with the accounts receivables to the financing company, which factoring companies seek to minimize.



In asset sale structuring, factoring companies make money on the principal to value spread. Factoring companies also charge fees which make factoring more profitable to the financier.



BlueVine is one of the leading factoring companies in the accounts receivable financing business. They offer several financing options related to accounts receivable including asset sales. The company can connect to multiple accounting software programs including QuickBooks, Xero, and Freshbooks. For asset sales, they pay approximately 90% of a receivables value and will pay the rest minus fees once an invoice has been paid in full. 



Loans



Accounts receivable financing can also be structured as a loan agreement. Loans can be structured in various ways based on the financier. One of the biggest advantages of a loan is that accounts receivable are not sold. A company just gets an advance based on accounts receivable balances. Loans may be unsecured or secured with invoices as collateral. With an accounts receivable loan, a business must repay.



Companies like Fundbox, offer accounts receivable loans and lines of credit based on accounts receivable balances. If approved, Fundbox can advance 100% of an accounts receivable balance. A business must then repay the balance over time, usually with some interest and fees.



Accounts receivable lending companies also benefit from the advantage of system linking. Linking to a companies accounts receivable records through systems such as QuickBooks, Xero, and Freshbooks, can allow for immediate advances against individual invoices or management of line of credit limits overall.


   Underwriting  

Factoring companies take several elements into consideration when determining whether to onboard a company onto its factoring platform. Furthermore, the terms of each deal and how much is offered in relation to accounts receivable balances will vary.



Accounts receivables owed by large companies or corporations may be more valuable than invoices owed by small companies or individuals. Similarly, newer invoices are usually preferred over older invoices. Typically, the age of receivables will heavily influence the terms of a financing agreement with shorter term receivables leading to better terms and longer term or delinquent receivables potentially leading to lower financing amounts and lower principal to value ratios.


   Advantages and Disadvantages  

Accounts receivable financing allows companies to get instant access to cash without jumping through hoops or dealing with long waits associated with getting a business loan. When a company uses its accounts receivables for asset sales it does not have to worry about repayment schedules. When a company sells its accounts receivables it also does not have to worry about accounts receivable collections. When a company receives a factoring loan, it may be able to obtain 100% of the value immediately.



Although accounts receivable financing offers a number of diverse advantages, it also can carry a negative connotation. In particular, accounts receivable financing can cost more than financing through traditional lenders, especially for companies perceived to have poor credit. Businesses may lose money from the spread paid for accounts receivables in an asset sale. With a loan structure, the interest expense may be high or may be much more than discounts or default write-offs would amount to.
What Is an Accredited Asset Management Specialist (AAMS)?  

The Accredited Asset Management Specialist (AAMS) is a professional designation awarded by the College for Financial Planning to financial professionals who complete a self-study program, pass an exam, and agree to comply with a code of ethics.



Successful applicants earn the right to use the AAMS designation with their names for two years, which can improve job opportunities, professional reputation, and pay.





Key Takeaways

The Accredited Asset Management Specialist (AAMS) professional designation is recognized as an industry benchmark for asset management credentials and is endorsed by the top financial firms.To earn the AAMS, financial professionals must complete a rigorous self-study program, pass an exam, and agree to comply with a code of ethics.To maintain the designation, AAMS holders must complete 16 hours of continuing education every two years and pay a $95 renewal fee.


   Understanding the AAMS Designation  

The AAMS program began in 1994 and is taught exclusively online using the CFP's platform. The College for Financial Planning (owned by Kaplan) is a financial education provider for working adults in the financial services industry.



The AAMS program consists of 10 modules, starting with a review of the asset management process, and then covers a broad range of topics, such as investments, insurance, taxation, retirement, and estate planning issues.



To keep the privileges associated with the designation, AAMS professionals must complete 16 hours of continuing education every two years and pay a fee. The AAMS continuing education program is developed alongside some of the nation's top investment firms. Applicants explore case studies based on real-life scenarios designed to prepare them for effectiveness in the real world and help them build lasting relationships with clients.


   What Does an AAMS Do?  

The AAMS certification is designed to equip new advisors with the information they need to help clients plan for and accomplish their personal financial goals. The specialists help people plan college savings, taxes, and retirement savings.



An AAMS focuses on personal finances, over and above checking and savings account management—asset management, investments, and much more.






Individuals with the AAMS designation may work as financial advisors, registered investment advisors, registered representatives, client relationship managers, financial consultants, or investment advisors.


   How to Attain AAMS Certification  

The AAMS certification is granted by the College of Financial Planning, the college that created the Certified Financial Planner certification.



To achieve certification, you'll need to enroll at the College of Financial Planning. This process is not similar to traditionally enrolling in a college. You select the program from the college's website, choose your options, and pay for the materials. You're given an opportunity to choose printed study materials when you're checking out.













Once you receive your materials, you have 120 days from the day you're granted access to the online material to complete testing and pass the final exam. You follow the course online—using prerecorded videos, self-study, and printed study materials if you buy them.



The final exam for the AAMS program contains 80 questions. A passing score on the AAMS final examination is 70% or better. The time limit for the final exam is three hours, and you're allowed two attempts to pass.



The self-study program covers several topics:



The asset management process
Investment strategies
Policy and change
Risk, return, and investment performance
Asset allocation and selection
Taxation of investment products
Investment opportunities for individual retirement
Investment considerations for small business owners
Executive compensation and benefit plans
Insurance products for investment clients
Estate planning
Regulatory and ethical issues.



Once you receive your AAMS certification, you must complete 16 hours of continuing education credits per year and pay a renewal fee of $95 once every two years to maintain your certification.


   AAMS vs. CFP  

AAMS certification focuses on personal finance, asset management, and investments. It is intended for newer financial planners or planners transitioning from other financial work.



Certified Financial Planners (CFP) are finance professionals certified by the College of Financial Planning to help people plan and achieve their financial goals. A CFP can assist someone throughout their lifetime, helping them adjust their finances to meet changing life events and updated financial goals.



The CFP certification is the highest accreditation available for financial planners, requiring 6,000 hours of professional planning experience within the ten years preceding the certification exam.


   Special Considerations  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) specifies that it does not approve or endorse any professional credential or designation. Still, it does list the AAMS as one of the available designations in the financial services industry. According to the College for Financial Planning (CFP), some organizations recognize the AAMS designation as representing 28 hours of continuing education credit.



The CFP maintains an accessible database of the names of all certificate holders and their status. When AAMS students pass their final exam, they receive credit for completing module FP511 from the CFP course.




What Does AAMS Stand for?
An Accredited Asset Management Specialist is certified by the College of Financial Planning to advise clients about personal finance matters, asset management, and investments.




Which Is Better AAMS or CFP?
The AAMS is more for entry-level advisors or those that enjoy advising clients about personal finances, investments, and asset management. A CFP professional helps clients plan their finances throughout their lifetimes, advising them on everything from savings to retirement funds to investment portfolios.




How Long Does It Take to Study for AAMS?
Once you receive access to the online material, you have 120 days to pass your final exam. How long it takes depends on your study habits and knowledge retention.


   The Bottom Line  

An AAMS is a financial advisor certified by the College of Financial Planning to advise clients about personal finances, asset management, and investments. It is a challenging course of study for those unfamiliar with investing and assets, but it is also a stepping stone for achieving the highly coveted Certified Financial Planner designation.
What Does Accredited in Business Valuation Mean?  

Accredited in Business Valuation (ABV) is a professional designation awarded to a certified public accountant (CPA), who specializes in calculating businesses' value. The ABV certification is overseen by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). It requires candidates to complete an application process, pass an exam, meet the minimum business experience and education requirements, and pay a credential fee. As of 2021, the annual fee for the ABV Credential was $380.﻿﻿



Maintaining the ABV credential also requires those who hold the certification to meet minimum work experience standards and lifelong learning. Successful applicants earn the right to use the ABV designation with their names, improving job opportunities, professional reputation, and pay.





Key Takeaways

Accredited in Business Valuation (ABV) is a professional designation awarded to certified public accounts specializing in business valuation. ABV professionals must complete 60 hours of continuing professional education every three years to keep their designation. CPAs seeking an ABV certification must meet educational and professional metrics before they are eligible for the designation. 


   How Accredited in Business Valuation Works  

The Accredited in Business Valuation credential is awarded to CPAs who demonstrate considerable knowledge, skill, and business valuation experience. The study program to become an ABV covers the basic business valuation process, professional standards, qualitative and quantitative analysis, valuation analysis, and other related topics, such as financial reporting and litigation.






Individuals with the ABV designation may work for business valuation firms, consulting firms, and other businesses that regularly deal with business value.


   Accredited in Business Valuation Requirements  

Candidates seeking ABV accreditation must have a valid (and unrevoked) CPA license or certificate issued by the appropriate state authority. They must also pass the ABV Examination, with some exceptions. For example, this requirement is waived in the case of AM (Accredited Member of the ASA) and ASA (Accredited Senior Appraiser) credential holders of the American Society of Appraisers, CFA (Certified Financial Actuary) holders, and CBV (Chartered Business Valuator) credential holders of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Business Valuators.



Every three years, ABV professionals must complete 60 hours of continuing professional education. They must also pay an annual fee of several hundred dollars.


   Business Experience and Education Requirements For Candidates  
  Business Experience  

ABV candidates must have obtained a minimum of 150 hours of BV experience within the five years preceding the credential application date. Candidates may also apply a maximum of 15 experience hours by completing the hands-on business valuation case study track at the AICPA Forensic and Valuation Services Conference.


  Education Requirement  

ABV candidates must complete 75 hours of valuation-related continuing professional development (CPD). All hours must be obtained within the 5-year period preceding the date of the ABV application.


   Accredited In Business Valuation Exam  

The ABV Exam is conducted by computer and consists of two parts. Both parts must be passed in 12 months (based on passing the first part) to receive ABV credit.



Applicants are given three hours and 15-minutes to complete each section of the test, including a 15-minute break. The exam consists of 90 multiple-choice questions per module, and much of the exam are discrete multiple-choice questions (78 in total). A dozen questions are case studies with accompanying multiple-choice answers. These questions are meant to test a candidate's analytical aptitude and apply valuation theory and methodology.
What Is an Accredited Investor?  

An accredited investor is an individual or a business entity that is allowed to trade securities that may not be registered with financial authorities. They are entitled to this privileged access by satisfying at least one requirement regarding their income, net worth, asset size, governance status, or professional experience.



In the U.S., the term accredited investor is used by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under Regulation D to refer to investors who are financially sophisticated and have a reduced need for the protection provided by regulatory disclosure filings. Accredited investors include high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs), banks, insurance companies, brokers, and trusts.





Key Takeaways

Accredited investors are those individuals classified by the SEC as qualified to invest in complex or sophisticated types of securities.To become accredited certain criteria must be met, such as having an average yearly income over $200,000 ($300,000 with a spouse or domestic partner) or working in the financial industry.Sellers of unregistered securities are only allowed to sell to accredited investors, who are deemed financially sophisticated enough to bear the risks. Accredited investors are allowed to buy and invest in unregistered securities as long as they satisfy one (or more) requirements regarding income, net worth, asset size, governance status, or professional experience.Unregistered securities are considered inherently riskier because they lack the normal disclosures that come with SEC registration. 












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Accredited Investors  

Accredited investors are legally authorized to purchase securities that are not registered with regulatory authorities like the SEC. Many companies decide to offer securities to this class of accredited investors directly. Because this decision allows companies exemption from registering securities with the SEC, it can save them a lot of money.



This type of share offering is referred to as a private placement. It has the potential to present these accredited investors with a great deal of risk. Therefore authorities need to ensure that they are financially stable, experienced, and knowledgeable about their risky ventures.



When companies decide to offer their shares to accredited investors, the role of regulatory authorities is limited to verifying or offering the necessary guidelines for setting benchmarks to determine who qualifies as an accredited investor. Regulatory authorities help determine if the applicant possesses the necessary financial means and knowledge to take the risks involved in investing in unregistered securities.



Accredited investors also have privileged access to venture capital, hedge funds, angel investments, and deals involving complex and higher-risk investments and instruments.


   Requirements for Accredited Investors  

The regulations for accredited investors vary from one jurisdiction to the other and are often defined by a local market regulator or a competent authority. In the U.S, the definition of an accredited investor is put forth by SEC in Rule 501 of Regulation D.



To be an accredited investor, a person must have an annual income exceeding $200,000 ($300,000 for joint income) for the last two years with the expectation of earning the same or a higher income in the current year. An individual must have earned income above the thresholds either alone or with a spouse over the last two years. The income test cannot be satisfied by showing one year of an individual's income and the next two years of joint income with a spouse.



A person is also considered an accredited investor if they have a net worth exceeding $1 million, either individually or jointly with their spouse. This amount cannot include a primary residence. The SEC also considers a person to be an accredited investor if they are a general partner, executive officer, or director for the company that is issuing the unregistered securities.



An entity is considered an accredited investor if it is a private business development company or an organization with assets exceeding $5 million. Also, if an entity consists of equity owners who are accredited investors, the entity itself is an accredited investor. However, an organization cannot be formed with the sole purpose of purchasing specific securities.






If a person can demonstrate sufficient education or job experience showing their professional knowledge of unregistered securities, they too can qualify to be considered an accredited investor.


   Recent Changes to the Accredited Investor Definition  

Recently, the U.S. Congress modified the definition of an accredited investor to include registered brokers and investment advisors.



On Aug. 26, 2020, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission amended the definition of an accredited investor. According to the SEC's press release, "the amendments allow investors to qualify as accredited investors based on defined measures of professional knowledge, experience or certifications in addition to the existing tests for income or net worth. The amendments also expand the list of entities that may qualify as accredited investors, including by allowing any entity that meets an investments test to qualify."



Among other categories, the SEC now defines accredited investors to include the following: individuals who have certain professional certifications, designations, or credentials; individuals who are “knowledgeable employees” of a private fund; and SEC- and state-registered investment advisors.


   Purpose of Accredited Investor Requirements   

Any regulatory authority of a market is tasked with both promoting investment and safeguarding investors. On one hand, regulators have a vested interest in promoting investments in risky ventures and entrepreneurial activities because they have the potential to emerge as multi-baggers in the future. Such initiatives are risky, may be focused on concept-only research and development activities without any marketable product, and may have a high chance of failure. If these ventures are successful, they offer a big return to their investors. However, they also have a high probability of failure.



On the other hand, regulators need to protect less-knowledgeable, individual investors who may not have the financial cushion to absorb high losses or understand the risks associated with their investments. Therefore, the provision of accredited investors allows access for both investors who are financially well-equipped, as well as investors who are knowledgeable and experienced.



There is no formal process for becoming an accredited investor. Rather, it is the responsibility of the sellers of such securities to take a number of different steps in order to verify the status of entities or individuals who wish to be treated as accredited investors.



Individuals or parties who want to be accredited investors can approach the issuer of the unregistered securities. The issuer may ask the applicant to respond to a questionnaire to determine if the applicant qualifies as an accredited investor. The questionnaire may require various attachments: account information, financial statements, and a balance sheet to verify the qualification. The list of attachments can extend to tax returns, W-2 forms, salary slips, and even letters from reviews by CPAs, tax attorneys, investment brokers, or advisors. Additionally, the issuers may also evaluate an individual’s credit report for additional assessment.


   Example of an Accredited Investor  

For example, suppose there is an individual whose income was $150,000 for the last three years. They reported a primary residence value of $1 million (with a mortgage of $200,000), a car worth $100,000 (with an outstanding loan of $50,000), a 401(k) account with $500,000, and a savings account with $450,000. While this individual fails the income test, they are an accredited investor according to the test on net worth, which cannot include the value of an individual's primary residence. Net worth is calculated as assets minus liabilities.



This person's net worth is exactly $1 million. This involves a calculation of their assets (other than their primary residence) of $1,050,000 ($100,000 + $500,000 + $450,000) less a car loan equaling $50,000. Since they meet the net worth requirement, they qualify to be an accredited investor.




Who Qualifies to Be an Accredited Investor?
The SEC defines an accredited investor as either:an individual with gross income exceeding $200,000 in each of the two most recent years or joint income with a spouse or partner exceeding $300,000 for those years and a reasonable expectation of the same income level in the current year.a person whose individual net worth, or joint net worth with that person's spouse or partner, exceeds $1,000,000, excluding the person's primary residence.




Are There Any Other Ways of Becoming an Accredited Investor?
Under certain circumstances, an accredited investor designation may be assigned to a firm's directors, executive officers, or general partners if that firm is the issuer of the securities being offered or sold. In some instances, a financial professional holding a FINRA Series 7, 65, or 82 can also act as an accredited investor. There are a few additional methods that are less relevant, such as somebody managing a trust with more than $5 million in assets.




What Privileges Do Accredited Investors Receive That Others Don't?
Under federal securities laws, only those who are accredited investors may participate in certain securities offerings. These may include shares in private placements, structured products, and private equity or hedge funds, among others.




Why Do You Need to Be Accredited to Invest in Complex Financial Products?
One reason these offerings are limited to accredited investors is to ensure that all participating investors are financially sophisticated and able to fend for themselves or sustain bouts of volatility or the risk of large losses, thus rendering unnecessary the regulatory protections that come from a registered offering.




What If I Lie About Being an Accredited Investor?
It is both your responsibility to represent yourself truthfully when opening a financial account, as well as the financial company itself to do its complete due diligence to ensure you are telling the truth (e.g., asking for tax returns or bank/brokerage statements to verify income or assets).


   The Bottom Line  

The accredited investor rules are designed to protect potential investors with limited financial knowledge from risky ventures and losses they may be ill equipped to withstand. But on the flip side, it gives people already starting off with large financial assets a major advantage over those with more modest assets.
What Is Accretion?  

Accretion is the gradual and incremental growth of assets and earnings due to business expansion, a company's internal growth, or a merger or acquisition. 



In finance, accretion is also the accumulation of the additional income an investor expects to receive after purchasing a bond at a discount and holding it until maturity. The most well-known applications of financial accretion include zero-coupon bonds or cumulative preferred stock.





Key Takeaways

Accretion refers to the gradual and incremental growth of assets.In finance, accretion is also the accumulation of additional income an investor expects to receive after purchasing a bond at a discount and holding until maturity.The accretion rate is determined by dividing a bond's discount by the number of years in its term to maturity.


   Understanding Accretion  

In corporate finance, accretion is the creation of value through organic growth or through a transaction. For example, when new assets are acquired at a discount or for a cost that is below their perceived current market value (CMV). Acccretion can also occur by acquiring assets that are anticipated to grow in value after the transaction.



In securities markets, purchasing bonds below their face or par value is considered buying at a discount, whereas purchasing above the face value is known as buying at a premium. In finance, accretion adjusts the cost basis from the purchase amount (discount) to the anticipated redemption amount at maturity. For example, if a bond is purchased for an amount totaling 80% of the face amount, the accretion is 20%.


  Factoring in Bond Accounting  

As interest rates increase, the value of existing bonds declines, which means that bonds trading in the market decline in price to reflect the interest rate increase. Since all bonds mature at the face amount, the investor recognizes additional income on a bond purchased at a discount, and that income is recognized using accretion.


  Bond Accretion (Finance)  

The rate of accretion is determined by dividing the discount by the number of years in the term. In the case of zero coupon bonds, the interest acquired is not compounding. While the bond's value increases based on the agreed-upon interest rate, it must be held for the agreed-upon term before it can be cashed out.



Assume that an investor purchased a $1,000 bond for $860 and the bond matures in 10 years. Between the bond's purchase and maturity dates, the investor needs to recognize additional income of $140. When the bond is purchased, the $140 is posted to a discount on the bond account. Over the next 10 years, a portion of the $140 is reclassified into the bond income account each year, and the entire $140 is posted to income by the maturity date.


  Earnings Accretion (Accounting)  

The earnings-per-share (EPS) ratio is defined as earnings available to common shareholders divided by average common shares outstanding, and accretion refers to an increase in a firm’s EPS due to an acquisition.






The accreted value of a security may not have any relationship to its market value.


   Examples of Accretion  

For example, assume that a firm generates $2,000,000 in available earnings for common shareholders and that 1,000,000 shares are outstanding; the EPS ratio is $2. The company issues 200,000 shares to purchase a company that generates $600,000 in earnings for common shareholders. The new EPS for the combined companies is computed by dividing its $2,600,000 earnings by 1,200,000 outstanding shares, or $2.17. Investment professionals refer to the additional earnings as accretion due to the purchase.



As another example, if a person purchases a bond with a value of $1,000 for the discounted price of $750 with the understanding it will be held for 10 years, the deal is considered accretive. The bond pays out the initial investment plus interest. Depending on the type of bond purchase, interest may be paid out at regular intervals, such as annually, or in a lump sum upon maturity. If the bond purchase is a zero-coupon bond, there is no interest accrual.



Instead, it is purchased at a discount, such as the initial $750 investment for a bond with a face value of $1,000. The bond pays the original face value, also known as the accreted value, of $1,000 in a lump sum upon maturity.



A primary example within corporate finance is the acquisition of one company by another. First, assume the earnings per share of Corporation X is listed as $100, and earnings per share of Corporation Y is listed as $50. When Corporation X acquires Corporation Y, Corporations X’s earnings per share increase to $150. This deal is 50% accretive due to the increase in value.






The accretion of a discount is the increase in the value of a discounted instrument as time passes, and the maturity date looms closer.



However, sometimes, long-term debt instruments, like car loans, become short-term instruments when the obligation is expected to be fully repaid within one year. If a person takes out a five-year car loan, the debt becomes a short-term instrument after the fourth year.
What Is Accretion of Discount?  

Accretion of discount is the increase in the value of a discounted instrument as time passes and the maturity date looms closer. The value of the instrument will accrete (grow) at the interest rate implied by the discounted issuance price, the value at maturity, and the term to maturity.





Key Takeaways

The accretion of discount is a reference to the increase in the value of a discounted security as its date of maturity closes in.It's an accounting process used to adjust the value of a financial instrument that has been bought at a discounted rate.While a bond can be bought at par, at a premium, or at a discount, its value is at par at the time of maturity.A bond purchased at a discount will slowly increase in value until it reaches par value at maturity; this process is the accretion of discount.


   How Accretion of Discount Works  

A bond can be purchased at par, at a premium, or at a discount. Regardless of the purchase price of the bond, however, all bonds mature at par value. The par value is the amount of money that a bond investor will be repaid at maturity. A bond that is purchased at a premium has a value above par. As the bond gets closer to maturity, the value of the bond declines until it is at par on the maturity date. The decrease in value over time is referred to as the amortization of premium.



A bond that is issued at a discount has a value that is less than the par value. As the bond approaches its redemption date, it will increase in value until it converges with the par value at maturity. This increase in value over time is referred to as an accretion of discount. For example, a three-year bond with a face value of $1,000 is issued at $975. Between issuance and maturity, the value of the bond will increase until it reaches its full par value of $1,000, which is the amount that will be paid to the bondholder at maturity.


   Special Considerations  

Accretion can be accounted for using a straight-line method, whereby the increase is evenly spread throughout the term. Using this method of portfolio accounting, accretion of discount can be said to be a straight-line accumulation of capital gains on a discount bond in anticipation of receipt of par at maturity.



Accretion can also be accounted for using a constant yield, whereby the increase is closest to maturity. The constant yield method is the method required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for calculating the adjusted cost basis from the purchase amount to the expected redemption amount. This method spreads out the gain over the remaining life of the bond, instead of recognizing the gain in the year of the bond’s redemption.


   Calculating Accretion  

To calculate the amount of accretion, use the formula:



Accretion Amount = Purchase Basis x (YTM / Accrual periods per year) - Coupon Interest



The first step in the constant yield method is determining the yield to maturity (YTM) which is the yield that will be earned on a bond held until it matures. The yield to maturity depends on how frequently the yield is compounded. The IRS allows the taxpayer some flexibility in determining which accrual period to use for computing yield. For example, a bond with a $100 par value and a coupon rate of 2% is issued for $75 with a 10-year maturity date. Let’s assume it is compounded annually for the sake of simplicity. The YTM can, therefore, be calculated as:



$100 par value = $75 x (1 + r)10$100/$75 = (1 + r)101.3333 = (1 + r)10r = 2.92%



Coupon interest on the bond is 2% x $100 par value = $2. Therefore,



Accretionperiod1 = ($75 x 2.92%) – Coupon interestAccretion period1 = $2.19 – $2Accretionperiod1 = $0.19



The purchase price of $75 represents the bond’s basis at issuance. However, in subsequent periods, the basis becomes the purchase price plus accrued interest. For example, after year 2, the accrual can be calculated as:



Accretionperiod2 = [($75 + $0.19) x 2.92%] - $2Accretionperiod2 = $0.20



Using this example, one can see that a discount bond has a positive accrual; in other words, the basis accretes, increasing over time from $0.19, $0.20, and so on. Periods 3 to 10 can be calculated in a similar manner, using the former period’s accrual to calculate the current period’s basis.
What is Accretive?  

In both finance and in general lexicon, the term "accretive" is the adjective form of the word "accretion", which refers to gradual or incremental growth. For example, an acquisition deal may be deemed accretive for the absorbing company, if that deal contributes to an increase in earnings per share.



By definition, in corporate finance, accretive acquisitions of assets or businesses must ultimately add more value to a company, than the expenditures associated with the acquisition. This can be due to the fact that the newly-acquired assets in question are purchased at a discount to their perceived current market value, or if the assets are expected to grow, as a direct result of the transaction.



Key Takeaways--The term "accretive" is an adjective that refers to business deals that result in gradual or incremental growth in value for a company.--In corporate finance, accretive acquisitions of assets must add more value to a company, than the costs of acquiring the target entity,--Accretive deals can occur if acquired assets are purchased at a discount to their perceived current market value.--In general finance, accretive investments refer to any security that is purchased at a discount. 


   Breaking Down Accretive  

In general finance, accretion refers to the change in the price of a bond or security. In fixed-income investments, the word accretive may be used to describe the increase in value attributable to interest accrued but not paid. For example, discounted bonds earn interest through accretion, until they reach maturity. In such cases, acquired bonds are acquired at a discount when compared to the current face value of the bond, also known as the par. As the bond matures, the value increases, based on the interest rate that was in effect at the time of issuance.


   Determining the Rate of Accretion  

The rate of accretion is determined by dividing the discount by the number of years in the term. In the case of zero coupon bonds, the interest acquired is not compounded. While the value of the bond increases based on the agreed-upon interest rate, it must be held for the agreed-upon term, before it can be cashed out.


   Examples of Accretion  

If a person purchases a bond with a value of $1,000, for the discounted price of $750, with the understanding that it will be held for 10 years, the deal is considered accretive, because the bond pays out the initial investment, plus interest. Depending on the type of bond purchased, interest may be paid out at regular intervals (annually, semi-annually, etc.), or it may be paid in lump sum, upon maturity.



With zero coupon bonds, there is no interest accrual. Instead, it is purchased at a discount, such as the initial $750 investment for a bond with a face value of $1,000. The bond pays the original face value, also known as the accreted value, of $1,000, in a lump sum upon maturity.



In corporate finance acquisition deals are often accretive. First, let's assume that the earnings per share of Corporation X is listed as $100, and earnings per share of Corporation Y is listed as $50. When Corporation X acquires Corporation Y, Corporations X’s earnings per share increase to $150--rendering this a 50% accretive deal.



[Important: The antonym to "accretive" is "dilutive", which describes any deal which causes a corporation's earnings per share value to drop.]
What Is Accrual Accounting?  

Accrual accounting is a financial accounting method that allows a company to record revenue before receiving payment for goods or services sold and record expenses as they are incurred.



In other words, the revenue earned and expenses incurred are entered into the company's journal regardless of when money exchanges hands. Accrual accounting is usually compared to cash basis of accounting, which records revenue when the goods and services are actually paid for.



Learn more about accrual accounting and how it differs from the other popular accounting method, cash accounting.





Key Takeaways:

Accrual accounting is an accounting method where revenue or expenses are recorded when a transaction occurs vs. when payment is received or made.The method follows the matching principle, which says that revenues and expenses should be recognized in the same period.Accrual accounting uses the double-entry accounting method.Accrual accounting is required for companies with average revenues of $25 million or more over three years.Cash accounting is the other accounting method, which recognizes transactions only when payment is exchanged.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How Accrual Accounting Works  

The general concept of accrual accounting is that accounting journal entries are made when a good or service is provided rather than when payment is made or received. Entries are also made for debts and payments due.



This method allows the current and future cash inflows or outflows to be combined to give a more accurate picture of a company's current and long-term finances.



Accrual accounting follows the matching principle, which states that revenues and expenses should be recorded in the same period.



Accrual accounting is encouraged by International Financial Reporting Standards(IFRS) and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). As a result, it has become the standard accounting practice for most companies except for very small businesses and individuals.


  Qualifying for Accrual Accounting  

Larger companies are required to use the accrual method of accounting if their average gross receipt of revenues is more than $25 million over the previous three years. If a company does not meet the average revenue requirement, it can choose to use cash basis or accrual as its accounting method.



Accrual accounting is always required for companies that carry inventory or make sales on credit, regardless of the company size or revenue.


   Benefits of Accrual Accounting  

The accrual method does provide a more accurate picture of the company's current condition, but its relative complexity makes it more expensive to implement.



This method arose from the increasing complexity of business transactions and a desire for more accurate financial information. Selling on credit, and projects that provide revenue streams over a long period, affect a company's financial condition at the time of a transaction. Therefore, it makes sense that such events should also be reflected in the financial statements during the same reporting period that these transactions occur.



Under accrual accounting, firms have immediate feedback on their expected cash inflows and outflows, making it easier for businesses to manage their current resources and plan for the future.






Accrual accounting provides a more accurate picture of a company’s financial position. However, many small businesses use cash accounting because it is less confusing.


   Accrual Accounting vs. Cash Accounting  

Accrual accounting can be contrasted with cash accounting, which recognizes transactions only when there is an exchange of cash. Additionally, cash basis and accrual differ in the way and time transactions are entered.


  Cash Basis of Accounting  

Cash accounting uses transactions when payments are made. For example, consider a consulting company that provides a $5,000 service to a client on Oct. 30. The client received the bill for services rendered and made a cash payment on Nov. 25. Under the cash basis method, the consultant would record an owed amount of $5,000 by the client on Oct. 30, and enter $5,000 in revenue when it is paid on Nov. 25 and record it as paid.


  Accrual Basis of Accounting  

In contrast, accrual accounting uses a technique called double-entry accounting. When the consulting company provided the service, it would enter a debit of $5,000 in accounts receivable (debits increase an asset account). When the payment is made on Nov. 25, the consultant credits (credits decrease an asset account) the accounts receivable by $5,000 and credits the service revenues account, a revenue account (credits increase a revenue account ) with $5,000.



The received capital can then be moved to other accounts, such as free cash, if needed—the company uses the same double-entry method to enter which account the capital came from and is moved to.




How Do You Explain Accrual to Non-Accountants?
Accrual accounting uses the double-entry accounting method, where payments or reciepts are recorded in two accounts at the time the transaction is initiated, not when they are made.




What Is the Difference Between Cash Accounting and Accrual Accounting?
Cash accounting records payments and receipts when they are received. Accrual records payments and receipts when services or good are provided or debt is incurred.




What Is Accrual Journal Entry?
The accounting journal is the first entry in the accounting process where transactions are recorded as they occur. An accrual, or journal entry, is made when a transaction occurs.




What Are the 3 Accounting Methods?
The three accounting methods are cash basis of accounting, accrual basis of accounting, and a hybrid of the two called modified cash basis of accounting.


   The Bottom Line  

Accrual accounting is an accounting method in which payments and expenses are credited and debited when earned or incurred. Accrual accounting differs from cash basis accounting, where expenses are recorded when payment is made and revenues are recorded when cash is received.



Accrual accounting uses double-entry accounting, where there are generally two accounts used when entering a transaction. This method is more accurate than cash basis accounting because it tracks the movement of capital through a company and helps it prepare its financial statements.
What Are Accruals?  

Accruals are revenues earned or expenses incurred that impact a company's net income on the income statement, although cash related to the transaction has not yet changed hands. Accruals also affect the balance sheet, as they involve non-cash assets and liabilities.



For example, if a company has performed a service for a customer, but has not yet received payment, the revenue from that service would be recorded as an accrual in the company's financial statements. This ensures that the company's financial statements accurately reflect its true financial position, even if it has not yet received payment for all of the services it has provided.



Accrual accounts include, among many others, accounts payable, accounts receivable, accrued tax liabilities, and accrued interest earned or payable.





Key Takeaways

Accruals are needed for any revenue earned or expense incurred, for which cash has not yet been exchanged.Accruals improve the quality of information on financial statements by adding useful information about short-term credit extended to customers and upcoming liabilities owed to lenders.Accruals and deferrals are the basis of the accrual method of accounting.This is the preferred method of accounting according to GAAP.Accruals are created by adjusting journal entries at the end of each accounting period.


   Understanding Accruals  

An accrual is a record of revenue or expenses that have been earned or incurred but have not yet been recorded in the company's financial statements. This can include things like unpaid invoices for services provided, or expenses that have been incurred but not yet paid. Accruals are important because they help to ensure that a company's financial statements accurately reflect its true financial position, even if it has not yet received payment for all of the services it has provided or paid all of its bills.



In accrual-based accounting, revenue is recognized when it is earned, regardless of when the payment is received. This means that if a company provides a service to a customer in December, but does not receive payment until January of the following year, the revenue from that service would be recorded in December, when it was earned. Similarly, expenses are recorded when they are incurred, regardless of when they are paid. For example, if a company incurs expenses in December for a service that will be received in January, the expenses would be recorded in December, when they were incurred.


  The Accrual Method of Accounting  

Accruals and deferrals are the basis of the accrual method of accounting, the preferred method by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Using the accrual method, an accountant makes adjustments for revenue that have been earned but are not yet recorded in the general ledger and expenses that have been incurred but are also not yet recorded. The accruals are made via adjusting journal entries at the end of each accounting period, so the reported financial statements can be inclusive of these amounts.



The use of accrual accounts greatly improves the quality of information on financial statements. Before the use of accruals, accountants only recorded cash transactions. Unfortunately, cash transactions don't give information about other important business activities, such as revenue based on credit extended to customers or a company's future liabilities. By recording accruals, a company can measure what it owes in the short-term and also what cash revenue it expects to receive. It also allows a company to record assets that do not have a cash value, such as goodwill.



In double-entry bookkeeping, the offset to an accrued expense is an accrued liability account, which appears on the balance sheet. The offset to accrued revenue is an accrued asset account, which also appears on the balance sheet. Therefore, an adjusting journal entry for an accrual will impact both the balance sheet and the income statement.






Accrual accounting is the preferred method according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The accrual method is widely considered to provide a more accurate and comprehensive view of a company's financial position and performance than the cash basis of accounting, which only records transactions when cash is exchanged.


  Recording Accruals on the Income Statement and Balance Sheet  

To record accruals on the balance sheet, the company will need to make journal entries to reflect the revenues and expenses that have been earned or incurred, but not yet recorded. For example, if the company has provided a service to a customer but has not yet received payment, it would make a journal entry to record the revenue from that service as an accrual. This would involve debiting the "accounts receivable" account and crediting the "revenue" account on the income statement.



On the other hand, if the company has incurred expenses but has not yet paid them, it would make a journal entry to record the expenses as an accrual. This would involve debiting the "expenses" account on the income statement and crediting the "accounts payable" account.


   Examples of Accruals  

Let's look at an example of a revenue accrual for a utility company.


  Accounts Payable  

An example of an accrued expense for accounts payable f could be the cost of electricity that the utility company has used to power its operations, but has not yet paid for. In this case, the utility company would make a journal entry to record the cost of the electricity as an accrued expense. This would involve debiting the "expense" account and crediting the "accounts payable" account. The effect of this journal entry would be to increase the utility company's expenses on the income statement, and to increase its accounts payable on the balance sheet.



Another example of an expense accrual involves employee bonuses that were earned in 2019, but will not be paid until 2020. The 2019 financial statements need to reflect the bonus expense earned by employees in 2019 as well as the bonus liability the company plans to pay out. Therefore, prior to issuing the 2019 financial statements, an adjusting journal entry records this accrual with a debit to an expense account and a credit to a liability account. Once the payment has been made in the new year, the liability account will be decreased through a debit, and the cash account will be reduced through a credit.


  Accounts Receivable  

The utility company generated electricity that customers received in December. However, the utility company does not bill the electric customers until the following month when the meters have been read. To have the proper revenue figure for the year on the utility's financial statements, the company needs to complete an adjusting journal entry to report the revenue that was earned in December.



It will additionally be reflected in the receivables account as of December 31, because the utility company has fulfilled its obligations to its customers in earning the revenue at that point. The adjusting journal entry for December would include a debit to accounts receivable and a credit to a revenue account. The following month, when the cash is received, the company would record a credit to decrease accounts receivable and a debit to increase cash.


  Accrued Interest  

Another expense accrual occurs for interest. For example, a company with a bond will accrue interest expense on its monthly financial statements, although interest on bonds is typically paid semi-annually. The interest expense recorded in an adjusting journal entry will be the amount that has accrued as of the financial statement date. A corresponding interest liability will be recorded on the balance sheet.




What Are the Purpose of Accruals?
The purpose of accruals is to ensure that a company's financial statements accurately reflect its true financial position. This is important because financial statements are used by a wide range of stakeholders, including investors, creditors, and regulators, to evaluate the financial health and performance of a company. Without accruals, a company's financial statements would only reflect the cash inflows and outflows, rather than the true state of its revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. By recognizing revenues and expenses when they are earned or incurred, rather than only when payment is received or made, accruals provide a more accurate picture of a company's financial position.




What Are the Types of Accruals?
Accrued revenues refer to the recognition of revenues that have been earned, but not yet recorded in the company's financial statements. For example, if a company provides a service to a customer in December, but does not receive payment until January of the following year, the revenue from that service would be recorded as an accrual in December, when it was earned.Accrued expenses refer to the recognition of expenses that have been incurred, but not yet recorded in the company's financial statements. For example, if a company incurs expenses in December for a service that will be received in January, the expenses would be recorded as an accrual in December, when they were incurred.Accrued interest refers to the interest that has been earned on an investment or a loan, but has not yet been paid. For example, if a company has a savings account that earns interest, the interest that has been earned but not yet paid would be recorded as an accrual on the company's financial statements.




Is an Accrual a Credit or a Debit?
Whether an accrual is a debit or a credit depends on the type of accrual and the effect it has on the company's financial statements.For accrued revenues, the journal entry would involve a credit to the revenue account and a debit to the accounts receivable account. This has the effect of increasing the company's revenue and accounts receivable on its financial statements.For accrued expenses, the journal entry would involve a debit to the expense account and a credit to the accounts payable account. This has the effect of increasing the company's expenses and accounts payable on its financial statements.




What Is the Journal Entry for Accruals?
In general, the rules for recording accruals are the same as the rules for recording other transactions in double-entry accounting. The specific journal entries will depend on the individual circumstances of each transaction.


   The Bottom Line  

Accruals impact a company's bottom line, although cash has not yet exchanged hands. The accrual method of accounting is the preferred method according to GAAP and involves making adjustments for revenue that have been earned but are not yet recorded, and expenses that have been incurred but are not yet recorded, by making adjusting journal entries at the end of the accounting period. Accruals are important because they help to ensure that a company's financial statements accurately reflect its actual financial position.
What Is Accrue?  

To accrue means to accumulate over time—most commonly used when referring to the interest, income, or expenses of an individual or business. Interest in a savings account, for example, accrues over time, such that the total amount in that account grows. The term accrue is often related to accrual accounting, which has become the standard accounting practice for most companies.





Key Takeaways

Accrue is the accumulation of interest, income, or expenses over time—interest in a savings account is a popular example.When something financial accrues, it essentially builds up to be paid or received in a future period.Accrue most often refers to the concepts of accrual accounting, where there are accrued revenue sand accrued expenses. Accrued revenue is when a company has sold a product or service but has yet to be paid for it. Accrued expenses are expenses that are recognized before being paid, such as certain interest expenses or salaries. 


   How Accrue Works  

When something financial accrues, it essentially builds up to be paid or received in a future period. Both assets and liabilities can accrue over time. The term "accrue," when related to finance, is synonymous with an "accrual" under the accounting method outlined by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).



An accrual is an accounting adjustment used to track and record revenues that have been earned but not received, or expenses that have been incurred but not paid. Think of accrued entries as the opposite of unearned entries—with accrued entries, the corresponding financial event has already taken place but payment has not been made or received.



Accepted and mandatory accruals are decided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which controls interpretations of GAAP.﻿﻿ Accruals can include accounts payable, accounts receivable, goodwill, future tax liability, and future interest expense. 


   Special Considerations  

The accrual accounting procedure measures the performance and position of a company by recognizing economic events regardless of when cash transactions occur, giving a better picture of the company's financial health and causing asset or liability adjustments to "build up" over time.



This is in contrast to the cash method of accounting where revenues and expenses are recorded when the funds are actually paid or received, leaving out revenue based on credit and future liabilities. Cash-based accounting does not require adjustments.



While some very small or new businesses use cash accounting, companies normally prefer the accrual accounting method. Accrual accounting gives a far better picture of a company’s financial situation than cost accounting because it records not only the company’s current finances but also future transactions.



If a company sold $100 worth of product on credit in January, for example, it would want to record that $100 in January under the accrual accounting method rather than wait until the cash is actually received, which may take months or may even become a bad debt.


   Types of Accrues  

 All accruals fall into one of two categories—either revenue or expense accrual.


  Accrued Revenue  

Revenue accruals represent income or assets (including non-cash-based ones) yet to be received. These accruals occur when a good or service has been sold by a company, but the payment for it has not been made by the customer. Companies with large amounts of credit card transactions usually have high levels of accounts receivable and high levels of accrued revenue.



Assume that Company ABC hires Consulting Firm XYZ to help on a project that is estimated to take three months to complete. The fee for this job is $150,000, to be paid upon completion. While ABC owes XYZ $50,000 after each monthly milestone, the total fee accrues over the duration of the project instead of being paid in installments.


  Accrued Expense  

Whenever a business recognizes an expense before it is actually paid, it can make an accrual entry in its general ledger. The expense may also be listed as accrued in the balance sheet and charged against income in the income statement. Common types of accrued expense include:



Interest expense accruals—these occur when a owes monthly interest on debt prior to receiving the monthly invoice.Supplier accruals—these happen if a company receives a good or service from a supplier on credit and plans to pay the supplier at a later date.Wage or salary accruals—these expenses happen when a company pays employees prior to the end of the month for a full month of work.



Interest, taxes and other payments sometimes need to be put into accrued entries whenever unpaid obligations should be recognized in the financial statements. Otherwise, the operating expenses for a certain period might be understated, which would result in net income being overstated.



Salaries are accrued whenever a workweek does not neatly correspond with monthly financial reports and payroll. For example, a payroll date may fall on Jan. 28. If employees have to work on January 29, 30, or 31, those workdays still count toward the January operating expenses. Current payroll has not yet accounted for those salary expenses, so an accrued salary account is used.



There are different rationales for accruing specific expenses. The general purpose of an accrual account is to match expenses with the accounting period during which they were incurred. Accrued expenses are also effective in predicting the amount of expenses the company can expect to see in the future.
What Is an Accrued Expense?  

An accrued expense, also known as accrued liabilities, is an accounting term that refers to an expense that is recognized on the books before it has been paid. The expense is recorded in the accounting period in which it is incurred. Accrual accounting is the generally accepted accounting practice's (GAAP) preferred accounting method.





Key Takeaways

Accrued expenses are recognized on the books when they are incurred, not when they are paid.Accrual accounting requires more journal entries than simple cash balance accounting.Accrual accounting provides a more accurate financial picture than cash basis accounting.Large, public companies with shares on stock market exchanges are often required to comply with accrual-based accounting as opposed to the cash method of accounting.Accruals are recognition of events that have already happened but cash has not yet settled, while prepayments are recognition of events that have not yet happened but cash has settled.


   Understanding Accrued Expenses  

Since accrued expenses represent a company's obligation to make future cash payments, they are shown on a company's balance sheet as current liabilities. An accrued expense can be an estimate and differ from the supplier’s invoice that will arrive at a later date. Following the accrual method of accounting, expenses are recognized when they are incurred, not necessarily when they are paid.



An example of an accrued expense is when a company purchases supplies from a vendor but has not yet received an invoice for the purchase. Other forms of accrued expenses include interest payments on loans, warranties on products or services received, and taxes—all of which have been incurred or obtained, but for which no invoices have been received nor payments made. Employee commissions, wages, and bonuses are accrued in the period they occur although the actual payment is made in the following period.






When a company accrues (accumulates) expenses, its portion of unpaid bills also accumulates. This increases both its expenses and liabilities.


   Accrual vs. Cash Basis Accounting  

Accrual accounting differs from cash basis accounting, which records financial events and transactions only when cash is exchanged—often resulting in the overstatement and understatement of income and account balances.



Although the accrual method of accounting is labor-intensive because it requires extensive journaling, it is a more accurate measure of a company's transactions and events for each period. This more complete picture helps users of financial statements to better understand a company's present financial health and predict its future financial position.


   Accrued Expenses vs. Prepaid Expenses  

Accrued expenses are the opposite of prepaid expenses. Prepaid expenses are payments made in advance for goods and services that are expected to be provided or used in the future. While accrued expenses represent liabilities, prepaid expenses are recognized as assets on the balance sheet. This is because the company is expected to receive future economic benefit from the prepayment.



On the other hand, an accrued expense is an event that has already occurred in which cash has not been a factor. Not only has the company already received the benefit, it still needs to remit payment. Therefore, it is literally the opposite of a prepayment; an accrual is the recognition of something that has already happened in which cash is yet to be settled.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Accrued Expenses  
  Advantages  

Accrued expenses theoretically make a company’s financial statements more accurate. While the cash method is more simple, accrued expenses strive to include activities that may not have fully been incurred but will still happen. Consider an example where a company enters into a contract to incur consulting services. If the company receives an invoice for $5,000, accounting theory states the company should technically recognize this transaction because it is contractually obligated to pay for the service.



Accrued expenses also may make it easier for companies to plan and strategize. Accrued expenses often yield more consistent financial results as companies can include recurring transactions in their financial reports that may not yet have been paid. In addition, accrued expenses may be a financial reporting requirement depending on the company and its Securities and Exchange Commission filing requirements.


  Disadvantages  

Because of additional work of accruing expenses, this method of accounting is more time-consuming and demanding for staff to prepare. There is a greater chance of misstatements, especially is auto-reversing journal entries are not used. In addition, a company runs of the risk of accidently accruing an expense that they may have already paid.



Last, the accrual method of accounting blurs cash flow and cash usage as it includes non-cash transactions that have not yet impacted bank accounts. For a large company, the general ledger will be flooded with transactions that report items that have had no bearing on the company's bank statement nor impact to the current amount of cash on hand.




Accrued Expenses

Pros

Potentially makes financial more aligned to actual business operations
Often makes month-over-month financial statements more consistent
May yield ore useful information for management to make decisions/plans
Adheres to external financial reporting requirements



Cons

Often requires more time and resources to prepare compared to the cash method of accounting
Usually results in greater risk of misstatement (accruals not reversing or accidental duplication)
May complicate some reporting by blurring cash usage and capital needs





   Special Considerations  
  Reversing Entries  

A critical component to accrued expenses is reversing entries, journal entries that back out a transaction in a subsequent period.



Accrued expenses are not meant to be permanent; they are meant to be temporary records that take the place of a true transaction in the short-term. Every accrued expense must have a reversing entry; without the reversing entry, a company risks duplicating transactions by recording both the actual invoice when it gets paid as well as the accrued expense.






Many accounting software systems can auto-generate reversing entries when prompted.


  Month-End/Year-End  

Accrued expenses are prevalent during the end of an accounting period. A company often attempts to book as many actual invoices it can during an accounting period before closing its accounts payable ledger. Then, supporting accounting staff analyze what transactions/invoices might not have been recorded by the AP team and book accrued expenses.



For companies that are responsible for external reporting, accrued expenses play a big part in wrapping up month-end, quarter-end, or fiscal year-end processes. A company usually does not book accrued expenses during the month; instead, accrued expenses are booked during the close period.


   Example of Accrued Expense  

A company pays its employees' salaries on the first day of the following month for services received in the prior month. So, employees that worked all of November will be paid in December. If on Dec. 31, the company’s income statement recognizes only the salary payments that have been made, the accrued expenses from the employees’ services for December will be omitted.



Because the company actually incurred 12 months’ worth of salary expenses, an adjusting journal entry is recorded at the end of the accounting period for the last month’s expense. The adjusting entry will be dated Dec. 31 and will have a debit to the salary expenses account on the income statement and a credit to the salaries payable account on the balance sheet.



When the company’s accounting department receives the bill for the total amount of salaries due, the accounts payable account is credited. Accounts payable is found in the current liabilities section of the balance sheet and represents the short-term liabilities of a company. After the debt has been paid off, the accounts payable account is debited and the cash account is credited.




How Are Accrued Expenses Accounted for?
An accrued expense, also known as an accrued liability, is an accounting term that refers to an expense that is recognized on the books before it has been paid. The expense is recorded in the accounting period in which it is incurred. Since accrued expenses represent a company's obligation to make future cash payments, they are shown on a company's balance sheet as current liabilities.




What Are Some Examples of Accrued Expenses?
An example of an accrued expense is when a company purchases supplies from a vendor but has not yet received an invoice for the purchase. Other forms of accrued expenses include interest payments on loans, warranties on products or services received, and taxes—all of which have been incurred or obtained, but for which no invoices have been received nor payments made. Employee commissions, wages, and bonuses are accrued in the period they occur although the actual payment is made in the following period.




How Does Accrual Accounting Differ From Cash Basis Accounting?
Accrual accounting measures a company's performance and position by recognizing economic events regardless of when cash transactions occur, whereas cash accounting only records transactions when payment occurs. Accrual accounting presents a more accurate measure of a company's transactions and events for each period. Cash basis accounting often results in the overstatement and understatement of income and account balances.




What Is a Prepaid Expense?
A prepaid expense is a type of asset on the balance sheet that results from a business making advanced payments for goods or services to be received in the future. Prepaid expenses are initially recorded as assets, but their value is expensed over time onto the income statement. Unlike conventional expenses, the business will receive something of value from the prepaid expense over the course of several accounting periods.




What Is the Journal Entry for Accrued Expenses?
Accrued expenses are recognized by debiting the appropriate expense account and crediting an accrued liability account. A second journal entry must then be prepared in the following period to reverse the entry.For example, a company wants to accrue a $10,000 utility invoice to have the expense hit in June. The company’s June journal entry will be a debit to Utility Expense and a credit to Accrued Payables. On July 1st, the company will reverse this entry (debit to Accrued Payables, credit to Utility Expense). Then, the company theoretically pays the invoice in July, the entry (debit to Utility Expense, credit to cash) will offset the two entries to Utility Expense in July. 


   The Bottom Line  

Companies using the accrual method of accounting recognize accrued expenses, costs that have not yet been paid for but have already been incurred. Accrued expenses make a set of financial statements more consistent by recording charges in specific periods, though it takes more resources to perform this type of accounting. While the cash method of accounting recognizes items when they are paid, the accrual method recognizes accrued expenses based on when service is performed or received.
What Is Accrued Income?  

Accrued income is the money a company has earned in the ordinary course of business but has yet to be received, and for which the invoice is yet to be billed to the customer.



Mutual funds or other pooled assets that accumulate income over a period of time—but only pay shareholders once a year—are, by definition, accruing their income. Individual companies can also generate income without actually receiving it, which is the basis of the accrual accounting system.





Key Takeaways

Accrued income is revenue that's been earned, but has yet to be received.Both individuals and companies can receive accrued income.Although it is not yet in hand, accrued income is recorded on the books when it is earned, in accordance with the accrual accounting method.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Accrued Income  

Most companies use accrual accounting. It is an alternative to the cash accounting method and is necessary for companies that sell products or provide services to customers on credit. Under the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), accrual accounting is based on the revenue recognition principle. This principle seeks to match revenues to the period in which they were earned, rather than the period in which cash is received.



In other words, just because money has not yet been received, it does not mean that revenue has not been earned.



The matching principle also requires that revenue be recognized in the same period as the expenses that were incurred in earning that revenue. Also referred to as accrued revenue, accrued income is often used in the service industry or in cases in which customers are charged an hourly rate for work that has been completed but will be billed in a future accounting period. Accrued income is listed in the asset section of the balance sheet because it represents a future benefit to the company in the form of a future cash payout.



In 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which establishes regulations for U.S. businesses and non-profits, introduced "Accounting Standards Code Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers" to provide an industry-neutral revenue recognition model to increase financial statement comparability across companies and industries. Public companies were required to apply the new revenue recognition rules beginning in Q1 2018. The FASB also issued the following amendments to ASU No. 2014-09 to provide clarification on the guidance:



-ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) – Deferral of the Effective Date



-ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) – Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net)



-ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606) – Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing



-ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) – Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients 


   Examples of Accrued Income  

Assume Company A picks up trash for local communities and bills its customers $300 at the end of every six-month cycle. Even though Company A does not receive payment for six months, the company still records a $50 debit to accrued income and a $50 credit to revenue each month. The bill has not been sent out, but the work has been performed, and therefore expenses have already been incurred and revenue earned.



When cash is received for the service at the end of six months, a $300 credit in the amount of the full payment is made to accrued income, and a $300 debit is made to cash. The balance in accrued income returns to zero for that customer.



Accrued income also applies to individuals and their paychecks. The income that a worker earns usually accrues over a period of time. For example, many salaried employees are paid by their company every two weeks; they do not get paid at the end of each workday. At the end of the pay cycle, the employee is paid and the accrued amount returns to zero. If they leave the company, they still have pay that has been earned but has not yet been disbursed.
What Is Accrued Interest?  

In accounting, accrued interest refers to the amount of interest that has been incurred, as of a specific date, on a loan or other financial obligation but has not yet been paid out. Accrued interest can either be in the form of accrued interest revenue, for the lender, or accrued interest expense, for the borrower.



The term accrued interest also refers to the amount of bond interest that has accumulated since the last time a bond interest payment was made.





Key Takeaways

Accrued interest is a feature of accrual accounting, and it follows the guidelines of the revenue recognition and matching principles of accounting.Accrued interest is booked at the end of an accounting period as an adjusting journal entry, which reverses the first day of the following period.The amount of accrued interest to be recorded is the accumulated interest that has yet to be paid as of the end date of an accounting period.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Accrued Interest  

Accrued interest is calculated as of the last day of the accounting period. For example, assume interest is payable on the 20th of each month, and the accounting period is the end of each calendar month. The month of April will require an accrual of 10 days of interest, from the 21st to the 30th. It is posted as part of the adjusting journal entries at month-end.



Accrued interest is reported on the income statement as a revenue or expense, depending on whether the company is lending or borrowing. In addition, the portion of revenue or expense yet to be paid or collected is reported on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Because accrued interest is expected to be received or paid within one year, it is often classified as a current asset or current liability.


  Accrual Accounting and Accrued Interest  

Accrued interest is a result of accrual accounting, which requires that accounting transactions be recognized and recorded when they occur, regardless of whether payment has been received or expended at that time. The ultimate goal when accruing interest is to ensure that the transaction is accurately recorded in the right period. Accrual accounting differs from cash accounting, which recognizes an event when cash or other forms of consideration trade hands.



The revenue recognition principle and matching principle are both important aspects of accrual accounting, and both are relevant in the concept of accrued interest. The revenue recognition principle states that revenue should be recognized in the period in which it was earned, rather than when payment is received. The matching principle states that expenses should be recorded in the same accounting period as the related revenues.



To illustrate how these principles impact accrued interest, consider a business that takes out a loan to purchase a company vehicle. The company owes the bank interest on the vehicle on the first day of the following month. The company has use of the vehicle for the entire prior month, and is, therefore, able to use the vehicle to conduct business and generate revenue.



At the end of each month, the business will need to record interest that it expects to pay out on the following day. In addition, the bank will be recording accrued interest income for the same one-month period because it anticipates the borrower will be paying it the following day.


   Accrued Interest Example - Accounting  

Consider the following example. Let us assume there is a $20,000 loan receivable with an interest rate of 7.5%, on which payment has been received for the period through the 20th day of the month. In this scenario, to record the extra amount of interest revenue that was earned from the 21st to the 30th of the month, the calculation would be as follows:



(7.5% x (10 / 365)) x $20,000 = $41.10



The amount of accrued interest for the party who is receiving payment is a credit to the interest revenue account and a debit to the interest receivable account. The receivable is consequently rolled onto the balance sheet and classified as a short-term asset. The same amount is also classified as revenue on the income statement.



The accrued interest for the party who owes the payment is a credit to the accrued liabilities account and a debit to the interest expense account. The liability is rolled onto the balance sheet as a short-term liability, while the interest expense is presented on the income statement.



Both cases are posted as reversing entries, meaning that they are subsequently reversed on the first day of the following month. This ensures that when the cash transaction occurs in the following month, the net effect is only the portion of the revenue or expense that was earned or incurred in the current period stays in the current period.



Using the example above, $123.29 (7.5% x (30/365) x $20,000) is received by the lending company on the 20th day of the second month. Of that, $41.10 related to the prior month and was booked as an adjusting journal entry at the prior month end to recognize the revenue in the month it was earned. Because the adjusting journal entry reverses in the second month, the net effect is that $82.19 ($123.29 - $41.10) of the payment is recognized in the second month. That is equivalent to the 20 days worth of interest in the second month.


   Accrued Interest Example - Bonds  

Accrued interest is an important consideration when purchasing or selling a bond. Bonds offer the owner compensation for the money they have lent, in the form of regular interest payments. These interest payments, also referred to as coupons, are generally paid semiannually.



If a bond is bought or sold at a time other than those two dates each year, the purchaser will have to tack onto the sales amount any interest accrued since the previous interest payment. The new owner will receive a full 1/2 year interest payment at the next payment date. Therefore, the previous owner must be paid the interest that accrued prior to the sale.



Let's assume you are interested in buying a bond with a face value of $1,000 and a 5% semiannual coupon. The interest payment is made twice a year on June 1 and December 1 and you plan to buy the bond on September 30. How much accrued interest would you have to pay?



Bond markets use a number of slightly differing day-count conventions to calculate the exact amount of accrued interest. Since most U.S. corporate and municipal bonds use the 30/360 convention, which assumes that each month has 30 days (regardless of the actual number of days in a particular month), we will use that day-count convention in this example.



Step 1: Calculate the exact number of days between the date of the last coupon payment (June 1) and your purchase date (September 30). In this example, the number of days (based on the 30/360 convention) is 120 days.



Step 2: Calculate accrued interest by multiplying the day count by the daily interest rate and face value of the bond.



Thus, accrued interest = 120 x (5% / 360) * $1,000 = $16.67



Step 3: Add the accrued interest to the face value of the bond to get your purchase price.



Purchase price of bond = $1,000 + $16.67 = $1,016.67



On the next coupon payment date (December 1), you will receive $25 in interest. But since you paid $16.67 in accrued interest when you purchased the bond, the net interest received by you is $8.33 ($25 - $16.67), which is precisely the amount of interest you should have received for the 60 days that you owned the bond until the next coupon payment (September 30 to December 1).
What Is Accrued Liability?  

The term "accrued liability" refers to an expense incurred but not yet paid for by a business. These are costs for goods and services already delivered to a company for which it must pay in the future. A company can accrue liabilities for any number of obligations and are recorded on the company's balance sheet. They are normally listed on the balance sheet as current liabilities and are adjusted at the end of an accounting period.





Key Takeaways

An accrued liability occurs when a business has incurred an expense but has not yet paid it out.Accrued liabilities arise due to events that occur during the normal course of business.These liabilities or expenses only exist when using an accrual method of accounting.Accounting for accrued liabilities requires a debit to an expense account and a credit to the accrued liability account, which is then reversed upon payment with a credit to the cash or expense account and a debit to the accrued liability account.Examples of accrued liabilities can include payroll and payroll taxes.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Accrued Liability  

An accrued liability is a financial obligation that a company incurs during a given accounting period. Although the goods and services may already be delivered, the company has not yet paid for them in that period. They are also not recorded in the company's general ledger. Although the cash flow has yet to occur, the company must still pay for the benefit received.



Accrued liabilities, which are also called accrued expenses, only exist when using an accrual method of accounting. The concept of an accrued liability relates to timing and the matching principle. Under accrual accounting, all expenses are to be recorded in financial statements in the period in which they are incurred, which may differ from the period in which they are paid.



The expenses are recorded in the same period when related revenues are reported to provide financial statement users with accurate information regarding the costs required to generate revenue.



The cash basis or cash method is an alternative way to record expenses. But it doesn't accrue liabilities. Accrued liabilities are entered into the financial records during one period and are typically reversed in the next when paid. This allows for the actual expense to be recorded at the accurate dollar amount when payment is made in full.






Accrued liabilities only exist when using an accrual method of accounting.


   Types of Accrued Liabilities  

There are two types of accrued liabilities that companies must account for, including routine and recurring. We've listed some of the most important details about each below.


  Routine Accrued Liabilities  

This kind of accrued liability is also referred to as a recurring liability. As such, these expenses normally occur as part of a company's day-to-day operations. For instance, accrued interest payable to a creditor for a financial obligation, such as a loan, is considered a routine or recurring liability. The company may be charged interest but won't pay for it until the next accounting period.


  Non-Routine Accrued Liabilities  

Non-routine accrued liabilities are expenses that don't occur regularly. This is why they're also called infrequent accrued liabilities. They aren't part of a company's normal operating activities. A non-routine liability may, therefore, be an unexpected expense that a company may be billed for but won't have to pay until the next accounting period.


   Journal Entry for an Accrued Liability  

Accounting for an accrued liability requires a journal entry. An accountant usually marks a debit and a credit to their expense accounts and accrued liability accounts respectively.



This is then reversed when the next accounting period begins and the payment is made. The accounting department debits the accrued liability account and credits the expense account, which reverses out the original transaction.


   When Do Accrued Liabilities Occur?  

Accrued liabilities arise for a number of reasons or when events occur during the normal course of business. For instance:



A company that purchases goods or services on a deferred payment plan accrues liabilities because the obligation to pay in the future exists.
Employees may perform work for which they haven't received wages.
Interest on loans may be accrued if interest fees were incurred since the previous loan payment.
Taxes owed to governments may be accrued because they are not due until the next tax reporting period.



At the end of a calendar year, employee salaries and benefits must be recorded in the appropriate year, regardless of when the pay period ends and when paychecks are distributed. For example, a two-week pay period may extend from December 25 to January 7.



Although they aren't distributed until January, there is still one full week of expenses for December. The salaries, benefits, and taxes incurred from Dec. 25 to Dec. 31 are deemed accrued liabilities. These expenses are debited to reflect an increase in the expenses. Meanwhile, various liabilities will be credited to report the increase in obligations at the end of the year.






Payroll taxes, including Social Security, Medicare, and federal unemployment taxes are liabilities that can be accrued periodically in preparation for payment before the taxes are due.


   Accrued Liability vs. Accounts Payable (AP)  

Accrued liabilities and accounts payable (AP) are both types of liabilities that companies need to pay. But there is a difference between the two. Accrued liabilities are for expenses that have not yet been billed, either because they are a regular expense that doesn't require a bill (i.e., payroll) or because the company hasn't yet received a bill from the vendor (i.e., a utility bill).



As such, accounts payable (or payables) are generally short-term obligations and must be paid within a certain amount of time. Creditors send invoices or bills, which are documented by the receiving company's AP department. The department then issues the payment for the total amount by the due date. Paying off these expenses during the specified time helps companies avoid default.


   Examples of Accrued Liability  

As noted above, companies can accrue liabilities for many different reasons. As such, there are many different kinds of expenses that fall under this category. The following are some of the most common examples:



Wage expenses: This is for work already performed by employees. The work is paid for in the next accounting period. This is common with employers who pay their employees bi-weekly, because a pay period may extend into the following accounting month or year.
Goods and services: Some companies place orders and receive goods and services from their suppliers without paying for them immediately. As an accrued expense, the receiving company pays for these goods and services at a later date.
Interest: A company may have an outstanding loan for which the interest isn't yet due. The lender may require this expense.
What Is Accrued Revenue?  

Accrued revenue is revenue that has been earned by providing a good or service, but for which no cash has been received. Accrued revenues are recorded as receivables on the balance sheet to reflect the amount of money that customers owe the business for the goods or services they purchased.



Accrued revenue may be contrasted with realized or recognized revenue, and compared with accrued expenses.





Key Takeaways

Accrued revenue is used in accrual accounting where revenue is recorded at the time of sale, even if payment is not yet received.This follows the revenue recognition principle, which requires that revenue be recorded in the period in which it is earned.Accrued revenue is recorded with an adjusting journal entry that recognizes items that would otherwise not appear in the financial statements at the end of the period.It is commonly used in the service industry, where contracts for services may extend across many accounting periods.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Accrued Revenue  

Accrued revenue is the product of accrual accounting and the revenue recognition and matching principles. The revenue recognition principle requires that revenue transactions be recorded in the same accounting period in which they are earned, rather than when the cash payment for the product or service is received. The matching principle is an accounting concept that seeks to tie revenue generated in an accounting period to the expenses incurred to generate that revenue. Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), accrued revenue is recognized when the performing party satisfies a performance obligation. For example, revenue is recognized when a sales transaction is made and the customer takes possession of a good, regardless of whether the customer paid cash or credit at that time.



Accrued revenue often appears in the financial statements of businesses in the service industry, because revenue recognition would otherwise be delayed until the work or service was finished, which might last several months—in contrast to manufacturing, where invoices are issued as soon as products are shipped. Without using accrued revenue, revenues, and profit would be reported in a lumpy fashion, giving a murky and not useful impression of the business's true value.



For example, a construction company will work on one project for many months. It needs to recognize a portion of the revenue for the contract in each month as services are rendered, rather than waiting until the end of the contract to recognize the full revenue.






In 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board introduced a joint Accounting Standards Code Topic 606 Revenue From Contracts With Customers. This was to provide an industry-neutral revenue recognition model to increase financial statement comparability across companies and industries. Public companies had to apply the new revenue recognition rules for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017.


   Recording Accrued Revenue  

Accrued revenue is recorded in the financial statements by way of an adjusting journal entry. The accountant debits an asset account for accrued revenue which is reversed with the amount of revenue collected, crediting accrued revenue.



Accrued revenue covers items that would not otherwise appear in the general ledger at the end of the period. When one company records accrued revenues, the other company will record the transaction as an accrued expense, which is a liability on the balance sheet.



When accrued revenue is first recorded, the amount is recognized on the income statement through a credit to revenue. An associated accrued revenue account on the company's balance sheet is debited by the same amount in the form of accounts receivable.



When a customer makes a payment for the goods or services received, the accountant makes a journal entry for the amount of cash received by debiting the cash account on the balance sheet and then crediting the same amount to the accrued revenue account or accounts receivable account.


   Examples of Accrued Revenue  

Accrued revenue is often recorded by companies engaged in long-term projects like construction or large engineering projects. Similar to the example of the construction company above, companies in the aerospace and defense sectors might accrue revenue as each piece of military hardware is delivered, even if they only bill the U.S. government once a year.



Landlords may book accrued revenue if they record a tenant's rent payment at the first of the month but receive the rent at the end of the month.
What Is Accumulated Depreciation?  

Accumulated depreciation is the cumulative depreciation of an asset up to a single point in its life. Accumulated depreciation is a contra asset account, meaning its natural balance is a credit that reduces the overall asset value.





Key Takeaways

Depreciation is recorded to tie the cost of using a long-term capital asset with the benefit gained from its use over time.Accumulated depreciation is the sum of all recorded depreciation on an asset to a specific date.Accumulated depreciation is presented on the balance sheet just below the related capital asset line.Accumulated depreciation is recorded as a contra asset that has a natural credit balance (as oppose to asset accounts with natural debit balances). The carrying value of an asset is its historical cost minus accumulated depreciation.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Accumulated Depreciation  

The matching principle under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) dictates that expenses must be matched to the same accounting period in which the related revenue is generated. Through depreciation, a business will expense a portion of a capital asset's value over each year of its useful life. This means that each year a capitalized asset is put to use and generates revenue, the cost associated with using up the asset is recorded.



Accumulated depreciation is the total amount an asset has been depreciated up until a single point. Each period, the depreciation expense recorded in that period is added to the beginning accumulated depreciation balance. An asset's carrying value on the balance sheet is the difference between its historical cost and accumulated depreciation. At the end of an asset's useful life, its carrying value on the balance sheet will match its salvage value.



When recording depreciation in the general ledger, a company debits depreciation expense and credits accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense flows through to the income statement in the period it is recorded. Accumulated depreciation is presented on the balance sheet below the line for related capitalized assets. The accumulated depreciation balance increases over time, adding the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the current period.






Accumulated depreciation is dependent on salvage value; salvage value is determined as the amount a company may expect to receive in exchange for selling an asset at the end of its useful life.


   How to Calculate Accumulated Depreciation  

There are several acceptable methods for calculating depreciation. These methods are allowable under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). A company may select the depreciation method they wish to use.


  Straight-Line Method  

Under the straight-line method of accounting, a company deducts the asset’s salvage value from the purchase price to find a depreciable base. Then, this base is accumulated evenly over the anticipated useful life of the asset. The straight-line method formula is:



Annual Accumulated Depreciation = (Asset Value – Salvage Value) / Useful Life in Years



Imagine Company ABC buys a building for $250,000. The building is expected to be useful for 20 years with a value of $10,000 at the end of the 20th year. The depreciable base for the building is $240,000 ($250,000 - $10,000). Divided over 20 years, the company would recognized $20,000 of accumulated depreciation every year. 


  Declining Balance Method  

Under the declining balance method, depreciation is recorded as a percentage of the asset's current book value. Because the same percentage is used in every year while the current book value decreases, the amount of depreciation decreases each year. Even though accumulated depreciation will still increase, the amount of accumulated depreciation will decrease each year.



Annual Accumulated Depreciation = Current Book Value * Depreciation Rate



For example, imagine Company ABC buys a company vehicle for $10,000 with no salvage value at the end of its life. The company decided it would depreciate 20% of the book value each year. In Year 1, Company ABC would recognize $2,000 ($10,000 * 20%) of depreciation and accumulated depreciation. In Year 2, Company ABC would recognize $1,600 (($10,000 - $2,000) * 20%).


  Double-Declining Balance Method  

Under the double-declining balance (also called accelerated depreciation), a company calculates what it's depreciation would be under the straight-line method. Then, the company doubles the depreciation rate, keeps this rate the same across all years the asset is depreciated, and continues to accumulate depreciation until the salvage value is reached. The percentage can simply be calculated as twice of 100% divided by the number of years of useful life.



Double-Declining Balance Method Rate = (100% / Useful Life In Years) * 2



Double-Declining Balance Method = Depreciable Amount * Double-Declining Balance Method Rate



Let's imagine Company ABC's building they purchased for $250,000 with a $10,000 salvage value. Under the straight-line method, the company recognized 5% (100% depreciation / 20 years); therefore, it would use 10% as the depreciation base for the double-declining balance method. The company would recognize $24,000 ($240,000 depreciable base * 10%) in Year 1, and would recognize $21,600 (($240,000 depreciable base - $24,000) * 10%).


  Sum-of-the-Years' Digits Method  

Under the sum-of-the-years' digits method, a company strives to record more depreciation earlier in the life of an asset and less in the later years. This is done by adding up the digits of the useful years, then depreciating based on that number of year.



Annual Accumulated Depreciation = Depreciable Base * (Inverse Year Number / Sum of Year Digits)



Company ABC purchased a piece of equipment that has a useful life of 5 years. The asset has a depreciable base of $15,000. Since the asset has a useful life of 5 years, the sum of year digits is 15 (5+4+3+2+1). The depreciation rate is then the quotient of the inverse year number (Year 1 = 5, Year 2 = 4, Year 3 = 3, etc.) divided by 15. In Year 1, the company will recognize $5,000 ($15,000 * (5/15)) of depreciation and will recognize $4,000 ($15,000 * (4/15)) in Year 2.


  Units of Production Method  

Under the units of production method, a company estimates the total useful output of an asset. Then, the company evaluates how many of those units were consumed each year to recognize accumulated depreciation variably based on use. The formula for the units of production method is:



Annual Accumulated Deprecation = (Number of Units Consumed / Total Units To Be Consumed) * Depreciable Base



For example, a company buys a company vehicle and plans on driving the vehicle 80,000 miles. In the first year, the company drove the vehicle 8,000 miles. Therefore, it would recognize 10% (8,000 / 80,000) of the depreciable base. In the second year, if the company drives 20,000 miles, it would recognize 25% of depreciable base as an expense in the second year, with accumulated depreciation now equal to $28,000 ($8,000 in the first year + $20,000 in the second year).


   Accumulated Depreciation vs. Accelerated Depreciation  

Though similar sounding in name, accumulated depreciation and accelerated depreciation refer to very different accounting concepts. Accumulated depreciation refers to the life-to-date depreciation that has been recognized that reduces the book value of an asset. On the other hand, accelerated depreciation refers to a method of depreciation where a higher amount of depreciation is recognized earlier in an asset’s life.



Since accelerated depreciation is an accounting method for recognizing depreciation, the result of accelerated depreciation is to book accumulated depreciation. Under this method, the amount of accumulated depreciation accumulates faster during the early years of an asset’s life and accumulates slower later. The philosophy behind accelerated depreciation is assets that are newer (i.e. a new company vehicle) are often used more than older assets because they are in better condition and more efficient. 






Accumulated depreciation is a real account (a general ledger account that is not listed on the income statement). The balance rolls year-over-year, while nominal accounts like depreciation expense are closed out at year end.


   Accumulated Depreciation vs. Depreciation Expense  

When an asset is depreciated, two accounts are immediately impacted: accumulated depreciation and depreciation expense. The journal entry to record depreciation results in a debit to depreciation expense and a credit to accumulated depreciation. The dollar amount for each line is equal to the other.



There are two main differences between accumulated depreciation and depreciation expense. First, depreciation expense is reported on the income statement, while accumulated depreciation is reported on the balance sheet. 



Second, on a related note, the income statement does not carry from year-to-year. Activity is swept to retained earnings, and a company “resets” its income statement every year. Meanwhile, its balance sheet is a life-to-date running total that does not clear at year-end. Therefore, depreciation expense is recalculated every year, while accumulated depreciation is always a life-to-date running total.


   Special Considerations  
  Accounting Adjustments/Changes in Estimate  

Because the depreciation process is heavily rooted with estimates, it’s common for companies to need to revise their guess on the useful life of an asset’s life or the salvage value at the end of the asset’s life. This change is reflected as a change in accounting estimate, not a change in accounting principle. For example, say a company was depreciating a $10,000 asset over its five year useful life with no salvage value. Using the straight-line method, accumulated depreciation of $2,000 is recognized.



After two years, the company realizes the remaining useful life is not three years but instead six years. Under GAAP, the company does not need to retroactively adjust financial statements for changes in estimates. Instead, the company will change the amount of accumulated depreciation recognized each year. 



In this example, since the asset now has a $6,000 net book value ($10,000 purchase price less $4,000 of accumulated depreciation booked in the first two years), the company will now recognized $1,000 of accumulated depreciation for the next six years. 


  Half-Year Recognition  

A commonly practiced strategy for depreciating an asset is to recognize a half year of depreciation in the year an asset is acquired and a half year of depreciation in the last year of an asset’s useful life. This strategy is employed to more fairly allocate depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation in years when an asset may only be used part of a year. 



For example, Company A buys a company vehicle in Year 1 with a five year useful life. Regardless of the month, the company will recognize six months worth of depreciation in Year 1. The company will also recognize a full year of depreciation in Year 2 - 5. Then, the company will recognize the final half year of depreciation in Year 6. Although the asset only had a useful life of five years, it is argued that the asset wasn't used for the entirety of Year 1 nor the entirety of Year 6.


   Example of Accumulated Depreciation  

Company A buys a piece of equipment with a useful life of 10 years for $110,000. The equipment is estimated to have a salvage value of $10,000. The equipment is going to provide the company with value for the next 10 years, so the company expenses the cost of the equipment over the next 10 years. Straight-line depreciation is calculated as (($110,000 - $10,000) / 10), or $10,000 a year. This means the company will depreciate $10,000 for the next 10 years until the book value of the asset is $10,000.



Each year the contra asset account referred to as accumulated depreciation increases by $10,000. For example, at the end of five years, the annual depreciation expense is still $10,000, but accumulated depreciation has grown to $50,000. That is, accumulated depreciation is a cumulative account. It is credited each year as the value of the asset is written off and remains on the books, reducing the net value of the asset, until the asset is disposed of or sold. It is important to note that accumulated depreciation cannot be more than the asset's historical cost even if the asset is still in use after its estimated useful life.




Is Accumulated Depreciation an Asset?
Accumulated depreciation is a contra asset that reduces the book value of an asset. Accumulated depreciation has a natural credit balance (as opposed to assets that have a natural debit balance). However, accumulated depreciation is reported within the asset section of a balance sheet.




Is Accumulated Depreciation a Current Liability?
Accumulated depreciation is not a liability. A liability is a future financial obligation (i.e. debt) that the company has to pay. Accumulation depreciation is not a cash outlay; the cash obligation has already been satisfied when the asset is purchased or financed. Instead, accumulated depreciation is the way of recognizing depreciation over the life of the asset instead of recognizing the expense all at once. 




How Do You Calculate Accumulated Depreciation?
Accumulated depreciation is calculated using several different accounting methods. Those accounting methods include the straight-line method, the declining balance method, the double-declining balance method, the units of production method, or the sum-of-the-years method. In general, accumulated depreciation is calculated by taking the depreciable base of an asset and dividing it by a suitable divisor such as years of use or units of production.




Where Is Accumulated Depreciation Recorded?
Accumulated depreciation is recorded as a contra asset via the credit portion of a journal entry. Accumulated depreciation is nested under the long-term assets section of a balance sheet and reduces the net book value of a capital asset.




Is Accumulated Depreciation a Credit or Debit?
Accumulated depreciation is a natural credit balance. Although it is reported on the balance sheet under the asset section, accumulated depreciation reduces the total value of assets recognized on the financial statement since assets are natural debit accounts.


   The Bottom Line  

Many companies rely on capital assets such as buildings, vehicles, equipment, and machinery as part of their operations. In accordance with accounting rules, companies must depreciate these assets over their useful lives. As a result, companies must recognize accumulated depreciation, the sum of depreciation expense recognized over the life of an asset. Accumulated depreciation is reported on the balance sheet as a contra asset that reduces the net book value of the capital asset section.
Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) includes unrealized gains and losses reported in the equity section of the balance sheet that are netted below retained earnings. Other comprehensive income can consist of gains and losses on certain types of investments, pension plans, and hedging transactions. It is excluded from net income because the gains and losses have not yet been realized. Investors reviewing a company's balance sheet can use the OCI account as a barometer for upcoming threats or windfalls to net income.





Key Takeaways

Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) includes unrealized gains and losses that are reported in the equity section of the balance sheet.An unrealized gain or loss occurs when an investment, pension plan, or hedging transaction has appreciated or depreciated in fair value, but a sale transaction has not yet occurred for the gain or loss to be realized. Accumulated other comprehensive income is displayed on the balance sheet in some instances to alert financial statement users to a potential for a realized gain or loss on the income statement down the road. 


   Other Comprehensive Income vs. Realized Income  

An investment must have a buy transaction and a sell transaction to realize a gain or loss. If, for example, an investor buys IBM common stock at $20 per share and later sells the shares at $50, the owner has a realized gain per share of $30. Realized gains and losses are reported on the income statement.



An unrealized gain or loss means that no sell transaction has occurred. Other comprehensive income reports unrealized gains and losses for certain investments based on the fair value of the security as of the balance sheet date. If, for example, the stock was purchased at $20 per share, and the fair market value is now $35 per share, the unrealized gain is $15 per share.



Companies can designate investments as available for sale, held to maturity, or trading securities. Unrealized gains and losses are reported in OCI for some of these securities, so the financial statement reader is aware of the potential for a realized gain or loss on the income statement down the road.


   Types of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  

Unrealized gains and losses relating to a company's pension plan are commonly presented in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI). Companies have several types of obligations for funding a pension plan. A defined benefit plan, for example, requires the employer to plan for specific payments to retirees in future years. If the assets invested in the plan are not sufficient, the company's pension plan liability increases. A firm's liability for pension plans increases when the investment portfolio recognizes losses. Retirement plan expenses and unrealized losses may be reported in OCI. Once the gain or loss is realized, the amount is reclassified from OCI to net income. OCI also includes unrealized gains or losses related to investments. For example, a large unrealized loss from bond holdings today could spell trouble if the bonds are nearing maturity.



In addition to investment and pension plan gains and losses, OCI includes hedging transactions a company performs to limit losses. This includes foreign currency exchange hedges that aim to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations. A multinational company that must deal with different currencies may require a company to hedge against currency fluctuations, and the unrealized gains and losses for those holdings are posted to OCI.
What Is the Accumulation Phase?  

Accumulation phase has two meanings for investors and those saving for retirement. It refers to the period when an individual is working and planning and ultimately building up the value of their investment through savings. The accumulation phase is then followed by the distribution phase, in which retirees begin accessing and using their funds.





Key Takeaways

Accumulation phase refers to the period in a person's life in which they are saving for retirement.The accumulation happens ahead of the distribution phase when they are retired and spending the money.Accumulation phase also refers to a period when an annuity investor is beginning to build up the cash value of the annuity. (The annuitization phase, when payments are dispersed, follows the accumulation period.)The length of the accumulation phase will vary based on when an individual begins saving and when the person plans to retire.


   How the Accumulation Phase Works  

The accumulation phase is also a specific period when an annuity investor is in the early stages of building up the cash value of the annuity. This building phase is followed by the annuitization phase, where payments are paid out to the annuitant.



The accumulation phase essentially begins when a person starts saving money for retirement and ends when they begin taking distributions. For many people, this starts when they begin their working life and ends when they retire from the work world. It is possible to start saving for retirement even before beginning the work phase of one's life, such as when someone is a student, but it is not common. Typically, joining the workforce coincides with the start of the accumulation phase.


   Importance of the Accumulation Phase  

Experts state that the sooner an individual begins the accumulation phase, the better, with the long-term financial difference between beginning to save in one's 20s vs. in the 30s substantial. Postponing consumption by saving during an accumulation period will most often increase the amount of consumption one will be able to have later. The earlier the accumulation period is in your life, the more advantages you will have, such as compounding interest and protection from business cycles.



In terms of annuities, when a person invests money in an annuity to provide income for retirement, they are at the accumulation period of the annuity's life span. The more invested during the accumulation phase, the more will be received during the annuitization phase.


   Real-World Examples  

There are many income streams that an individual can build up during the accumulation phase, starting from when they first enter the workforce, or in some cases, sooner. Here are a few of the more popular options.



Social Security: This is a contribution automatically deducted from every paycheck you receive.
401(k): This is an optional tax-deferred investment that can be made paycheck-to-paycheck, monthly, or yearly provided your employer offers such an option. The amount you can set aside has yearly limits and also depends on your income, age, and marital status.
IRAs: An Individual Retirement Account can be either pretax or after-tax, depending on which option you choose. The amount you can invest varies year-to-year, as set out by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and depends on your income, age, and marital status.
Investment portfolio: This refers to an investor's holdings, which can include assets such as stocks, government, and corporate bonds, Treasury bills, real estate investment trusts (REITs), exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, and certificates of deposits. Options, derivatives and physical commodities like real estate, land and timber can also be included in the list.
Deferred payment annuities: These annuities offer tax-deferred growth at a fixed or variable rate of return. They allow individuals to make monthly or lump-sum payments to an insurance company in exchange for guaranteed income down the line, typically 10 years or more.
Life insurance policies: Some policies can be useful for retirement, such as if an individual pays an after-tax, fixed amount annually that grows based on a particular market index. The policy would need to be the kind that allows the individual to withdraw in retirement the principal and any appreciation from the policy essentially tax-free.
What Is the Accumulation/Distribution Indicator (A/D)?  

The accumulation/distribution indicator (A/D) is a cumulative indicator that uses volume and price to assess whether a stock is being accumulated or distributed. The A/D measure seeks to identify divergences between the stock price and the volume flow. This provides insight into how strong a trend is. If the price is rising but the indicator is falling, then it suggests that buying or accumulation volume may not be enough to support the price rise and a price decline could be forthcoming.





Key Takeways

The accumulation/distribution (A/D) line gauges supply and demand of an asset or security by looking at where the price closed within the period’s range and then multiplying that by volume.The A/D indicator is cumulative, meaning one period’s value is added or subtracted from the last.In general, a rising A/D line helps confirm a rising price trend, while a falling A/D line helps confirm a price downtrend.






   The Accumulation/Distribution Indicator (A/D) Formula  
















MFM


=




(


Close


−


Low


)


−


(


High


−


Close


)




High


−


Low


















where:
















MFM


=


Money Flow Multiplier
















Close


=


Closing price
















Low


=


Low price for the period
















High


=


High price for the period







\begin{aligned}&\text{MFM} = \frac {(\text{Close} - \text{Low} ) - ( \text{High} - \text{Close} ) } {\text{High} - \text{Low} } \\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{MFM} = \text{Money Flow Multiplier} \\&\text{Close} = \text{Closing price} \\&\text{Low} = \text{Low price for the period} \\&\text{High} = \text{High price for the period} \\ \end{aligned}


​MFM=High−Low(Close−Low)−(High−Close)​where:MFM=Money Flow MultiplierClose=Closing priceLow=Low price for the periodHigh=High price for the period​


















Money Flow Volume


=


MFM


×


Period Volume







\begin{aligned}&\text{Money Flow Volume} = \text{MFM} \times \text{Period Volume} \\ \end{aligned}


​Money Flow Volume=MFM×Period Volume​


















A/D


=


Previous A/D


+


CMFV
















where:
















CMFV


=


Current period money flow volume







\begin{aligned}&\text{A/D} = \text{Previous A/D} + \text{CMFV}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CMFV} = \text{Current period money flow volume} \\ \end{aligned}


​A/D=Previous A/D+CMFVwhere:CMFV=Current period money flow volume​



How to Calculate the A/D Line



Start by calculating the multiplier. Note the most recent period’s close, high, and low to calculate.
Use the multiplier and the current period’s volume to calculate the money flow volume.
Add the money flow volume to the last A/D value. For the first calculation, use money flow volume as the first value.
Repeat the process as each period ends, adding/subtracting the new money flow volume to/from the prior total. This is A/D.


   What Does the Accumulation/Distribution Indicator (A/D) Tell You?  

The A/D line helps to show how supply and demand factors are influencing price. A/D can move in the same direction as price changes or in the opposite direction.



The multiplier in the calculation provides a gauge for how strong the buying or selling was during a particular period. It does this by determining whether the price closed in the upper or lower portion of its range. This is then multiplied by the volume. Therefore, when a stock closes near the high of the period’s range and has high volume, it will result in a large A/D jump. Alternatively, if the price finishes near the high of the range but volume is low, or if the volume is high but the price finishes more toward the middle of the range, then the A/D will not move up as much.



The same concepts apply when the price closes in the lower portion of the period’s price range. Both volume and where the price closes within the period’s range determine how much the A/D will decline.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The A/D line is used to help assess price trends and potentially spot forthcoming reversals. If a security’s price is in a downtrend while the A/D line is in an uptrend, then the indicator shows there may be buying pressure and the security’s price may reverse to the upside. Conversely, if a security’s price is in an uptrend while the A/D line is in a downtrend, then the indicator shows there may be selling pressure, or higher distribution. This warns that the price may be due for a decline.



In both cases, the steepness of the A/D line provides insight into the trend. A strongly rising A/D line confirms a strongly rising price. Similarly, if the price is falling and the A/D is also falling, then there is still plenty of distribution and prices are likely to continue to decline.


   The Accumulation/Distribution Indicator (A/D) vs. On-Balance Volume (OBV)  

Both of these technical indicators use price and volume, albeit somewhat differently. On-balance volume (OBV) looks at whether the current closing price is higher or lower than the prior close. If the close is higher, then the period’s volume is added. If the close is lower, then the period’s volume is subtracted.



The A/D indicator doesn’t factor in the prior close and uses a multiplier based on where the price closed within the period’s range. Therefore, the indicators use different calculations and may provide different information.


   Limitations of Using the Accumulation/Distribution Indicator (A/D)  

The A/D indicator does not factor in price changes from one period to the next, and focuses only on where the price closes within the current period’s range. This creates some anomalies.



Assume a stock gaps down 20% on huge volume. The price oscillates throughout the day and finishes in the upper portion of its daily range, but is still down 18% from the prior close. Such a move would actually cause the A/D to rise. Even though the stock lost a significant amount of value, it finished in the upper portion of its daily range; therefore, the indicator will increase, likely dramatically, due to the large volume. Traders need to monitor the price chart and mark any potential anomalies like these, as they could affect how the indicator is interpreted.



Also, one of the main uses of the indicator is to monitor for divergences. Divergences can last a long time and are poor timing signals. When divergence appears between the indicator and price, it doesn’t mean a reversal is imminent. It may take a long time for the price to reverse, or it may not reverse at all.



The A/D is just one tool that can be used to assess strength or weakness within a trend, but it is not without its faults. Use the A/D indicator in conjunction with other forms of analysis, such as price action analysis, chart patterns, or fundamental analysis, to get a more complete picture of what is moving the price of a stock.
What Is the Acid-Test Ratio?  

The acid-test ratio, commonly known as the quick ratio, uses data from a firm's balance sheet to indicate whether it has the means to cover its short-term liabilities. Generally, a ratio of 1.0 or more indicates a company can pay its short-term obligations, while a ratio of less than 1.0 indicates it might struggle to pay them.





Key Takeaways

The acid-test, or quick ratio, compares a company's most short-term assets to its most short-term liabilities to see if it has enough cash to pay its immediate liabilities, such as short-term debt.The acid-test ratio disregards current assets that are difficult to liquidate quickly, such as inventory.The acid-test ratio may not give a reliable picture of a firm's financial condition if the company has accounts receivable that take longer than usual to collect or current liabilities that are due but have no immediate payment needed.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding the Acid-Test Ratio  

In certain situations, analysts prefer to use the acid-test ratio rather than the current ratio (also known as the working capital ratio) because the acid-test method ignores assets such as inventory, which may be difficult to liquidate quickly. The acid-test ratio is thus a more conservative metric.



Companies with an acid-test ratio of less than 1.0 do not have enough liquid assets to pay their current liabilities and should be treated cautiously. If the acid-test ratio is much lower than the current ratio, a company's current assets are highly dependent on inventory.



However, this is not a bad sign in all cases, as some business models are inherently dependent on inventory. Retail stores, for example, may have very low acid-test ratios without necessarily being in danger. The acceptable range for an acid-test ratio will vary among different industries, and you'll find that comparisons are most meaningful when analyzing peer companies in the same industry as each other.



For most industries, the acid-test ratio should exceed 1.0. On the other hand, a high ratio is not always good. It could indicate that cash has accumulated and is idle rather than being reinvested, returned to shareholders, or otherwise put to productive use.






Some tech companies generate massive cash flows and accordingly have acid-test ratios as high as 7 or 8. While this is certainly better than the alternative, these companies have drawn criticism from activist investors who would prefer that shareholders receive a portion of the profits.


   Calculating the Acid-Test Ratio  

The numerator of the acid-test ratio can be defined in various ways, but the primary consideration should be gaining a realistic view of the company's liquid assets. Cash and cash equivalents should definitely be included, as should short-term investments, such as marketable securities.
Accounts receivable are generally included, but this is not appropriate for every industry. In the construction industry, for example, accounts receivable may take much more time to recover than is standard practice in other industries, so including it could make a firm's financial position seem much more secure than it is in reality.
The formula is:















Acid Test


=




Cash


+


Marketable Securities


+


A/R



Current Liabilities

















where:
















A/R


=


Accounts receivable







\begin{aligned} &\text{Acid Test} = \frac{ \text{Cash} + \text{Marketable Securities} + \text{A/R} }{ \text{Current Liabilities} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{A/R} = \text{Accounts receivable} \\ \end{aligned}


​Acid Test=Current LiabilitiesCash+Marketable Securities+A/R​where:A/R=Accounts receivable​
Another way to calculate the numerator is to take all current assets and subtract illiquid assets. Most importantly, inventory should be subtracted, keeping in mind that this will negatively skew the picture for retail businesses because of the amount of inventory they carry. Other elements that appear as assets on a balance sheet should be subtracted if they cannot be used to cover liabilities in the short term, such as advances to suppliers, prepayments, and deferred tax assets.
The ratio's denominator should include all current liabilities, debts, and obligations due within one year. It is important to note that time is not factored into the acid-test ratio. If a company's accounts payable are nearly due but its receivables won't come in for months, it could be on much shakier ground than its ratio would indicate. The opposite can also be true.






The term "acid-test" is rumored to have originated from testing precious metals like gold with acid to make sure it was real.


   Acid-Test Ratio Example  

A company's acid-test ratio can be calculated using its balance sheet. Below is an abbreviated version of Apple Inc.'s (AAPL) balance sheet as of Jan. 27, 2022, showing the components of the company's current assets and current liabilities (all figures in millions of dollars):









 Cash and cash equivalents
 37,119


 Short-term marketable securities
 26,794


 Accounts receivable
 30,213


 Inventories
 5,876


 Vendor non-trade receivables
 35,040


 Other current assets
 18,112


 Total current assets
 153,154






Accounts payable
74,362


Other current liabilities
49,167


Deferred revenue
7,876


Commercial paper
5,000


Term debt
11,169


Total current liabilities
147,574






To obtain the company's liquid current assets, add:



Cash and cash equivalentsShort-term marketable securitiesAccounts receivableVendor non-trade receivables



To get current liabilities, add:



Accounts payableOther current assets



Then divide current liquid assets by current liabilities to calculate the acid-test ratio. The calculation would look like this:



Apple's ATR = ($37,119 + 26,795 + 30,213 + 35,040) / ($74,632 + $49,167) = 1.05



Not everyone calculates this ratio the same. There is no single, hard-and-fast method for determining a company's acid-test ratio. Some analysts might include other balance sheet line items not included in this example, and others might remove the ones used here. So, it is important to understand how data providers arrive at their conclusions before using the metrics given to you.




What's the Difference Between Current and Acid-Test Ratios?
Both the current ratio, also known as the working capital ratio, and the acid-test ratio measure a company's short-term ability to generate enough cash to pay off all debts should they become due at once. However, the acid-test ratio is considered more conservative than the current ratio because its calculation ignores items such as inventory, which may be difficult to liquidate quickly. Another key difference is that the acid-test ratio includes only assets that can be converted to cash within 90 days or less, while the current ratio includes those that can be converted to cash within one year.




What Does the Acid-Test Ratio Tell You?
The acid-test, or quick ratio, shows if a company has, or can get, enough cash to pay its immediate liabilities, such as short-term debt. For most industries, the acid-test ratio should exceed 1.0. If it's less than 1.0, then companies do not have enough liquid assets to pay their current liabilities and should be treated with caution. If the acid-test ratio is much lower than the current ratio, it means that a company's current assets are highly dependent on inventory. On the other hand, a very high ratio could indicate that accumulated cash is sitting idle rather than being reinvested, returned to shareholders, or otherwise put to productive use.




How Do You Calculate the Acid-Test Ratio?
To calculate the acid-test ratio of a company, divide a company’s current cash, marketable securities, and total accounts receivable by its current liabilities. This information can be found on the company’s balance sheet.


   The Bottom Line  

The acid-test ratio, also called the quick ratio, is a metric used to see if a company is positioned to sell assets within 90 days to meet immediate expenses. In general, analysts believe if the ratio is more than 1.0, a business can pay its immediate expenses. If it is less than 1.0, it cannot.



The reliability of this ratio depends on the industry the business you're evaluating operates in, so like many other financial ratios, it's best to use it when comparing similar companies.
What Is an Acquisition?  

An acquisition is when one company purchases most or all of another company's shares to gain control of that company. Purchasing more than 50% of a target firm's stock and other assets allows the acquirer to make decisions about the newly acquired assets without the approval of the company’s other shareholders. Acquisitions, which are very common in business, may occur with the target company's approval, or in spite of its disapproval. With approval, there is often a no-shop clause during the process.



We mostly hear about acquisitions of large well-known companies because these huge and significant deals tend to dominate the news. In reality, mergers and acquisitions (M&A) occur more regularly between small- to medium-size firms than between large companies.





Key Takeaways

An acquisition is a business combination that occurs when one company buys most or all of another company's shares.If a firm buys more than 50% of a target company's shares, it effectively gains control of that company.An acquisition is often friendly, while a takeover can be hostile; a merger creates a brand new entity from two separate companies.Acquisitions are often carried out with the help of an investment bank, as they are complex arrangements with legal and tax ramifications.Acquisitions are closely related to mergers and takeovers.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Acquisitions  

Companies acquire other companies for various reasons. They may seek economies of scale, diversification, greater market share, increased synergy, cost reductions, or new niche offerings. Other reasons for acquisitions include those listed below.


  As a Way to Enter a Foreign Market  

If a company wants to expand its operations to another country, buying an existing company in that country could be the easiest way to enter a foreign market. The purchased business will already have its own personnel, a brand name, and other intangible assets, which could help to ensure that the acquiring company will start off in a new market with a solid base.


  As a Growth Strategy  

Perhaps a company met with physical or logistical constraints or depleted its resources. If a company is encumbered in this way, then it's often sounder to acquire another firm than to expand its own. Such a company might look for promising young companies to acquire and incorporate into its revenue stream as a new way to profit.


  To Reduce Excess Capacity and Decrease Competition  

If there is too much competition or supply, companies may look to acquisitions to reduce excess capacity, eliminate the competition, and focus on the most productive providers.


  To Gain New Technology  

Sometimes it can be more cost-efficient for a company to purchase another company that already has implemented a new technology successfully than to spend the time and money to develop the new technology itself.






Officers of companies have a fiduciary duty to perform thorough due diligence of target companies before making any acquisition.


   Acquisition, Takeover, or Merger?  

Although technically, the words "acquisition" and "takeover" mean almost the same thing, they have different nuances on Wall Street.



In general, "acquisition" describes a primarily amicable transaction, where both firms cooperate; "takeover" suggests that the target company resists or strongly opposes the purchase; the term "merger" is used when the purchasing and target companies mutually combine to form a completely new entity. However, because each acquisition, takeover, and merger is a unique case, with its own peculiarities and reasons for undertaking the transaction, the exact use of these terms tends to overlap in practice.


  Acquisitions: Mostly Amiable  

Friendly acquisitions occur when the target firm agrees to be acquired; its board of directors (B of D, or board) approves of the acquisition. Friendly acquisitions often work toward the mutual benefit of the acquiring and target companies. Both companies develop strategies to ensure that the acquiring company purchases the appropriate assets, and they review the financial statements and other valuations for any obligations that may come with the assets. Once both parties agree to the terms and meet any legal stipulations, the purchase proceeds.


  Takeovers: Usually Inhospitable, Often Hostile  

Unfriendly acquisitions, commonly known as "hostile takeovers," occur when the target company does not consent to the acquisition. Hostile acquisitions don't have the same agreement from the target firm, and so the acquiring firm must actively purchase large stakes of the target company to gain a controlling interest, which forces the acquisition.



Even if a takeover is not exactly hostile, it implies that the firms are not equal in one or more significant ways.


  Mergers: Mutual, But Creates a New Entity  

As the mutual fusion of two companies into one new legal entity, a merger is a more-than-friendly acquisition. Mergers generally occur between companies that are roughly equal in terms of their basic characteristics—size, number of customers, the scale of operations, and so on. The merging companies strongly believe that their combined entity would be more valuable to all parties (especially shareholders) than either one could be alone.


   Evaluating Acquisition Candidates  

Before making an acquisition, it is imperative for a company to evaluate whether its target company is a good candidate.



Is the price right? The metrics investors use to value an acquisition candidate vary by industry. When acquisitions fail, it's often because the asking price for the target company exceeds these metrics.Examine the debt load. A target company with an unusually high level of liabilities should be viewed as a warning of potential problems ahead.Undue litigation. Although lawsuits are common in business, a good acquisition candidate is not dealing with a level of litigation that exceeds what is reasonable and normal for its size and industry.Scrutinize the financials. A good acquisition target will have clear, well-organized financial statements, which allows the acquirer to exercise due diligence smoothly. Complete and transparent financials also help to prevent unwanted surprises after the acquisition is complete.





The 1990s Acquisitions Frenzy

In corporate America, the 1990s will be remembered as the decade of the internet bubble and the megadeal. The late 1990s, in particular, spawned a series of multi-billion-dollar acquisitions not seen on Wall Street since the junk bond fests of the roaring 1980s. From Yahoo!'s 1999 $5.7-billion purchase of Broadcast.com to AtHome Corporation's $7.5-billion purchase of Excite, companies were lapping up the "growth now, profitability later" phenomenon. Such acquisitions reached their zenith in the first few weeks of 2000.


   Example of Acquisitions  
  AOL and Time Warner and AT&T  

AOL Inc. (originally America Online) was the most publicized online service of its time, and had been extolled as "the company that brought the internet to America." Founded in 1985, by the year 2000 AOL had grown to become the United States' largest internet provider. Meanwhile, the legendary media conglomerate, Time Warner, Inc. was being labeled an "old media" company, given its range of tangible businesses like publishing, and television, and an enviable income statement.



In 2000, in a masterful display of overweening confidence, the young upstart AOL purchased the venerable giant Time Warner (TWX) for $165 billion; this dwarfed all records and became the biggest merger in history. The vision was that the new entity, AOL Time Warner, would become a dominant force in the news, publishing, music, entertainment, cable, and Internet industries. After the merger, AOL became the largest technology company in America.



However, the joint phase lasted less than a decade. As AOL lost value and the dot-com bubble burst, the expected successes of the merger failed to materialize, and AOL and Time Warner dissolved their union:



In 2009, AOL Time Warner dissolved in a spin-off deal.
From 2009 to 2016, Time Warner remained an entirely independent company. 
In 2015, Verizon Communications, Inc. (NYSE: VZ) acquired AOL for $4.4 billion.



Then, in October 2016, AT&T (NYSE: T) and Time Warner (TWX) announced a deal in which AT&T will buy Time Warner for $85.4 billion, morphing AT&T into a media heavy-hitter. In June 2018, after a protracted court battle, AT&T completed its acquisition of Time Warner.



Certainly, the AT&T-Time Warner acquisition deal of 2018 will be as historically significant as the AOL-Time Warner deal of 2000; we just can't know exactly how yet. These days, 18 years equals numerous lifetimes—especially in media, communications, and technology—and much will continue to change. For the moment, however, two things seem certain:



The consummation of the AT&T-Time Warner merger already has begun to reshape much of the media industry.M&A enterprise is still alive and well.




What Are the Types of Acquisition?
Often, a business combination like an acquisition or merger can be categorized in one of four ways:Vertical: the parent company acquires a company that is somewhere along its supply chain, either upstream (such as a vendor/supplier) or downstream (a processor or retailer).Horizontal: the parent company buys a competitor or other firm in their own industry sector, and at the same point in the supply chain.Conglomerate: the parent company buys a company in a different industry or sector entirely, in a peripheral or unrelated business.Congeneric: also known as a market expansion, this occurs when the parent buys a firm that is in the same or a closely-related industry, but which has different business lines or products.




What Is the Purpose of an Acqusition?
Acquiring other companies can serve many purposes for the parent company. First, it can allow the company to expand its product lines or offerings. Second, it can cut down costs by acquiring businesses that feed into its supply chain. It can also acquire competitors in order to maintain market share and reduce competition.




What Is the Difference Between a Merger and an Acquisition?
The main difference is that in an acquisition, the parent company fully takes over the target company and integrates it into the parent entity. In a merger, the two companies combine, but create a brand new entity (e.g., a new company name and identity that combines aspects of both).
What is Acquisition Accounting?  

Acquisition accounting is a set of formal guidelines describing how assets, liabilities, non-controlling interest (NCI) and goodwill of a purchased company must be reported by the buyer on its consolidated statement of financial position.



The fair market value (FMV) of the acquired company is allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets portion of the balance sheet of the buyer. Any resulting difference is regarded as goodwill. Acquisition accounting is also referred to as business combination accounting.





Key Takeaways

Acquisition accounting is a set of formal guidelines describing how assets, liabilities, non-controlling interest and goodwill of an acquired company must be reported by the purchaser.The fair market value of the acquired company is allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets portion of the balance sheet of the buyer. Any resulting difference is regarded as goodwill.All business combinations must be treated as acquisitions for accounting purposes.


   How Acquisition Accounting Works  

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) require all business combinations to be treated as acquisitions for accounting purposes, meaning that one company must be identified as an acquirer and one company must be identified as an acquiree even if the transaction creates a new company.



The acquisition accounting approach requires everything to be measured at FMV, the amount a third-party would pay on the open market, at the time of acquisition — the date that the acquirer took control of the target company. That includes the following:



Tangible assets and liabilities: Assets that have a physical form, including machinery, buildings, and land.
Intangible assets and liabilities: Nonphysical assets, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, goodwill, and brand recognition.
Non-controlling interest: Also known as minority interest, this refers to a shareholder owning less than 50% of outstanding shares and having no control over decisions. If possible, the fair value of non-controlling interest can be derived from the share price of the acquiree.
Consideration paid to the seller: The buyer can pay in many ways, including cash, stock or a contingent earnout. Calculations must be provided for any future payment obligations.
Goodwill: Once all those steps have been taken, the purchaser must then calculate if there is any goodwill. Goodwill is recorded in a situation when the purchase price is higher than the sum of the fair value of all identifiable tangible and intangible assets bought in the acquisition.





Important

Fair value analysis is often conducted by a third-party valuation specialist.


   History of Acquisition Accounting  

Acquisition accounting was introduced in 2008 by the major accounting authorities, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), to replace the previous method, known as purchase accounting.



Acquisition accounting was preferred because it strengthened the concept of fair value. It focuses on prevailing market values in a transaction and includes contingencies and non-controlling interests, which were not accounted for under the purchase method.



Another difference between the two techniques is how bargain acquisitions are treated. Under the purchase method, the difference between the acquired company's fair value and its purchase price was recorded as negative goodwill (NGW) on the balance sheet that was to be amortized over time. In contrast, with acquisition accounting, NGW is immediately treated as a gain on the income statement.


   Complexities of Acquisition Accounting  

Acquisition accounting improved the transparency of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) but did not make the process of combining financial records easier. Each component of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity has to be adjusted for fair value in items ranging from inventory and contracts to hedging instruments and contingencies, to name just a few.



The amount of work needed to adjust and integrate the books of the two companies is one main reason for the long period between agreement on a deal by the respective boards of directors and the actual deal closing.
What Is an Acquisition Cost?  

An acquisition cost, also referred to as the cost of acquisition, is the total cost that a company recognizes on its books for property or equipment after adjusting for discounts, incentives, closing costs and other necessary expenditures, but before sales taxes. An acquisition cost may also entail the amount needed to take over another firm or purchase an existing business unit from another company. Additionally, an acquisition cost can describe the costs incurred by a business in relation to the efforts involved in acquiring a new customer.





Key Takeaways

Acquisition cost refers to an amount paid for fixed assets, for expenses related to the acquisition of a new customer, or for the takeover of a competitor.It is useful in identifying the full cost of fixed assets because it includes items such as legal fees and commissions and removes discounts and closing costs.Acquisition costs are also useful to determine the full expense incurred in enticing new customers, and it can be used to compare to the revenue new customers generate. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Acquisition Costs  

Acquisition costs provide a reflection of the true amount paid for fixed assets before sales tax is applied, for expenses related to the acquisition of a new customer, or for the takeover of other firms. Acquisition costs are useful because they recognize a more realistic cost on a company's financial statements than using other measures. For instance, the acquisition cost of property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) recognizes any discounts or additional costs that the company will experience and is often referred to as the original book value of the asset in question.


  Acquisition Costs for Fixed Assets  

Besides the price paid for the asset itself, additional costs may also be considered part of acquisition when these costs are directly tied to the acquisition process. For example, if the asset in question requires legal assistance to complete the transaction, legal and regulatory fees are also included. Commissions associated with the purchase may also be included, such as those paid to a real estate agent when dealing with a property transaction, to a staffing company for placing an employee, to a marketing firm for acquiring customers, or to an investment bank for brokering a merger.



With regard to manufacturing or production equipment, any costs associated with bringing the equipment to an operational state may also be included in the cost of acquisition. This includes the cost of shipping & receiving, general installation, mounting, and calibration.


  Acquisition Costs for Customers  

Customer acquisition costs are those funds that are used to introduce new customers to the company's products and services in hopes of acquiring the customer’s business. The customer acquisition cost is calculated by dividing total acquisition costs by total new customers over a set period.



Understanding customer acquisition costs is helpful in planning future capital allocations for marketing budgets and sales discounts. Costs traditionally associated with customer acquisition include marketing and advertising, incentives and discounts, the staff associated with those business areas, and other sales staff or contracts with external advertising firms. Incentives may be expressed in various formats, such as buy-one-get-one-free deals, receiving another product free with purchase, upgraded service at no additional cost to the customer, gift cards, or bill credits.



One business sector with a high occurrence of promotions directed at new customers is the wireless and cellular industry. Wireless companies often extend deals to new customers such as increased data packages, additional family phone lines for free, and discounts on the newest cellular phones. The purpose of these offerings is to entice customers to choose their business over their competitors.
What Is an Acquisition Premium?  

An acquisition premium is a figure that's the difference between the estimated real value of a company and the actual price paid to acquire it. An acquisition premium represents the increased cost of buying a target company during a merger and acquisition (M&A) transaction.



There is no requirement that a company pay a premium for acquiring another company; in fact, depending on the situation, it may even get a discount.


   Understanding Acquisition Premiums  

In an M&A scenario, the company that pays to acquire another company is known as the acquirer, and the company to be purchased or acquired is referred to as the target firm.


  Reasons For Paying An Acquisition Premium  

Typically, an acquiring company will pay an acquisition premium to close a deal and ward off competition. An acquisition premium might be paid, too, if the acquirer believes that the synergy created from the acquisition will be greater than the total cost of acquiring the target company. The size of the premium often depends on various factors such as competition within the industry, the presence of other bidders, and the motivations of the buyer and seller.






In cases where the target company’s stock price falls dramatically, its product becomes obsolete, or if there are concerns about the future of its industry, the acquiring company may withdraw its offer.


  How Does An Acquisition Premium Work?  

When a company decides that it wants to acquire another firm, it will first attempt to estimate the real value of the target company. For example, the enterprise value of Macy’s, using data from its 2017 10-K report, is estimated at $11.81 billion. After the acquiring company determines the real value of its target, it decides how much it is willing to pay on top of the real value so as to present an attractive deal to the target firm, especially if there are other firms that are considering an acquisition.



In the example above an acquirer may decide to pay a 20% premium to buy Macy’s. Thus, the total cost it will propose would be $11.81 billion x 1.2 = $14.17 billion. If this premium offer is accepted, then the acquisition premium value will be $14.17 billion - $11.81 billion = $2.36 billion, or in percentage form, 20%.


  Arriving at the Acquisition Premium  

You also may use a target company's share price to arrive at the acquisition premium. For instance, if Macy’s is currently trading at $26 per share, and an acquirer is willing to pay $33 per share for the target company’s outstanding shares, then you may calculate the acquisition premium as ($33 - $26)/$26 = 27%.






However, not every company pays a premium for an acquisition intentionally.



Using our price-per-share example, let's assume that there was no premium offer on the table and the agreed-upon acquisition cost was $26 per share. If the value of the company drops to $16 before the acquisition becomes final, the acquirer will find itself paying a premium of ($26 - $16)/$16 = 62.5%.





Key Takeaways

An acquisition premium is a figure that's the difference between the estimated real value of a company and the actual price paid to acquire it in an M&A transaction. In financial accounting, the acquisition premium is recorded on the balance sheet as "goodwill."An acquiring company is not required to pay a premium for purchasing a target company, and it may even get a discount.


   Acquisition Premiums in Financial Accounting  

In financial accounting, the acquisition premium is known as goodwill—the portion of the purchase price that is higher than the sum of the net fair value of all of the assets purchased in the acquisition and the liabilities assumed in the process. The acquiring company records goodwill as a separate account on its balance sheet.



Goodwill factors in intangible assets like the value of a target company's brand, solid customer base, good customer relations, healthy employee relations, and any patents or proprietary technology acquired from the target company. An adverse event, such as declining cash flows, economic depression, increased competitive environment and the like can lead to an impairment of goodwill, which occurs when the market value of the target company's intangible assets drops below its acquisition cost. Any impairment results in a decrease in goodwill on the balance sheet and shows as a loss on the income statement.



An acquirer can purchase a target company for a discount, that is, for less than its fair value. When this occurs, negative goodwill is recognized.
What Is Active Management?  

The term active management means that an investor, a professional money manager, or a team of professionals is tracking the performance of an investment portfolio and making buy, hold, and sell decisions about the assets in it. The goal of any investment manager is to outperform a designated benchmark while simultaneously accomplishing one or more additional goals such as managing risk, limiting tax consequences, or adhering to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards for investing. Active managers may differ from other is how they accomplish some of these goals.



For example, active managers may rely on investment analysis, research, and forecasts, which can include quantitative tools, as well as their own judgment and experience in making decisions on which assets to buy and sell. Their approach may be strictly algorithmic, entirely discretionary, or somewhere in between.



By contrast, passive management, sometimes known as indexing, follows simple rules that try to track an index or other benchmark by replicating it. Those who advocate for passive management maintain that the best results are achieved by buying assets that mirror a particular market index or indexes. Their contention is that passive management removes the shortfalls of human biases and that this leads to better performance. However, studies comparing active and passive management have only served to keep the debate alive about the respective merits of either approach.





Key Takeaways

Active management involves making buy and sell decisions about the holdings in a portfolio.Passive management is a strategy that aims to equal the returns of an index.Active management seeks returns that exceed the performance of the overall markets, to manage risk, increase income, or achieve other investor goals, such as implementing a sustainable investment approach.


   Understanding Active Management  

Investors who believe in active management do not support the stronger forms of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), which argues that it is impossible to beat the market over the long run because all public information has already been incorporated into stock prices.



Those who support these forms of the EMH insist that stock pickers who spend their days buying and selling stocks to exploit their frequent fluctuations will, over time, likely do worse than investors who buy the components of the major indexes that are used to track the performance of the wider markets over time. But this point of view narrows investing goals into a single dimension. Active managers would contend that if an investor is concerned with more than merely tracking or slightly beating a market index, an active management approach might be better suited for the task.



Active managers measure their own success by measuring how much their portfolios exceed (or fall short of) the performance of a comparable unmanaged index, industry, or market sector.



For example, the Fidelity Blue Chip Growth Fund uses the Russell 1000 Growth Index as its benchmark. Over the five years that ended June 30, 2020, the Fidelity fund returned 17.35% while the Russell 1000 Growth Index rose 15.89%. Thus, in terms of Active Share, the Fidelity fund outperformed its benchmark by 1.46% for that five-year period. Active managers will also assess portfolio risk, along with their success in achieving other portfolio goals. This is an important distinction for investors in retirement years, many of whom may have to manage risk over shorter time horizons.


   Strategies for Active Management  

Active managers believe it is possible to profit from the stock market through any of a number of strategies that aim to identify stocks that are trading at a lower price than their value merits. Their strategies may include researching a mix of fundamental, quantitative, and technical indications to identify stock selections. They may also employ asset allocation strategies aligned with their fund's goals.



Many investment companies and fund sponsors believe it's possible to outperform the market and employ professional investment managers to manage the company's mutual funds. They may see this as a way to adjust to ever-changing market conditions and unprecedented innovations in the markets.


   Disadvantages of Active Management  

Actively managed funds generally have higher fees and are less tax-efficient than passively managed funds. The investor is paying for the sustained efforts of investment advisers who specialize in active investment, and for the potential for higher returns than the markets as a whole.






There is no consensus on which strategy yields better results: active or passive management.



An investor considering active management should take a hard look at the actual returns after fees of the manager.


   Advantages of Active Management  

A fund manager’s expertise, experience, and judgment are employed by investors in an actively managed fund. An active manager who runs an automotive industry fund might have extensive experience in the field and might invest in a select group of auto-related stocks that the manager concludes are undervalued.



Active fund managers have more flexibility. There is more freedom in the selection process than in an index fund, which must match as closely as possible the selection and weighting of the investments in the index.



Actively managed funds allow for benefits in tax management. The flexibility in buying and selling allows managers to offset losers with winners.


   Managing Risk  

Active fund managers can manage risks more nimbly. A global banking exchange-traded fund (ETF) may be required to hold a specific number of British banks. That fund is likely to have dropped significantly following the shock Brexit vote in 2016. An actively managed global banking fund, meanwhile, might have reduced its exposure to British banks due to heightened levels of risk.



Active managers can also mitigate risk by using various hedging strategies such as short selling and using derivatives.


   Active Management Performance   

There is plenty of controversy surrounding the performance of active managers. Their success or failure depends largely on which of the contradictory statistics is quoted.



Over 10 years ending in 2021, active managers who invested in domestic small growth stocks were most likely to beat the index. A study showed that 88% of active managers in this category outperformed their benchmark index before fees were deducted.
What Is an Activist Investor?  

An activist investor, typically a specialized hedge fund, buys a significant minority stake in a publicly traded company in order to change how it is run.



The activist investor's goals may be as modest as advising company management or as ambitious as forcing the sale of the company, divestitures or restructuring, or replacing the board of directors.



Unlike private equity firms that buy and restructure companies in order to profit when they are resold, activist investors seldom acquire full or majority stakes. Instead, they use public communications and private discussions to win over other shareholders and company insiders. When such efforts fail, an activist investor may pursue a proxy contest to elect new directors in order to force the company to meet their demands.





Key Takeaways

Activist investors buy minority stakes in public companies to change how they are run.If they fail to persuade company managers, they may wage a proxy fight for board seats.Some hedge funds specialize in activist investing while institutional investors may engage in it from time to time.Investor activism may focus on maximizing shareholder value or on the company's social responsibilities.The SEC has proposed tougher disclosure rules for activist investors that critics contend may make activism unprofitable.


   Understanding Activist Investors  

Activist investors are sometimes called shareholder activists, a term also used to describe those lobbying companies to improve working conditions for the overseas employees of their contractors, or backers of a dissident board slate elected to fight climate change.



However, many activist investor campaigns seek only to maximize shareholder value, and most of those are the work of hedge funds specializing in the unique mix of public pressure, behind-the-scenes lobbying, and business expertise required.



Unlike the public pension funds and mutual funds that also engage in activism at times, activist hedge funds may hold highly concentrated stakes and supplement them with additional leverage from derivatives like stock options to offset the considerable cost of such campaigns. In contrast with institutional investors that sometimes turn to activism after owning a disappointing investment for years, activist hedge funds typically buy a stake in an underperforming company shortly before calling for change, and hope to profit from the resulting turnaround and price appreciation.



In contrast to institutional investors, activist hedge funds are also more willing to use confrontational tactics, from poison-pen letters to management and unflattering public reports to proxy fights seeking to oust incumbent directors.






The rise of activist investors has been described as an effective market response to the agency problem, which arises when agents (in this case company managements) have the opportunity and the means to enrich themselves at the expense of clients (in this case shareholders—a diffuse group with limited powers to safeguard its ownership interests.)


   How Activist Investors Make Their Case  

Investor activists often announce their campaigns by filing a Schedule 13D form with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which must be filed within 10 calendar days of acquiring 5% or more of a company's voting class shares.



Qualified institutional investors and passive investors, meaning those not trying to acquire or influence control of the company, may instead file a simplified Schedule 13G with less stringent disclosure requirements and thresholds. Schedule 13D filers must disclose, among other facts, their reasons for acquiring the stake and any plans they may have for the company in terms of mergers and acquisitions, asset disposals, capitalization or dividends, or other policies.



The initial 13D filing gives the activist investor a golden opportunity to publicize their case for change at the targeted company. At the same time, the filing curtails the activist's ability to alter their stake in, and plans for, the company out of the public eye. Any changes to the facts disclosed on a Schedule 13D must be reported in an amended filing "promptly," under current SEC rules.



Activist investors may use amended Schedule 13D filings to comment on a company's response to their proposals. For example, when Netflix, Inc. (NFLX) adopted a poison pill after funds affiliated with Carl Icahn reported a stake of nearly 10% in the video streaming company, the funds filed an amended disclosure calling the poison pill "an example of poor corporate governance." Activist investors may also write sharply worded letters to incumbent managers, issue press releases arguing their case to other shareholders, or privately lobby institutional investors to side with them.






Whichever tactics activist investors use must be persuasive, since the only way to overcome opposition from entrenched company management short of a hostile takeover is to persuade a sufficient number of other shareholders to replace the board in a proxy fight, or at least to be able to credibly threaten to do so.


   The Future of Shareholder Activism  

There has been a claim that "activism is dying," lamented Carl Icahn in May 2022, contrasting the legendary investor's few-holds-barred approach seen in the past. Some have feared the changes proposed to the Schedule 13D disclosure requirements in 2022 constitute a pressing threat, with Elliott Investment Management stating publicly that the proposed rules "will virtually shut down activism."



In February 2022 the SEC had proposed shortening the initial Schedule 13 filing deadline from 10 calendar days to 5, with amendments due within a day of a material change rather than "promptly" as currently. The proposal, if passed, would effectively force 13D filers to specify holdings of derivatives (such as options) that confer an economic interest in the company without the shareholder rights associated with an outright stock position. Perhaps more controversially, the proposed rules would no longer require investors to agree to act in concert and be designated a single group by the SEC for Schedule 13D reporting purposes. Rules have also been proposed to make it harder for activist shareholders to squash a company's environmental or other pro-ESG initiatives.



SEC Chair Gary Gensler argued the stepped up requirements proposed would address "an information asymmetry" between activist investors and other shareholders. Critics countered the proposed rules would make activism unprofitable by making it more difficult and costly for activist investors to accumulate significant stakes, while inhibiting communication among shareholders.



Despite these proposed rule changes, shareholder activism does not seem to be slowing down (at least, not yet). For example, activist investor Nelson Peltz reportedly made a profit of more than $150 million by acquiring shares of Disney (DIS) in November 2022, in a move that prompted a proxy fight against the returning CEO, Bob Iger; however, this brief fight was called off after Iger announced a restructuring plan that is expected to save the media giant $5.5 billion in costs and cut 7,000 employees. Peltz has expressed satisfaction with the company's direction and decision to make changes, praising Iger and his management team. In early 2023, ValueAct Capital Management, a San Francisco-based activist hedge fund, took a stake in streaming media company Spotify Technology SA (SPOT), with the goal of cutting costs and streamlining management. ValueAct has also disclosed a major position and board seat in SalesForce (CRM), which now has no less than five large activist investor shareholders on board with long positions, resulting in early 2023 cost cutting measures that include layoffs of 10% of the company's employees. In all three of the these examples, markets have reacted positively to the inclusion of activist shareholders, seeing their share prices afterwards outperform.




Do Activist Investors Ever Settle With Companies?
Yes, because activist investing is not a zero-sum game. Since activist investors and incumbent managers share an interest in the company's success, they may sometimes agree to a mutually acceptable compromise. Such agreements typically grant the activist investor representation on the company board in exchange for a pledge to support management and the company's director nominees for a specified time. The agreements may also specify steps management will take at activist investors' behest, while including standstill provisions preventing the activist from increasing their stake in the company or requiring them to maintain a specified minimum stake.




Is Shareholder Activism Dying?
While some fear recently proposed SEC rule changes may put a damper on activist investing, it has not yet seemed to slow down. After taking a dip in 2020 and 2021 due to COVID19 restrictions, activist investors were seen back above 2019 levels. In fact, shareholder activism activity hit a record high in 2022. Some predict this upward trend will continue through 2023 and beyond despite regulatory roadblocks that may be put in the way, although only time will tell.




Do Activist Investors Create Value?
Activist investors have been effective at times in addressing the agency problem faced by shareholders whose interests don't always coincide with those of entrenched management teams. They've certainly created value for themselves and other shareholders. Activist investing can't easily be pigeonholed as good or bad, however. Activist investors look out for themselves and realize the lion's share of the value they unlock. Their relatively short-term focus on strategies likely to lift the share price, such as return of capital to shareholders in the form of dividends or share buybacks, can prevent companies from making needed long-term investments.




Which Activist Investor Generates the Largest Share-Price Gains at the Outset?
It is difficult to know for sure which activist investors have been the more successful dollar-for-dollar and what other factors may cause particular stocks to rise in addition to an activist taking on a stake, but we can look to SEC disclosures and public statements made by these investors. Elliott Investment Management, for one, claims that its investments receive an average rise of 8% in the shares of the target company on the day the firm made its stake public. According to Elliot, its activist engagements have increased the market values of the targeted companies by an aggregate of more $30 billion.




Who Are the Biggest Activist Investors?
The largest activist shareholders by assets under management (AUM) as of Q1 2023 are listed in the table below, led by New York City-based Third Point Partners:











Largest Activist Investment Firms by AUM (Q1 2023)


Rank
Profile
Managed AUM
Region




1.
Third Point Partners
$18,1 billion
North America


2.
Pershing Square Capital Management
$16,8 billion
North America


3.
ValueAct Capital
$13,2 billion
North America


4.
Eminence Capital
$10,5 billion
North America


5.
Pentwater Capital Management
$9,9 billion
North America


6.
Starboard Value LP
$9,2 billion
North America


7.
Trian Fund Management
$7.6 billion
North America


8.
Effissimo Capital Management
$6,8 billion
Asia


9.
Sachem Head Capital Management
$6,2 billion
North America


10.
Scopia Capital Management
$2,7 billion
North America



Source: Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute (SWFI)


   The Bottom Line  

When activist investors use their significant but still relatively small minority stakes to push for change at publicly listed companies, they must often exercise their rights as shareholders to the fullest to get the attention of incumbent management and persuade other shareholders. Activists often call for extreme cost cutting measures, including layoffs, more streamlined management, and disposing of unprofitable units. The discipline they impose promotes shareholder-friendly policies at other companies as well. But they are not always right, and any public benefit they provide may be incidental to their pursuit of profits for themselves and their clients.

What is Activity-Based Budgeting (ABB)?  

Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is a system that records, researches, and analyzes activities that lead to costs for a company. Every activity in an organization that incurs a cost is scrutinized for potential ways to create efficiencies. Budgets are then developed based on these results.



Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is more rigorous than traditional budgeting processes, which tend to merely adjust previous budgets to account for inflation or business development.





Key Takeaways

Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is a method of budgeting where activities that incur costs are recorded, analyzed and researched.It is more rigorous than traditional budgeting processes, which tend to merely adjust previous budgets to account for inflation or business development.Using activity-based budgeting (ABB) can help companies to reduce costs and, as a result, squeeze more profits from sales.This method is particularly useful for newer companies and firms undergoing material changes.


   How Activity-Based Budgeting (ABB) Works  

Keeping costs to a minimum is a crucial part of business management. When done effectively and not too excessively, companies should be able to maintain and keep growing their revenues, while squeezing out higher profits from them.



Using activity-based budgeting (ABB) can help companies to reduce the activity levels required to generate sales. Eliminating unnecessary costs should boost profitability.



The activity-based budgeting (ABB) process is broken down into three steps.



Identify relevant activities. These cost drivers are the items responsible for incurring revenue or expenses for the company.
Determine the number of units related to each activity. This number is the baseline for calculations.
Delineate the cost per unit of activity and multiply that result by the activity level.


   Activity-Based Budgeting (ABB) Vs. Traditional Budgeting Processes  

Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is an alternative budgeting practice. Traditional methods are more simplistic, adjusting prior period budgets to account for inflation or revenue growth. Rather than using past budgets to calculate how much a firm will spend in the current year, activity-based budgeting (ABB) digs deeper.



Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is not necessary for all companies. For example, established firms that experience minimal change typically find that applying a flat rate to data from the previous year to reflect business growth and inflation is sufficient.



In contrast, newer companies without access to historical budgeting information cannot consider this an option. Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is also likely to be implemented by firms undergoing material changes, such as those with new subsidiaries, significant customers, business locations, or products. In these types of cases, historical information may no longer be a useful basis for future budgeting.


   Example of Activity-Based Budgeting  

Company A anticipates receiving 50,000 sales orders in the upcoming year, with each single order costing $2 to process. Therefore, the activity-based budget (ABB) for the expenses relating to processing sales orders for the upcoming year is $100,000 ($50,000 * $2). 



This figure may be compared to a traditional approach to budgeting. If last year’s budget called for $80,000 of sales order processing expenses and sales were expected to grow 10%, only $88,000 ($80,000 + ($80,000 * 10%)) is budgeted.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Activity-Based Budgeting  

Activity-based budgeting (ABB) systems allow for more control over the budgeting process. Revenue and expense planning occurs at a precise level that provides useful details regarding projections. ABB allows for management to have increased control over the budgeting process and to align the budget with overall company goals.



Unfortunately, these benefits come at a cost. Activity-based budgeting (ABB) is more expensive to implement and maintain than traditional budgeting techniques and more time consuming as well. Moreover, ABB systems need additional assumptions and insight from management, which can, on occasion, result in potential budgeting inaccuracies.
What Is Activity-Based Costing (ABC)?  

Activity-based costing (ABC) is a costing method that assigns overhead and indirect costs to related products and services. This accounting method of costing recognizes the relationship between costs, overhead activities, and manufactured products, assigning indirect costs to products less arbitrarily than traditional costing methods. However, some indirect costs, such as management and office staff salaries, are difficult to assign to a product.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Activity-Based Costing (ABC) Works  

Activity-based costing (ABC) is mostly used in the manufacturing industry since it enhances the reliability of cost data, hence producing nearly true costs and better classifying the costs incurred by the company during its production process.





Key Takeaways


Activity-based costing (ABC) is a method of assigning overhead and indirect costs—such as salaries and utilities—to products and services. 
The ABC system of cost accounting is based on activities, which are considered any event, unit of work, or task with a specific goal.
An activity is a cost driver, such as purchase orders or machine setups. 
The cost driver rate, which is the cost pool total divided by cost driver, is used to calculate the amount of overhead and indirect costs related to a particular activity. 

ABC is used to get a better grasp on costs, allowing companies to form a more appropriate pricing strategy. 



This costing system is used in target costing, product costing, product line profitability analysis, customer profitability analysis, and service pricing. Activity-based costing is used to get a better grasp on costs, allowing companies to form a more appropriate pricing strategy. 



The formula for activity-based costing is the cost pool total divided by cost driver, which yields the cost driver rate. The cost driver rate is used in activity-based costing to calculate the amount of overhead and indirect costs related to a particular activity. 



The ABC calculation is as follows:  



Identify all the activities required to create the product. Divide the activities into cost pools, which includes all the individual costs related to an activity—such as manufacturing. Calculate the total overhead of each cost pool.Assign each cost pool activity cost drivers, such as hours or units. Calculate the cost driver rate by dividing the total overhead in each cost pool by the total cost drivers. Divide the total overhead of each cost pool by the total cost drivers to get the cost driver rate. Multiply the cost driver rate by the number of cost drivers. 



As an activity-based costing example, consider Company ABC that has a $50,000 per year electricity bill. The number of labor hours has a direct impact on the electric bill. For the year, there were 2,500 labor hours worked, which in this example is the cost driver. Calculating the cost driver rate is done by dividing the $50,000 a year electric bill by the 2,500 hours, yielding a cost driver rate of $20. For Product XYZ, the company uses electricity for 10 hours. The overhead costs for the product are $200, or $20 times 10.






Activity-based costing benefits the costing process by expanding the number of cost pools that can be used to analyze overhead costs and by making indirect costs traceable to certain activities. 


   Requirements for Activity-Based Costing (ABC)  

The ABC system of cost accounting is based on activities, which are any events, units of work, or tasks with a specific goal, such as setting up machines for production, designing products, distributing finished goods, or operating machines. Activities consume overhead resources and are considered cost objects.



Under the ABC system, an activity can also be considered as any transaction or event that is a cost driver. A cost driver, also known as an activity driver, is used to refer to an allocation base. Examples of cost drivers include machine setups, maintenance requests, consumed power, purchase orders, quality inspections, or production orders.



There are two categories of activity measures: transaction drivers, which involves counting how many times an activity occurs, and duration drivers, which measure how long an activity takes to complete.



Unlike traditional cost measurement systems that depend on volume count, such as machine hours and/or direct labor hours to allocate indirect or overhead costs to products, the ABC system classifies five broad levels of activity that are, to a certain extent, unrelated to how many units are produced. These levels include batch-level activity, unit-level activity, customer-level activity, organization-sustaining activity, and product-level activity.


   Benefits of Activity-Based Costing (ABC)  

Activity-based costing (ABC) enhances the costing process in three ways. First, it expands the number of cost pools that can be used to assemble overhead costs. Instead of accumulating all costs in one company-wide pool, it pools costs by activity. 



Second, it creates new bases for assigning overhead costs to items such that costs are allocated based on the activities that generate costs instead of on volume measures, such as machine hours or direct labor costs. 



Finally, ABC alters the nature of several indirect costs, making costs previously considered indirect—such as depreciation, utilities, or salaries—traceable to certain activities. Alternatively, ABC transfers overhead costs from high-volume products to low-volume products, raising the unit cost of low-volume products.
What Is Activity-Based Management?  

Activity-based management (ABM) is a system for determining the profitability of every aspect of a business so that its strengths can be enhanced and its weaknesses can either be improved or eliminated altogether.



Activity-based management (ABM), which was first developed in the 1980s, seeks to highlight the areas where a business is losing money so that those activities can be eliminated or improved to increase profitability. ABM analyzes the costs of employees, equipment, facilities, distribution, overhead, and other factors in business to determine and allocate activity costs.






Activity-based management (ABM) is a procedure used by businesses to analyze the profitability of every segment of their company, enabling them to identify problem areas and areas of particular strength.


   Understanding Activity-Based Management (ABM)  

Activity-based management can be applied to different types of companies, including manufacturers, service providers, non-profits, schools, and government agencies. ABM can provide cost information about any area of operations in a business.



In addition to improving profitability and the overall financial strength of a company, the results of an ABM analysis can help that company produce more accurate budgets and long-term financial forecasts.


   Examples of Activity-Based Management (ABM)  

ABM can be used, for example, to analyze the profitability of a new product a company is offering, by looking at marketing and production costs, sales, warranty claims, and any costs or repair time needed for returned or exchanged products. If a company is reliant on a research and development department, ABM can be used to look at the costs of operating the department, the costs of testing out new products and whether the products developed there turned out to be profitable.



Another example might be a company that has opened an office in a second location. ABM can help management assess the costs of the running that location, including the staff, facilities, and overhead, and then determine whether any subsequent profits are enough to make up for or justify those costs.


   Special Considerations  

A lot of the information gathered in activity-based management is derived from information gathered from another management tool, activity-based costing (ABC). Whereas activity-based management focuses on business processes and managerial activities driving organizational business goals, activity-based costing seeks to identify and reduce cost drivers by optimizing resources.



Both ABC and ABM are management tools that help in managing operational activities to improve the performance of a business entity or an entire organization.



Activity-based costing can be considered an offshoot of activity-based management. By mapping business costs like supplies, salaries, and leasing activity to business processes, products, customers, and distribution activity, activity-based costing helps improve overall managerial effectiveness and transparency.





Key Takeaways

Activity-based management (ABM) is a means of analyzing a company's profitability by looking at each aspect of its business to determine strengths and weaknesses.ABM is used to help management find out which areas of the business are losing money so that they can be improved or cut altogether.ABM often makes use of information gathered with activity-based costing (ABC), a means of identifying and reducing cost drivers by better use of resources.
What Is an Activity Cost Driver?  

An activity cost driver is an action that triggers higher or lower variable costs for a business. Sometimes referred to as a causal factor, it is associated with the managerial accounting concept of activity-based costing (ABC). Keeping tabs on activity cost drivers is important as it can help boost efficiency and company profits.





Key Takeaways

An activity cost driver is an action that triggers higher or lower variable costs for a business.Activity cost drivers give a more accurate determination of the true cost of business activity by considering the indirect expenses.Keeping tabs on these fluctuating costs can help boost efficiency and company profits.Activity cost drivers are used in activity-based accounting (ABC).


   How Activity Cost Drivers Work  

A cost driver affects the cost of specific business activities. In ABC, an activity cost driver influences the costs of labor, maintenance, or other variable costs. Cost drivers are essential in ABC, a branch of managerial accounting that allocates the indirect costs, or overheads, of an activity.



There may be multiple cost drivers associated with an activity. For example, direct labor hours are a driver of most activities in product manufacturing. If the expenditure for labor is high, this will increase the cost of producing all company products or services. If the cost of warehousing is high, this will also increase the expenses incurred for product manufacturing or providing services.






Keeping tabs on cost drivers makes it easier to determine the actual cost of production and make more accurate financial projections.



More technical cost drivers are machine hours, the number of engineering change orders, the number of customer contacts, the number of product returns, the machine setups required for production, or the number of inspections. If a business owner can identify the cost drivers, the business owner can more accurately estimate the true cost of production for the business.


  Cost Allocation  

When a factory machine requires periodic maintenance, the cost of the maintenance is allocated to the products produced by the machine. For example, the cost driver selected is machinery hours. After every 1,000 machine hours, there is a maintenance expense of $500. Therefore, every machine hour results in a 50-cent (500 / 1,000) maintenance cost allocated to the product being manufactured based on the cost driver of machine hours.


  Distribution of Overhead Costs  

Using cost drivers simplifies the allocation of manufacturing overhead. The correct allocation of manufacturing overhead is important to determine the true cost of a product. Internal management uses the cost of a product to determine the prices of the products they produce. For this reason, the selection of accurate cost drivers has a direct impact on the profitability and operations of an entity.






Activity-based costing (ABC) is a more accurate way of allocating both direct and indirect costs. ABC calculates the true cost of each product by identifying the amount of resources consumed by a business activity, such as electricity or man hours.


   Special Considerations: The Subjectivity of Cost Drivers  

Management selects cost drivers as the basis for manufacturing overhead allocation. There are no industry standards stipulating or mandating cost driver selection. Company management selects cost drivers based on the variables of the expenses incurred during production.




What Are Some Examples of Activity Cost Drivers?
Activity cost drivers include direct labor hours, the cost of warehousing, order frequency, and product returns.




What Do You Mean by Cost Driver?
Cost drivers are the activities that trigger business expenses.




What Is the Activity-Based Costing Method?
Activity-based costing (ABC) is a method of assigning overhead and indirect costs—such as salaries and utilities—to products and services. Doing this helps to get a better grasp on costs, allowing companies to form a more appropriate pricing strategy and churn out higher profits.


   The Bottom Line  

Examining activity cost drivers helps companies to reduce unnecessary expenses and get to grips with how much an order really costs. The importance of accessing this knowledge shouldn’t be understated. The ultimate goal is to maximize profits; a key way to accomplish this is by being aware of all expenses and keeping them in check.
What Is an Activity Ratio?  

An activity ratio is a type of financial metric that indicates how efficiently a company is leveraging the assets on its balance sheet, to generate revenues and cash. Commonly referred to as efficiency ratios, activity ratios help analysts gauge how a company handles inventory management, which is key to its operational fluidity and overall fiscal health.





Key Takeaways

An activity ratio broadly describes any type of financial metric that helps investors and research analysts gauge how efficiently a company uses its assets to generate revenues and cash.Activity ratios may be utilized to compare two different businesses within the same sector, or they may be used to monitor a single company's fiscal health over time.Activity ratios can be subdivided into merchandise inventory turnover ratios, total assets turnover ratios, return on equity measurements, and a spectrum of other metrics.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Activity Ratios  

Activity ratios are most useful when employed to compare two competing businesses within the same industry to determine how a particular company stacks up amongst its peers. But activity ratios may also be used to track a company's fiscal progress over multiple recording periods, to detect changes over time. These numbers can be mapped to present a forward-looking picture of a company's prospective performance.



Activity ratios can be broken down into the following sub-categories:


  Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio  

The accounts receivable turnover ratio determines an entity's ability to collect money from its customers. Total credit sales are divided by the average accounts receivable balance for a specific period. A low ratio suggests a deficiency in the collection process.


  Merchandise Inventory Turnover Ratio  

The merchandise inventory turnover ratio measures how often the inventory balance is sold during an accounting period. The cost of goods sold is divided by the average inventory for a specific period. Higher calculations suggest that a company can move its inventory with relative ease.


  Total Assets Turnover Ratio  

The total assets turnover ratio measures how efficiently an entity uses its assets to tender a sale. Total sales are divided by total assets to decipher how proficiently a business uses its assets. Smaller ratios may indicate that a company is struggling to move its products.


  Return on Equity  

A performance metric knows as return on equity (ROE) measures the revenues raised from shareholder equity. ROE is calculated by dividing net income by all outstanding stock shares in the market.


  Asset Turnover Ratio  

A metric called the asset turnover ratio measures the amount of revenue a company generates per dollar of assets. This figure, which is simply calculated by dividing a company's sales by its total assets, reveals how efficiently a company is using its assets to generate sales.


   Activity Ratios Vs. Profitability Ratios  

Activity ratios and profitability ratios are both fundamental analytical tools that help investors evaluate different facets of a company's fiscal strength. Profitability ratios depict a company's profit generation, while efficiency ratios measure how well a company utilizes its resources to generate those profits. Profitability ratios may help analysts compare a company's profits with those of its industry competitors, while also tracking the same company's progress across several different reporting periods.
What Are the Actual Deferral Percentage (ADP) & Actual Contribution Percentage (ACP) Tests?  

The Actual Deferral Percentage (ADP) and Actual Contribution Percentage (ACP) tests are two tests that companies must conduct to ensure that their 401(k) plans don't unfairly benefit highly-paid employees at the expense of others.



Companies that offer 401(k) plans must conduct the tests in order to retain the qualified status of their plans under IRS rules and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).



If the plan fails either test, the employer must take corrective action in the 12-month period following the close of the plan year in which the oversight occurred. Failure to do so can result in the IRS imposing pecuniary penalty fees, plan disqualification, and fiduciary liability on the part of the employer. 


   How ADP and ACP Tests Work  

The ADP test compares the average salary deferral percentages of highly compensated employees (HCE) to that of non-highly compensated employees (NHCE). An HCE is any employee who owns more than 5% interest in the company at any time during the current or previous plan year or earned more than $130,000 during the 2020 tax year. 



The ADP test takes into account both pre-tax deferrals and after-tax Roth deferrals, but no catch-up contributions, which may be made only by employees age 50 and over. To pass the test, the ADP of the HCE may not exceed the ADP of the NHCE by more than two percentage points. In addition, the combined contributions of all HCEs may not be more than two times the percentage of NHCE contributions.



The ACP test uses a similar method as the ADP test except that it uses matching contributions or employee after-tax contributions.


   Correcting an ADP/ACP Test Failure  

When employers fail the ADP/ACP tests, they can remedy the failure by refunding excess contributions back to HCEs in the amount necessary to pass the test. However, these refunds will be liable for income tax for the HCE individuals. 



Some companies set buffer zones within their plan documents to steer plans away from potentially failing the ADP/ACP test in the first place. One option is setting a cap on contributions by HCEs. Another option is to place a contribution limit on HCEs at the point where the plan would fail an ADP/ACP test. Setting plan buffer zones may require employers to conduct ADP/ACP test projections, typically in the middle of the plan year, to determine if any restrictions need to be applied. 



Still, some companies use a Safe Harbor 401(k) plan to avoid the ADP/ACP test entirely.


   What Is a Safe Harbor Plan?   

Safe Harbor 401(k) plans allow sponsors to bypass ADP/ACP and other non-discrimination testing in exchange for providing eligible matching or nonelective contributions on behalf of their employees.



To qualify for Safe Harbor, a company must provide a basic match, such as a 100% match on the first 3% of deferred compensation and a 50% match on deferrals of 3% to 5%. They may also provide each employee with a nonelective contribution of at least 3% of compensation, regardless of how much the employee contributes or if they contribute at all.
What is an Actuarial Gain Or Loss?  

Actuarial gain or loss refers to an increase or a decrease in the projections used to value a corporation’s defined benefit pension plan obligations. The actuarial assumptions of a pension plan are directly affected by the discount rate used to calculate the present value of benefit payments and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) SFAS No. 158 requires the funding status of pension funds to be reported on the plan sponsor’s balance sheet. This means there are periodic updates to the pension obligations, the fund performance and the financial health of the plan.﻿﻿﻿ Depending on plan participation rates, market performance and other factors, the pension plan may experience an actuarial gain or loss in their projected benefit obligation.



While those accounting rules require pension assets and liabilities to be marked to market on an entity’s balance sheet, they allow actuarial gains and losses, or changes to actuarial assumptions, to be amortized through comprehensive income in shareholders' equity rather than flowing directly through the income statement.





Key Takeaways

Actuarial gains and losses are created when the assumptions underlying a company's projected benefit obligation change.Accounting rules require companies to disclose both the pension obligations (liabilities) and the assets meant to cover them. This shows investors the overall health of the pension fund.﻿﻿All defined benefits pension plans will see periodic actuarial gains or losses as key demographic assumptions or key economic assumptions making up the model are updated.


   Understanding Actuarial Gain Or Loss  

Actuarial gains and losses are best understood in the context of overall pension accounting. Except where specifically noted, this definition addresses pension accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). While U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) prescribe similar principles measuring pension benefit obligations, there are key differences in how the two standards report pension cost in the income statement, particularly the treatment of actuarial gains and losses.



Funded status represents the net asset or liability related to a company's defined benefit plans and equals the difference between the value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation (PBO) for the plan. Valuing plan assets, which are the investments set aside for funding the plan benefits, requires judgment but does not involve the use of actuarial estimates. However, measuring the PBO requires the use of actuarial estimates, and it is these actuarial estimates that give rise to actuarial gains and losses.



There are two primary types of assumptions: economic assumptions that model how market forces affect the plan and demographic assumptions that model how participant behavior is expected to affect the benefits paid. Key economic assumptions include the interest rate used to discount future cash outflows, expected rate of return on plan assets and expected salary increases. Key demographic assumptions include life expectancy, anticipated service periods and expected retirement ages.


   Actuarial Gains and Losses Create Volatility in Results  

From period to period, a change in an actuarial assumption, particularly the discount rate, can cause a significant increase or decrease in the PBO. If recorded through the income statement, these adjustments potentially distort the comparability of financial results. Therefore, under U.S. GAAP, these adjustments are recorded through other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity and are amortized into the income statement over time. Under IFRS, these adjustments are recorded through other comprehensive income but are not amortized into the income statement.


   Footnote Disclosures Contain Useful Information About Actuarial Assumptions  

Accounting rules require detailed disclosures related to pension assets and liabilities, including period-to-period activity in the accounts and the key assumptions used to measure funded status. These disclosures allow financial statement users to understand how a company’s pension plans affect financial position and results of operations relative to prior periods and other companies.
What's an Actuarial Life Table?  

An actuarial life table is a table or spreadsheet that shows the probability of a person at a certain age dying before their next birthday. It's often used by life insurance companies to calculate the remaining life expectancy for people at different ages and stages, and the probability of surviving a particular year of age.



Because men and women have different mortality rates, an actuarial life table is computed separately for men and women. An actuarial life table is also called a mortality table, life table, or actuarial table.





Key Takeaways

The statistics in an actuarial life table calculate the probability of surviving a particular year of age, among other things.Insurance companies use actuarial life tables in their work.These tables may be called different names like a mortality table, actuarial or life table.Actuarial science uses primarily two types of life tables.


   How an Actuarial Life Table Works  

Insurance companies utilize actuarial life tables to help price products and project future insured events. Mathematically and statistically based actuarial life tables assist life insurance companies by showing event probabilities, such as death, sickness, and disability.



An actuarial life table can also include factors to differentiate variable risks such as smoking, occupation, socio-economic status, and even gambling, and debt load. Computerized predictive modeling allows actuaries the ability to calculate for a wide variety of circumstances and probable outcomes.


   Actuarial Science  

Actuarial science uses primarily two types of life tables. First, the period life table is used to determine mortality rates for a specific time period of a certain population. The other type of actuarial life table is called the cohort life table, also referred to as a generation life table. It is used to represent the overall mortality rates of a certain population's entire lifetime.






Actuarial life tables for men and women are computed differently due to the discrepancy of life expectancies for each gender.



The population selection must be born during the same specific time interval. A cohort life table is more commonly used because it attempts to predict any expected change in mortality rates of a population in the future.



A cohort table also analyzes observable mortality patterns over time. Both types of actuarial life tables are based on actual populations of the present and educated predictions of a population's near future. Other types of life tables may be based on historical records. These types of life tables often undercount infants and understate infant mortality.



Insurance companies use actuarial life tables to primarily make two types of predictions: the probability of surviving any particular year of age and the remaining life expectancy for people of different ages.


   Other Uses of Actuarial Life Tables  

Actuarial life tables also play an important role in the sciences of biology and epidemiology. In addition, the Social Security Administration in the United States uses actuarial life tables to examine the mortality rates of people who have Social Security in order to inform certain policy decisions or actions.



Actuarial life tables are also important in product life cycle management and for pension calculations.




How are actuarial tables used?
Typically they're used by life insurance companies to calculate the remaining life expectancy for people at different ages and stages, and the probability of surviving a particular year of age.




What's an actuary do?
Actuaries say they are risk managers, and experts in evaluating the likelihood of future events.




What are the two kinds of actuarial tables?
The two tables are the period life table (to determine mortality rates for a specific time period of a defined population) and the cohort life table (used to represent the overall mortality rates of a certain population's entire lifetime).
What Is Actuarial Science?  

Actuarial science is a discipline that assesses financial risks in the insurance and finance fields, using mathematical and statistical methods. Actuarial science applies the mathematics of probability and statistics to define, analyze, and solve the financial implications of uncertain future events. Traditional actuarial science largely revolves around the analysis of mortality and the production of life tables, and the application of compound interest.





Key Takeaways

Actuarial science assesses financial risks in the insurance and finance fields, using mathematical and statistical methods.Actuarial science applies probability analysis and statistics to define, analyze, and solve the financial impact of uncertain future events.Actuarial science helps insurance companies forecast the probability of an event occurring to determine the funds needed to pay claims.The Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) and Society of Actuaries (SOA) promote several professional certifications for actuaries to pursue beyond a bachelor's degree in actuarial science.The most recent salary information from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows actuaries earned an average salary of nearly $106,000 as of May 2021.


   Understanding Actuarial Science  

Actuarial science attempts to quantify the risk of an event occurring using probability analysis so that its financial impact can be determined. Actuarial science is typically used in the insurance industry by actuaries. Actuaries analyze mathematical models to predict or forecast the reasonableness of an event occurring so that an insurance company can allocate funds to pay out any claims that might result from the event. For example, studying the mortality rates of individuals of a certain age would help insurance companies understand the likelihood or timeframe of paying out a life insurance policy.



Actuarial science became a formal mathematical discipline in the late 17th century with the increased demand for long-term insurance coverage. Actuarial science spans several interrelated subjects, including mathematics, probability theory, statistics, finance, economics, and computer science. Historically, actuarial science used deterministic models in the construction of tables and premiums. In the last 30 years, science has undergone revolutionary changes due to the proliferation of high-speed computers and the union of stochastic actuarial models with modern financial theory.


   Applications of Actuarial Science  

Life insurance and pension plans are the two main applications of actuarial science. However, actuarial science is also applied in the study of financial organizations to analyze their liabilities and improve financial decision-making. Actuaries employ this specialty science to evaluate the financial, economic, and other business applications of future events.


  Insurance  

In traditional life insurance, actuarial science focuses on the analysis of mortality, the production of life tables, and the application of compound interest, which is the accumulated interest from previous periods plus the interest on the principal investment. As a result, actuarial science can help develop policies for financial products such as annuities, which are investments that pay a fixed income stream. Actuarial science is also used to determine the various financial outcomes for investable assets held by non-profit corporations as a result of endowments. 



In health insurance, including employer-provided plans and social insurance, actuarial science includes analyzing rates of



Disability in the population or the risk of a certain group of people becoming disabled
Morbidity or the frequency and the extent to which a disease occurs in a population
Mortality or mortality rate, which measures the number of deaths in a population that result from a specific disease or event
Fertility or fertility rate, which measures the number of children born



For example, disability rates are determined for veterans that may have been wounded in the line of duty. Certain percentages are assigned to the extent of the disability to determine the payout from disability insurance.



Actuarial science is also applied to property, casualty, liability, and general insurance–instances in which coverage is generally provided on a renewable period, (such as yearly). Coverage can be canceled at the end of the period by either party.


  Pensions  

In the pension industry, actuarial science compares the costs of alternative strategies with regard to the design, funding, accounting, administration, and maintenance or redesign of pension plans. A pension plan is a defined-benefit plan, which is a type of retirement plan involving contributions from the employer to be set aside and paid out to the employees upon retirement.



Short-term and long-term bond rates greatly influence pension plans and their investment strategies. Bonds are debt instruments issued by governments and corporations that typically pay a periodic interest rate. For example, in a low-interest-rate environment, a pension plan might have difficulty earning income from the bonds that it has invested in, which increases the probability that the pension plan could run out of money.



Other factors impacting a pension plan's viability include benefit arrangements, collective bargaining, the employer's competitors, and changing demographics of the workforce. Tax laws and the policies of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding the calculation of pension surpluses also impact the finances of a pension plan. Additionally, economic conditions and trends in the financial markets can impact the probability of a pension plan remaining funded.






Actuaries may also work in the public sector to assist with proposed changes to Social Security, Medicare, or other programs.


   Universities and Professional Certifications  

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of actuaries employed is expected to grow 21% from 2021 to 2031. For this reason, many universities offer educational degrees and courses on actuarial science. In addition, there are professional designations for those interested in pursuing the field.


  Universities  

The Society of Actuaries identifies and reports colleges that meet one of three levels of recognition:



UCAP-Introduction Curriculum: Universities that maintain course requirements for two professional actuarial exams in addition to having met other approved course requirements.UCAP-Advanced Curriculum: Universities that maintain course requirements for four professional exams in addition to having met other approved course requirements.Center of Actuarial Excellence: Universities that maintain eight specific requirements in connection with a variety of matters. This is the highest tier of competency identified by the SOA for a university.



As of December 2022, there are roughly 25 Center of Actuarial Excellence schools across the United States, Canda, Australia, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and China. Within the U.S., these schools include but are not limited to Brigham Young, Georgia State, Purdue, Connecticut, and Michigan.





Compensation

According to the latest BLS wage data, the median annual wage for actuaries in 2021 was $105,900.


  Professional Designations and Credentials  

There are a number of different professional designations an actuary can pursue to further gain credibility and proficiency in their field. The Casualty Actuarial Society offers the Associate (ACAS) and Fellow (FCAS) membership levels, each of the two with escalating requirements. For example, the ACAS credential can be achieved after passing six exams, while the FCAS is earned after nine exams. Areas of focus for the FCAS exam include:



Probability
Financial Mathematics
Financial Economics
Modern Actuarial Statistics
Basic Techniques for Ratemaking and Estimating Claim Liabilities
Regulation & Financial Reporting
Policy Liabilities, Insurance Company Valuation, and Enterprise Risk Management
Advanced Ratemaking



The Society of Actuaries promotes several different actuarial exams to demonstrate competency in the field.



An Associate of the Society of Actuaries (ASA) demonstrates knowledge of fundamental concepts of modeling and managing risk. The examination requirements are changing as of Spring 2023, and the list of required examinations includes topics on predictive analysis, economics, probabilities, and financial markets.A Chartered Enterprise Risk Analyst (CERA) specializes in having knowledge in identifying, measuring, and managing risk in risk-bearing enterprises. Similar to the ASA requirements, the CERA requirements include a professional course covering code of conduct.A Fellow of the Society of Actuaries (FSA) demonstrates knowledge of financial decisions involving pensions, life insurance, health insurance, and investments. FSAs also must demonstrate in-depth knowledge and the application of appropriate techniques to these various areas.




Is Actuarial Science Difficult?
Actuarial science is a difficult profession. Actuarial exams usually last between 3 and 5 hours, and each requires rigorous preparation. Candidates must often have a bachelor's degree, and it make take up to a decade for a candidate to complete all training and exams.




What Type of Math Do Actuaries Use?
Actuaries often have a background in probability, statistics, and financial mathematics. Most often, an actuary will assess the probability of an event happen, then apply statistical methods to determine what the financial impact of that outcome will be. Actuaries usually do not use calculus at work, though calculus may be a prerequisite to meeting other course requirements.




How Long Does It Take To Become an Actuary?
For most, it may take up to a decade or longer to become an actuary. A bachelor's degree in actuarial science may take between 3 to 5 years, and it may take at least another several years to pass rigorous professional actuarial exams.


   The Bottom Line  

Actuarial science is the study of mathematically predicting the probability of something happening in the future and assigning that outcome a financial value. Companies, pension funds, and insurance agencies rely on actuaries to develop models to assess areas of risk and devise policies to mitigate potential future challenges.
What Is an Ad Valorem Tax?  

An ad valorem tax is a tax based on the assessed value of an item, such as real estate or personal property. The most common ad valorem taxes are property taxes levied on real estate. However, ad valorem taxes may also extend to a number of tax applications, such as import duty taxes on goods from abroad.





Key Takeaways

An ad valorem tax is a tax based on the assessed value of an item, such as real estate or personal property.The most common ad valorem taxes are property taxes levied on real estate.The Latin phrase ad valorem means "according to value." So all ad valorem taxes are based on the assessed value of the item being taxed.Property ad valorem taxes—i.e. property taxes—are usually levied by local jurisdictions, such as counties or school districts.Ad valorem taxes are generally levied on both real property (land, buildings and other structures) and major personal property, such as a car or boat. 


   How Ad Valorem Tax Works  

The Latin phrase ad valorem means "according to value." All ad valorem taxes are levied based on the determined value of the item being taxed. In the most common application of ad valorem taxes, which are municipal property taxes, the real estate of property owners is periodically assessed by a public tax assessor to determine its current value. The assessed value of the property is used to compute a tax annually levied on the property owner by a municipality or other government entity.



Ad valorem taxes, which are based on ownership of a real asset, can be looked at in contrast to transactional taxes, such as sales taxes. While ad valorem taxes are determined and levied annually, transactional taxes are only levied at the time of a transaction.


   How Ad Valorem Taxes Are Levied  

Property ad valorem taxes are usually levied by a municipality but may also be levied by other local government entities, such as counties, school districts, or special taxing districts, also known as special purpose districts. Property owners may be subject to ad valorem taxes levied by more than one entity; for example, both a municipality and a county.



Ad valorem property taxes are typically a major, if not the major, revenue source for both state and municipal governments, and municipal property ad valorem taxes are commonly referred to as simply "property taxes."












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Determining Tax Values  

Tax assessments for the purpose of determining ad valorem taxes are typically calculated as of January 1 each year. Ad valorem taxes represent a percentage of the assessed property value, which is commonly the property's fair market value. Fair market value is the estimated sales price of the property, assuming a transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller who both have reasonable knowledge of all pertinent facts about the property, and in a situation where neither party has a compulsion to complete the transaction. Fair market value can be more simply understood as just a reasonable price.


   Property Subject to Ad Valorem Taxes  

Ad valorem taxes are generally levied on both real property and personal property. Real property includes land, buildings and other structures, and any improvements to the property. An example of an improvement is a garage added to a single-family home or a road built on a parcel of land. Personal property ad valorem taxes are most commonly levied only on major personal property holdings, such as a car or boat. Incidental personal property, such as household appliances or clothing, is not usually subject to personal property taxes.
What Is Add-On Interest?  

Add-on interest is a method of calculating the interest to be paid on a loan by combining the total principal amount borrowed and the total interest due into a single figure, then multiplying that figure by the number of years to repayment. The total is then divided by the number of monthly payments to be made. The result is a loan that combines interest and principal into one amount due.



This method of calculating the payment on a loan is substantially more expensive for the borrower than the traditional simple interest calculation and is rarely used in consumer loans. Most loans use simple interest, where the interest charged is based on the amount of principal that is owed after each payment is made. Add-on interest loans may occasionally be used in short-term installment loans and in loans to subprime borrowers.





Key Takeaways

Most loans are simple interest loans, where the interest is based on the amount owed on the remaining principal after each monthly payment is made.Add-on interest loans combine principal and interest into one amount owed, to be paid off in equal installments.The result is a substantially higher cost to the borrower.Add-on interest loans are typically used with short-term installment loans and for loans made to subprime borrowers.


   Understanding Add-On Interest  

In simple interest loans, where the interest charged is based on the amount of principal that is owed after each payment is made, the payments may be identical in size from month to month, but that is because the principal paid increases over time while the interest paid decreases.



If the consumer pays off a simple interest loan early, the savings can be substantial. The number of interest payments that would have been attached to future monthly payments has been effectively erased.



But in an add-on interest loan, the amount owed is calculated upfront as a total of the principal borrowed plus annual interest at the stated rate, multiplied by the number of years until the loan is fully repaid. That total owed is then divided by the number of months of payments due in order to arrive at a monthly payment figure.



This means that the interest owed each month remains constant throughout the life of the loan. The interest owed is much higher, and, even if the borrower pays off the loan early, the interest charged will be the same.


   Example of Add-On Interest  

Say a borrower obtains a $25,000 loan at an 8% add-on interest rate that is to be repaid over four years.



The amount of principal to be paid each month would be $520.83 ($25,000 / 48 months).The amount of interest owed each month would be $166.67 ($25,000 x 0.08 / 12).The borrower would be required to make payments of $687.50 each month ($520.83 + $166.67).The total interest paid would be $8,000 ($25,000 x 0.08 x 4).



Using a simple interest loan payment calculator, the same borrower with the same 8% interest rate on a $25,000 loan over four years would have required monthly payments of $610.32. The total interest due would be $3,586.62.



The borrower would pay $4,413.38 more for the add-on interest loan compared to the simple interest loan, that is, if the borrower did not pay off the loan early, reducing the total interest even more.



When researching a consumer loan, especially if you have poor credit, read the fine print carefully to determine whether the lender is charging you add-on interest. If that is the case, continue searching until you find a loan that charges simple interest.
What Is the Additional Child Tax Credit?  

The additional child tax credit is the refundable portion of the child tax credit. It could be claimed by families who owed the IRS less than their qualified child tax credit amount. Since the child tax credit non-refundable, the additional child tax credit refunded the unused portion of the child tax credit to the taxpayer. This provision was eliminated from 2018 to 2025 by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). However, under the TCJA, the child tax credit includes some provisions for refundable credits.





Key Takeaways

The Additional Child Tax Credit is the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit.It could be claimed by families who owed the IRS less than their qualified child tax credit amount.The Child Tax Credit for 2021 was made fully refundable as part of the American Rescue Plan.For 2022 and 2023, the refundable portion of the child tax credit is $1,500 and $1,600 respectively.To determine whether you're eligible for the Additional Child Tax Credit, you can fill out Schedule 8812. 


   Understanding the Additional Child Tax Credit  

A tax credit is a benefit given to eligible taxpayers to help reduce their tax liabilities. If Susan's tax bill is $5,550 but she qualifies for a $2,500 tax credit, she will only have to pay $3,050. Some tax credits are refundable, meaning that if the tax credit amounts to more than what is owed as tax, the individual will receive a refund. If Susan's tax credit is actually $6,050 and is refundable, she will be given a check for $6,050 – $5,550 = $500.



Depending on what tax group a taxpayer falls in, they may be eligible to claim a tax credit. For example, taxpayers with children may qualify for the Child Tax Credit which helps to offset the costs of raising kids.



For the 2022 through 2025 tax year, the child tax credit allows eligible tax filers to reduce their tax liability by up to $2,000 per child. To be eligible for the child tax credit, the child or dependent must:



Be 16 years or younger by the end of the tax year
Be a U.S. citizen, national, or resident alien
Have lived with the taxpayer for more than half of the tax year
Be claimed as a dependent on the federal tax return
Not have provided more than half of their own financial support
Have a Social Security number


   Child Tax Credit vs. Additional Child Tax Credit  

Previously, the child tax credit was non-refundable, which means the credit could reduce a taxpayer’s bill to zero, but any excess from the credit would not be refunded. Families who wanted to keep the unused portion of the child tax credit could go the route of another available tax credit called the additional child tax credit.



The Additional Child Tax Credit was a refundable tax credit that families could qualify for if they already qualified for the non-refundable child tax credit. The additional child tax credit was ideal for families who owed less than the child tax credit and wanted to receive a refund for the surplus credit.



In 2022, up to $1,500 of the child tax credit can be refundable for each qualifying child if certain conditions are met. This refundable portion increased to $1,600 in 2023. To claim a refund, filers must complete Schedule 8812.






The additional child tax credit in its previous form was eliminated from 2018 to 2025 by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA).


   Example of the Additional Child Tax Credit  

Before the TCJA, the IRS allowed families with an annual income of more than $3,000 to claim a refund using the additional child tax credit. The tax credit depended on how much the taxpayer earned and was calculated by taking 15% of the taxpayer's taxable earned income over $3,000 up to the maximum amount of the credit, which was then $1,000 per child. The total amount above $3,000 (subject to annual adjustments for inflation) was refundable.



For example, a taxpayer with two dependents qualifies for the child tax credit. Their earned income is $28,000, which means income over $3,000 is $25,000. Since 15% x $25,000 = $3,750 is greater than the maximum credit of $2,000 for two kids, they would have received the full portion of any unused credit.



So if the taxpayer received an $800 child tax credit, they would be refunded a $1,200 Additional child tax credit. However, if the taxable earned income was $12,000 instead, 15% of this amount over $3,000 is 15% x $9,000 = $1,350. Because the refundable portion of the credit cannot exceed 15% of earned income above $3,000, the taxpayer would receive a maximum refund of $1,350, not $2,000.



Taxpayers who were residents of Puerto Rico with income below $3,000 were eligible if they had at least three qualifying dependents and paid Social Security tax in excess of the amount of their earned-income credit for the year.




What Is the Difference Between Child Tax Credit and Additional Child Tax Credit?
The Child Tax Credit is a non-refundable tax credit that may reduce the tax liability of certain taxpayers down to $0. However, a portion of this credit may be taken as a refundable credit. Each tax credit has similar criteria; the primary different is the timing of when the credit is implemented on your return.




Who Qualifies for the Additional Child Tax Credit?
Married couples with income under $150,000 are eligible to receive the Child Tax Credit (and by extension a portion of the Additional Child Tax Credit). Single taxpayers or heads of household with income less than $112,500 are eligible as well. Taxpayers using any other filing status with income under $75,000 may be eligible as well.




Is the Additional Child Tax Credit Refundable?
Yes, the Additional Child Tax Credit portion of the Child Tax Credit is refundable. This means that even if your tax liability is reduced to $0, you may receive a part of the Additional Child Tax Credit as a tax refund.




How Long Will the Child Tax Credit Be Higher?
The higher Child Tax Credit has already since expired. Congress enacted stimulus during the pandemic to temporarily increase the amount of the Child Tax Credit. These provisions expired at the end of 2021.


   The Bottom Line  

The Additional Child Tax Credit is considered the refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit. By filing Schedule 8812, a taxpayer may be able to not only reduce their tax liability down to $0 using the non-refundable portion of the Child Tax Credit, they may receive a refund via the refundable Additional Child Tax Credit. Though this credit amount was higher in years past, temporary legislation has since passed.
What Is Additional Paid-in Capital (APIC)?  

Additional paid-in capital (APIC) is an accounting term referring to money an investor pays above and beyond the par value price of a stock.



Often referred to as "contributed capital in excess of par,” APIC occurs when an investor buys newly-issued shares directly from a company during its initial public offering (IPO) stage. APIC, which is itemized under the shareholder equity (SE) section of a balance sheet, is viewed as a profit opportunity for companies as it results in them receiving excess cash from stockholders.





Key Takeaways

Additional paid-in capital (APIC) is the difference between the par value of a stock and the price that investors actually pay for it.To be the "additional" part of paid-in capital, an investor must buy the stock directly from the company during its IPO.The APIC is usually booked as shareholders' equity on the balance sheet.However, the cash generated from the sale of stock (both the par value and APIC) is recorded in the asset section of the balance sheet.APIC is a great way for companies to generate cash without having to give any collateral in return.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Additional Paid-in Capital (APIC) Works  

During its IPO, a firm is entitled to set any price for its stock that it sees fit. Meanwhile, investors may elect to pay any amount above this declared par value of a share price, which generates the APIC.



Let us assume that during its IPO phase the XYZ Widget Company issues one million shares of stock, with a par value of $1 per share, and that investors bid on shares for $2, $4, and $10 above the par value. Let us further assume that those shares ultimately sell for $11, consequently making the company $11 million. In this instance, the APIC is $10 million ($11 million minus the par value of $1 million). Therefore, the company’s balance sheet itemizes $1 million as "paid-in capital," and $10 million as "additional paid-in capital."



Once a stock trades in the secondary market, an investor may pay whatever the market will bear. When investors buy shares directly from a given company, that corporation receives and retains the funds as paid-in capital. But after that time, when investors buy shares in the open market, the generated funds go directly into the pockets of the investors selling off their positions.






APIC is recorded at the initial public offering (IPO) only; the transactions that occur after the IPO do not increase the APIC account.


   Special Considerations  

APIC is generally booked in the SE section of the balance sheet. When a company issues stock, there are two entries that take place in the equity section: common stock and APIC. The total cash generated by the IPO is recorded as a debit and the common stock and APIC are recorded as credits. Note that the cash recorded is reported in the asset section of the balance sheet, while common stock and APIC are reported in the equity section of the balance sheet.



The APIC formula is:



APIC = (Issue Price – Par Value) x Number of Shares Acquired by Investors


  Par Value  

Due to the fact that APIC represents money paid to the company above the par value of a security, it is essential to understand what par actually means. Simply put, “par” signifies the value a company assigns to stock at the time of its IPO, before there is even a market for the security. Issuers traditionally set stock par values deliberately low—in some cases as little as a penny per share—in order to preemptively avoid any potential legal liability, which might occur if the stock dips below its par value.


  Market Value  

Market value is the actual price a financial instrument is worth at any given time. The stock market determines the real value of a stock, which shifts continuously as shares are bought and sold throughout the trading day. Thus, investors make money on the changing value of a stock over time, based on company performance and investor sentiment.


   Additional Paid-in Capital vs. Paid-in Capital  

Paid-in capital, or contributed capital, is the full amount of cash or other assets that shareholders have given a company in exchange for stock. Paid-in capital includes the par value of both common and preferred stock plus any amount paid in excess.



Additional paid-in capital, as the name implies, includes only the amount paid in excess of the par value of stock issued during a company's IPO.



Both of these items are included next to one another in the SE section of the balance sheet.


   Benefits of Additional Paid-in Capital  

For common stock, paid-in capital consists of a stock's par value and APIC, the latter of which may provide a substantial portion of a company's equity capital, before retained earnings begin to accumulate. This capital provides a layer of defense against potential losses, in the event that retained earnings begin to show a deficit. 



Another huge advantage for a company issuing shares is that it does not raise the fixed cost of the company. The company doesn't have to make any payment to the investor; even dividends are not required. Furthermore, investors do not have any claim on the company's existing assets.



After issuing stock to shareholders, the company is free to use the funds generated any way it chooses, whether that means paying off loans, purchasing an asset, or any other action that may benefit the company.




Why Is Additional Paid-in Capital Useful?
APIC is a great way for companies to generate cash without having to give any collateral in return. Furthermore, purchasing shares at a company's IPO can be incredibly profitable for some investors.




Is Additional Paid-in Capital an Asset?
APIC is recorded under the equity section of a company's balance sheet. It is recorded as a credit under shareholders' equity and refers to the money an investor pays above the par value price of a stock. The total cash generated from APIC is classified as a debit to the asset section of the balance sheet, with the corresponding credits for APIC and regular paid in capital located in the equity section.




How Do You Calculate Additional Paid-in Capital?
The APIC formula is APIC = (Issue Price – Par Value) x Number of Shares Acquired by Investors.




How Does Paid-in Capital Increase or Decrease?
Any new issuance of preferred or common shares may increase the paid-in capital as the excess value is recorded. Paid-in capital can be reduced with share repurchases.


   The Bottom Line  

Additional Paid-in Capital represents the amount of money investors contribute to a company above the stated par value of its stock. It is the equity portion of a company's balance sheet that includes funds received from issuing stock at a premium. This capital reflects the difference between the issue price of the shares and their par value, allowing companies to generate additional funds for expansion, research, or other business activities.



Correction—May 13, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated cash is recorded to the equity section of the balance sheet as opposed to the asset section.
What Is the Addition Rule for Probabilities?  

The addition rule for probabilities describes two formulas, one for the probability for either of two mutually exclusive events happening and the other for the probability of two non-mutually exclusive events happening.



The first formula is just the sum of the probabilities of the two events. The second formula is the sum of the probabilities of the two events minus the probability that both will occur.





Key Takeaways

The addition rule for probabilities consists of two rules or formulas, with one that accommodates two mutually-exclusive events and another that accommodates two non-mutually exclusive events.Non-mutually-exclusive means that some overlap exists between the two events in question and the formula compensates for this by subtracting the probability of the overlap, P(Y and Z), from the sum of the probabilities of Y and Z.In theory the first form of the rule is a special case of the second form.


   The Formulas for the Addition Rules for Probabilities Is  

Mathematically, the probability of two mutually exclusive events is denoted by:



﻿




P


(


Y


 or 


Z


)


=


P


(


Y


)


+


P


(


Z


)



P(Y \text{ or } Z) = P(Y)+P(Z)


P(Y or Z)=P(Y)+P(Z)﻿



Mathematically, the probability of two non-mutually exclusive events is denoted by:



﻿




P


(


Y


 or 


Z


)


=


P


(


Y


)


+


P


(


Z


)


−


P


(


Y


 and 


Z


)



P(Y \text{ or } Z) = P(Y) + P(Z) - P(Y \text{ and } Z)


P(Y or Z)=P(Y)+P(Z)−P(Y and Z)﻿


   What Does the Addition Rule for Probabilities Tell You?  

To illustrate the first rule in the addition rule for probabilities, consider a die with six sides and the chances of rolling either a 3 or a 6. Since the chances of rolling a 3 are 1 in 6 and the chances of rolling a 6 are also 1 in 6, the chance of rolling either a 3 or a 6 is:



1/6 + 1/6 = 2/6 = 1/3



To illustrate the second rule, consider a class in which there are 9 boys and 11 girls. At the end of the term, 5 girls and 4 boys receive a grade of B. If a student is selected by chance, what are the odds that the student will be either a girl or a B student? Since the chances of selecting a girl are 11 in 20, the chances of selecting a B student are 9 in 20 and the chances of selecting a girl who is a B student are 5/20, the chances of picking a girl or a B student are:



11/20 + 9/20 - 5/20 =15/20 = 3/4



In reality, the two rules simplify to just one rule, the second one. That's because in the first case, the probability of two mutually exclusive events both happening is 0. In the example with the die, it's impossible to roll both a 3 and a 6 on one roll of a single die. So the two events are mutually exclusive.


   Mutual Exclusivity  

Mutually exclusive is a statistical term describing two or more events that cannot coincide. It is commonly used to describe a situation where the occurrence of one outcome supersedes the other.  For a basic example, consider the rolling of dice. You cannot roll both a five and a three simultaneously on a single die. Furthermore, getting a three on an initial roll has no impact on whether or not a subsequent roll yields a five. All rolls of a die are independent events.
What Is an Adhesion Contract?  

An adhesion contract is an agreement that usually has non-negotiable terms and conditions. Generally, it's prepared by a party to a potential transaction that has the product or service sought by another party, the consumer. The former has the stronger bargaining position. The latter must accept the adhesion contract to obtain the product or service.



Adhesion contracts are also known as standard, standardized, or boilerplate contracts.





Key Takeaways

Adhesion contracts are "take it or leave it" agreements where you must accept the contract or walk away.Adhesion contracts are meant to simplify business transactions by standardizing the agreement between the supplier and the buyer.To be enforceable, adhesion contracts cannot be unreasonably one-sided.Courts ultimately decide what is reasonable within an adhesion contract. The legal view of such contracts has evolved over time and may differ across jurisdictions.


   Understanding Adhesion Contracts  

Adhesion contracts are often used for insurance, leases, vehicle purchases, mortgages, and other transactions where there is a high volume of customers who fit a standard form of agreement.



For instance, with an insurance contract, the company and its agent have the power to draft the contract, while the potential policyholder only has the right of refusal. In other words, the customer cannot counter the offer or create their own, new contract to which the insurer could agree. 



It is important for consumers to read an adhesion contract carefully, as all the information and rules have been written by the other party.


  Contract Regulation  

Adhesion contracts are usually enforceable in the United States according to the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC). The UCC helps to ensure that commercial transactions take place under a similar set of laws across the country.



Although the UCC is followed by most U.S. states, it has not been fully adopted by some jurisdictions such as American Samoa and Puerto Rico. Louisiana stands alone among the 50 states in adopting only parts of the UCC.



The UCC has specific provisions relating to adhesion contracts for the sale or lease of goods. Contracts of adhesion are, however, subject to additional scrutiny and interpretation under state law.


   History of Adhesion Contracts  

Adhesion contracts started to become part of the U.S. legal system only after the Harvard Law Review published an article on life insurance contracts by Edwin W. Patterson in 1919. Subsequently, most courts accepted the idea of contract adhesion, due in large part to a Supreme Court of California case that supported adhesion analysis in 1962. 



The specifics of the legality and enforceability of adhesion contracts have changed over time. The case law and interpretation may vary from state to state, but it is generally agreed that adhesion contracts are an efficient way to handle standardized transactions.



When used properly, adhesion contracts save companies and customers time and the expense relating to obtaining contract advice from attorneys. However, soome aspects of adhesion contracts pose problems.



For example, in certain cases, electronic adhesion contracts signed online have been challenged in court because contract details were so difficult to access and review. As a result, electronic adhesion contracts must provide the accessibility of contracts that a consumer would receive and read offline.






Often, courts won't enforce "browse-wrap" electronic contracts that require consumers to click through a number of links to find and read the various terms of a contract and agree to it. However, "click-wrap" electronic contracts that simplify this process by efficiently providing all the text and a click-to-accept method in one place typically are upheld by courts.


   Enforceability of Adhesion Contracts  

For a contract to be treated as an adhesion contract, it must be presented as a "take it or leave it" deal. This means that one party has no ability to negotiate with the party offering the contract.



Adhesion contracts are subject to scrutiny that usually comes in one of two forms:


  Reasonable Expectations  

Courts have traditionally used the doctrine of reasonable expectations to test whether an adhesion contract is enforceable. Under this doctrine, specific parts of an adhesion contract or the whole contract may be deemed unenforceable if the contract terms go beyond or don't match what the weaker party would have reasonably expected.



Whether a contract is reasonable depends on the prominence of its terms, the purpose of the terms, and the circumstances surrounding acceptance of the contract.


  Unconscionability  

The doctrine of unconscionability has also been used in contract law to challenge certain adhesion contracts. It is a fact-specific doctrine arising from, again, equitable principles, and specifically, the idea of bargaining in good faith. Unconscionability shifts the focus from what the customer might reasonably expect to the motive of the supplier.



Unconscionability in adhesion contracts usually comes up if there is an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one party due to one-sided contract provisions combined with unreasonably oppressive terms that no one would or should accept.



Simply put, if the contract is exceptionally unfair to the signing party, it can be declared unenforceable in court.



Unconscionability is easier to argue if the supplier is making a significant profit from the agreement, especially if the amount of profit is tied to the weaker party's lack of bargaining power.



Some legal experts have pushed back on this approach as it has implications concerning the freedom of contract. That's the legal concept that people can freely determine the provisions of a contract without government interference.




Where Are Adhesion Contracts Used?
You usually encounter them when you're arranging for airline tickets, insurance policies, mortgage loans, health care, or the purchase of an automobile.




Do Consumers Benefit From Adhesion Contracts?
Yes, generally speaking, because it standardizes contracts and makes transactions faster and easier to conduct. If consumers had to read every contract for every purchase they make or hire a lawyer to review them on their behalf, it's possible that far fewer transactions would take place. Despite that, it's important to understand the terms of any adhesion contract provided to you.




What Happens if I Don't Agree to an Adhesion Contract?
While you can't make changes to an adhesion contract, if you don't like what it states, you can turn it down and go elsewhere to make your purchase.


   The Bottom Line  

Adhesion, or standardized, contracts require that one party to a transaction, e.g., the consumer who wishes to purchase a product or service, agree to all terms and conditions prepared by the other party to the transaction, e.g., the supplier of the product or service.



They are typical in many types of consumer transactions. Nonetheless, be sure to read the adhesion contract that's offered to you carefully before signing it.
What Is an Adjudication?  

An adjudication is a legal ruling or judgment, usually final, but can also refer to the process of settling a legal case or claim through the court or justice system, such as a decree in the bankruptcy process between the defendant and the creditors.



Normally, an adjudication represents the final judgment or pronouncement in a case that will determine the course of action taken regarding the issue presented. Outside of a legal process, adjudication can also more generally refer to other formal processes of judgment or ruling that render a final decision, such as the process of validating an insurance claim.





Key Takeaways

Adjudication is the process by which a court judge resolves issues between two parties.Adjudication hearings are similar to the arbitration hearing process.Generally, adjudication hearings involve money or nonviolent infractions that result in a distribution of rights and obligations for all parties involved.


   Understanding Adjudication  

Adjudication describes the legal process that helps expedite and deliver a court's resolution regarding an issue between two parties. The result of the process is a judgment and court opinion that is legally binding. Most adjudication hearings center on disputes that involve money or nonviolent infractions and result in the distribution of rights and obligations for all parties involved.



This legal process differs from other justice-seeking or evidence-based court cases. It is instead used to settle disputes between private parties, political officials and a private party, and public bodies and public officials. In the healthcare industry, for example, adjudication can determine a carrier's liability for monetary claims submitted by an insured person.





Adjudication vs. Arbitration

Adjudication specifically refers to the process and decision issued by a government-appointed (or elected) judge, as opposed to a decision issued by an arbitrator in a private proceeding or arbitration. While both judges and arbitrators are expected and required to follow the law, judges' adjudications also must take into account the interests of the government and general public interest. Arbitration, meanwhile, only needs to consider the interests of the parties involved.


   Adjudication Disputes  

The types of disputes handled or resolved through adjudication include the following:



Disagreements between private parties, such as single-persons, individual entities, or corporations
Disagreements between private parties and public officials
Disagreements between public officials and/or public bodies



Requirements for full adjudication include requisite notice to all interested parties (all legally-interested parties or those with a legal right affected by the disagreements) and an opportunity for all parties to have their evidence and arguments heard.


   The Adjudication Process  

Formal rules of evidence and procedure govern the process where the initiating party, or trier, gives a notice establishing the facts in controversy and defines any applicable laws. The notice also sometimes outlines the nature of the dispute between the parties and recounts where and when the dispute occurred, and the desired result based on law. However, there are no specific requirements regarding the notice of adjudication.



An adjudicator is then appointed and a notice is sent to the defending party, who responds by submitting a defense to the claim of adjudication by the plaintiff. The adjudicator gives the plaintiff and defendant a chance to present their arguments at a hearing and makes a final ruling. This is not too dissimilar from an arbitrator in an arbitration hearing settling a business dispute.




What Is an Example of Adjudication?
An adjudication results from any sort of official judgment or decision. For instance, when a judge levies a penalty or sentence against a defendant in court.




Where Does the Word Adjudicate Come From?
Adjudicate comes from the Latin word judicare, meaning "judge."




What Is the Purpose of the Adjudication Process?
Adjudication is a formalized remedy for efficiently resolving disputes, settling legal claims, or deciding a case.
What Is Adjustable Life Insurance?  

Adjustable life insurance is a policy that allows you to change features after signing up, including the premium payment and the death benefit. Also known as universal life, adjustable life policies include an interest-bearing savings component, the “cash value” account, which you can tap into while alive.



Adjustable life insurance policies take more work to plan and manage in exchange for offering much more flexibility versus other options. Here's what to know if you're considering an adjustable life insurance policy.





Key Takeaways

Adjustable life insurance allows you to make changes to the cash value, premiums, and death benefit.It gives you the flexibility to adjust your insurance coverage based on shifting life events.Adjustable life insurance includes a savings component known as cash value.As the cash value grows, you may borrow from it or use it to pay your premiums.The cash value account often earns interest but the gains are typically modest.


   Understanding Adjustable Life Insurance  

Adjustable life insurance is a type of permanent life insurance that can last your entire life, provided you keep paying the premiums.It differs from other products like whole life because you have a lot more flexibility to change the policy terms after signing up.



For example, whole life always charges the same monthly premium, whereas adjustable life lets you change how much you pay each year, provided you at least cover the underlying cost of insurance. You could pay more into adjustable life during years when you're earning a lot and decrease the premium while on a restricted budget, like after a job loss.



As with other permanent life insurance, adjustable life insurance has a cash value savings component that earns interest. The cash value grows based on market interest rates. The return can go up and down each year.You can take out the cash value through a withdrawal or loan. You can also save the cash value to cover the future premiums on adjustable life insurance.



Adjustable life insurance is the most flexible type of insurance available. It is attractive if you want the protection and cash value benefits of permanent life insurance yet need or want some flexibility with policy features.






Changing the death benefit may require additional underwriting or possibly an updated medical exam.


   Factors That Can Be Adjusted  

Three factors can be changed in an adjustable life insurance policy. These are the premium, cash value, and death benefit. All three elements can be adjusted because this policy is a permanent life insurance policy and does not expire, as a term life policy does. First, premiums can be changed by frequency or amount of payments as long as you pay the policy's minimum cost for the life insurance.



Second, the policy's cash value can be increased by upping your premium payments. You can decrease your cash amount if you withdraw funds or use the cash in the policy to pay the premiums. However, if you use up all the cash value, your policy might lapse, so check with your agent to make sure you have enough value to keep your coverage in force.



Third, you can adjust your death benefit by increasing or decreasing that amount. For example, you might use adjustable life insurance to increase the death benefit due to a life event like the birth of another child. Your premiums would go up for a larger death benefit. In some cases, your policy will have to undergo additional medical underwriting. Decreasing the face amount is done upon request or in writing and doesn't require underwriting.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Adjustable Life Insurance  

Adjustable life insurance gives you much more flexibility than other insurance options. You can adjust your premium payments and death benefit to meet your evolving needs. Adjustable life also earns cash value, which is another source of savings while you're alive. An adjustable life insurance policy can last your entire life. These policies do not have an expiration date so long as you cover the underlying insurance cost.



However, adjustable life insurance takes more work to manage than a policy that always charges the same premium, like whole life. If you don't pay enough into your adjustable life insurance to cover the insurance costs, your future premiums will go up. If you can't cover the rising costs yourself, your policy will lapse, and you'll lose coverage.



Adjustable life insurance is more expensive than a temporary term life insurance policy. Finally, while the cash value does grow over time, the interest rates are modest. You might earn a higher return investing outside of a life insurance policy.





Pros 

Premiums can be changed
You can decrease or increase your death benefit
Possible lifelong coverage




Cons

Expensive to purchase
Interest earnings may be modest
More complicated to manage





   Guidelines for Life Insurance Policies and Riders  

Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 7702 defines the characteristics of and guidelines for life insurance policies. The code includes rules governing how your policy must be designed to qualify for preferred tax treatment, such as the option to take loans from cash value without owing income tax.



Subsection C of this section provides guidelines for premium payments. You may not adjust the premiums in a manner that violates these guidelines. If you pay too much and violate this law, you lose the tax benefits on your adjustable life insurance policy. However, many life insurers set parameters to prevent IRC violations.



Adjustable life insurance policies typically have optional riders. Typical riders include the waiver of premium and accidental death and dismemberment riders.




What Is the Difference Between Adjustable Life Insurance and Universal Life Insurance?
Adjustable life insurance is another name for universal life insurance. There is no difference between them, as they are the same type of policy.




What Is a Cash Value Account?
The cash value account is an interest-bearing savings component contained in adjustable life policies. As premiums are deposited and interest accumulates, the policy's cash value grows. After several years, you can borrow against the cash value or withdraw funds from the policy.




What Changes Can a Policy Owner Make to an Adjustable Life Policy?
An adjustable life policy allows a policy owner to make changes to the death benefit amount, adjust their payment on their premiums, modify the guaranteed protection or premium payment periods, and add money to or remove funds from their cash value.




What Changes Require Additional Undewriting?
If you increase the death benefit amount, the insurance company may require additional underwriting before approving the change. Substantial face amount increases may require a medical exam and full medical underwriting.


   The Bottom Line  

Adjustable life policies provide the flexibility that most traditional policies do not. You can change premiums, cash value, and death benefits based on your situation. Effectively, adjustable life insurance policies allow you to customize the life insurance to meet your current or anticipated needs.



The rules for any adjustments will depend on the guidelines set by your insurer. As with buying any policy, you must carefully research the insurer you work with to make sure they're among the best life insurance companies currently operating.
What Is an Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM)?  

The term adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) refers to a home loan with a variable interest rate. With an ARM, the initial interest rate is fixed for a period of time. After that, the interest rate applied on the outstanding balance resets periodically, at yearly or even monthly intervals.



ARMs are also called variable-rate mortgages or floating mortgages. The interest rate for ARMs is reset based on a benchmark or index, plus an additional spread called an ARM margin. The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was the typical index used in ARMs until October 2020, when it was replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) in an effort to increase long-term liquidity.





Key Takeaways

An adjustable-rate mortgage is a home loan with an interest rate that can fluctuate periodically based on the performance of a specific benchmark.ARMS are also called variable rate or floating mortgages.ARMs generally have caps that limit how much the interest rate and/or payments can rise per year or over the lifetime of the loan.An ARM can be a smart financial choice for homebuyers who are planning to keep the loan for a limited period of time and can afford any potential increases in their interest rate.


   Understanding Adjustable-Rate Mortgages (ARMs)  

Mortgages allow homeowners to finance the purchase of a home or other piece of property. When you get a mortgage, you’ll need to repay the borrowed sum over a set number of years as well as pay the lender something extra to compensate them for their troubles and the likelihood that inflation will erode the value of the balance by the time the funds are reimbursed.



In most cases, you can choose the type of mortgage loan that best suits your needs. A fixed-rate mortgage comes with a fixed interest rate for the entirety of the loan. As such, your payments remain the same. An ARM, where the rate fluctuates based on market conditions. This means that you benefit from falling rates and also run the risk if rates increase.



There are two different periods to an ARM. One is the fixed period, and the other is the adjusted period. Here's how the two differ:



Fixed Period: The interest rate doesn't change during this period. It can range anywhere between the first five, seven, or ten years of the loan. This is commonly known as the intro or teaser rate.Adjusted Period: This is the point at which the rate changes. Changes are made during this period based on the underlying benchmark, which fluctuates based on market conditions.



Another key characteristic of ARMs is whether they are conforming or nonconforming loans. Conforming loans are those that meet the standards of government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. They are packaged and sold off on the secondary market to investors. Nonconforming loans, on the other hand, aren't up to the standards of these entities and aren't sold as investments.



Rates are capped on ARMs. This means that there are limits on the highest possible rate a borrower must pay. Keep in mind, though, that your credit score plays an important role in determining how much you'll pay. So, the better your score, the lower your rate.






The initial borrowing costs of an ARM are fixed at a lower rate than what you’d be offered on a comparable fixed-rate mortgage. But after that point, the interest rate that affects your monthly payments could move higher or lower, depending on the state of the economy and the general cost of borrowing. 


   Types of ARMs  

ARMs generally come in three forms: Hybrid, interest-only (IO), and payment option. Here’s a quick breakdown of each.


  Hybrid ARM  

Hybrid ARMs offer a mix of a fixed- and adjustable-rate period. With this type of loan, the interest rate will be fixed at the beginning and then begin to float at a predetermined time.



This information is typically expressed in two numbers. In most cases, the first number indicates the length of time that the fixed rate is applied to the loan, while the second refers to the duration or adjustment frequency of the variable rate.



For example, a 2/28 ARM features a fixed rate for two years followed by a floating rate for the remaining 28 years. In comparison, a 5/1 ARM has a fixed rate for the first five years, followed by a variable rate that adjusts every year (as indicated by the number one after the slash). Likewise, a 5/5 ARM would start with a fixed rate for five years and then adjust every five years.






You can compare different types of ARMs using a mortgage calculator. 


  Interest-Only (I-O) ARM  

It’s also possible to secure an interest-only (I-O) ARM, which essentially would mean only paying interest on the mortgage for a specific time frame, typically three to 10 years. Once this period expires, you are then required to pay both interest and the principal on the loan.



These types of plans appeal to those keen to spend less on their mortgage in the first few years so that they can free up funds for something else, such as purchasing furniture for their new home. Of course, this advantage comes at a cost: The longer the I-O period, the higher your payments will be when it ends.


  Payment-Option ARM  

A payment-option ARM is, as the name implies, an ARM with several payment options. These options typically include payments covering principal and interest, paying down just the interest, or paying a minimum amount that does not even cover the interest.



Opting to pay the minimum amount or just the interest might sound appealing. However, it’s worth remembering that you will have to pay the lender back everything by the date specified in the contract and that interest charges are higher when the principal isn’t getting paid off. If you persist with paying off little, then you’ll find your debt keeps growing, perhaps to unmanageable levels.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of ARMs  

Adjustable-rate mortgages come with many benefits and drawbacks. We've listed some of the most common ones below.


  Advantages  

The most obvious advantage is that a low rate, especially the intro or teaser rate, will save you money. Not only will your monthly payment be lower than most traditional fixed-rate mortgages, but you may also be able to put more down toward your principal balance. Just ensure your lender doesn't charge you a prepayment fee if you do.



ARMs are great for people who want to finance a short-term purchase, such as a starter home. Or you may want to borrow using an ARM to finance the purchase of a home that you intend to flip. This allows you to pay lower monthly payments until you decide to sell again.



More money in your pocket with an ARM also means you have more in your pocket to put toward savings or other goals, such as a vacation or a new car.



Unlike fixed-rate borrowers, you won't have to make a trip to the bank or your lender to refinance when interest rates drop. That's because you're probably already getting the best deal available.


  Disadvantages  

One of the major cons of ARMs is that the interest rate will change. This means that if market conditions lead to a rate hike, you'll end up spending more on your monthly mortgage payment. And that can put a dent in your monthly budget.



ARMs may offer you flexibility, but they don't provide you with any predictability as fixed-rate loans do. Borrowers with fixed-rate loans know what their payments will be throughout the life of the loan because the interest rate never changes. But because the rate changes with ARMs, you'll have to keep juggling your budget with every rate change.



These mortgages can often be very complicated to understand, even for the most seasoned borrower. There are various features that come with these loans that you should be aware of before you sign your mortgage contracts, such as caps, indexes, and margins.





Pros

Saves you money
Ideal for short-term borrowing
Lets you put money aside for other goals
No need to refinance



Cons

Payments may increase due to rate hikes
Not as predictable as fixed-rate mortgages
Complicated





   How the Variable Rate on ARMs Is Determined  

At the end of the initial fixed-rate period, ARM interest rates will become variable (adjustable) and will fluctuate based on some reference interest rate (the ARM index) plus a set amount of interest above that index rate (the ARM margin). The ARM index is often a benchmark rate such as the prime rate, the LIBOR, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), or the rate on short-term U.S. Treasuries.



Although the index rate can change, the margin stays the same. For example, if the index is 5% and the margin is 2%, the interest rate on the mortgage adjusts to 7%. However, if the index is at only 2%, the next time that the interest rate adjusts, the rate falls to 4% based on the loan’s 2% margin.






The interest rate on ARMs is determined by a fluctuating benchmark rate that usually reflects the general state of the economy and an additional fixed margin charged by the lender.


   Adjustable-Rate Mortgage vs. Fixed-Interest Mortgage  

Unlike ARMs, traditional or fixed-rate mortgages carry the same interest rate for the life of the loan, which might be 10, 20, 30, or more years. They generally have higher interest rates at the outset than ARMs, which can make ARMs more attractive and affordable, at least in the short term. However, fixed-rate loans provide the assurance that the borrower’s rate will never shoot up to a point where loan payments may become unmanageable.



With a fixed-rate mortgage, monthly payments remain the same, although the amounts that go to pay interest or principal will change over time, according to the loan’s amortization schedule.



If interest rates in general fall, then homeowners with fixed-rate mortgages can refinance, paying off their old loan with one at a new, lower rate.






Lenders are required to put in writing all terms and conditions relating to the ARM in which you’re interested. That includes information about the index and margin, how your rate will be calculated and how often it can be changed, whether there are any caps in place, the maximum amount that you may have to pay, and other important considerations, such as negative amortization.


   Is an ARM Right for You?  

An ARM can be a smart financial choice if you are planning to keep the loan for a limited period of time and will be able to handle any rate increases in the meantime. Put simply, an adjustable-rate mortgage is well suited for the following types of borrowers:



People who intend to hold the loan for a short period of timeIndividuals who expect to see a positive change in their incomeAnyone who can and will pay off the mortgage within a short time frame



In many cases, ARMs come with rate caps that limit how much the rate can rise at any given time or in total. Periodic rate caps limit how much the interest rate can change from one year to the next, while lifetime rate caps set limits on how much the interest rate can increase over the life of the loan.



Notably, some ARMs have payment caps that limit how much the monthly mortgage payment can increase in dollar terms. That can lead to a problem called negative amortization if your monthly payments aren’t sufficient to cover the interest rate that your lender is changing. With negative amortization, the amount that you owe can continue to increase even as you make the required monthly payments.




Why Is an Adjustable-Rate Mortgage a Bad Idea?
Adjustable-rate mortgages aren’t for everyone. Yes, their favorable introductory rates are appealing, and an ARM could help you to get a larger loan for a home. However, it’s hard to budget when payments can fluctuate wildly, and you could end up in big financial trouble if interest rates spike, particularly if there are no caps in place.




How Are ARMs Calculated?
Once the initial fixed-rate period ends, borrowing costs will fluctuate based on a reference interest rate, such as the prime rate, the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), or the rate on short-term U.S. Treasuries. On top of that, the lender will also add its own fixed amount of interest to pay, which is known as the ARM margin.




When Were ARMs First Offered to Homebuyers?
ARMs have been around for several decades, with the option to take out a long-term house loan with fluctuating interest rates first becoming available to Americans in the early 1980s.Previous attempts to introduce such loans in the 1970s were thwarted by Congress due to fears that they would leave borrowers with unmanageable mortgage payments. However, the deterioration of the thrift industry later that decade prompted authorities to reconsider their initial resistance and become more flexible.


   The Bottom Line  

Borrowers have many options available to them when they want to finance the purchase of their home or another type of property. You can choose between a fixed-rate or adjustable-rate mortgage. While the former provides you with some predictability, ARMs offer lower interest rates for a certain period of time before they begin to fluctuate with market conditions. There are different types of ARMs to choose from, and they have pros and cons. But keep in mind that these kinds of loans are better suited for certain kinds of borrowers, including those who intend to hold onto a property for the short term or if they intend to pay off the loan before the adjusted period begins. If you're unsure, talk to a financial expert about your options.
What Is the Adjusted Closing Price?  

The adjusted closing price amends a stock's closing price to reflect that stock's value after accounting for any corporate actions. It is often used when examining historical returns or doing a detailed analysis of past performance.





Key Takeaways

The adjusted closing price amends a stock's closing price to reflect that stock's value after accounting for any corporate actions.The closing price is the raw price, which is just the cash value of the last transacted price before the market closes.The adjusted closing price factors in corporate actions, such as stock splits, dividends, and rights offerings.The adjusted closing price can obscure the impact of key nominal prices and stock splits on prices in the short term.


   Understanding the Adjusted Closing Price  

Stock values are stated in terms of the closing price and the adjusted closing price. The closing price is the raw price, which is just the cash value of the last transacted price before the market closes. The adjusted closing price factors in anything that might affect the stock price after the market closes.



A stock's price is typically affected by supply and demand of market participants. However, some corporate actions, such as stock splits, dividends, and rights offerings, affect a stock's price. Adjustments allow investors to obtain an accurate record of the stock's performance. Investors should understand how corporate actions are accounted for in a stock's adjusted closing price. It is especially useful when examining historical returns because it gives analysts an accurate representation of the firm's equity value.


   Types of Adjustments  
  Adjusting Prices for Stock Splits  

A stock split is a corporate action intended to make the firm’s shares more affordable for average investors. A stock split does not change a company's total market capitalization, but it does affect the company's stock price.



For example, a company's board of directors may decide to split the company's stock 3-for-1. Therefore, the company's shares outstanding increase by a multiple of three, while its share price is divided by three. Suppose a stock closed at $300 the day before its stock split. In this case, the closing price is adjusted to $100 ($300 divided by 3) per share to maintain a consistent standard of comparison. Similarly, all other previous closing prices for that company would be divided by three to obtain the adjusted closing prices.


  Adjusting for Dividends  

Common distributions that affect a stock's price include cash dividends and stock dividends. The difference between cash dividends and stock dividends is that shareholders are entitled to a predetermined price per share and additional shares, respectively.



For example, assume a company declared a $1 cash dividend and was trading at $51 per share before then. All other things being equal, the stock price would fall to $50 because that $1 per share is no longer part of the company's assets. However, the dividends are still part of the investor's returns. By subtracting dividends from previous stock prices, we obtain the adjusted closing prices and a better picture of returns.


  Adjusting for Rights Offerings  

A stock's adjusted closing price also reflects rights offerings that may occur. A rights offering is an issue of rights given to existing shareholders, which entitles the shareholders to subscribe to the rights issue in proportion to their shares. That will lower the value of existing shares because supply increases have a dilutive effect on the existing shares.



For example, assume a company declares a rights offering, in which existing shareholders are entitled to one additional share for every two shares owned. Assume the stock is trading at $50, and existing shareholders can purchase additional shares at a subscription price of $45. After the rights offering, the adjusted closing price is calculated based on the adjusting factor and the closing price.


   Benefits of the Adjusted Closing Price  

The main advantage of adjusted closing prices is that they make it easier to evaluate stock performance. Firstly, the adjusted closing price helps investors understand how much they would have made by investing in a given asset. Most obviously, a 2-for-1 stock split does not cause investors to lose half their money. Since successful stocks often split repeatedly, graphs of their performance would be hard to interpret without adjusted closing prices.



Secondly, the adjusted closing price allows investors to compare the performance of two or more assets. Aside from the clear issues with stock splits, failing to account for dividends tends to understate the profitability of value stocks and dividend growth stocks. Using the adjusted closing price is also essential when comparing the returns of different asset classes over the long term. For example, the prices of high-yield bonds tend to fall in the long run. That does not mean these bonds are necessarily poor investments. Their high yields offset the losses and more, which can be seen by looking at the adjusted closing prices of high-yield bond funds.






The adjusted closing price provides the most accurate record of returns for long-term investors looking to design asset allocations.


   Criticism of the Adjusted Closing Price  

The nominal closing price of a stock or other asset can convey useful information. This information is destroyed by converting that price into an adjusted closing price. In actual practice, many speculators place buy and sell orders at certain prices, such as $100. As a result, a sort of tug of war can take place between bulls and bears at these key prices. If the bulls win, a breakout may occur and send the asset price soaring. Similarly, a win for the bears can lead to a breakdown and further losses. The adjusted close stock price obscures these events.



By looking at the actual closing price at the time, investors can get a better idea of what was going on and understand contemporary accounts. If investors look at historical records, they will find many examples of tremendous public interest in nominal levels. Perhaps the most famous is the role that Dow 1,000 played in the 1966 to 1982 secular bear market. During that period, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) repeatedly hit 1,000, only to fall back shortly after that. The breakout finally took place in 1982, and the Dow never dropped below 1,000 again.﻿﻿ This phenomenon is covered up somewhat by adding dividends to obtain the adjusted closing prices.



In general, adjusted closing prices are less useful for more speculative stocks. Jesse Livermore provided an excellent account of the impact of key nominal prices, such as $100 and $300, on Anaconda Copper in the early 20th century. In the early 21st century, similar patterns occurred with Netflix (NFLX) and Tesla (TSLA). William J. O'Neil gave examples where stock splits, far from being irrelevant, marked the beginnings of real declines in the stock price.﻿﻿ While arguably irrational, the impact of nominal prices on stocks could be an example of a self-fulfilling prophecy.
What Is Adjusted EBITDA?  

Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) is a measure computed for a company that takes its earnings and adds back interest expenses, taxes, and depreciation charges, plus other adjustments to the metric.



Standardizing EBITDA by removing anomalies means the resulting adjusted or normalized EBITDA is more accurately and easily comparable to the EBITDA of other companies, and to the EBITDA of a company's industry as a whole.





Key Takeaways

The adjusted EBITDA measurement removes non-recurring, irregular and one-time items that may distort EBITDA.Adjusted EBITDA provides valuation analysts with a normalized metric to make comparisons more meaningful across a variety of companies in the same industry.Public companies report standard EBITDA in financial statement filings as Adjusted EBITDA is not required in GAAP financial statements.


   The Formula for Adjusted EBITDA Is  

﻿















N


I


+


I


T


+


D


A


=


E


B


I


T


D


A
















E


B


I


T


D


A


+




/




−


A


=


Adjusted 


E


B


I


T


D


A
















where:
















N


I


 


=


 


Net income
















I


T


 


=


 


Interest & taxes
















D


A


 


=


 


Depreciation & amortization








\begin{aligned} ∋+IT+DA=EBITDA\\ &EBITDA +\!\!/\!\!-A = \text{Adjusted }EBITDA\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ ∋\ =\ \text{Net income}\\ &IT\ =\ \text{Interest \& taxes}\\ &DA\ =\ \text{Depreciation \& amortization}\\ &A\ =\ \text{Adjustments} \end{aligned}


​NI+IT+DA=EBITDAEBITDA+/−A=Adjusted EBITDAwhere:NI = Net incomeIT = Interest & taxesDA = Depreciation & amortization​﻿


   How to Calculate Adjusted EBITDA  

Start by calculating earnings before income, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, i.e. EBITDA, which begins with a company's net income. To this figure, add back interest expense, income taxes, and all non-cash charges including depreciation and amortization.



Next, either add back non-routine expenses, such as excessive owner's compensation or deduct any additional, typical expenses that would be present in peer companies but may not be present in the company under analysis. This could include salaries for necessary headcount in a company that is under-staffed, for example.


   What Does Adjusted EBITDA Tell You?  

Adjusted EBITDA is used to assess and compare related companies for valuation analysis and for other purposes. Adjusted EBITDA differs from the standard EBITDA measure in that a company's adjusted EBITDA is used to normalize its income and expenses since different companies may have several types of expense items that are unique to them. Adjusted EBITDA, as opposed to the non-adjusted version, will attempt to normalize income, standardize cash flows, and eliminate abnormalities or idiosyncrasies (such as redundant assets, bonuses paid to owners, rentals above or below fair market value, etc.), which makes it easier to compare multiple business units or companies in a given industry.



For smaller firms, owners' personal expenses are often run through the business and must be adjusted out. The adjustment for reasonable compensation to owners is defined by Treasury Regulation 1.162-7(b)(3) as “the amount that would ordinarily be paid for like services by like organizations in like circumstances.”



Other times, one-time expenses need to be added back, such as legal fees, real estate expenses such as repairs or maintenance, or insurance claims. Non-recurring income and expenses such as one-time startup costs that usually reduce EBITDA should also be added back when computing the adjusted EBITDA.



Adjusted EBITDA should not be used in isolation and makes more sense as part of a suite of analytical tools used to value a company or companies. Ratios that rely on adjusted EBITDA can also be used to compare companies of different sizes and in different industries, such as the enterprise value/adjusted EBITDA ratio. 


   Example of How to Use Adjusted EBITDA  

The adjusted EBITDA metric is most helpful when used in determining the value of a company for transactions such as mergers, acquisitions or raising capital. For example, if a company is valued using a multiple of EBITDA, the value could change significantly after add-backs.



Assume a company is being valued for a sale transaction, using an EBITDA multiple of 6x to arrive at the purchase price estimate. If the company has just $1 million of non-recurring or unusual expenses to add back as EBITDA adjustments, this adds $6 million ($1 million times the 6x multiple) to its purchase price. For this reason, EBITDA adjustments come under much scrutiny from equity analysts and investment bankers during these types of transactions.



The adjustments made to a company's EBITDA can vary quite a bit from one company to the next, but the goal is the same. Adjusting the EBITDA metric aims to "normalize" the figure so that it is somewhat generic, meaning it contains essentially the same line-item expenses that any other, similar company in its industry would contain.



The bulk of the adjustments are often different types of expenses that are added back to EBITDA. The resulting adjusted EBITDA often reflects a higher earnings level because of the reduced expenses.


   EBITDA Adjustments  

Common EBITDA adjustments include:



Unrealized gains or lossesNon-cash expenses (depreciation, amortization)Litigation expensesOwner's compensation that is higher than the market average (in private firms)Gains or losses on foreign exchangeGoodwill impairmentsNon-operating incomeShare-based compensation



This metric is typically calculated on an annual basis for a valuation analysis, but many companies will look at adjusted EBITDA on a quarterly or even monthly basis, though it may be for internal use only.



Analysts often use a three-year or five-year average adjusted EBITDA to smooth out the data. The higher the adjusted EBITDA margin, the better. Different firms or analysts may arrive at slightly different adjusted EBITDA due to differences in their methodology and assumptions in making the adjustments.



These figures are often not made available to the public, while non-normalized EBITDA is typically public information. It is important to note that adjusted EBITDA is not a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)-standard line item on a company's income statement.
What Are Adjusted Funds From Operations—AFFO?  

Adjusted funds from operations (AFFO) refers to the financial performance measure primarily used in the analysis of real estate investment trusts (REITs). The AFFO of a REIT, though subject to varying methods of computation, is generally equal to the trust's funds from operations (FFO) with adjustments made for recurring capital expenditures used to maintain the quality of the REIT's underlying assets. The calculation takes in the adjustment to GAAP straight-lining of rent, leasing costs, and other material factors.





Key Takeaways

Adjusted funds from operations (AFFO) is a financial measure used to estimate the value of a real estate investment trust (REIT).AFFO is based on funds from operations (FFO), but is considered preferable, because it takes costs into consideration, thus more accurately estimating the REIT's present values and ability to pay dividends.Though no one official measure exists, a AFFO formula is along the lines of AFFO = FFO + rent increases - capital expenditures - routine maintenance amounts.


   Understanding Adjusted Funds From Operations—AFFO  

Regardless of how industry professionals choose to compute adjusted funds from operations (AFFO), it is considered to be a more accurate measure of residual cash flow for shareholders than simple FFO. Though FFO is commonly used, it does not deduct for capital expenditures required to maintain the existing portfolio of properties, so it doesn't quite measure the true residual cash flow. Professional analysts prefer AFFO because it takes into consideration additional costs incurred by the REIT—and additional income sources too, like rent increases. Thus, It provides for a more accurate base number when estimating present values and a better predictor of the REIT's future ability to pay dividends. This is a non-GAAP measure.


   Calculating Adjusted Funds From Operations—AFFO  

Before calculating the AFFO, an analyst must first determine the REIT's funds from operations (FFO). The FFO measures cash flow from a specified list of activities. FFO reflects the impact from the REIT's leasing and acquisition activity, as well as interest costs. FFO takes into account the REIT's net income including amortization and depreciation, but it excludes the capital gains from property sales. The reasons these gains are not included is that they are one time events and generally do not have a long-term effect on the REIT's future earnings potential.



The formula for FFO is:



FFO = net income + amortization + depreciation - capital gains from property sales



Once the FFO is determined, the AFFO can be calculated. Though there is no one official formula, calculations for AFFO typically would be something like:



AFFO = FFO + rent increases - capital expenditures - routine maintenance amounts






Traditional metrics used in evaluating equities, such as earnings-per-share (EPS) and price-to-earnings ration (P/E), are not reliable in estimating the value of a REIT.


   Example of an Adjusted Funds From Operations—  
   AFFO Calculation  

As an example of the AFFO calculation, assume the following: a REIT had $2 million in net income over the last reporting period. During that time, it earned $400,000 from the sale of one of its properties and lost $100,000 from the sale of another. It reported $35,000 of amortization and $50,000 of depreciation. During the period, net rent increases were $40,000; capital expenditures were $75,000 and routine maintenance amounted to $30,000.



Given this information the FFO can be calculated as:



FFO = $2,000,000 + $35,000 + $50,000 - ($400,000 - $100,000) = $1,785,000



From this, the AFFO is calculated as:



AFFO = FFO + $40,000 - $75,000 - $30,000 = $1,720,000
What Is Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)?  

Adjusted gross income (AGI) is the figure that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses to determine your income tax liability for the year. It is calculated by subtracting certain adjustments from gross income, such as business expenses, student loan interest payments, and other expenses. After calculating a taxpayer’s AGI, the next step is to subtract deductions to determine their taxable income.



The IRS also uses other income metrics, such as modified AGI (MAGI), for specific programs and retirement accounts.





Key Takeaways

The IRS uses your adjusted gross income (AGI) to determine how much income tax you owe for the year.AGI is calculated by taking all of your income for the year (your gross income) and subtracting certain adjustments to income.Your AGI can affect the size of your tax deductions as well as your eligibility for some types of retirement plan contributions, such as a Roth individual retirement account (Roth IRA).Modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) is your AGI with some otherwise-allowable deductions added back in. For many people, AGI and MAGI will be the same.Among the items subtracted from your gross income when calculating your AGI are alimony payments and educator expenses.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)  

As prescribed in the United States tax code, AGI is a modification of gross income. Gross income is simply the sum of all the money you earned in a year, which may include wages, dividends, capital gains, interest income, royalties, rental income, alimony, and retirement distributions, before tax or other deductions. AGI makes certain adjustments to your gross income to reach the figure on which your tax liability will be calculated.



Many U.S. states also use the AGI from federal returns to calculate how much individuals owe in state income taxes. States may modify this number further with state-specific deductions and credits.






AGI is an important figure because it is what is used to determine your eligibility for certain deductions and credits.


  Common Adjustments  

The items subtracted from your gross income to calculate your AGI are referred to as adjustments to income, and you report them on Schedule 1 of your tax return when you file your annual tax return. Some of the most common adjustments are listed here, along with the separate tax forms on which a few of them are calculated:



Alimony payments (for divorces filed before Jan. 1, 2019)
Early withdrawal penalties on savings
Educator expenses
Employee business expenses for armed forces reservists, qualified performing artists, fee-basis state or local government officials, and employees with impairment-related work expenses (Form 2106)
Health Savings Account (HSA) deductions (Form 8889)
Moving expenses for members of the armed forces (Form 3903)
Self-employed Simplified Employee Pension (SEP), Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE), and qualified plans
Self-employed health insurance deduction
Self-employment tax (the deductible portion)
Student loan interest deduction


   How to Calculate Adjusted Gross Income  

If you use software to prepare your tax return, it will calculate your AGI once you input your numbers. If you calculate it yourself, you’ll begin by tallying your reported income for the year. That might include job income, as reported to the IRS by your employer on a W-2 form, plus other income, such as dividends and miscellaneous income, reported on 1099 forms.



Next, you add any taxable income from other sources, such as profit on the sale of a property, unemployment compensation, pensions, Social Security payments, or anything else that hasn’t already been reported to the IRS. Many of these income items are also listed on IRS Schedule 1.



The next step is to subtract the applicable adjustments to the income listed above from your reported income. The resulting figure is your AGI. To determine your taxable income, subtract either the standard deduction or your total itemized deductions from your AGI. In most cases, you can choose whichever gives you the most benefit.



For example, the standard deduction for tax returns for married couples filing jointly was $25,900 in 2022, rising to $27,700 in 2023, so couples whose itemized deductions exceed that amount would generally opt to itemize, while others would take the standard deduction.



The IRS provides a list of itemized deductions and the requirements for claiming them on its website. Your AGI also affects your eligibility for many of the deductions and credits available on your tax return. In general, the lower your AGI, the more significant the number of deductions and credits you will be eligible to claim, and the more you’ll be able to reduce your tax bill.


   An Example of AGI Affecting Deductions  

Let’s say you had some significant dental expenses during the year that weren’t reimbursed by insurance, and you’ve decided to itemize your deductions. You are allowed to deduct the portion of those expenses that exceed 7.5% of your AGI.



This means that if you report $12,000 in unreimbursed dental expenses and have an AGI of $100,000, you can deduct the amount that exceeds $7,500, which is $4,500. However, if your AGI is $50,000, the 7.5% reduction is just $3,750, and you’d be entitled to deduct a larger amount of that $12,000, in this case $8,250.


   Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) vs. Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI)  

In addition to AGI, some tax calculations and government programs call for using what’s known as your modified adjusted gross income, or MAGI. This figure starts with your AGI, then adds back certain items, such as any deductions you take for student loan interest or tuition and fees.



Your MAGI is used to determine how much, if anything, you can contribute to a Roth individual retirement account (Roth IRA) in any given year. It is also used to calculate your income if you apply for Marketplace health insurance under the Affordable Care Act (ACA).



Many people with relatively uncomplicated financial lives find that their AGI and MAGI are the same number or very close.






If you file your taxes electronically, the IRS form will ask you for your previous year’s AGI as a way of verifying your identity.


   Adjusted Gross Income vs. Gross Income vs. Taxable Income  

Your gross income is all of the money you've earned in a year that isn't exempt from taxation. This can be in the form of salary, wages, interest, dividends, capital gains, and so on.



Your adjusted gross income takes that amount and takes out certain qualified expenses and adjustments.



Taxpayers can then take either the standard deduction for their filing status or itemize the deductible expenses they paid during the year. You're not permitted to both itemize deductions and claim the standard deduction. The result is your taxable income.





Where to Find Your Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)

You report your AGI on line 11 of IRS Form 1040, which is the form you use to file your income taxes for the year. Keep that number handy after completing your taxes, because you will need it again if you e-file your taxes next year. The IRS uses it as a way to verify your identity.
Also, note that as of January 2022, almost anyone may use the IRS Free File program to file their federal (and, in some cases, state) taxes electronically at no charge.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Does Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) Mean for Tax Payments?
Adjusted gross income (AGI) is essentially your income for the year after accounting for all applicable tax deductions. It is an important number that is used by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to determine how much you owe in taxes. AGI is calculated by taking your gross income from the year and subtracting any deductions that you are eligible to claim. Therefore, your AGI will always be less than or equal to your gross income.




What Are Some Common Adjustments Used When Determining AGI?
There are a wide variety of adjustments that might be made when calculating AGI, depending on the financial and life circumstances of the filer. Moreover, since the tax laws can be changed by lawmakers, the list of available adjustments can change over time. Some of the most common adjustments used when calculating AGI include reductions for alimony and student loan interest payments.




What Is the Difference Between AGI and Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI)?
AGI and modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) are very similar, except that MAGI adds back certain deductions. For this reason, MAGI would always be larger than or equal to AGI. Common examples of deductions that are added back to calculate MAGI include foreign earned income, income earned on U.S. savings bonds, and losses arising from a publicly traded partnership.


   The Bottom Line  

Adjusted gross income, or AGI, is your gross income after it has been adjusted for certain qualified deductions that are permitted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). These qualified deductions reduce an individual's gross income, thus reducing the taxable income that they will ultimately have to pay taxes on. You can save money come tax season by lowering your AGI, which will lower your taxable income, in turn. However, many of the adjustments allowed for AGI are specific for particular circumstances that may not apply to everyone.
What Is Adjusted Present Value (APV)?  

The adjusted present value is the net present value (NPV) of a project or company if financed solely by equity plus the present value (PV) of any financing benefits, which are the additional effects of debt. By taking into account financing benefits, APV includes tax shields such as those provided by deductible interest.


   The Formula for APV Is  

﻿















Adjusted Present Value = Unlevered Firm Value + NE
















where:
















NE = Net effect of debt








\begin{aligned} &\text{Adjusted Present Value = Unlevered Firm Value + NE}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{NE = Net effect of debt}\\ \end{aligned}


​Adjusted Present Value = Unlevered Firm Value + NEwhere:NE = Net effect of debt​﻿



The net effect of debt includes tax benefits that are created when the interest on a company's debt is tax-deductible. This benefit is calculated as the interest expense times the tax rate, and it only applies to one year of interest and tax. The present value of the interest tax shield is therefore calculated as: (tax rate * debt load * interest rate) / interest rate.


   How to Calculate Adjusted Present Value (APV)  

To determine the adjusted present value:



Find the value of the un-levered firm.Calculate the net value of debt financing.Sum the value of the un-levered project or company and the net value of the debt financing.


   How to Calculate APV in Excel  

An investor can use Excel to build out a model to calculate the net present value of the firm and the present value of the debt.


   What Does Adjusted Present Value Tell You?  

The adjusted present value helps to show an investor the benefits of tax shields resulting from one or more tax deductions of interest payments or a subsidized loan at below-market rates. For leveraged transactions, APV is preferred. In particular, leveraged buyout situations are the most effective situations in which to use the adjusted present value methodology.



The value of a debt-financed project can be higher than just an equity-financed project, as the cost of capital falls when leverage is used. Using debt can actually turn a negative NPV project into one that’s positive. NPV uses the weighted average cost of capital as the discount rate, while APV uses the cost of equity as the discount rate.





Key Takeaways

APV is the NPV of a project or company if financed solely by equity plus the present value of financing benefits.APV shows an investor the benefit of tax shields from tax-deductible interest payments. It is best used for leverage transactions, such as leveraged buyouts, but is more of an academic calculation.


   Example of How to Use Adjusted Present Value (APV)  

In a financial projection where a base-case NPV is calculated, the sum of the present value of the interest tax shield is added to obtain the adjusted present value.



For example, assume a multi-year projection calculation finds that the present value of Company ABC’s free cash flow (FCF) plus terminal value is $100,000. The tax rate for the company is 30% and the interest rate is 7%. Its $50,000 debt load has an interest tax shield of $15,000, or ($50,000 * 30% * 7%) / 7%. Thus, the adjusted present value is $115,000, or $100,000 + $15,000.


   The Difference Between APV and Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)  

While the adjusted present value method is similar to the discounted cash flow (DCF) methodology, adjusted present cash flow does not capture taxes or other financing effects in a weighted average cost of capital (WACC) or other adjusted discount rates. Unlike WACC used in discounted cash flow, the adjusted present value seeks to value the effects of the cost of equity and cost of debt separately. The adjusted present value isn’t as prevalent as the discounted cash flow method.


   Limitations of Using Adjusted Present Value (APV)  

In practice, the adjusted present value is not used as much as the discounted cash flow method. It is more of an academic calculation but is often considered to result in more accurate valuations.
What Is an Adjusting Journal Entry?  

An adjusting journal entry is an entry in a company's general ledger that occurs at the end of an accounting period to record any unrecognized income or expenses for the period. When a transaction is started in one accounting period and ended in a later period, an adjusting journal entry is required to properly account for the transaction.



Adjusting journal entries can also refer to financial reporting that corrects a mistake made previously in the accounting period.





Key Takeaways

Adjusting journal entries are used to record transactions that have occurred but have not yet been appropriately recorded in accordance with the accrual method of accounting.Adjusting journal entries are recorded in a company's general ledger at the end of an accounting period to abide by the matching and revenue recognition principles.The most common types of adjusting journal entries are accruals, deferrals, and estimates.It is used for accrual accounting purposes when one accounting period transitions to the next.Companies that use cash accounting do not need to make adjusting journal entries.


   Understanding Adjusting Journal Entries  

The purpose of adjusting entries is to convert cash transactions into the accrual accounting method. Accrual accounting is based on the revenue recognition principle that seeks to recognize revenue in the period in which it was earned, rather than the period in which cash is received.



As an example, assume a construction company begins construction in one period but does not invoice the customer until the work is complete in six months. The construction company will need to do an adjusting journal entry at the end of each of the months to recognize revenue for 1/6 of the amount that will be invoiced at the six-month point.



An adjusting journal entry involves an income statement account (revenue or expense) along with a balance sheet account (asset or liability). It typically relates to the balance sheet accounts for accumulated depreciation, allowance for doubtful accounts, accrued expenses, accrued income, prepaid expenses, deferred revenue, and unearned revenue.



Income statement accounts that may need to be adjusted include interest expense, insurance expense, depreciation expense, and revenue. The entries are made in accordance with the matching principle to match expenses to the related revenue in the same accounting period. The adjustments made in journal entries are carried over to the general ledger that flows through to the financial statements.


   Types of Adjusting Journal Entries  

In summary, adjusting journal entries are most commonly accruals, deferrals, and estimates.


  Accruals  

Accruals are revenues and expenses that have not been received or paid, respectively, and have not yet been recorded through a standard accounting transaction. For instance, an accrued expense may be rent that is paid at the end of the month, even though a firm is able to occupy the space at the beginning of the month that has not yet been paid.


  Deferrals  

Deferrals refer to revenues and expenses that have been received or paid in advance, respectively, and have been recorded, but have not yet been earned or used. Unearned revenue, for instance, accounts for money received for goods not yet delivered.


  Estimates  

Estimates are adjusting entries that record non-cash items, such as depreciation expense, allowance for doubtful accounts, or the inventory obsolescence reserve.






Not all journal entries recorded at the end of an accounting period are adjusting entries. For example, an entry to record a purchase of equipment on the last day of an accounting period is not an adjusting entry


   Why Are Adjusting Journal Entries Important?  

Because many companies operate where actual delivery of goods may be made at a different time than payment (either beforehand in the case of credit or afterward in the case of pre-payment), there are times when one accounting period will end with such a situation still pending. In such a case, the adjusting journal entries are used to reconcile these differences in the timing of payments as well as expenses. Without adjusting entries to the journal, there would remain unresolved transactions that are yet to close.


   Example of an Adjusting Journal Entry  

For example, a company that has a fiscal year ending December 31 takes out a loan from the bank on December 1. The terms of the loan indicate that interest payments are to be made every three months. In this case, the company’s first interest payment is to be made March 1. However, the company still needs to accrue interest expenses for the months of December, January, and February.



Since the firm is set to release its year-end financial statements in January, an adjusting entry is needed to reflect the accrued interest expense for December. To accurately report the company’s operations and profitability, the accrued interest expense must be recorded on the December income statement, and the liability for the interest payable must be reported on the December balance sheet. The adjusting entry will debit interest expense and credit interest payable for the amount of interest from December 1 to December 31.




What Is the Purpose of Adjusting Journal Entries?
Adjusting journal entries are used to reconcile transactions that have not yet closed, but which straddle accounting periods. These can be either payments or expenses whereby the payment does not occur at the same time as delivery.




What Are the Types of Adjusting Journal Entries?
The main two types are accruals and deferrals. Accruals refer to payments or expenses on credit that are still owed, while deferrals refer to prepayments where the products have not yet been delivered.




What Is the Difference Between Cash Accounting and Accrual Accounting?
The primary distinction between cash and accrual accounting is in the timing of when expenses and revenues are recognized. With cash accounting, this occurs only when money is received for goods or services. Accrual accounting instead allows for a lag between payment and product (e.g., with purchases made on credit).




Who Needs To Make Adjusting Journal Entries?
Companies that use accrual accounting and find themselves in a position where one accounting period transitions to the next must see if any open transactions exist. If so, adjusting journal entries must be made accordingly.
What Are Administrative Expenses?  

Administrative expenses are expenses an organization incurs that are not directly tied to a specific core function such as manufacturing, production, or sales. These overhead expenses are related to the organization as a whole, as opposed to individual departments or business units.





Key Takeaways

Administrative expenses are costs incurred to support the functioning of a business, but which are not directly related to the production of a specific product or service.Some level of administrative expenses will always be incurred as a necessary part of operations.Administrative expenses are often among the first identified for budget cuts, because they do not directly impact a company's main business functions.Management may allocate administrative expenses to its business units based on a percentage of revenue, expenses, or other measures.


   Understanding Administrative Expenses  

Administrative expenses may include salaries of senior management and the costs associated with general services or supplies; for example, legal, accounting, clerical work, and information technology. These costs tend not to be directly related to the production of goods or services of a business and are usually excluded from gross margins.



Companies incur administrative expenses in order to perform basic operations (e.g., administer payroll or healthcare benefits), increase oversight and efficiency, and/or comply with laws and regulations. On the income statement, administrative expenses appear below cost of goods sold (COGS) and may be shown as an aggregate with other expenses such as general or selling expenses.



Some administrative expenses are fixed in nature, as they are incurred as part of the foundation of business operations. These expenses would exist regardless of the level of production or sales that occur. Other administrative expenses are semi-variable. For example, a business will always use some minimum level of electricity to keep the lights on. Beyond that point, it can take measures to reduce its electric bill.



Because a business can eliminate administrative expenses without a direct impact on the product it sells or produces, these costs are typically first in line for budget cuts. Management is strongly motivated to maintain low administrative expenses relative to other costs, as this allows a business to utilize leverage more effectively. The sales-to-administrative expense ratio helps companies to measure how much sales revenue is being portioned to covering administrative costs.



Companies can deduct from their tax returns administrative expenses that are reasonable, ordinary, and necessary for business operations. These expenses must be incurred during the usual course of business and deducted in the year they are incurred.


   Other Types of Administrative Expenses  

Wages and benefits to certain employees, such as accounting and IT staff, are considered administrative expenses. All executive compensation and benefits are considered an administrative expense. Building leases, insurance, subscriptions, utilities, and office supplies may be classified as a general expense or administrative expense.



Depending on the asset being depreciated, depreciation expenses may be classified as a general, administrative, or selling (marketing) expense. Organizations may choose to include consulting and legal fees as an administrative expense as well. However, research and development (R&D) costs are not considered administrative expenses.



To get the full picture of the costs associated with running certain business units, a company may allocate out administrative expenses to each of its departments based on a percentage of revenue, expenses, square footage, or other measures. Internally, this allows management to make decisions about expanding or reducing individual business units.


   Example of Administrative Expenses  

For example, if XYZ Company spends $4,000 monthly on electricity and records this as an administrative expense, it might allocate the cost according to the square footage each individual department occupies. Assume:



The production facility is 2,000 square feetThe manufacturing facility is 1,500 square feetThe accounting office is 750 square feetThe sales office is 750 square feet



The company occupies 5,000 square feet. The electric bill could be allocated as follows:



Production: $1,600 or (2,000 / 5,000) x $4,000Manufacturing: $1,200 or (1,500 / 5,000) x $4,000Accounting: $600 or (750 / 5,000) x $4,000Sales: $600 or (750 / 5,000) x $4,000
What Is Administrative Services Only (ASO)?  

Administrative services only (ASO) refers to an agreement that companies use when they fund their employee benefit plan but hire an outside vendor to administer it. For example, an organization may hire an insurance company to evaluate and process claims under its employee health plan while maintaining the responsibility of paying the claims itself. An ASO arrangement contrasts with a company that purchases health insurance for its employees from an external provider.





Key Takeaways

ASO-based, self-funded benefit plans are common among large firms because they can spread the risk of costly claims over a large number of workers and dependents.Because employers with ASOs take full responsibility for claims made to the plan, many also establish stop-loss arrangements.ASO agreements were designed for larger companies that prefer to outsource payroll, workers' compensation, health benefits, and human resources functions, but also want to fund their own health plan. ASO insurance generally includes short-term disability, health, and dental benefits.Traditional administrator plans are arrangements where the insurance company provides administrative services, as well as assumes the risks of claims.


   Understanding Administrative Services Only (ASO)  

Plan specifics for administrative services only (ASO) vary depending on the agreement a company establishes with insurance companies and third-party administrators (TPA). In ASO arrangements, the insurance company provides little to no insurance protection, which is in contrast to a fully insured plan sold to the employer.



As such, an ASO plan is a type of self-insured or self-funded plan. The employer takes full responsibility for claims made to the plan. For this reason, many employers using ASO plans also establish aggregate stop-loss policies in which the insurance company takes responsibility for paying claims that exceed a certain level—for example, $10,000 per insured person in exchange for a premium.






Aggregate stop-loss insurance policies will protect the employer if claims are greater than expected. To reduce financial risk, these policies are especially advisable for companies that choose self-funded benefit plans.



ASO insurance plans typically cover short-term disability, health, and dental benefits. Occasionally, they cover long-term disability for larger employers. ASO services are gaining popularity as many employers, particularly larger ones, explore the potential financial advantages that this type of plan can provide. An ASO may allow an employer to take greater control of benefit costs to meet the organization's needs. However, ASO arrangements may not be suitable for all companies, and they come with certain risks. 


   Traditional Administrator vs. Administrative Services Only (ASO)  

A traditional administrator agreement is an arrangement whereby an insurance company fully administers claims. The insurance company is responsible for the services to maintain and manage plans, including making decisions on and covering the costs of claims.



Alternatively, under the ASO, the insurance company only provides administrative services for plans. The insurer serves as a third-party administrator to the employer, who assumes the duty to cover claim costs.





65%

The percentage of employees who were covered by an ASO plan in 2022.



Under the traditional administrator agreement, premiums are fixed and reviewed annually. This arrangement makes it difficult for employers to know the impact of claims until premiums are assessed for the next year. With ASO arrangements, employers can, in real-time, keep track of fluctuating costs and plan accordingly.



Considering costs, when they exceed what was expected, premiums increase the following year with the traditional administrator. If costs are less than expected, the surplus remains with the insurance company. On the other hand, with an ASO agreement, the surplus is reinvested with the employer.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Administrative Services Only (ASO)  

The costs for fully insured plans depend on an insurer's evaluation of anticipated claims for a given year. For an ASO, however, annual funding levels are based on actual paid claims. If there are fewer claims than anticipated, then employers keep the surplus and reinvest the reserves. The surplus can translate into employers offering additional benefits, many of which would not be ordinarily covered by conventional health plans.



The total costs for an ASO are typically lower than those for a traditional administrator as the employer pays a negotiated fee to the third party rather than salaries and benefits to dedicated staff. These cost savings can offset rises in claims and be used to help the company grow. Alternatively, if claims consistently exceed forecasts, the cost for ASO may exceed that of a traditional administrator plan.



On the other hand, employers would be responsible for any deficit if claims exceed budgeted amounts. Catastrophic claims or sudden and unexpected events are of particular concern as they can exceed projected budgets and erode profits. Employers often invest in a stop-loss insurance policy to provide an additional level of protection in the event of these cases.



In some cases, an ASO arrangement may not be suitable for life insurance and extended healthcare benefits. Employers need to weigh the risks and benefits of how different ASO arrangements might affect their organizations.





Pros

Cost savings are retained by the employer.
Additional benefits may be offered to employees.
Stop-loss insurance protects the employer from large, unforeseen expenses.



Cons

Losses erode profits.
Deficits are realized by the employer.
Traditional administrator plans may be more cost-efficient.





   Administrative Services Only FAQs  
  What Is a Recommended Stop Loss Level for an ASO Plan?  

A common stop loss level for an ASO plan is $10,000 per eligible employee.


  Is Self-Funded Healthcare the Same as Administrative Services Only?  

Self-funded healthcare and administrative services only (ASO) are the same. These terms indicate an insurance arrangement in which the employer or organization assumes full responsibility for the cost of covered claims.


  Who Keeps the Profits in Fully Insured Coverage?  

Under a fully insured plan, the insurance company retains profits.
What Is the Advance/Decline (A/D) Line?  

The advance/decline line (or A/D line) is a technical indicator that plots the difference between the number of advancing and declining stocks on a daily basis. The indicator is cumulative, with a positive number being added to the prior number, or if the number is negative it is subtracted from the prior number.



The A/D line is used to show market sentiment, as it tells traders whether there are more stocks rising or falling. It is used to confirm price trends in major indexes, and can also warn of reversals when divergence occurs.















TradingView.





Key Takeaways


The advance/decline (A/D) line is a breadth indicator used to show how many stocks are participating in a stock market rally or decline.
When major indexes are rallying, a rising A/D line confirms the uptrend showing strong participation.
If major indexes are rallying and the A/D line is falling, it shows that fewer stocks are participating in the rally which means the index could be nearing the end of its rally.
When major indexes are declining, a falling advance/decline line confirms the downtrend.
If major indexes are declining and the A/D line is rising, fewer stocks are declining over time, which means the index may be near the end of its decline.



   The Formula for Advance/Decline (A/D) Line Is:  

﻿















A/D


=


Net Advances


+



{







PA, if PA value exists










0, if no PA value






















where:
















Net Advances


=


Difference between number of daily
















ascending and declining stocks
















PA


=


Previous Advances
















Previous Advances


=


Prior indicator reading








\begin{aligned} &\text{A/D} = \text{Net Advances} + \begin{cases} \text{PA, if PA value exists} \\ \text{0, if no PA value} \\ \end{cases} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Net Advances} = \text{Difference between number of daily} \\ &\text{ascending and declining stocks} \\ &\text{PA} = \text{Previous Advances} \\ &\text{Previous Advances} = \text{Prior indicator reading} \\ \end{aligned}


​A/D=Net Advances+{PA, if PA value exists0, if no PA value​where:Net Advances=Difference between number of dailyascending and declining stocksPA=Previous AdvancesPrevious Advances=Prior indicator reading​﻿


   How to Calculate the A/D Line  

Subtract the number of stocks that finished lower on the day from the number of stocks that finished higher on the day. This will give you the Net Advances.If this is the first time calculating the average, the Net Advances will be the first value used for the indicator.On the next day, calculate the Net Advances for that day. Add to the total from the prior day if positive or subtract if negative.Repeat steps one and three daily.


   What Does the A/D Line Tell You?  

The A/D line is used to confirm the strength of a current trend and its likelihood of reversing. The indicator shows if the majority of stocks are participating in the direction of the market. 



If the indexes are moving up but the A/D line is sloping downwards, called bearish divergence, it's a sign that the markets are losing their breadth and may be about to reverse direction. If the slope of the A/D line is up and the market is trending upward, then the market is said to be healthy.



Conversely, if the indexes are continuing to move lower and the A/D line has turned upwards, called bullish divergence, it may be an indication that the sellers are losing their conviction. If the A/D line and the markets are both trending lower together, there is a greater chance that declining prices will continue.


   Difference Between the A/D Line and Arms Index (TRIN)  

The A/D line is typically used as a longer-term indicator, showing how many stocks are rising and falling over time. The Arms Index (TRIN), on the other hand, is typically a shorter-term indicator that measures the ratio of advancing stocks to the ratio of advancing volume. Because the calculations and the time frame they focus on are different, both these indicators tell traders different pieces of information.


   Limitations of Using the A/D Line  

The A/D line won't always provide accurate readings in regards to NASDAQ stocks. This is because the NASDAQ frequently lists small speculative companies, many of which eventually fail or get delisted. While the stocks get delisted on the exchange, they remain in the prior calculated values of the A/D line. This then affects future calculations which are added to the cumulative prior value. Because of this, the A/D line will sometimes fall for extended periods of time, even while NASDAQ-related indexes are rising.



Another thing to be aware of is that some indexes are market capitalization weighted. This means that the bigger the company the more impact they have on the index's movement. The A/D line gives equal weight to all stocks. Therefore, it is a better gauge of the average small to mid-cap stock, and not the fewer in number large or mega-cap stocks.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Advance Payment?  

Advance payment is a type of payment made ahead of its normal schedule such as paying for a good or service before you actually receive it. Advance payments are sometimes required by sellers as protection against nonpayment, or to cover the seller's out-of-pocket costs for supplying the service or product.



There are many cases where advance payments are required. Consumers with bad credit may be required to pay companies in advance, and insurance companies generally require an advance payment in order to extend coverage to the insured party.





Key Takeaways

Advance payments are made before receiving a good or service.In many cases, advance payments protect the seller against nonpayment in case the buyer doesn't come and pay at the time of delivery. Companies record advance payments as assets on their balance sheets. A prepaid cell phone is an example of an advance payment. 


   Understanding Advance Payments  

Advance payments are amounts paid before a good or service is actually received. The balance that is owed, if any, is paid once delivery is made. These types of payments are in contrast to deferred payments—or payments in arrears. In these cases, goods or services are delivered first, then paid for later. For example, an employee who is paid at the end of each month for that month's work would be receiving a deferred payment.



Advance payments are recorded as assets on a company's balance sheet. As these assets are used, they are expended and recorded on the income statement for the period in which they are incurred.



Advance payments are generally made in two situations. They can be applied to a sum of money provided before a contractually agreed-upon due date, or they may be required before the receipt of the requested goods or services.


   Advance Payment Guarantees  

An advance payment guarantee serves as a form of insurance, assuring the buyer that, should the seller fail to meet the agreed-upon obligation of goods or services, the advance payment amount will be refunded to the buyer. This protection allows the buyer to consider a contract void if the seller fails to perform, reaffirming the buyer's rights to the initial funds paid.






Governments also issue advance payments to taxpayers like Social Security.


   Special Considerations: Advance Payments to Suppliers  

In the corporate world, companies often have to make advance payments to suppliers when their orders are large enough to be burdensome to the producer. This is especially true if the buyer decides to back out of the deal before delivery.



Advance payments can assist producers who do not have enough capital to buy the materials to fulfill a large order, as they can use part of the money to pay for the product they will be creating. It can also be used as an assurance that a certain amount of revenue will be brought in by producing the large order. If a corporation is required to make an advance payment, it is recorded as a prepaid expense on the balance sheet under the accrual accounting method.


   Examples of Advance Payments  

There are many examples of advance payments in the real world. Take prepaid cell phones, for example. Service providers require payment for cell services that will be used by the customer one month in advance. If the advance payment is not received, the service will not be provided. The same applies to payments for upcoming rent or utilities before they are contractually due.



Another example applies to eligible U.S. taxpayers who received advance payments through the Premium Tax Credit (PTC) offered as part of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The financial assistance helps citizens, that meet household income requirements, pay for their health insurance. The money due to the taxpayer is paid to the insurance company in advance of the actual due date for the credit.






The American Rescue Plan, signed by President Biden on March 11, 2021, made some changes to the ACA Premium Tax Credit. All taxpayers with insurance bought on the Marketplace are now eligible for this credit in 2021 and 2022; previously, filers were ineligible if their income exceeded 400% of the federal poverty line.



Consumers with bad credit may also be required to provide creditors with advance payments before they can purchase goods or services.
What Is Advanced Internal Rating-Based (AIRB)?  

An advanced internal rating-based (AIRB) approach to credit risk measurement is a method that requests that all risk components be calculated internally within a financial institution. Advanced internal rating-based (AIRB) can help an institution reduce its capital requirements and credit risk.



In addition to the basic internal rating-based (IRB) approach estimations, the advanced approach assesses the risk of default using loss given default (LGD), exposure at default (EAD), and the probability of default (PD). These three elements help determine the risk-weighted asset (RWA) that is calculated on a percentage basis for the total required capital."





Key Takeaways

An advanced internal rating-based (AIRB) system is a way of accurately measuring a financial firm's risk factors.In particular, AIRB is an internal estimate of credit risk exposure based on isolating specific risk exposures such as defaults in its loan portfolio.Using AIRB, a bank can streamline its capital requirements by isolating the specific risk factors that are most serious and downplaying others.


   Understanding Advanced Internal Rating-Based Systems  

Implementing the AIRB approach is one step in the process of becoming a Basel II-compliant institution. However, an institution may implement the AIRB approach only if they comply with certain supervisory standards outlined in the Basel II accord.



Basel II is a set of international banking regulations, issued by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision in July 2006, which expand upon those outlined in Basel I. These regulations provided uniform rules and guidelines to level the international banking field. Basel II expanded the rules for minimum capital requirements established under Basel I, provided a framework for regulatory review, and set disclosure requirements for assessment of capital adequacy. Basel II also incorporates credit risk of institutional assets.


   Advanced Internal Rating-Based Systems and Empirical Models  

The AIRB approach allows banks to estimate many internal risk components themselves. While the empirical models among institutions vary, one example is the Jarrow-Turnbull model. Originally developed and published by Robert A. Jarrow (Kamakura Corporation and Cornell University), along with Stuart Turnbull, (University of Houston), the Jarrow-Turnbull model is a “reduced-form” credit model. Reduced form credit models center on describing bankruptcy as a statistical process, in contrast with a microeconomic model of the firm's capital structure. (The latter process forms the basis of common "structural credit models.") The Jarrow–Turnbull model employs a random interest rates framework. Financial institutions often work with both structural credit models and Jarrow-Turnbull ones, when determining the risk of default.



Advanced Internal Rating-Based systems also help banks determine loss given default (LGD) and exposure at default (EAD). Loss given default is the amount of money to be lost in the event of a borrower default; while exposure at default (EAD) is the total value a bank is exposed to at the time of said default.


   Advanced Internal Rating-Based Systems and Capital Requirements  

Set by regulatory agencies, such as the Bank for International Settlements, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Reserve Board, capital requirements set the amount of liquidity is needed to be held for a certain level of assets at many financial institutions. They also ensure that banks and depository institutions have enough capital to both sustain operating losses and honor withdrawals. AIRB can help financial institutions determine these levels.
What Is Adverse Possession?  

The term "adverse possession" refers to a legal principle that grants title to someone who resides on or is in possession of another person's land. The property's title is granted to the possessor as long as certain conditions are met including whether they infringe on the rights of the actual owner and whether they are in continuous possession of the property. Adverse possession is sometimes called squatter’s rights, although squatter’s rights are a colloquial reference to the idea rather than a recorded law.





Key Takeaways

Adverse possession is the legal process whereby a non-owner occupant of a piece of land gains title and ownership of that land after a certain period of time.The claimant, or disseisor, must demonstrate that several criteria have been met before the court will allow their claim.Requirements may include continuous use, a takeover of the land, and exclusive use.Also known colloquially as squatters' rights or homesteading, the law may also be applied to other properties such as intellectual or digital/virtual property.There are some measures landowners can take to avoid adverse possession.


   Understanding Adverse Possession  

As mentioned above, adverse possession is a legal situation that occurs when one party is granted title to another person's property by taking possession of it. This can happen intentionally or unintentionally with or without the property owner's knowledge.



In cases of intentional adverse possession, a trespasser or squatter—someone who occupies another person's land illegally—knowingly comes on to another person's land to live on it and/or take it over. In other cases, adverse possession may be unintentional. For example, a homeowner may build a fence separating their yard without realizing they've crossed over and encroached on their neighbor's property line. In either case, the adverse possessor—also referred to as the disseisor—can lay claim to that property. And if the claimant is successful in proving adverse possession, they are not required to pay the owner for the land.






A disseisor who successfully proves adverse possession is not required to pay the owner for the land.


   Requirements to Prove Adverse Possession  

The requirements to prove adverse possession tend to vary between jurisdictions. In many states, proof of payment for the taxes on a property and a deed is essentially required for the claimant to be successful. Each state has a time period during which the landowner of record can invalidate the claim at any time. For example, if the state threshold is 20 years and the landlord paints or pays for other maintenance on the house in question in the 19th year, then the claimant will have a difficult time proving adverse possession. That said, landowners are advised to remove the possibility of adverse possession as soon as possible by having signed agreements for any use of an owned property.



To successfully claim land under adverse possession, the claimant must demonstrate that his or her occupation of the land meets the following requirements:



Continuous use: Under this condition, the adverse possessor must show they've been in continuous and uninterrupted possession of the property in question.
Hostile and adverse occupation of the property: Although this doesn't mean that the disseisor uses force to take the land, they must show there is no existing agreement or license from the landowner such as a written easement, lease, or rent agreement.
Open and notorious possession: The person seeking adverse possession must occupy a property in a manner that is open, notorious, and obvious. The true owner is not required, however, to be aware of the occupation.
Actual possession: The possessor must actively possess the property for the state's predetermined statutory period, which may vary from three to 30 years. Possession may involve maintaining the land and—depending on state law—paying taxes.
Exclusive use: The property is used solely by the disseisor, excluding any others from using it as well.






Adverse possession has been proposed as a possible solution to discourage abuses of intellectual property rights like cybersquatting, excessive copyright, and patent trolling. Applying adverse possession to intellectual property as well as physical property would force the abusers to put more resources into actively using their portfolio of trademarks, patents, and so on, rather than just sitting on them and waiting for the actual innovators to step in their territory.


   How to Prevent Adverse Possession  

If you are a landowner, you can prevent a trespasser from gaining property ownership by taking some easy measures:



Identify and mark your property boundaries. Inspect your land regularly for signs of trespassers. You may want to use “no trespassing” signs and block entrances with gates. Although many states will not find a “no trespassing” sign sufficient to prevent an adverse possession claim, it's a good way to deter trespassers.Offer to rent the property to the trespasser. With a proper rental agreement in place, the trespasser cannot claim adverse possession.Grant written permission to someone to use your land, and make sure you get their written acknowledgment.Act fast. In the event of trespassing, you must act before the trespasser has been on your land for the period of time detailed by your jurisdiction, in order to make a successful case.






Hire a lawyer as soon as you detect signs of trespassing on your land. You might need to file a lawsuit to expel the trespasser, or a court order to remove an unwanted structure from your land.


   Adverse Possession vs. Homesteading  

Adverse possession is similar to homesteading in practice. In homesteading, government-owned land or property with no clear owner on record is granted to new owners provided they are using and improving it. If a homesteader doesn't use the land, they can lose it. Adverse possession can operate in a similar manner by freeing up land with an unclear title for productive use.



Of course, adverse possession can also be abused in ways homesteading cannot. If there is an informal easement between two farms where one farmer’s fence has an acre of the neighbors’ land in it, for example, the farmer using it can claim adverse possession to essentially bite off that chunk of land if there is no written easement agreement.




What Are the 5 Requirements of Adverse Possession?
Although the requirements for adverse possession may vary significantly between jurisdictions, the following are the typical requirements that need to be met:The possession of the property must be continuous and uninterrupted.The occupation must be hostile and adverse to the interests of the true owner, and take place without their consent.The person seeking adverse possession must occupy a property in a manner that is open, notorious, and obvious.Possession of the property must continue for the state's predetermined statutory period, which may vary from three to 30 years.The property must be occupied exclusively by the person seeking adverse possession.




What States Allow Adverse Possession?
Although all states allow adverse possession, the requirements can vary widely from state to state. The main differences involve the length of possession, the payment of taxes, and the presence of a document that claims to establish ownership (such as a deed). In general terms, states in the East do not require additional documentation, but they may require the payment of taxes on the property. States in the West tend to allow shorter periods of possession but have some additional requirements, such as the payment of taxes or a deed.




What Is the Time Limit on Adverse Possession?
The time limit varies by jurisdiction, ranging from three years (Arizona) to 30 years (Louisiana). The average time threshold is 10-12 years.




Who Can Claim Adverse Possession?
Any person in possession of land owned by someone else may claim adverse possession and acquire valid title to it under, as long as certain requirements are met, like being in possession for a sufficient period of time or paying taxes on the property. These requirements vary by jurisdiction.
What Is Adverse Selection?  

Adverse selection refers generally to a situation in which sellers have information that buyers do not have, or vice versa, about some aspect of product quality. In other words, it is a case where asymmetric information is exploited. Asymmetric information, also called information failure, happens when one party to a transaction has greater material knowledge than the other party.



Typically, the more knowledgeable party is the seller. Symmetric information is when both parties have equal knowledge.



In the case of insurance, adverse selection is the tendency of those in dangerous jobs or high-risk lifestyles to purchase products like life insurance. In these cases, it is the buyer who actually has more knowledge (i.e., about their health). To fight adverse selection, insurance companies reduce exposure to large claims by limiting coverage or raising premiums.





Key Takeaways

Adverse selection is when sellers have information that buyers do not have, or vice versa, about some aspect of product quality.It is thus the tendency of those in dangerous jobs or high-risk lifestyles to purchase life or disability insurance where chances are greater they will collect on it.A seller may also have better information than a buyer about products and services being offered, putting the buyer at a disadvantage in the transaction.Adverse selection can be seen in the markets for used cars or insurance.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Adverse Selection  

Adverse selection occurs when one party in a negotiation has relevant information the other party lacks. The asymmetry of information often leads to making bad decisions, such as doing more business with less profitable or riskier market segments.



In the case of insurance, avoiding adverse selection requires identifying groups of people more at risk than the general population and charging them more money. For example, life insurance companies go through underwriting when evaluating whether to give an applicant a policy and what premium to charge.



Underwriters typically evaluate an applicant’s height, weight, current health, medical history, family history, occupation, hobbies, driving record, and lifestyle risks such as smoking; all these issues impact an applicant’s health and the company’s potential for paying a claim. The insurance company then determines whether to give the applicant a policy and what premium to charge for taking on that risk.


   Consequences of Adverse Selection  

A seller may have better information than a buyer about products and services being offered, putting the buyer at a disadvantage in the transaction. For example, a company’s managers may more willingly issue shares when they know the share price is overvalued compared to the real value; buyers can end up buying overvalued shares and lose money. In the secondhand car market, a seller may know about a vehicle’s defect and charge the buyer more without disclosing the issue.



The general consequence of adverse selection is that it increases costs since consumers lack information held by sellers or producers, creating an asymmetry in the market. This can also lower consumption as buyers may be wary of the quality of the products that are offered for sale. Or, it may exclude certain consumers that do not have access to or cannot afford to obtain information that could lead them to make better buying decisions.



One indirect effect of this is a negative impact on consumers' health and well-being. If you buy a faulty product or dangerous medication because you don't have good information, consuming these products can cause physical harm. Or, by refraining from buying certain healthcare products (e.g., vaccines), consumers may wrongly judge a safe intervention as overly risky.


   Adverse Selection in Insurance  

Because of adverse selection, insurers find that high-risk people are more willing to take out and pay greater premiums for policies. If the company charges an average price but only high-risk consumers buy, the company takes a financial loss by paying out more benefits or claims.



However, by increasing premiums for high-risk policyholders, the company has more money with which to pay those benefits. For example, a life insurance company charges higher premiums for race car drivers. A car insurance company charges more for customers living in high-crime areas. A health insurance company charges higher premiums for customers who smoke. In contrast, customers who do not engage in risky behaviors are less likely to pay for insurance due to increasing policy costs.



A prime example of adverse selection in regard to life or health insurance coverage is a smoker who successfully manages to obtain insurance coverage as a nonsmoker. Smoking is a key identified risk factor for life insurance or health insurance, so a smoker must pay higher premiums to obtain the same coverage level as a nonsmoker. By concealing their behavioral choice to smoke, an applicant is leading the insurance company to make decisions on coverage or premium costs that are adverse to the insurance company's management of financial risk.



Another example of adverse selection in the case of auto insurance would be a situation where the applicant obtains insurance coverage based on providing a residence address in an area with a very low crime rate when the applicant actually lives in an area with a very high crime rate. Obviously, the risk of the applicant's vehicle being stolen, vandalized, or otherwise damaged when regularly parked in a high-crime area is substantially greater than if the vehicle was regularly parked in a low-crime area.






Adverse selection might occur on a smaller scale if an applicant states that the vehicle is parked in a garage every night when it is actually parked on a busy street.


   How to Minimize Adverse Selection  

Adverse selection by increasing access to information, thus minimizing asymmetries. For consumers, the internet has greatly increased access while reducing costs. Crowdsourced information in the form of user reviews along with more formal reviews by bloggers or specialist websites are often free and warn potential buyers about otherwise obscure issues around quality.



Warranties and guarantees offered by sellers can also help, allowing consumers to use a product risk-free for a certain period to see if it has flaws or quality issues and the ability to return them without consequence if there are issues. Laws and regulations can also help, such as Lemon Laws in the used car industry. Federal regulatory authorities such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also help ensure that products are safe and effective for consumers.



Insurers reduce adverse selection by requesting medical information from applicants in the form of requiring paramedical examinations, querying doctors' offices for medical records, and looking at one's family history. This gives the insurance company more information that an applicant may fail to disclose on their own.


   Moral Hazard vs. Adverse Selection  

Like adverse selection, moral hazard occurs when there is asymmetric information between two parties, but where a change in the behavior of one party is exposed after a deal is struck. Adverse selection occurs when there's a lack of symmetric information prior to a deal between a buyer and a seller.



Moral hazard is the risk that one party has not entered into the contract in good faith or has provided false details about its assets, liabilities, or credit capacity. For instance, in the investment banking sector, it may become known that government regulatory bodies will bail out failing banks; as a result, bank employees may take on excessive amounts of risk to score lucrative bonuses knowing that if their risky bets do not pan out, the bank will be saved anyhow.


   The Lemons Problem  

The lemons problem refers to issues that arise regarding the value of an investment or product due to asymmetric information possessed by the buyer and the seller.



The lemons problem was put forward in a research paper, "The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism," written in the late 1960s by George A. Akerlof, an economist and professor at the University of California, Berkeley. The tag phrase identifying the problem came from the example of used cars Akerlof used to illustrate the concept of asymmetric information, as defective used cars are commonly referred to as lemons. The takeaway is that due to adverse selection, the only used cars left on the market will ultimately be lemons.



The lemons problem exists in the marketplace for both consumer and business products, and also in the arena of investing, related to the disparity in the perceived value of an investment between buyers and sellers. The lemons problem is also prevalent in financial sector areas, including insurance and credit markets. For example, in the realm of corporate finance, a lender has asymmetrical and less-than-ideal information regarding the actual creditworthiness of a borrower.




Why Is It Called Adverse Selection?
"Adverse" means unfavorable or harmful. Adverse selection is therefore when certain groups are at higher-risk because they lack full information. In fact, they are selected (or choose to select) to enter into a transaction precisely because they are at a disadvantage (or advantage).




How Does Adverse Selection Impact Markets?
Adverse selection arises from information asymmetries. In economic theory, markets are assumed to be efficient and that everybody has full and "perfect" information. When some have more information than others, they can take advantage of those less-informed, often to their detriment. This creates market inefficiencies that can increase prices or prevent transactions from occurring.




What Is an Example of Adverse Selection in Trading and Investing?
In stock markets, there are some natural information asymmetries. For example, companies that issue shares know more about their internal finances and earnings before the general public does. This can lead to cases of insider trading, where those in-the-know profit from stock trades before public announcements are made (which is an illegal practice).Another asymmetry involves the inventories of market makers and some institutional traders. While large holders of a company's stock are made public, this information is only disseminated on a quarterly basis. This means that these players in the market may have a particular "axe to grind" - for example, a strong desire or need to buy or sell - that is not known by the investing public.


   The Bottom Line  

Contrary to assumptions made by mainstream economic and financial models, information is not symmetrically accessible and available to all actors in a market. In particular, sellers and producers often have far more information about what they are selling than do buyers. This information asymmetry can lead to market inefficiencies via what is known as adverse selection. In insurance markets, applicants have more information about themselves than do insurers, meaning that they withhold key information about being higher-risk.
What Is Advertising Budget?  

An advertising budget is an estimate of a company's promotional expenditures over a certain time period. More importantly, it is the money a company is willing to set aside to accomplish its marketing objectives.





Key Takeaways

An advertising budget is the amount of money set aside for purposes of marketing and advertisements.The cost of advertising dollars must be weighed against the potential recognized revenues that those dollars will generate.Demographic research and customer segmentation can create profiles to help optimize the returns to advertising spending.


   Understanding Advertising Budget  

An advertising budget is part of a company's overall sales or marketing budget that can be viewed as an investment in a company's growth. The best advertising budgets—and campaigns—focus on customers' needs and problems and on providing solutions to these issues, not company problems such as an overstock reduction.



When creating an advertising budget, a company must weigh the value of spending an advertising dollar against the value of that dollar as recognized revenue. Before deciding on a specific amount, companies should make certain determinations to ensure that the advertising budget is in line with their promotional and marketing goals:



The target consumer — Knowing the consumer and having their demographic profile can help guide advertising spend.
Best media type for the target consumer — Mobile or internet advertising, via social media, may be the answer, although traditional media, such as print, television, and radio may be best for a given product, market, or target consumer.
Right approach for the target consumer — Depending on the product or service, consider if appealing to the consumer's emotions or intelligence is a suitable strategy.
Expected profit from each dollar of advertising spending — This may be the most important question to answer, as well as the most difficult.






The best advertising budgets—and campaigns—focus on customers' needs and solving their problems, not company problems such as an overstock reduction.


   Advertising Budget Levels  

Companies can determine their advertising budget levels in several different ways, each of which has its positives and negatives:



Spend as much as possible — This strategy, which sets aside just enough money to fund operations, is popular with startups that see a positive return on investment on their advertising spend. The key is anticipating when the strategy will start showing diminishing returns and knowing when to switch strategies.
Allocate a percentage of sales — This is as simple as allocating a specific percentage based on the previous year's total gross sales or average sales. It is common for a business to spend 2% to 5% of annual revenues on advertising. This strategy is simple and safe but is based on past performance and may not be the most flexible choice for a changing marketplace. It also assumes that sales are directly linked to advertising.
Spend what the competition spends — This is as simple as adhering to the industry average for advertising costs. Of course, no market is exactly the same and such a strategy may not be sufficiently flexible.
Budget based on goals and tasks — This strategy, wherein you determine the objectives and the resources needed to achieve them, has pros and cons. On the upside, this can be the most targeted method of budgeting and the most effective. On the downside, it can be expensive and risky.
What Is an Affiliate?  

Affiliate is used primarily to describe a business relationship wherein one company owns less than a majority stake in the other company's stock. Affiliations can also describe a type of relationship in which at least two different companies are subsidiaries of the same larger parent company.



Affiliate is also commonly used in the retail sector. In this case, one company becomes affiliated with another in order to sell its products or services, earning a commission for doing so. This term is now used widely in partnerships among online companies in which the affiliate supports another company by channeling internet traffic and e-sales.





Key Takeaways

An affiliate is a company in which a minority stake is held by a larger company.In retail, one company becomes affiliated with another to sell its products or services for a fee.Affiliate relationships exist in many different types of configurations across all sorts of industries.


   Understanding Affiliates  

There are several definitions of the term affiliate in the corporate, securities, and capital markets.


  Corporate Affiliates  

In the first, an affiliate is a company that is related to another. The affiliate is generally subordinate to the other and has a minority stake (i.e. less than 50%) in the affiliate. In some cases, an affiliate may be owned by a third company. An affiliate is thus determined by the degree of ownership a parent company holds in another.



For example, if BIG Corporation owns 40% of MID Corporation's common stock and 75% of TINY Corporation, then MID and BIG are affiliates, while TINY is a subsidiary of BIG. MID and TINY may also refer to one another as affiliates.



Note that for the purposes of filing consolidated tax returns, IRS regulations state a parent company must possess at least 80% of a company's voting stock to be considered affiliated.


  Retail Affiliates  

In retail, and particularly in e-commerce, a company that sells other merchants' products for a commission is an affiliate company. Merchandise is ordered from the primary company, but the sale is transacted at the affiliate's site. Amazon and eBay are examples of e-commerce affiliates.


  International Affiliates  

A multinational company may set up affiliates to break into international markets while protecting the parent company's name in case the affiliate fails or the parent company is not viewed favorably due to its foreign origin. Understanding the differences between affiliates and other company arrangements is important in covering debts and other legal obligations.






Companies can become affiliated through mergers, takeovers, or spinoffs.


   Other Types of Affiliates  

Affiliates can be found all around the business world. In the corporate securities and capital markets, executive officers, directors, large stockholders, subsidiaries, parent entities, and sister companies are affiliates of other companies. Two entities may be affiliates if one owns less than a majority of voting stock in the other. For instance, Bank of America has a number of different affiliates around the world including Merrill Lynch.



Affiliation is defined in finance in a loan agreement as an entity other than a subsidiary directly or indirectly controlling, being controlled by or under common control with an entity.



In commerce, two parties are affiliated if either can control the other, or if a third party controls both. Affiliates have more legal requirements and prohibitions than other company arrangements to safeguard against insider trading.



An affiliate network is a group of associated companies that offer compatible or complementary products and will often pass leads to each other. They may offer cross-promotional deals, encouraging clients who have utilized their services to look into the services offered by an affiliate.



In banking, affiliate banks are popular for underwriting securities and entering foreign markets where other banks do not have direct access.


   Affiliates vs. Subsidiaries  

Unlike an affiliate, a subsidiary's majority shareholder is the parent company. As the majority shareholder, the parent company owns more than 50% of the subsidiary and has a controlling stake. The parent thus has a great deal of control over the subsidiary and is allowed to make important decisions such as the hiring and firing of executives, and the appointment of directors on the board.
What Is Affiliate Marketing?  

Affiliate marketing is an advertising model in which a company compensates third-party publishers to generate traffic or leads to the company’s products and services. The third-party publishers are affiliates, and the commission fee incentivizes them to find ways to promote the company.





Key Takeaways

Affiliate marketing is a marketing scheme in which a company compensates partners for business created from the affiliate's marketing tactics.Digital marketing, analytics, and cookies have made affiliate marketing a billion-dollar industry.Firms typically pay affiliates per sale and less frequently by clicks or impressions.The three main types of affiliate marketing are unattached affiliate marketing, involved affiliate marketing, and related affiliate marketing.


   Understanding Affiliate Marketing  

The internet has increased the prominence of affiliate marketing. Amazon (AMZN) popularized the practice by creating an affiliate marketing program whereby websites and bloggers put links to the Amazon page for a reviewed or discussed product to receive advertising fees when a purchase is made. In this sense, affiliate marketing is essentially a pay-for-performance marketing program where the act of selling is outsourced across a vast network.



Affiliate marketing predates the Internet, but in the world of digital marketing, analytics, and cookies made it a billion-dollar industry. A company running an affiliate marketing program can track the links that bring in leads and, through internal analytics, see how many convert to sales.



An e-commerce merchant wanting to reach a wider base of internet users and shoppers may hire an affiliate. An affiliate could be the owner of multiple websites or email marketing lists; the more websites or email lists that an affiliate has, the wider its network. The hired affiliate then communicates and promotes the products offered on the e-commerce platform to their network. The affiliate does this by running banner ads, text ads, posting links on its websites, or sending emails to clientele. Firms use advertisements in the form of articles, videos, and images to draw an audience’s attention to a service or product.



Visitors who click the ads or links are redirected to the e-commerce site. If they purchase the product or service, the e-commerce merchant credits the affiliate’s account with the agreed-upon commission, which could be 5% to 10% of the sales price.






According to Business Insider, 15% of e-commerce revenue can be attributed to affiliate marketing.


   Special Considerations  

The goal of this model is to increase sales and create a win-win solution for both merchant and affiliate. The system is unique and profitable and becoming increasingly popular.



The internet and improving technologies are making the model easier to implement. Companies have improved how they track and pay commissions on qualified leads. Being better able to track leads and sales contributes to how they can improve or better position their products.



Those interested in pursuing affiliate marketing will benefit from understanding what's involved, as well as its advantages and disadvantages. Companies seeking affiliates will benefit from properly vetting and qualifying their partners. Overall, it is a low-cost, effective way of advertising products and services, increasing brand awareness, and expanding a consumer base.


   Types of Affiliate Marketing  

There are three main types of affiliate marketing: unattached affiliate marketing, related affiliate marketing, and involved affiliate marketing.



Unattached Affiliate Marketing: This is an advertising model in which the affiliate has no connection to the product or service they are promoting. They have no known related skills or expertise and do not serve as an authority on or make claims about its use. This is the most uninvolved form of affiliate marketing. The lack of attachment to the potential customer and product absolves the affiliate from the duty to recommend or advise.Related Affiliate Marketing: As the name suggests, related affiliate marketing involves the promotion of products or services by an affiliate with some type of relationship to the offering. Generally, the connection is between the affiliate's niche and the product or service. The affiliate has enough influence and expertise to generate traffic, and their level of authority makes them a trusted source. The affiliate, however, makes no claims about the use of the product or service.Involved Affiliate Marketing: This type of marketing establishes a deeper connection between the affiliate and the product or service they're promoting. They have used or currently use the product and are confident that their positive experiences can be shared by others. Their experiences are the advertisements, and they serve as trusted sources of information. On the other hand, because they're providing recommendations, their reputation may be compromised by any problems arising from the offering.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Affiliate Marketing  

Affiliate marketing can yield great rewards for the advertising company and the affiliate marketer. The company benefits from low-cost advertising and the creative marketing efforts of its affiliates, and the affiliate benefits by earning additional income and incentives. The return on investment for affiliate marketing is high as the company only pays on traffic converted to sales. The cost of advertising, if any, is borne by the affiliate.



The advertising company sets the terms of an affiliate marketing program. Early on, companies largely paid the cost per click (traffic) or cost per mile (impressions) on banner advertisements. As technology evolved, the focus turned to commissions on actual sales or qualified leads. The early affiliate marketing programs were vulnerable to fraud because clicks could be generated by software, as could impressions.



Now, most affiliate programs have strict terms and conditions on how to generate leads. There are also certain banned methods, such as installing adware or spyware that redirect all search queries for a product to an affiliate's page. Some affiliate marketing programs go as far as to lay out how a product or service is to be discussed in the content before an affiliate link can be validated.



So an effective affiliate marketing program requires some forethought. The terms and conditions must be clearly spelled out, especially if the contract agreement pays for traffic rather than sales. The potential for fraud in affiliate marketing is possible.



Unscrupulous affiliates can squat on domain names with misspellings and get a commission for the redirect. They can populate online registration forms with fake or stolen information, and they can purchase AdWords on search terms the company already ranks high on, and so on. Even if the terms and conditions are clear, an affiliate marketing program requires that someone monitor affiliates and enforce rules.



In exchange, however, a company can access motivated, creative people, to help sell their products or services to the world.





Pros

Access to a broader market
Better accounting of qualified leads
Low-cost advertising



Cons

Subject to fraud
Less creative control
Vulnerable to theft





   Examples of Affiliate Marketing  
  Amazon Affiliate Marketing  

Amazon's affiliate marketing program, Amazon Associates, is one of the world's largest affiliate marketing programs. Creators, publishers, and bloggers sign up to have Amazon products and services shared on their websites or apps, and in return, receive compensation for the sales their sites generate.



Amazon sets strict criteria for the types of sites and apps that host its ads. For example, sites must not contain replicated content from another site or creator and be available to the public. Websites must be active with fresh content and suitable according to Amazon's standards. For example, they must not contain obscene or offensive content, promote violence or illegal acts, or contain any content deemed harmful to others.



Approval is contingent on a thorough review by Amazon staff and meeting a qualified sales quota (three within 180 days of the application). If an application is rejected, it will not be eligible for reconsideration. Once approved, commissions are earned as site visitors purchase products or services from Amazon.



Amazon Associates can earn up to 20% in commissions for qualified sales. Rates are fixed and based on product and program categories. As a bonus, Amazon offers special commissions on certain events.


  Etsy Affiliate Marketing  

Etsy (ETSY) — a global, online marketplace for vintage goods and other unique items—promotes its products through various channels, including affiliate marketing partners. To apply, applicants must submit an online application through its affiliate program portal. To qualify as an Etsy affiliate marketing partner, eligible candidates must be at least 18, have an active, unique website, have a brand identity, and meet other criteria.



If approved, Etsy pays a commission to the affiliate for sales they procure—sales resulting from their site's promotion of the product. Commission rates vary and are paid on the order price. Etsy sellers can be affiliates, but they cannot earn commissions on their products without special permission. Etsy declares that it has the right to terminate an agreement at any time for any reason and that it can withhold compensation for any legitimate reason.


  eBay Affiliate Marketing  

eBay's Partner Network is eBay's affiliate marketing program that pays partners for sharing their personal listings outside of eBay Inc. (EBAY). The affiliate earns a commission and may earn credit towards their final merchant fees. eBay partners can also earn commissions on other sellers' items.



Commissions are earned when a buyer bids on or immediately purchases an item within 24 hours of clicking the eBay purchase link on the affiliate's site. For submitted bids, the commission is paid if the buyer wins the auction within 10 days of the bid.



Commission rates depend on the category of items sold and range from 1%-4%. No more than $550 will be paid on any one qualifying sale. Gift cards, items sold by charities, and special promotions are generally excluded as qualifying sales because of their low revenue streams.


  Buzzfeed  

Buzzfeed is a New York-based digital media company known for viral news and entertainment stories, quizzes, and product reviews. Its Buzzfeed Shopping segment features and reviews different partners' products and services. Visitors can read Buzzfeed's product reviews and select affiliate links to purchase. Buzzfeed earns a commission from each sale generated from its website.




How Do Affiliate Marketers Get Paid?
Affiliate marketers get paid a commission for referring customers to companies where they make purchases. These commissions can range from less than 1% to 20% or more, depending on the product and level of referral volume. For online campaigns, a customized link or referral code is used to track sales. In this sense, it is a source or passive income since the affiliate can continue to earn money once they have set up their campaign.




How Much Money Can You Make As an Affiliate Marketer?
Incomes for affiliate marketers vary, with some making a few hundred dollars and some making six figures. It depends on what is being marketed, how much influence the marketer has, the affiliate's reach, and how much time is invested in marketing products. Often, those spending more time marketing the company's products will earn more money.




Can Beginners Do Affiliate Marketing?
Becoming successful through affiliate marketing takes time, skill, and experience. However, it may suit beginners a bit better than alternative platforms since you do not have to invest in physical merchandise or inventory at the start.




Can You Start Affiliate Marketing With No Money?
Yes, there are several free platforms and affiliate networks available for little or no money. Instead, you will need to big a large online following through efforts such as blogging, social media posting, and so on.




How Do I Become an Affiliate Marketer?
To become an affiliate marketer, consider what platform you will use to promote products and/or services. Blogs are an effective channel for advertising and promoting as it allows the blogger, serving as an expert, to express an opinion about the offering.After identifying a platform, find a specific category that you are comfortable with or interested in. A focused segment can better help you attract a dedicated consumer base. Research affiliate programs and choose one or more based on your needs, whether it be earning high commissions or generating more traffic. Lastly, develop solid and interesting content around the offerings and work to increase traffic to your site.
What Are Affiliated Companies?  

Companies are affiliated when one company is a minority shareholder of another. In most cases, the parent company will own less than a 50% interest in its affiliated company. Two companies may also be affiliated if they are controlled by a separate third party. In the business world, affiliated companies are often simply called affiliates.



The term is sometimes used to refer to companies that are related to each other in some way. For example, Bank of America has many different affiliated companies including Bank of America, U.S. Trust, Landsafe, Balboa, and Merrill Lynch.





Key Takeaways

Two companies are affiliated when one is a minority shareholder of another. The parent company generally owns less than a 50% interest in its affiliated company, and the parent keeps its operations separate from the affiliate. Parent businesses can use affiliates as a way to enter foreign markets.Affiliates are different than subsidiaries, which are majority-owned by the parent company.



Companies may be affiliated with one another to get into a new market, to maintain separate brand identities, to raise capital without affecting the parent or other companies, and to save on taxes. In most cases, affiliates are associates or associated companies, which describes an organization whose parent has a minority stake in it.


   Understanding Affiliated Companies  

There are several ways companies can become affiliated. A company may decide to buy out or take over another one, or it may decide to spin off a portion of its operations into a new affiliate altogether. In either case, the parent company generally keeps its operations separate from its affiliates. Since the parent company has a minority ownership, its liability is limited, and the two companies keep separate management teams.



Affiliates are a common way for parent businesses to enter foreign markets while keeping a minority interest in a business. This is especially important if the parent wants to shake off its majority stake in the affiliate.



There is no single bright-line test to determine if one company is affiliated with another. In fact, the criteria for affiliation changes from country to country, state to state, and even between regulatory bodies. For instance, companies considered affiliates by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may not be considered affiliated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).


   Affiliates Versus Subsidiaries  

An affiliate is different from a subsidiary, of which the parent owns more than 50%. In a subsidiary, the parent is a majority shareholder, which gives the parent company's management and shareholders voting rights. Subsidiary financials may also appear on the parent company's financial sheets.



But subsidiaries remain separate legal entities from their parents, meaning they are liable for their own taxes, liabilities, and governance. They are also responsible for following the laws and regulations where they are headquartered, especially if they operate in a different jurisdiction from the parent company.



An example of a subsidiary is the relationship between the Walt Disney Corporation and sports network ESPN. Disney owns an 80% interest in ESPN, making it a majority shareholder. ESPN is its subsidiary.






In e-commerce, an affiliate refers to a company that sells the products of another merchant on its website.


   SEC Rules Surrounding Affiliates  

Securities markets around the world have rules that concern affiliates of the businesses they regulate. Here again, these are complex rules that need to be analyzed by local experts on a case-by-case basis. Examples of rules enforced by the SEC include:



Rule 102 of Regulation M prohibits issuers, selling security holders, and their affiliated purchasers from bidding for, purchasing, or attempting to induce any person to bid for or purchase, any security which is the subject of a distribution until after an applicable restricted period has passed.
Before disclosing nonpublic personal information about a consumer to a nonaffiliated third party, a broker-dealer must first give a consumer an opt-out notice and a reasonable opportunity to opt out of the disclosure.
Broker-dealers must maintain and preserve certain information regarding those affiliates, subsidiaries, and holding companies whose business activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on their own finances and operations.


   Tax Consequences of Affiliates  

In nearly all jurisdictions, there are important tax consequences for affiliated companies. In general, tax credits and deductions are limited to one affiliate in a group, or a ceiling is imposed on the tax benefits that affiliates may reap under certain programs.



Determining whether companies in a group are affiliates, subsidiaries, or associates is done through a case-by-case analysis by local tax experts.
What Is Affirmative Action?  

Affirmative action refers to a policy aimed at increasing workplace and educational opportunities for people who are underrepresented in various areas of our society. It focuses on demographics with historically low representation in leadership and professional roles. It is often considered a means of countering discrimination against particular groups.



Businesses and governments commonly implement affirmative action programs by taking individuals' race, sex, religion, or national origin into account when hiring. It has been widely used in education settings in the United States, particularly in college admissions. However, in the 2023 ruling of Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, the Supreme Court said colleges and universities could no longer take race into consideration as a specific basis for granting admission.





Key Takeaways

Affirmative action seeks to reverse historical trends of discrimination against individuals with certain identities.Policies often implement hiring quotas, provide grants and scholarships, and may also deny government funding and contracts to institutions that fail to follow policy guidelines.Affirmative action includes assistance for gender representation, people with disabilities, and covered veterans.In Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, the U.S. Supreme Court held that race-based affirmative action programs in college admissions violate the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment. 


   How Affirmative Action Works  

The main purpose of affirmative action is to diversify various parts of society. The government-backed policy was developed to provide inadequately represented groups of people with access to opportunities in academia, the private workforce, and government jobs.



These opportunities have included admission to schools, jobs in professional positions, and access to housing and financing.


  History and Implementation  

The affirmative action policy rose to prominence in the United States in the 1960s as a way to promote equal opportunity for various segments of society. The policy was developed to enforce the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which sought to eliminate discrimination.



Early implementations of affirmative action largely focused on halting the continued social segregation of minorities and other disadvantaged individuals from institutions and opportunities.



Despite legislation that outlawed discrimination practices in the U.S., tangible change in the status quo was not immediate.



In more recent years, campaigns have expanded to make organizations and institutions even more inclusive by pushing for greater gender diversity. Newer policies are also aimed at providing more access to opportunities for covered veterans and people with disabilities.



In 2023, however, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a landmark decision in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard that held that race-based affirmative action programs in college admissions violate the 14th Amendment's Equal Protection Clause. And in the ruling for Students for Fair Admissions v. the University of North Carolina companion case, the court overruled the previous precedent set in Grutter v. Bollinger and Regents of the University of California v. Bakke that had previously validated some affirmative action in college admissions allowed for race to hold a limited role in decision making by college administrators.






Covered veterans are veterans who are disabled, who served on active duty in a war or other campaign and have a campaign badge or a service medal, or who are recently separated from the Armed Forces.


   Elements of Affirmative Action  

Efforts to stimulate change have taken the form of financial assistance such as grants, scholarships, and other support earmarked to help with access to higher education opportunities.



In addition, hiring practices may be structured to require the inclusion of diverse candidates for consideration for job openings. Government agencies may mandate that companies and institutions populate their ranks with a minimum percentage of qualified professionals from varying ethnicities, genders, and cultures.



Failure to meet such requirements could disqualify institutions from receiving government funding or being able to compete for public contracts.






People confuse employment equity with affirmative action. There's a distinct difference between the two. Employment equity attempts to ensure that all individuals are treated equally while affirmative action actually supports those people in particular who historically have been denied opportunities.


   Examples of Affirmative Action  

Affirmative action has been put to work since the 1960s, despite a lack of progress at times and rulings by legal authorities such as the Supreme Court that have hindered it. Here are some examples of the policy in action.



In 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson issued Executive Order 11246. It required that all government contractors and subcontractors expand job opportunities for minorities. It also established the Office of Federal Contract Compliance (OFCC) to enforce the order.
In 1970, the Labor Department ordered and authorized flexible goals and timetables to address the underutilization of minorities by federal contractors. In 1971, women were included in the order.
In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon signed the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. It required agencies to submit an affirmative action plan to the EEOC that detailed the hiring, placement, and advancement of individuals with disabilities.
In 1983, President Ronald Reagan issued Executive Order 12432. It required every federal agency with substantial procurement or grant-making authority to develop a Minority Business Enterprise development plan.
In 1990, President George H.W. Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities Act. A year later, he signed the Civil Rights Act of 1991.
In 1998, the U. S. House of Representatives and the U. S. Senate stopped attempts to eliminate specific affirmative action programs. Both houses of Congress prohibited the abolishment of the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program. In addition, the House refused to allow the elimination of affirmative action in admissions in higher education programs funded through the Higher Education Act.
In 2022, the Wall Street Journal reported that dozens of major U.S. companies including Apple, Alphabet, American Airlines, and General Motors were urging the Supreme Court to uphold the continued use of affirmative action policies in college admissions. They asserted that greater diversity on college campuses contributed to ongoing innovation in commerce and successful business endeavors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Affirmative Action  

The implementation and continued use of affirmative action policies have drawn strong support as well as staunch criticism.


  Advantages  

An obvious benefit of affirmative action is the opportunities it provides to people who otherwise might not have them. These opportunities include access to education for students who may be disadvantaged and career advancement for employees who may be blocked from rising up the corporate ladder.



Proponents of affirmative action say that the effort must continue because of the low percentages of diversity in positions of authority and in the media, as well as limited acknowledgment of the achievements of marginalized or unrepresented groups.


  Disadvantages  

Opponents of affirmative action frequently call these efforts a collective failure. They cite as evidence the tiny changes to the status quo after decades of effort. The cost of such programs, coupled with a belief that affirmative action forces the populace to make unwarranted accommodations, drives a significant part of the opposition.



Certain individuals believe that there is little or no bias in society. They argue that affirmative action results in reverse discrimination, which can often lead to qualified candidates being overlooked in academics and the workplace in favor of less qualified candidates who meet policy standards.





Pros

Provides opportunities for minorities and people from disadvantaged groups
Diversifies society



Cons

Costs to implement policies can be too high
Draws focus from a person's merits or achievements





   Affirmative Action Statistics  

Affirmative action is a very controversial topic and often leads to heated debates between those who support it and people who feel it doesn't benefit society. Is there a way to quantify how people feel and how it's working?



According to a Gallup poll, more than half of Americans (61%) believe in affirmative action policies. This level of support has increased since the last poll, where only 47% to 50% of individuals thought affirmative action was necessary. This increase in support is especially important, given the active issues surrounding race and identity in the U.S. and elsewhere.



Many Americans feel positive about diversity. They are comfortable with the makeup of their communities, saying diversity positively impacts society as a whole.



There is some division when it comes to identifying race and ethnicity for purposes of hiring. In fact, about 74% of individuals feel that a candidate's racial or ethnic background shouldn't be considered when hiring or promoting them. They believe these activities should only be based on someone's merit and qualifications.




What Is the Goal of Affirmative Action?
The goal of affirmative action is to increase opportunities for individuals and groups that historically have been underrepresented, or in some cases barred, from certain areas of academia, the government, and the private sector workforce. Affirmative action policies provide funding in the form of grants and scholarships to these communities.Policies were adopted to help those with different racial backgrounds and national origins. They have expanded to address gender, sexual orientation, and various disabilities.




How Did Regents v. Bakke Change Affirmative Action Policies?
The Regents v. Bakke case changed affirmative action policies by striking down the use of racial quotas. The case was presented by Allan Bakke, who claimed he was denied admission to medical school at the University of California on two separate occasions because he was white. The Supreme Court upheld affirmative action but ruled in Bakke's favor, saying racial quotas were unconstitutional. The 2023 case Students for Fair Admissions v. the University of North Carolina overturned the ruling.




Which U.S. President First Defined and Used the Term Affirmative Action?
That was President John F. Kennedy. He did so in 1961, telling federal contractors to take "affirmative action to ensure that applicants are treated equally without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin."


   The Bottom Line  

Though affirmative action continues to be a source of controversy for some, such programs are a reality for all government-contracted businesses. What's more, many other employers choose to implement affirmative action programs as a helpful way to foster transparency in hiring and promotions, and diversity in the workplace.
What Is the Affordable Care Act (ACA)?  

The Affordable Care Act (ACA) is the comprehensive healthcare reform signed into law by then-President Barack Obama in March 2010. Formally known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and commonly referred to as Obamacare, the law includes a list of healthcare policies intended to expand access to health insurance to millions of uninsured Americans.



The law expanded Medicaid eligibility, created health insurance exchanges, mandated that Americans purchase or otherwise obtain health insurance, and prohibited insurance companies from denying coverage due to preexisting conditions.





Key Takeaways

The Affordable Care Act was signed into law in March 2010 and is commonly known as Obamacare.The ACA was designed to extend health coverage to millions of uninsured Americans.The ACA expanded Medicaid eligibility, created a Health Insurance Marketplace, and prevented insurance companies from denying coverage due to preexisting conditions.The Affordable Care Act requires insurers to cover a list of essential health benefits.


   Understanding the Affordable Care Act (ACA)  

The ACA was designed to reform the health insurance industry and help reduce the cost of health insurance coverage for individuals who qualify. The law includes premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions to help lower expenses for lower-income individuals and families.



The ACA requires most insurance plans, including those sold on the Health Insurance Marketplace, to cover a list of preventive services at no cost to policyholders that include checkups, patient counseling, immunizations, and numerous health screenings.



All ACA-compliant health insurance plans must cover specific “essential health benefits,” such as emergency services, family planning, maternity care, hospitalization, prescription medications, mental health services, and pediatric care.



The law allows states to extend Medicaid coverage to a wider range of people. As of September 2022, 39 states and the District of Columbia had exercised that option.



Every year, there is an open enrollment period on the Health Insurance Marketplace during which people can buy or switch insurance plans. Enrollment outside of the open season is allowed only for those whose circumstances change, such as marrying, divorcing, becoming a parent, or losing a job that provided health insurance coverage.






The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 extends the expanded ACA for three years, through 2025, for people who need financial assistance. It also allows Medicare to negotiate the cost of prescription drugs and place an annual cap of $2,000 on the cost of drugs. The ACA extension is expected to cost an estimated $64 billion.


   Key Features of the Affordable Care Act  

Provisions included in the ACA expand access to insurance, increase consumer protections, emphasize prevention and wellness, improve quality and system performance, expand the health workforce, and curb rising healthcare costs.


  Expand Access to Insurance  

The ACA requires employers to cover their workers and provides tax credits to certain small businesses that cover specified costs of health insurance for their employees. It created state- or multistate-based insurance exchanges to help individuals and small businesses purchase insurance. 



The law expanded Medicaid coverage for low-income individuals and allows young adults to remain on parents’ policies until age 26.



Part of the ACA until 2017 was the individual mandate, a provision requiring all Americans to have healthcare coverage, either from an employer or through the ACA or another source, or face tax penalties.


  Increase Consumer Insurance Protections  

The ACA prohibits lifetime monetary caps on insurance coverage, limits the use of annual caps, and establishes state rate reviews for insurance premium increases. It prohibits insurance plans from excluding coverage for children with preexisting conditions and canceling or rescinding coverage.


  Prevention and Wellness  

The Prevention and Public Health Fund, established under the ACA, provides grants to states for prevention activities, such as disease screenings and immunizations, and the National Prevention, Health Promotion, and Public Health Council addresses tobacco use, physical inactivity, and poor nutrition.



The ACA requires insurance plans to cover preventive care such as immunizations; preventive care for children; screening for certain adults for conditions such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, and cancer; and a public education campaign for oral health.


  Improve Health Quality and Curb Costs  

The ACA requested investments in health information technology. It addressed guidelines to reduce medical errors and create payment mechanisms to improve efficiency and results and improve care coordination among providers.



The law requires oversight of health insurance premiums and practices, reducing healthcare fraud and uncompensated care to foster comparison shopping in insurance exchanges to increase competition and price transparency.


   Pros and Cons of the Affordable Care Act  



Pros

Expands healthcare availability to more citizens
Prevents insurers from making unreasonable rate increases
Individuals with preexisting health conditions cannot be denied
Coverage for additional screenings, immunizations, and preventive care



Cons

Those already insured saw an increase in premiums
Taxes were created to help supplement the ACA, including taxes on medical equipment and pharmaceutical sales
The enrollment period is limited for new enrollees
Many businesses curtailed employee hours to avoid providing medical insurance





   Updates to the Affordable Care Act  

With his election in 2016, then-President Donald Trump launched efforts to repeal and replace the ACA, stating that the United States should delay “the implementation of any provision or requirement of the [Patient Protection and Affordable Care] Act that would impose a fiscal burden on any State.”



In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) removed the penalty for individuals not having health insurance and substantially scaled back the outreach program to help Americans sign up for the ACA, cutting the enrollment period in half. By 2018, the number of Americans covered under the ACA had dropped to 13.8 million from 17.4 million in 2015, according to a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a healthcare research organization.



In 2021, President Biden signed an executive order to focus on the “rules and other policies that limit Americans’ access to health care,” prompting federal agencies to examine five areas, including preexisting conditions, policies undermining the Health Insurance Marketplace, enrollment roadblocks, and affordability. COVID-19 relief legislation, the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA), extended eligibility for ACA health insurance subsidies to those buying their health coverage on the Marketplace with incomes over 400% of poverty.



With the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, signed into law by Biden on Aug. 16, 2022, financial assistance was extended for people enrolled in the ACA through 2025 instead of 2022. It also expands eligibility, allowing more middle-class citizens to receive premium assistance. The legislation passed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.




What are common arguments for and against the Affordable Care Act (ACA)?
Opponents argue that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) hurts small businesses that are required to provide insurance, raises healthcare costs, and creates a reliance on government services by individuals.Proponents state that those with health insurance get medical attention quickly and live a healthier lifestyle. They contend that the healthcare system will operate more efficiently when commercial insurers and their customers do not need to fund the uninsured.




When does the yearly enrollment period on the Marketplace begin?
The Health Insurance Marketplace is available for new enrollment on Nov. 1, and information is available on the government website.




How many citizens use the Health Insurance Marketplace?
As of 2021, more than 13 million citizens are enrolled in coverage offered by the ACA’s Marketplace.


   The Bottom Line  

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) was passed in 2010 and is commonly known as Obamacare. It extended healthcare coverage to millions of previously uninsured Americans. The ACA launched the Health Insurance Marketplace, through which eligible people may find and buy health insurance policies.



All ACA-compliant health insurance plans, including those sold through the Marketplace, must cover several essential health benefits. The ACA has continued to evolve through three presidencies.
What Is the After-Tax Real Rate of Return?  

The after-tax real rate of return is the actual financial benefit of an investment after accounting for the effects of inflation and taxes. It is a more accurate measure of an investor’s net earnings after income taxes have been paid and the rate of inflation has been adjusted for. Both of these factors must be accounted for because they impact the gains an investor receives. This can be contrasted with the gross rate of return and the nominal rate of return of an investment.





Key Takeaways

The after-tax real rate of return takes into consideration inflation and taxes to determine the true profit or loss of an investment.The opposite of the after-tax real rate of return is the nominal rate of return, which only looks at gross returns.Tax-advantaged investments, such as Roth IRAs and municipal bonds, will see less of a discrepancy between nominal rates of return and after-tax rates of return.


   Understanding the After-Tax Real Rate of Return  

Over the course of a year, an investor might earn a nominal rate of return of 12% on his stock investment, but the real rate of return, the money he gets to put in his pocket at the end of the day, will be less than 12%. Inflation might have been 3% for the year, knocking his real rate of return down to 9%. And since he sold his stock at a profit, he will have to pay taxes on those profits, taking another, say 2%, off his return, for an after-tax real rate of return of 7%.



The commission he paid to buy and sell the stock also diminishes his return. Thus, in order to truly grow their nest eggs over time, investors must focus on the after-tax real rate of return, not the nominal return.



The after-tax real rate of return is a more accurate measure of investment earnings and usually differs significantly from an investment's nominal (gross) rate of return, or its return before fees, inflation, and taxes. However, investments in tax-advantaged securities, such as municipal bonds and inflation-protected securities, such as Treasury inflation protected securities (TIPS), as well as investments held in tax-advantaged accounts, such as Roth IRAs, will show less discrepancy between nominal returns and after-tax real rates of return.





Tip

The difference between the nominal return and the after-tax real rate of return isn't likely to be as great on tax-advantaged accounts like Roth IRAs as it is on other investments.


   Example of the After-Tax Real Rate of Return  

Let’s be more specific about how the after-tax real rate of return is determined. The return is calculated first of all by determining the after-tax return before inflation, which is calculated as Nominal Return x (1 - tax rate). For example, consider an investor whose nominal return on his equity investment is 17% and his applicable tax rate is 15%. His after-tax return is, therefore: 




0.17


×


(


1


−


0.15


)


=


0.1445


=


14.45


%



0.17 \times (1 - 0.15) = 0.1445 = 14.45\%


0.17×(1−0.15)=0.1445=14.45%



Let's assume that the inflation rate during this period is 2.5%. To calculate the real rate of return after tax, divide 1 plus the after-tax return by 1 plus the inflation rate, then subtract 1. Dividing by inflation reflects the fact that a dollar in hand today is worth more than a dollar in hand tomorrow. In other words, future dollars have less purchasing power than today’s dollars.



Following our example, the after-tax real rate of return is:










(


1


+


0.1445


)




(


1


+


0.025


)




−


1


=


1.1166


−


1


=


0.1166


=


11.66


%



\frac{(1 + 0.1445)}{(1 + 0.025)} - 1 = 1.1166 - 1 = 0.1166 = 11.66\%


(1+0.025)(1+0.1445)​−1=1.1166−1=0.1166=11.66%



That figure is quite a bit lower than the 17% gross return received on the investment. As long as the real rate of return after taxes is positive, however, an investor will be ahead of inflation. If it’s negative, the return will not be sufficient to sustain an investor’s standard of living in the future.




What Is the Difference Between the After-Tax Real Rate of Return and the Nominal Rate of Return?
The after-tax real rate of return is figured after accounting for fees, inflation, and tax rates. The nominal return is simply the gross rate of return before considering any outside factors that impact an investment's actual performance.




Is the After-Tax Real Rate of Return Better Than the Nominal Rate of Return?
Your after-tax real rate of return will give you the actual benefit of the investment and whether it is sufficient to sustain your standard of living in the future, because it takes into account your fees, tax rate, and inflation.Both figures are useful tools to analyze an investment's performance. If you are comparing two investments, it would be important to use the same figure for both.




My Nominal Rate of Return Is 12%, Inflation is 8.5%, and My Applicable Tax Rate Is 15%. What Is My After-Tax Real Rate of Return?
Your after-tax real rate of return is calculated by, first, figuring your after-tax pre-inflation rate of return, which is calculated as Nominal Return x (1 - tax rate). That would be 0.12 x (1 - 0.15) = .102 = 10.2%To calculate the after-tax real rate of return, divide 1 plus the figure above by 1 plus the inflation rate. That would be [(1 + .102) / (1 + .085) - 1 ] = 1.0157 - 1 = .0157 = 1.57% after-tax real rate of return. As you can see, the high inflation rate has a substantial impact on the after-tax real rate of return for your investment.


   The Bottom Line  

When you are assessing the value of your investments, it's important to look at not just your nominal rate of return but also the after-tax real rate of return, which takes into account the taxes you'll owe and inflation's effect. The after-tax real rate of return can tell you if your nest egg investments will allow you to maintain your standard of living in the future.
What Is After-Hours Trading?  

After-hours trading is securities trading that starts at 4 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time after the major U.S. stock exchanges close. The after-hours trading session can run as late as 8 p.m., though volume typically thins out much earlier in the session. Trading in the after hours is conducted through electronic communication networks (ECNs).





Key Takeaways

After-hours trading starts once the the day's normal trading session closes at 4 p.m. and ends at around 8 p.m.Premarket trading sessions are also available to investors, generally from 7 a.m. to 9:25 a.m.After-hours trading and premarket trading is referred to as extended-hours trading.Advantages of after-hours trading include convenience and opportunity.Risks include low liquidity, wide bid-ask spreads, and order restrictions.


   Understanding After-Hours Trading  

Traders and investors engage in after-hours trading for a variety of reasons. They may prefer trading with fewer market participants or their schedules may require it. They may want to take positions as a result of news that breaks after the close of the stock exchange. Or, they may want to close out a position before they leave on vacation.



Generally, after-hours trading refers to trading that takes place after normal market hours and up until about 8 pm. Premarket trading refers to trading that takes place before the start of normal market hours, generally from 7 a.m. until 9:25 a.m. Together, after-hours trading and premarket trading are referred to as extended-hours trading.



The precise times of extended-hours trading can depend on the ECN an investor uses or the financial institution where they place their orders. For instance, Wells Fargo allows after-hours trading from 4:05 p.m. ET until just 5 p.m.



Electronic markets (or ECNs) used in after-hours trading automatically attempt to match up buy and sell orders. If they can do so, trades are completed. If they can't, trades remain unfilled. Quotes provided are limited to those available through the electronic market used. Investors may have access to other participating ECNs but it isn't guaranteed.


   After Hours Schedule  

After-hours trading may occur during two periods: after hours (after market close but on the same calendar day) or pre-market (after market close but on the subsequent calendar day prior to the next opening). Pre-market trading often occurs between 4:00 a.m. ET and 9:30 a.m. ET. After hours trading often occurs between 4:00 p.m. ET and 8:00 p.m. ET.



Note that different exchanges may have varying hours and varying trade data posting times. For example, NASDAQ pre-trade data will be posted from 4:15 a.m. ET to 7:30 a.m. ET of the following day, while after-hours trades will be posted from 4:15 p.m. ET to 3:30 p.m. ET of the following day.


   Factors to Consider  
  Volume  

In after-hours trading, the trading volume for a stock may spike on the initial release of news but most of the time thins out as the session progresses. The growth of volume generally slows significantly by 6 p.m. So, there is a substantial risk that investors will be trading illiquid stocks after-hours. 


  Price  

Not only does volume sometimes come at a premium in the after-hours trading sessions, so does price. It is not unusual for the spreads to be wide in the after-hours. The spread is the difference between the bid and the ask prices. Due to fewer shares trading, the spread may be significantly wider than during the normal trading session.


  Participation  

If liquidity and prices weren’t enough to make after-hours trading risky, the lack of participants may do the trick. That's why certain investors and institutions may choose not to participate in after-hours trading, regardless of news or events.



It's quite possible for a stock to fall sharply in the after hours only to rise once the regular trading session resumes the next day at 9:30 a.m. Many big institutional investors have a certain view of price action during after-hours trading sessions and express that view with their trades once the regular market re-opens.



Since volume is thin and spreads are wide in after-hours trading, it is much easier to push prices higher or lower. Fewer shares and trades are needed to make a substantial impact on a stock's price. That's why after-hours orders usually are restricted to limit orders. If your brokerage doesn't restrict them, consider them anyway as a means to protect yourself from unexpected price swings and order fills.


   Standard Trading vs. After-Hours Trading  







Standard Trading 
After-Hours Trading




Orders placed anytime and executed from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. ET.
Orders placed and possibly executed after 4 p.m. through 8 p.m.


Takes place on stock exchanges and Nasdaq via market makers and ECNs
Takes place via ECNs


No limit on order size
25,000 share maximum order size


No restrictions on order type
Orders normally restricted to limit orders


Orders can carry over to subsequent sessions
Orders normally expire in same trading session they're placed


Wide variety of securities traded (stocks, options, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs)
Most listed and Nasdaq securities are available


Large volume, greater liquidity = executed trades
Orders may not get filled due to lower liquidity





   Advantages of After-Hours Trading  

The ability to place trades and have them filled in trading sessions that occur after normal stock exchange business hours can be important to some traders and investors. After-hours trading offers certain advantages.


  Opportunity  

Investors get the opportunity to trade on news that can move markets that's released after the market closes or before it opens, such as the monthly jobs report or earnings reports. In addition, investors can take positions in response to unexpected events they believe may push prices higher (or lower).



After-hours trading may be an advantage to a dividend stock investor who misses the chance to buy a stock during regular market hours on the day before the ex-dividend date. The investor could try to buy it in after-hours trading in time to be eligible for the dividend.


  Convenience  

For any number of reasons, traders and investors may seek to trade after hours. For example, they may be occupied from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. but still want to trade. Or, it might be part of a trading strategy to either take or close out positions when participants are fewer.


  Volatility  

In many cases, volatility can be bad. In other cases, investors may actively seek out volatility as this may present greater income opportunities for traders. Due to the low volume of trading that occurs after-hours, traders may find better prices in the pre-market or may experience greater pricing swings due to the lack of available shares to trade.






If the electronic communication network (ECN) that you're using for after-hours trading suddenly becomes unavailable for technical reasons, your broker may try to direct orders to other participating ECNs so that they can continue to be filled. If this isn't possible, a broker may find it necessary to cancel all orders entered for the after-hours session.


   Risks of After-Hours Trading  

If you're considering after-hours trading, it's important that you understand the risks associated with it. Bear in mind, these are on top of the inherent risks of stock trading.



In fact, some brokerages require that investors accept the ECN user agreement and speak with their brokerage representative before they're allowed to trade, so that they fully grasp and accept those risks. Here's a rundown.


  Low Liquidity/High Volatility  

After-hours trading involves low volume trading. That means that investors may find it difficult (even impossible) to buy and sell stocks. In the event you are able to transact, low liquidity often results in volatile prices due to lack of available trades. Not only may this jeopardize your price, this can also make orders a challenge to fill.


  Price Uncertainty  

You may not see or get filled at the best available price since the prices/quotes available during after-hours trading are those provided by, usually, one ECN. They aren't the consolidation of the best available prices that occurs in normal trading sessions. After-hours trades often have wider than normal bid-ask spreads due to illiquidity.


  Competition and Restrictions  

Professional traders often take advantage of opportunities in after-hours trading. This can spark volatility and the potential for greater than normal losses for less experienced investors. In addition, depending on the ECN and brokerage, after-hours trading may be restricted to limit orders, which may mean your trades go unfilled.





Pros

May allow investors to take advantage of being early to an opportunity
Offers greater convenience to traders instead of restricting trades to select hours
May present greater profit opportunities due to higher volatility
Allows investors to move when new market information is presented



Cons

Often results in low liquidity of an security making it more difficult to transact with
Often results in greater price volatility due to greater bid-ask spreads
May result in greater competition due to limited availability of shares
May result in restrictions due to your broker





   How After-Hours Trading Affects the Stock Price  

After-hours trading often has an impact on the opening price for a stock at the beginning of the next normal trading session. This is especially true if select events have occurred such as earnings release or extremely low liquidity.



As discussed above, because after-hours trading is usually done with a low amount of available shares, after-hours trading may result in stock movements that do not resolve until the subsequent day. This price volatility may be temporary as the market may capture spikes in price to resolve liquidity shortages of securities once regular trading hours have opened.



After-hours trading may also affect a stock price if the company has also released important news or earnings after the market has closed. Not only may this information positively or negatively impact the valuation of the security, traders may attempt to capitalize on this new information. In some situations, large enough news may invoke larger activity of after-hours traders, further increasing or decreasing the opening price on the subsequent day.



Last, after-hours traders may attempt to price discover, the process where buyers and sellers negotiate a price based on available supply and demand. This process may move the existing price of a stock after-hours as each side sees what sentiment of a stock may be prior to its opening the following trading period.






   How to Trade After-Hours  

To trade stocks after hours, you need to have an account with a brokerage firm that offers after-hours trading. Not all brokerage firms offer this service; check with your broker to see if they provide after-hours trading. In addition, each brokerage firm that offers after-hours trading may have varying hours, so ensure you understand when after-hours trading is allowed.



Assuming your brokerage firm offers after-hours trading, you can place orders through their online trading platform. The process for placing an order in after-hours trading is similar to placing an order during regular trading hours. However, there are some important differences.



Most importantly, not all order types are usually available during after-hours trading. For example, limit orders may not be available, and market orders may only be partially filled due to illiquidity of the order book. For example, Charles Schwab does not allow stop, stop-limit, fill-or-kill, immediate-or-cancel, or all-or-nothing orders.


   Example of After-Hours Trading  

Consider a historical example of Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) that is an excellent example of the challenge of after-hours trading and the dangers that come with it. In 2019, Nvidia reported quarterly results. The stock was greeted by a big jump in price, rising to nearly $169 from $154.50 in the 10 minutes following the news.



As the chart shows, volume was steady in the first 10 minutes and then dropped quickly after 4:30 p.m. During the first five minutes of trading, around 700,000 shares traded and the stock jumped nearly 6%. However, volume slowed materially with just 350,000 shares trading between 4:25 and 4:30. By 5 p.m., volume measured only 100,000 shares, while the stock was still trading around $165.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



However, the next morning was a different story. When the market opened for normal trading, traders and investors had a chance to weigh in on Nvidia’s results. From 9:30 a.m. 9:35 a.m., nearly 2.3 million shares traded, more than three times the volume in the initial minutes of the previous day's after-hours trading. The price dropped from $164 to $161.



The stock proceeded to trade lower throughout the rest of the day, closing at $157.20. That was just $3 higher than the previous day's close. Moreover, it was a plummet from the nearly $15 increase made in the after-hours session. Sadly, nearly all of the after-hours gains made by investors during that session had evaporated.



Though a historical example, this situation adequately defines the opportunity traders may find in after-hours trading and how early movement on news may yield benefits that saturate by the time markets have opened to the general public.




Does After-Hours Trading Affect Opening Price?
It certainly can. Since a great deal of trading may be taking place after hours, prices of securities can change from their levels when the regular market previously closed.




Can You Actually Trade After Hours?
Yes, provided your brokerage authorizes you to do so. You'll first want to make sure you clearly understand how after-hours trading works and the risks involved in it. Your brokerage may ask that you meet with a investment representative to make sure you know the difficulties posed by after-hours and premarket trading.




Why Can Stocks Be So Volatile in After-Hours Trading?
Lower trading volume and less liquidity results when fewer traders and investors are in the market. This causes wider bid-ask spreads and, in turn, greater stock price volatility. This is the challenging trading environment that can exist in after-hours trading.


   The Bottom Line  

After-hours trading of securities occurs after the close of the regular trading session at 4 p.m. ET and can last until about 8 p.m. ET. While it offers investors certain advantages, it also can be quite risky. So, in addition to understanding those risks, be sure to consider your investing goals, your tolerance for risk, and your trading style before getting involved.



Most investors may want to stick with the familiar buy and hold strategy that can be executed during normal trading sessions. However, for those prepared for it, after-hours trading may be a useful investment tool and worth trying out.
What Is an After-Tax Contribution?  

An after-tax contribution is money paid into a retirement or investment account after income taxes on those earnings have already been deducted. When opening a tax-advantaged retirement account, an individual may choose to defer the income taxes owed until after retiring, if it is a traditional retirement account, or pay the income taxes in the year in which the payment is made, if it is a Roth retirement account.



Some savers, mostly those with higher incomes, may contribute after-tax income to a traditional account in addition to the maximum allowable pre-tax amount. They don't get any immediate tax benefit. This commingling of pre-tax and post-tax money takes some careful accounting for tax purposes.





Key Takeaways

After-tax contributions can be made to a Roth account.Typically funding a 401(k) is done with pre-tax dollars out of your paycheck.If you think you will have a higher income after retirement, contributing to a Roth may make sense.The 2022 annual limit on funding an IRA is $6,000 per year if under 50 years of age ($6,500 for 2023).There is an income threshold for being eligible to contribute to a Roth IRA account.


   Understanding After-Tax Contributions  

In order to encourage Americans to save toward their retirement years, the government offers several tax-advantaged retirement plans such as the 401(k) plan, offered by many companies to their employees, and the IRA, which anyone with earned income can open through a bank or a brokerage.



Most, but not all, people who open a retirement account can choose either of two main options:



The traditional retirement account allows its owner to put "pre-tax" money in an investment account. That is, the money is not subject to income tax in the year it is paid in. The saver's gross taxable income for that year is reduced by the amount of the contribution. The IRS will get its due when the account holder withdraws the money, presumably after retiring.
The Roth account is the "after-tax" option. It allows the saver to pay in money after it is taxed. That is more of a hit to the person's immediate take-home income. But after retirement, no further taxes are owed on the entire balance in the account. The Roth 401(k) option (referred to as a designated Roth option) is newer, and not all companies offer them to their employees. Earners above a set limit are not eligible to contribute to a Roth IRA account.


  Post-Tax or Pre-Tax?  

The post-tax Roth option offers the attraction of a retirement nest egg that is not subject to further taxes. It makes the most sense for those who believe they may be paying a higher tax rate in the future, either because of their expected retirement income or because they think taxes will go up.



In addition, money contributed post-tax can be withdrawn at any time without a fat IRS penalty being imposed. (The profits in the account are untouchable until the account holder is 59½.)



On the downside, the post-tax option means a smaller paycheck with every contribution into the account. The pre-tax or traditional option reduces the saver's taxes owed for the year the contributions are made, and it is a smaller hit to current income.



The downside is, withdrawals from this type of retirement fund will be taxable income, whether it's money that was paid in or profits from the money earned.


  After-Tax Contributions and Roth IRAs  

A Roth IRA, by definition, is a retirement account in which the earnings grow tax-free as long as the money is held in the Roth IRA for at least five years. Contributions to a Roth are made with after-tax dollars, and as a result, they are not tax-deductible. However, you can withdraw the contributions in retirement tax-free.



Both post-tax and pre-tax retirement accounts have limits on how much can be contributed each year:



The annual contribution limit for both Roth and traditional IRAs is $6,000 for tax year 2022 (increasing to $6,500 in 2023). Those aged 50 and over can deposit an additional catch-up contribution of $1,000.
The contribution limit for Roth and traditional 401(k) plans is $20,500 for 2022 (increasing to $22,500 in 2023), plus $6,500 for those age 50 and above.






If you have a pre-tax or traditional account, you will have to pay taxes on money withdrawn before age 59½, and the funds are subject to a hefty early withdrawal penalty.


  Early Withdrawal Tax Penalty  

As noted, the money deposited in a post-tax or Roth account, but not any profits it earns, can be withdrawn at any time without penalty. The taxes have already been paid, and the IRS doesn't care.



But if it's a pre-tax or traditional account, any money withdrawn before age 59½ is fully taxable and subject to a hefty early withdrawal penalty.



An account holder who changes jobs can roll over the money into a similar account available at the new job without paying any taxes. The term "roll over" is meaningful. It means that the money goes straight from account to account and never gets paid into your hands. Otherwise, it can count as taxable income for that year.


   Special Considerations  

As noted above, there are limits to the amount of money that a saver can contribute each year to a retirement account. (Actually, you can have more than one account, or a post-tax and a pre-tax account, but the total contribution limits are the same.)



Withdrawals of after-tax contributions to a traditional IRA should not be taxed. However, the only way to make sure this does not happen is to file IRS Form 8606. Form 8606 must be filed for every year you make after-tax (non-deductible) contributions to a traditional IRA and for every subsequent year until you have used up all of your after-tax balance.



Since the funds in the account are separated into taxable and non-taxable components, figuring the tax due on the required distributions is more complicated than if the account holder had made only pre-tax contributions.
What Is After-Tax Income?  

After-tax income is the net income after the deduction of all federal, state, and withholding taxes. After-tax income, also called income after taxes, represents the amount of disposable income that a consumer or firm has available to spend.





Key Takeaways

After-tax income is gross income minus deductions of federal, state, and withholding taxes.After-tax income is the disposable income that a consumer or firm has available to spend.Computing after-tax income for businesses is relatively the same as for individuals, but instead of determining gross income, companies begin by defining total revenues.


   Understanding After-Tax Income  

Most individual tax filers use some version of the IRS Form 1040 to calculate their taxable income, income tax due, and after-tax income. To calculate after-tax income, the deductions are subtracted from gross income. The difference is the taxable income, on which income taxes are due. After-tax income is the difference between gross income and the income tax due. 



Consider the following example: Abi Sample earns $30,000 and claims $10,000 in deductions, resulting in a taxable income of $20,000. Their federal income tax rate is 15%, making the income tax due $3,000. The after-tax income is $27,000, or the difference between gross earnings and income tax ($30,000 - $3,000 = $27,000).



Individuals can also account for state and local taxes when calculating after-tax income. When doing this, sales tax and property taxes are also excluded from gross income. Continuing with the above example, Abi Sample pays $1,000 in state income tax and $500 in municipal income tax resulting in an after-tax income of $25,500 ($27,000 - $1500 = $25,500).






When analyzing or forecasting personal or corporate cash flows, it is essential to use an estimated after-tax net cash projection. This estimate is a more appropriate measure than pretax income or gross income because after-tax cash flows are what the entity has available for consumption.


   Calculating After-Tax Income for Businesses  

Computing after-tax income for businesses is relatively the same as for individuals. However, instead of determining gross income, enterprises begin by defining total revenues. Business expenses, as recorded on the income statement, are subtracted from total revenues producing the firm's income. Finally, any other relevant deductions are subtracted to arrive at taxable income.



The difference between the total revenues and the business expenses and deductions is the taxable income, on which taxes will be due. The difference between the business's income and the income tax due is the after-tax income.


   After-Tax and Pretax Retirement Contributions  

The terms after-tax and pretax income often refer to retirement contributions or other benefits. For example, if someone makes pretax contributions to a retirement account, those contributions are subtracted from their gross pay. After deductions are made to the gross salary amount, the employer will calculate payroll taxes.



Medicare contributions and Social Security payments are calculated on the difference after these deductions are taken from the gross salary amount. However, if the employee makes after-tax contributions to a retirement account, the employer applies taxes to the employee's gross pay and then subtracts the retirement contributions from that amount.
What Is an Agency Bond?  

An agency bond is a security issued by a government-sponsored enterprise or by a federal government department other than the U.S. Treasury. Some are not fully guaranteed in the same way that U.S. Treasury and municipal bonds are. An agency bond is also known as agency debt.





Key Takeaways

Federal government agency bonds and government-sponsored enterprise bonds pay slightly higher interest than U.S. Treasury bonds.Most, but not all, are exempt from state and local taxes.Like any bonds, they have interest rate risks.


   How Agency Bonds Work  

Most agency bonds pay a semi-annual fixed coupon. They are sold in a variety of increments, generally with a minimum investment level of $10,000 for the first increment and $5,000 for additional increments. GNMA securities, however, come in $25,000 increments.



Some agency bonds have fixed coupon rates while others have floating rates. The interest rates on floating rate agency bonds are periodically adjusted according to the movement of a benchmark rate, such as LIBOR.



Like all bonds, agency bonds have interest rate risks. That is, a bond investor may buy bonds only to find that interest rates rise. The real spending power of the bond is less than it was. The investor could have made more money by waiting for a higher interest rate to kick in. Naturally, this risk is greater for long-term bond prices.


   Types of Agency Bonds  

There are two types of agency bonds, including federal government agency bonds and government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) bonds.


  Federal Government Agency Bonds  

Federal government agency bonds are issued by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Small Business Administration (SBA), and the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). GNMAs are commonly issued as mortgage pass-through securities.



Like Treasury securities, federal government agency bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. An investor receives regular interest payments while holding this agency bond. At its maturity date, the full face value of the agency bond is returned to the bondholder.



Federal agency bonds offer a slightly higher interest rate than Treasury bonds because they are less liquid. In addition, agency bonds may be callable, which means that the agency that issued them may decide to redeem them before their scheduled maturity date.


  Government-Sponsored Enterprise Bonds  

A GSE is issued by entities such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage (Freddie Mac), Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank.



These are not government agencies. They are private companies that serve a public purpose, and thus may be supported by the government and subject to government oversight.



GSE agency bonds do not have the same degree of backing by the U.S. government as Treasury bonds and government agency bonds. Therefore, there is some credit risk and default risk, and the yield offered on them typically higher.



To meet short-term financing needs, some agencies issue no-coupon discount notes, or “discos,” at a discount to par. Discos have maturities ranging from a day to a year and, if sold before maturity, may result in a loss for the agency bond investor.






Government-sponsored enterprise bonds do not have the same degree of backing by the U.S. government as Treasury bonds and other agency bonds.


   Tax Considerations  

The interest from most, but not all, agency bonds is exempt from local and state taxes. Farmer Mac, Freddie Mac, and Fannie Mae agency bonds are fully taxable.



Agency bonds, when bought at a discount, may subject investors to capital gains taxes when they are sold or redeemed. Capital gains or losses when selling agency bonds are taxed at the same rates as stocks.



Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), Federal Home Loan Banks, and Federal Farm Credit Banks agency bonds are exempt from local and state taxes.
What Is Agency by Necessity?  

Agency by necessity is a type of legal relationship in which one party can make essential decisions for another party until legally recognized agents like someone with power of attorney or guardianship are put in place. The courts recognize agency by necessity during an emergency or urgent situation under which the beneficiary is unable to provide explicit authorization. Under such circumstances, those granted agency must act for the sole benefit of the beneficiary.



In finance, agency by necessity often takes the form of replacing an individual’s investment or retirement decisions.





Key Takeaways

Agency by necessity allows some person or entity to act on behalf of another when the beneficiary is unable to explicitly grant permission to do so.These situations often arise from urgent or emergency conditions, but where the beneficiary's needs are placed first.In finance and investing, agency by necessity gives a broker or financial advisor certain discretion to act on behalf of a client.


   Understanding Agency by Necessity  

Emergency situations often lead to agency by necessity in the eyes of the court. For example, if an individual is sick and unable to make a critical investment or retirement decision, agency of necessity would allow an attorney, parent, or spouse to make decisions on behalf of the incapacitated party.



Agency by necessity becomes important in wealth management. For example, many wealth managers are involved in the creation of wills, trusts, and overseeing inheritances of wealth from one generation to the next. If a family member in possession of or who is an agent of the family’s wealth becomes incapacitated in an accident or is ill, another close family member of similar capabilities and understanding of the family finances may take over as an agent of necessity.



At times this can become fraught, however, particularly in cases of high net worth individuals or wealthy families that have to make decisions about wealth distribution for future generations. Family members and additional stakeholders may take issue with decisions that the agent by necessity makes.


   Agency by Necessity and Estate Planning  

Although many conduct their estate planning before becoming incapacitated, at times these tasks may be given to an agent by necessity. Estate planning entails a variety of critical tasks such as the bequest of assets to heirs and the settlement of estate taxes. Most estate plans require the help of an attorney. Estate planning can also take into account the management of an individual’s properties and financial obligations. If the individual owes debts and is not of sound mind to pay them, an agent by necessity may step in to figure out a plan for repayment.



The assets that could comprise an individual’s estate include houses, cars, stocks, bonds, and other financial assets, paintings and other collectibles, life insurance, and pensions. These must be distributed as the individual has chosen after passing. In addition to preserving family wealth and providing for surviving spouses and children, many individuals will undertake serious estate planning to fund children or grandchildren’s education or leave their legacy to a charitable cause.



Specific estate planning tasks could include but are not limited to:



Writing a will
Limiting estate taxes by setting up trust accounts in the name of beneficiaries
Establishing a guardian for living dependents
Naming an executor of the estate to oversee the terms of the will
Creating/updating beneficiaries on plans such as life insurance, IRAs, and 401(k)s
Setting up funeral arrangements
What Are Agency Costs?  

An agency cost is a type of internal company expense, which comes from the actions of an agent acting on behalf of a principal. Agency costs typically arise in the wake of core inefficiencies, dissatisfactions, and disruptions, such as conflicts of interest between shareholders and management. The payment of the agency cost is to the acting agent.





Key Takeaways

An agency cost is an internal expense that comes from an agent taking action on behalf of a principal.Core inefficiencies, dissatisfactions, and disruptions contribute to agency costs.Agency costs that include fees associated with managing the needs of conflicting parties are called agency risk.An agent-principal relationship exists between a company's management (agent) and its shareholders (principal).












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Agency Cost  

Agency costs can occur when the interests of the executive management of a corporation conflict with its shareholders. Shareholders may want management to run the company in a certain manner, which increases shareholder value.



Conversely, the management may look to grow the company in other ways, which may conceivably run counter to the shareholders’ best interests. As a result, the shareholders would experience agency costs.



As early as 1932, American economists Gardiner Coit Means and Adolf Augustus Berle discussed corporate governance in terms of an “agent” and a “principal,” in applying these principals towards the development of large corporations, where the interests of the directors and managers differed from those of owners.


   Principal-Agent Relationship  

The opposing party dynamic is called the principal-agent relationship, which primarily refers to the relationships between shareholders and management personnel. In this scenario, the shareholders are principals, and the management operatives act as agents.



However, the principal-agent relationship may also refer to other pairs of connected parties with similar power characteristics. For example, the relationship between politicians (the agents), and the voters (the principals) can result in agency costs. If the politicians promise to take certain legislative actions while running for election and once elected, don't fulfill those promises, the voters experience agency costs. In an extension of the principal-agent dynamic known as the "multiple principal problems" describes a scenario where a person acts on behalf of a group of other individuals.


   A Closer Look at Agency Costs  

Agency costs include any fees associated with managing the needs of conflicting parties, in the process of evaluating and resolving disputes. This cost is also known as agency risk. Agency costs are necessary expenses within any organization where the principals do not yield complete autonomous power.



Due to their failure to operate in a way that benefits the agents working underneath them, it can ultimately negatively impact their profitability. These costs also refer to economic incentives such as performance bonuses, stock options, and other carrots, which would stimulate agents to execute their duties properly. The agent's purpose is to help a company thrive, thereby aligning the interests of all stakeholders.


   Dissatisfied Shareholders  

Shareholders who disagree with the direction management takes, may be less inclined to hold on to the company’s stock over the long term. Also, if a specific action triggers enough shareholders to sell their shares, a mass sell-off could happen, resulting in a decline in the stock price. As a result, companies have a financial interest in benefitting shareholders and improving the company's financial position, as failing to do so could result in stock prices dropping.



Additionally, a significant purge of shares could potentially spook potential new investors from taking positions, thus causing a chain reaction, which could depress stock prices even further.



In cases where the shareholders become particularly distressed with the actions of a company’s top brass, an attempt to elect different members to the board of directors may occur. The ouster of the existing management can happen if shareholders vote to appoint new members to the board. Not only can this jarring action result in significant financial costs, but it can also result in the expenditure of time and mental resources.



Such upheavals also cause unpleasant and exorbitant red-tape problems, inherent in top-chain recalibration of power.


   Real-World Example of Agency Costs  

Some of the most notorious examples of agency risks come during financial scandals, such as the Enron debacle in 2001. As reported in this article on SmallBusiness.chron.com, the company's board of directors and senior officers sold off their stock shares at higher prices, due to fraudulent accounting information, which artificially inflated the stock’s value. As a result, shareholders lost significant money, when Enron share price consequently nosedived.



Broken down to its simplest terms, according to the Journal of Accountancy, the Enron debacle happened because of "individual and collective greed born in an atmosphere of market euphoria and corporate arrogance."
What Is an Agency Problem?  

An agency problem is a conflict of interest inherent in any relationship where one party is expected to act in another's best interests. In corporate finance, an agency problem usually refers to a conflict of interest between a company's management and the company's stockholders. The manager, acting as the agent for the shareholders, or principals, is supposed to make decisions that will maximize shareholder wealth even though it is in the manager’s best interest to maximize their own wealth.





Key Takeaways

An agency problem is a conflict of interest inherent in any relationship where one party is expected to act in the best interest of another.Agency problems arise when incentives or motivations present themselves to an agent to not act in the full best interest of a principal.Through regulations or by incentivizing an agent to act in accordance with the principal's best interests, agency problems can be reduced.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding Agency Problems  

The agency problem does not exist without a relationship between a principal and an agent. In this situation, the agent performs a task on behalf of the principal. Agents are commonly engaged by principals due to different skill levels, different employment positions, or restrictions on time and access. For example, a principal will hire a plumber—the agent—to fix plumbing issues. Although the plumber‘s best interest is to collect as much income as possible, they are given the responsibility to perform in whatever situation results in the most benefit to the principal.



The agency problem arises due to an issue with incentives and the presence of discretion in task completion. An agent may be motivated to act in a manner that is not favorable for the principal if the agent is presented with an incentive to act in this way. For example, in the plumbing example, the plumber may make three times as much money by recommending a service the agent does not need. An incentive (three times the pay) is present, causing the agency problem to arise.



Agency problems are common in fiduciary relationships, such as between trustees and beneficiaries; board members and shareholders; and lawyers and clients. A fiduciary is an agent that acts in the principal's or client's best interest. These relationships can be stringent in a legal sense, as is the case in the relationship between lawyers and their clients due to the U.S. Supreme Court's assertion that an attorney must act in complete fairness, loyalty, and fidelity to their clients.


   Minimizing Risks Associated With the Agency Problem  

Agency costs are a type of internal cost that a principal may incur as a result of the agency problem. They include the costs of any inefficiencies that may arise from employing an agent to take on a task, along with the costs associated with managing the principal-agent relationship and resolving differing priorities. While it is not possible to eliminate the agency problem, principals can take steps to minimize the risk of agency costs.


  Regulations  

Principal-agent relationships can be regulated, and often are, by contracts, or laws in the case of fiduciary settings. The Fiduciary Rule is an example of an attempt to regulate the arising agency problem in the relationship between financial advisors and their clients. The term fiduciary in the investment advisory world means that financial and retirement advisors are to act in the best interests of their clients. In other words, advisors are to put their clients' interests above their own. The goal is to protect investors from advisors who are concealing potential conflicts of interest.



For example, an advisor might have several investment funds that are available to offer a client, but instead only offers the ones that pay the advisor a commission for the sale. The conflict of interest is an agency problem whereby the financial incentive offered by the investment fund prevents the advisor from working on behalf of the client's best interest.


  Incentives  

The agency problem may also be minimized by incentivizing an agent to act in better accordance with the principal's best interests. For example, a manager can be motivated to act in the shareholders' best interests through incentives such as performance-based compensation, direct influence by shareholders, the threat of firing, or the threat of takeovers.



Principals who are shareholders can also tie CEO compensation directly to stock price performance. If a CEO was worried that a potential takeover would result in being fired, the CEO might try to prevent the takeover, which would be an agency problem. However, if the CEO was compensated based on stock price performance, the CEO would be incentivized to complete the takeover. Stock prices of the target companies typically rise as a result of an acquisition. Through proper incentives, both the shareholders' and the CEO's interests would be aligned and benefit from the rise in stock price.



Principals can also alter the structure of an agent's compensation. If, for example, an agent is paid not on an hourly basis but by the completion of a project, there is less incentive to not act in the principal’s best interest. In addition, performance feedback and independent evaluations hold the agent accountable for their decisions.


   Real-World Example of an Agency Problem  

In 2001, energy giant Enron filed for bankruptcy. Accounting reports had been fabricated to make the company appear to have more money than what was actually earned. The company's executives used fraudulent accounting methods to hide debt in Enron's subsidiaries and overstate revenue. These falsifications allowed the company’s stock price to increase during a time when executives were selling portions of their stock holdings.



In the four years leading up to Enron's bankruptcy filing, shareholders lost an estimated $74 billion in value. Enron became the largest U.S. bankruptcy at that time with its $63 billion in assets. Although Enron's management had the responsibility to care for the shareholder’s best interests, the agency problem resulted in management acting in their own best interest.




What Causes an Agency Problem?
Agency problems arise during a relationship between a principal and an agent. Agents are commonly engaged by principals due to different skill levels, different employment positions, or restrictions on time and access. The agency problem arises due to an issue with incentives and the presence of discretion in task completion. An agent may be motivated to act in a manner that is not favorable for the principal if the agent is presented with an incentive to act in this way.




What Is an Example of Agency Problem?
In 2001, energy giant Enron filed for bankruptcy. Accounting reports had been fabricated to make the company appear to have more money than what was actually earned. These falsifications allowed the company’s stock price to increase during a time when executives were selling portions of their stock holdings. When Enron declared bankruptcy, it was the largest U.S. bankruptcy at that time. Although Enron's management had the responsibility to care for the shareholder’s best interests, the agency problem resulted in management acting in their own best interest.




How to Mitigate Agency Problems?
While it is not possible to eliminate the agency problem, principals can take steps to minimize the risk, known as agency cost, associated with it. Principal-agent relationships can be regulated, and often are, by contracts, or laws in the case of fiduciary settings. Another method is to incentivize an agent to act in better accordance with the principal's best interests. For example, if an agent is paid not on an hourly basis but by the completion of a project, there is less incentive to not act in the principal’s best interest.
What Is Agency Theory?  

Agency theory is a principle that is used to explain and resolve issues in the relationship between business principals and their agents. Most commonly, that relationship is the one between shareholders, as principals, and company executives, as agents.





Key Takeaways

Agency theory attempts to explain and resolve disputes over the respective priorities between principals and their agents.Principals rely on agents to execute certain transactions, which results in a difference in agreement on priorities and methods.The difference in priorities and interests between agents and principals is known as the principal-agent problem.Resolving the differences in expectations is called "reducing agency loss."Performance-based compensation is one way that is used to achieve a balance between principal and agent.Common principal-agent relationships include shareholders and management, financial planners and their clients, and lessees and lessors.


   Understanding Agency Theory  

An agency, in broad terms, is any relationship between two parties in which one, the agent, represents the other, the principal, in day-to-day transactions. The principal or principals have hired the agent to perform a service on their behalf.



Principals delegate decision-making authority to agents. Because many decisions that affect the principal financially are made by the agent, differences of opinion, and even differences in priorities and interests, can arise. Agency theory assumes that the interests of a principal and an agent are not always in alignment. This is sometimes referred to as the principal-agent problem.



By definition, an agent is using the resources of a principal. The principal has entrusted money but has little or no day-to-day input. The agent is the decision-maker but is incurring little or no risk because any losses will be borne by the principal.



Financial planners and portfolio managers are agents on behalf of their principals and are given responsibility for the principals' assets. A lessee may be in charge of protecting and safeguarding assets that do not belong to them. Even though the lessee is tasked with the job of taking care of the assets, the lessee has less interest in protecting the goods than the actual owners.


   Areas of Dispute in Agency Theory  

Agency theory addresses disputes that arise primarily in two key areas: A difference in goals or a difference in risk aversion.



For example, company executives, with an eye toward short-term profitability and elevated compensation, may desire to expand a business into new, high-risk markets. However, this could pose an unjustified risk to shareholders, who are most concerned with the long-term growth of earnings and share price appreciation.



Another central issue often addressed by agency theory involves incompatible levels of risk tolerance between a principal and an agent. For example, shareholders in a bank may object that management has set the bar too low on loan approvals, thus taking on too great a risk of defaults.


   Reducing Agency Loss  

Various proponents of agency theory have proposed ways to resolve disputes between agents and principals. This is termed "reducing agency loss." Agency loss is the amount that the principal contends was lost due to the agent acting contrary to the principal's interests.



Chief among these strategies is the offering of incentives to corporate managers to maximize the profits of their principals. The stock options awarded to company executives have their origin in agency theory. These incentives seek a way to optimize the relationship between principals and agents. Other practices include tying executive compensation in part to shareholder returns. These are examples of how agency theory is used in corporate governance.



These practices have led to concerns that management will endanger long-term company growth in order to boost short-term profits and their own pay. This can often be seen in budget planning, where management reduces estimates in annual budgets so that they are guaranteed to meet performance goals. These concerns have led to yet another compensation scheme in which executive pay is partially deferred and to be determined according to long-term goals.



These solutions have their parallels in other agency relationships. Performance-based compensation is one example. Another is requiring that a bond is posted to guarantee delivery of the desired result. And then there is the last resort, which is simply firing the agent.




What Disputes Does Agency Theory Address?
Agency theory addresses disputes that arise primarily in two key areas: A difference in goals or a difference in risk aversion. Management may desire to expand a business into new markets, focusing on the prospect of short-term profitability and elevated compensation. However, this may not sit well with a more risk-averse group of shareholders, who are most concerned with long-term growth of earnings and share price appreciation.There could also be incompatible levels of risk tolerance between a principal and an agent. For example, shareholders in a bank may object that management has set the bar too low on loan approvals, thus taking on too great a risk of defaults.




What Is the Principal-Agent Problem?
The principal-agent problem is a conflict in priorities between a person or group and the representative authorized to act on their behalf. An agent may act in a way that is contrary to the best interests of the principal. The principal-agent problem is as varied as the possible roles of principal and agent. It can occur in any situation in which the ownership of an asset, or a principal, delegates direct control over that asset to another party, or agent. For example, a home buyer may suspect that a realtor is more interested in a commission than in the buyer's concerns.




What Are Effective Methods of Reducing Agency Loss?
Agency loss is the amount that the principal contends was lost due to the agent acting contrary to the principal's interests. Chief among the strategies to resolve disputes between agents and principals is the offering of incentives to corporate managers to maximize the profits of their principals. The stock options awarded to company executives have their origin in agency theory and seek to optimize the relationship between principals and agents. Other practices include tying executive compensation in part to shareholder returns.
What Is an Agent?  

An agent, in legal terminology, is a person who has been legally empowered to act on behalf of another person or an entity. An agent may be employed to represent a client in negotiations and other dealings with third parties. The agent may be given decision-making authority.



Two common types of agents are attorneys, who represent their clients in legal matters, and stockbrokers, who are hired by investors to make investment decisions for them. The person represented by the agent in these scenarios is called the principal. In finance, it refers to a fiduciary relationship in which an agent is authorized to perform transactions on behalf of the client and in their best interest.





Key Takeaways

An agent is authorized to act on behalf of another person, such as an attorney or a stockbroker.People hire agents to perform tasks that they lack the time or expertise to do for themselves.A universal agent has wide authority to act on another's behalf, but a general agent or special agent has more limited and specific powers.Agency by necessity is where an agent is appointed to act on behalf of a client who is physically or mentally incapable of making a decision.Most agent jobs require a license and registration with the appropriate state authorities.


   Understanding an Agent  

An agent is someone that is given permission (either explicitly or assumed) to act on an individual's behalf and may do so in a variety of capacities. This could include selling a home, executing a will, managing a sports career, managing an acting career, being a business representative, and so on.



Agents often have expertise in a specific industry and are more knowledgeable about that industry's ins and outs than the average person. For example, if you started gaining attention as a musician, you would hire a music agent to help guide you through getting a record deal, signing record contracts, and arranging your touring schedule.



As you would not have any experience with the record industry, you would need an agent to look out for your best interests and take care of a lot of the work that you would otherwise most likely not be able to complete on your own. This would also free up your time so that you can concentrate on making music.


   Types of Agents  

Agents come in all types depending on their function and the industry in which they operate. In general, there are three types of agents: universal agents, general agents, and special agents.


  Universal Agents  

Universal agents have a broad mandate to act on behalf of their clients. Often these agents have been given power of attorney for a client, which gives them considerable authority to represent a client in legal proceedings. They may also be authorized to make financial transactions on behalf of their clients.


  General Agents  

General agents are contracted to represent their clients in specific types of transactions or proceedings over a set period. They have broad authority to act but in a limited sphere. A talent agent for an actor would fall under this category.


  Special Agents  

Special agents are authorized to make a single transaction or a series of transactions within a limited period. This is the type of agent most people use from time to time. A real estate agent, securities agent, insurance agent, and travel agent are all special agents.






Practicing as an agent in a specific industry without the proper license or registration can lead to fines or being prohibited from acting as an agent in that industry in the future. Before working as an agent, ensure that you have obtained the right license, certification, and registration.


   Uses of Agents  

People hire agents to perform tasks that they lack the time or expertise to do for themselves. Investors hire stockbrokers to act as middlemen between them and the stock market. Athletes and actors hire agents to negotiate contracts on their behalf because the agents are typically more familiar with industry norms and have a better idea of how to position their clients.



More commonly, prospective homeowners use agents as middlemen, relying on the professional's greater skills at negotiation.



Businesses often hire agents to represent them in a particular venture or negotiation, relying on the agents' superior skills, contacts, or background information to complete deals.


   Loyalty Responsibilities of an Agent  
  Duty of Avoiding Material Benefit  

During the course of business, an agent may benefit. This is especially true when an agent is paid to perform a task on behalf of the principal. For example, a real estate agent commonly receives a commission for their work in selling a house.



When acting on behalf of another, an agent must ensure they do not unjustly benefit from their agency position. This includes receiving large benefits from the relationship or taking advantage of their position to ensure they receive benefits that would not normally as part of a normal transaction.


  Duty Not to Usurp  

When an agent acts on behalf of a principal, the agent may receive information it would be able to personally capitalize on for personal benefit. For example, an agent may receive information relating to a potential investment opportunity. The agent owes the principal the duty to not steal or supplant the principal's ability to transact. In this example, the principal retains the right to decide whether or not to invest; the agent must not take the place of the principal without the principal explicitly declining an opportunity to invest.


  Duty to Not Compete  

On a similar note, an agent may not enter into transactions or business that compete with a principal. This conflict of interest puts the principal at a disadvantage as the agent may obtain trade or business secrets during the course of the business relationship. For example, imagine if an agent was tasked with shipping specific goods to an agent's manufacturing warehouse. The agent could obtain information related to the principal's operations that the agent could then use for its personal benefit.


  Duty of Transparency  

Formalized agent-principal arrangements often include verbiage that the agent must disclose if it has any other principals in which it is acting as an agent for. This includes disclosing a sworn statement that the agent will act in good faith across all principals and will incur fair dealing with each principal.


  Duty to Protect Information  

During the course of an agent's relationship with the principal, the agent may not disclose confidential information to unrelated parties. This may defined through confidentiality agreements or may not be explicitly called out. In either case, the agent must take care to evaluate the sensitivity of information and the necessity for other parties to obtain that information. This includes not using confidential information for the personal benefit of the agent (i.e. exchanging the information for personal benefit to an independent third party).






An agent may have express authority (via a written contract) or implied authority (entered into agreement based on actions)


   Performance Responsibilities of an Agent  
  Duty of Contract  

All terms of any written agreement between an agent and a principal define the relationship between the two. For many agent and principal relationships, the contract is not explicitly defined upfront. However, custom or deliberate agreements may call for very specific terms that define what is and isn't allowed.


  Duty of Care  

An agent is always tasked with acting with care and competence when handling affairs of the principal. The standard is often held that the agent must act as the principal would, using discretion as if it would incurring the personal gain or loss. Though the level of care may not be explicitly defined, the level of care should be equal to what is reasonably expected by local standards.



The duty of care may be complicated when considering the agent's personal benefit potential. For example, consider a broker that receives a commission for the sale of certain investment products. For some clients, it may not be in their best interest to buy those investments. Therefore, the broker has the duty of care to not sell such products to those individuals, sacrificing personal gain to uphold the sanctity of the relationship.


  Duty of Obedience  

An agent must comply with reasonable instruction. Though there may be situations where acting on one's behalf and following their guidance is not reasonable or legal, the agent may have recourse to not follow instruction. Otherwise, the agent is bound to perform tasks as expected by the agreement. This includes situations where the principal may be disadvantaged but has instructed the agent to act in a specific manner.


  Duty of Disclosure  

As the agent gains sensitive information that may influence the decision-making process of a principal, the agent has the duty to disclose that information in an accurate, timely manner. Consider the example of Los Angeles Dodgers' player Freddie Freeman. Freeman's agent reportedly did not disclose to Freeman that his former team, the Atlanta Braves, wanted to re-sign him. By withholding such information, Freeman reluctantly signed with a different team.


  Duty of Separation  

An agent also has the responsibility to keep the agent's and the principal's affairs separately. This includes ensuring that any transactions entered into on behalf of the principal are still legal property of the principal. This also ensures that any resources or capital used to transact are maintained in separate bank accounts and that separate reporting ledgers are maintained.






When acting as an agent, you are often protected from liability as long as you act with care, reasonableness, and transparency.


   Agent Liability  

An agent is often liable to their principal if they violate their duty or deviate from a reasonable, expected action performed on behalf of the other party. This may be the result of exceeding the authority they've been given, acting in misconduct, being unreasonably negligent, or any other situation where the principal may incur a loss that could have potentially been avoided.



In some situations when the agent performs a task for another without disclosing they are an agent, they may be considered liable because the agent was presumed to be a principal. An agent is also commonly liable when the agent expressly incurs a personal liability by entering into an associated agreement.


   Agency by Necessity  

There is also "agency by necessity," in which an agent is appointed to act on behalf of a client who is physically or mentally incapable of making a decision. This is not always a case of incapacitation. Business owners, for example, might designate agents to handle unexpected issues that occur in their absence. For example, if a CEO was on a flight and unreachable yet an emergency business decision needed to be made, agency by necessity could be used.



Agency by necessity is most often executed in times of emergency or urgency when the primary party is not available to make a decision. In these situations, courts would recognize a third party making the decision if that party was given power by the primary party to do so. The third party would be responsible for acting in the primary party's best interest.



Estate planning often sees agency by necessity. Though an individual may have created a will outlining how an estate should be disbursed at their time of death, there could be situations where the person became incapacitated before needed adjustments to the will were made. Here, agency by necessity could be used by a trusted party.




What Is an Enrolled Agent?
An enrolled agent is one that represents taxpayers in front of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). To become an enrolled agent, one needs to pass an IRS test that covers individual and business tax returns or through experience by being a former IRS employee. Enrolled agents can represent any type of taxpayer over any tax matter in front of any tax department in the IRS.




What Is a Registered Agent?
A registered agent is an individual that is authorized to accept legal documents on behalf of a limited liability company (LLC). All LLCs require a registered agent and they are legally allowed to accept tax documents, legal documents, government documents, compliance documents, and any other documents pertaining to the LLC.A registered agent for an LLC is known to be an "agent for service of processes." If an LLC does not have a registered agent, it may be fined by the state, not allowed to file a lawsuit, be denied financing, and not allowed to expand out of state.




How Do You Become a Real Estate Agent?
To become a real estate agent, you need to obtain a real estate agent license. There are a few qualifications for this, and they can vary from state to state. In general, a person needs to be 18 years of age, be a legal resident of the U.S., complete the required relicense education, and pass the real estate exam. Individuals can enroll in relicensing courses before taking the real estate exam.




How Do You Become an Insurance Agent?
The first step in becoming an insurance agent is deciding what kind of insurance agent you want to be, as the type depends on the path to becoming one. You can choose to be either a captive insurance agent or an independent insurance agent. From there, you will need to decide what insurance products you would like to sell to clients.The next step is becoming licensed in your state. The products that you decide you would like to sell will depend on the type of license you will need. You will take your licensing exam and from there you will have to submit a background check and license application to your state's licensing department. Once this is complete, you will need to find an insurance company to work with.




How Do You Become a Sports Agent?
To become a sports agent you will need to obtain a sports license and register with the state. Not all states require this. The sport or league that you will want to join will require certification as well. Typically, a bachelor's degree is required before becoming a sport's agent, and advanced degrees, such as law, help in becoming one so that you can understand the legal language of the contracts of the clients you manage. Once you have been certified and received your license, you will need to join a sports agency and from there start building a client base.


   The Bottom Line  

An agent is anyone that has been entrusted to act on behalf of another individual. People usually call upon an agent when they need someone with more expertise or when they don't have the time to complete a task.



Agents are commonly used in the finance, law, real estate, insurance, acting, and music industries, yet they can be found in almost any situation when advanced knowledge on a topic is needed. Agents can save people a lot of time, money, and headaches in getting important tasks done.
What Is Aggregate Demand?  

Aggregate demand is a measurement of the total amount of demand for all finished goods and services produced in an economy. Aggregate demand is commonly expressed as the total amount of money exchanged for those goods and services at a specific price level and point in time.





Key Takeaways


Aggregate demand measures the total amount of demand for all finished goods and services produced in an economy.
Aggregate demand is expressed as the total amount of money spent on those goods and services at a specific price level and point in time.
Aggregate demand consists of all consumer goods, capital goods, exports, imports, and government spending.













Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Aggregate Demand  

Aggregate demand is a macroeconomic term and can be compared with the gross domestic product (GDP). GDP represents the total amount of goods and services produced in an economy while aggregate demand is the demand or desire for those goods. Aggregate demand and GDP commonly increase or decrease together.



Aggregate demand equals GDP only in the long run after adjusting for the price level. Short-run aggregate demand measures total output for a single nominal price level without adjusting for inflation. Other variations in calculations can occur depending on the methodologies used and the various components.



Aggregate demand consists of all consumer goods, capital goods, exports, imports, and government spending programs. All variables are considered equal if they trade at the same market value.






While aggregate demand helps determine the overall strength of consumers and businesses in an economy, it does have limits. Since aggregate demand is measured by market values, it only represents total output at a given price level and does not necessarily represent the quality of life or standard of living in a society.


   Aggregate Demand Components  

Aggregate demand is determined by the overall collective spending on products and services by all economic sectors on the procurement of goods and services by four components:


  Consumption Spending  

Consumer spending represents the demand by individuals and households within the economy. While there are several factors in determining consumer demand, the most important is consumer incomes and the level of taxation.


  Investment Spending  

Investment spending represents businesses' investment to support current output and increase production capability. It may include spending on new capital assets such as equipment, facilities, and raw materials.


  Government Spending  

Government spending represents the demand produced by government programs, such as infrastructure spending and public goods. This does not include services such as Medicare or social security, because these programs simply transfer demand from one group to another.


  Net Exports  

Net exports represent the demand for foreign goods, as well as the foreign demand for domestic goods. It is calculated by subtracting the total value of a country's exports from the total value of all imports.


   Aggregate Demand Formula  

The equation for aggregate demand adds the amount of consumer spending, investment spending, government spending, and the net of exports and imports. The formula is shown as follows:


















Aggregate Demand


=


C


+


I


+


G


+


Nx
















where:
















C


=


Consumer spending on goods and services
















I


=


Private investment and corporate spending on
















non-final capital goods (factories, equipment, etc.)
















G


=


Government spending on public goods and social
















services (infrastructure, Medicare, etc.)
















Nx


=


Net exports (exports minus imports)







\begin{aligned} &\text{Aggregate Demand} = \text{C} + \text{I} + \text{G} + \text{Nx} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{C} = \text{Consumer spending on goods and services} \\ &\text{I} = \text{Private investment and corporate spending on} \\ &\text{non-final capital goods (factories, equipment, etc.)} \\ &\text{G} = \text{Government spending on public goods and social} \\ &\text{services (infrastructure, Medicare, etc.)} \\ &\text{Nx} = \text{Net exports (exports minus imports)} \\ \end{aligned}


​Aggregate Demand=C+I+G+Nxwhere:C=Consumer spending on goods and servicesI=Private investment and corporate spending onnon-final capital goods (factories, equipment, etc.)G=Government spending on public goods and socialservices (infrastructure, Medicare, etc.)Nx=Net exports (exports minus imports)​



The aggregate demand formula above is also used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to measure GDP in the U.S.





Aggregate Demand Curve

Like most typical demand curves, it slopes downward from left to right with goods and services on the horizontal X-axis and the overall price level of the basket of goods and services on the vertical Y-axis. Demand increases or decreases along the curve as prices for goods and services either increase or decrease.


   What Affects Aggregate Demand?  
  Interest Rates  

Interest rates affect decisions made by consumers and businesses. Lower interest rates will lower the borrowing costs for big-ticket items such as appliances, vehicles, and homes and companies will be able to borrow at lower rates, often leading to capital spending increases. Higher interest rates increase the cost of borrowing for consumers and companies and spending tends to decline or grow at a slower pace.


  Income and Wealth  

As household wealth increases, aggregate demand typically increases. Conversely, a decline in wealth usually leads to lower aggregate demand. When consumers are feeling good about the economy, they tend to spend more and save less.


  Inflation Expectations  

Consumers who anticipate that inflation will increase or prices will rise tend to make immediate purchases leading to rises in aggregate demand. But if consumers believe prices will fall in the future, aggregate demand typically falls.


  Currency Exchange Rates  

When the value of the U.S. dollar falls, foreign goods will become more expensive. Meanwhile, goods manufactured in the U.S. will become cheaper for foreign markets. Aggregate demand will, therefore, increase. When the value of the dollar increases, foreign goods are cheaper and U.S. goods become more expensive to foreign markets, and aggregate demand decreases.


   Economic Conditions and Aggregate Demand  

Economic conditions can impact aggregate demand whether those conditions originated domestically or internationally. The financial crisis of 2007-08, sparked by massive amounts of mortgage loan defaults, and the ensuing Great Recession, offer a good example of a decline in aggregate demand due to economic conditions.



With businesses suffering from less access to capital and fewer sales, they began to lay off workers and GDP growth contracted in 2008 and 2009, resulting in a total production contraction in the economy during that period. A poor-performing economy and rising unemployment led to a decline in personal consumption or consumer spending. Personal savings also surged as consumers held onto cash due to an uncertain future and instability in the banking system.



In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic caused reductions in both aggregate supply or production, and aggregate demand or spending. Social distancing measures and concerns about the spread of the virus caused a significant decrease in consumer spending, particularly in services as many businesses closed. These dynamics lowered aggregate demand in the economy. As aggregate demand fell, businesses either laid off part of their workforces or otherwise slowed production as employees contracted COVID-19 at high rates.


   Aggregate Demand vs. Aggregate Supply  

In times of economic crises, economists often debate as to whether aggregate demand slowed, leading to lower growth, or GDP contracted, leading to less aggregate demand. Whether demand leads to growth or vice versa is economists' version of the age-old question of what came first—the chicken or the egg.



Boosting aggregate demand also boosts the size of the economy regarding measured GDP. However, this does not prove that an increase in aggregate demand creates economic growth. Since GDP and aggregate demand share the same calculation, it only indicates that they increase concurrently. The equation does not show which is the cause and which is the effect.



Early economic theories hypothesized that production is the source of demand. The 18th-century French classical liberal economist Jean-Baptiste Say stated that consumption is limited to productive capacity and that social demands are essentially limitless, a theory referred to as Say's Law of Markets.



Say's law, the basis of supply-side economics, ruled until the 1930s and the advent of the theories of British economist John Maynard Keynes. By arguing that demand drives supply, Keynes placed total demand in the driver's seat. Keynesian macroeconomists have since believed that stimulating aggregate demand will increase real future output and the total level of output in the economy is driven by the demand for goods and services and propelled by money spent on those goods and services.



Keynes considered unemployment to be a byproduct of insufficient aggregate demand because wage levels would not adjust downward fast enough to compensate for reduced spending. He believed the government could spend money and increase aggregate demand until idle economic resources, including laborers, were redeployed.



Other schools of thought, notably the Austrian School and real business cycle theorists stress consumption is only possible after production. This means an increase in output drives an increase in consumption, not the other way around. Any attempt to increase spending rather than sustainable production only causes maldistribution of wealth or higher prices, or both.



As a demand-side economist, Keynes further argued that individuals could end up damaging production by limiting current expenditures—by hoarding money, for example. Other economists argue that hoarding can impact prices but does not necessarily change capital accumulation, production, or future output. In other words, the effect of an individual's saving money—more capital available for business—does not disappear on account of a lack of spending.




What Factors Affect Aggregate Demand?
Aggregate demand can be impacted by a few key economic factors. Rising or falling interest rates will affect decisions made by consumers and businesses. Rising household wealth increases aggregate demand while a decline usually leads to lower aggregate demand. Consumers' expectations of future inflation will also have a positive correlation with aggregate demand. Finally, a decrease (or increase) in the value of the domestic currency will make foreign goods costlier (or cheaper) while goods manufactured in the domestic country will become cheaper (or costlier) leading to an increase (or decrease) in aggregate demand. 




What Are Some Limitations of Aggregate Demand?
While aggregate demand helps determine the overall strength of consumers and businesses in an economy, it does pose some limitations. Since aggregate demand is measured by market values, it only represents total output at a given price level and does not necessarily represent quality or standard of living. Also, aggregate demand measures many different economic transactions between millions of individuals and for different purposes. As a result, it can become challenging when trying to determine the causes of demand for analytical purposes.




What's the Relationship Between GDP and Aggregate Demand?
GDP (gross domestic product) measures the size of an economy based on the monetary value of all finished goods and services made within a country during a specified period. As such, GDP is the aggregate supply. Aggregate demand represents the total demand for these goods and services at any given price level during the specified period. Aggregate demand eventually equals gross domestic product (GDP) because the two metrics are calculated in the same way. As a result, aggregate demand and GDP increase or decrease together.


   The Bottom Line  

Aggregate demand is a concept of macroeconomics that represents the total demand within an economy for all kinds of goods and services at a certain price point. In the long term, aggregate demand is indistinguishable from GDP. However, aggregate demand is not a perfect metric and it is the subject of debate among economists.
What Is Aggregate Stop-Loss Insurance?  

Aggregate stop-loss insurance is a policy designed to limit claim coverage (losses) to a specific amount. This coverage ensures that a catastrophic claim (specific stop-loss) or numerous claims (aggregate stop-loss) do not drain the financial reserves of a self-funded plan. Aggregate stop-loss protects the employer against claims that are higher than expected. If total claims exceed the aggregate limit, the stop-loss insurer covers the claims or reimburses the employer.





Key Takeaways

Aggregate stop-loss insurance is designed to protect an employer who self-funds their employee health plan from higher-than-anticipated payouts for claims.Stop-loss insurance is similar to high-deductible insurance, and the employer remains responsible for claims below the deductible amount.The deductible or attachment for aggregate stop-loss insurance is calculated based on several factors including an estimated value of claims per month, the number of enrolled employees, and a stop-loss attachment multiplier which is usually around 125% of anticipated claims.


   Understanding Aggregate Stop-Loss Insurance  

Aggregate stop-loss insurance is held for self-funded insurance plans for which an employer assumes the financial risk of providing healthcare benefits to its employees. In practical terms, self-funded employers pay for each claim as it is presented instead of paying a fixed premium to an insurance carrier for a fully insured plan. Stop-loss insurance is similar to purchasing high-deductible insurance. The employer remains responsible for claim expenses under the deductible amount.



Stop-loss insurance differs from conventional employee benefit insurance. Stop-loss only covers the employer and provides no direct coverage to employees and health plan participants.


  How Aggregate Stop-Loss Insurance Is Used  

Aggregate stop-loss insurance is used by employers as coverage for risk against a high value of claims. Aggregate stop-loss insurance comes with a maximum level for claims. When a maximum threshold is exceeded, the employer no longer needs to make payments and may receive some reimbursements.



Aggregate stop-loss insurance can either be added to an existing insurance plan or purchased independently. The threshold is calculated based on a certain percentage of projected costs (called attachment points)—usually 125% of anticipated claims for the year.



An aggregate stop-loss threshold is usually variable and not fixed. This is because the threshold fluctuates as a percentage of an employer’s enrolled employees. The variable threshold is based on an aggregate attachment factor which is an important component in the calculation of a stop-loss level.



As is the case with high deductible plans, most stop-loss plans will have relatively low premiums. This is because the employer is expected to cover over 100% of the value of claims they receive.






According to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation 2018 Employer Health Benefits Survey, insurers now offer health plans with a self-funded option for small or medium-sized employers; these health plans incorporate stop-loss insurance with low attachment points.﻿﻿


   Aggregate Stop-Loss Insurance Calculations  

The aggregate attachment associated with a stop-loss plan is calculated as follows: 


  Step 1  

The employer and stop-loss insurance provider estimate the average dollar value of claims expected by employee per month. This value will depend on the employer’s estimate but often ranges from $200 to $500 per month.


  Step 2  

Assume the stop-loss plan uses a value of $200. This value would then be multiplied by the stop-loss attachment multiplier which usually ranges from 125% to 175%. Using a claims estimate of $200 and a stop-loss attachment multiplier of 1.25, the monthly deductible would be $250 per month per employee ($200 x 1.25 = $250).


  Step 3  

This deductible must then be multiplied by the employer’s plan enrollment for the month. Assuming that an employer has 100 employees in the first month of coverage, their total deductible would be $25,000 for the month ($250 x 100).


  Step 4  

Enrollment can potentially vary per month. Due to enrollment variance, aggregate stop-loss coverage may have either a monthly deductible or an annual deductible.


  Step 5  

With a monthly deductible, the amount an employer must pay could change every month. With an annual deductible, the amount the employer must pay would be summed for the year and usually based on estimates from the initial month of coverage. Many stop-loss plans will offer an annual deductible that is slightly lower than the summation of deductibles over 12 months.
What Is Aggregate Supply?  

Aggregate supply, also known as total output, is the total supply of goods and services produced within an economy at a given overall price in a given period. It is represented by the aggregate supply curve, which describes the relationship between price levels and the quantity of output that firms are willing to provide. Typically, there is a positive relationship between aggregate supply and the price level.






Aggregate supply is usually calculated over a year because changes in supply tend to lag changes in demand.


   Aggregate Supply Explained  

Rising prices are typically an indicator that businesses should expand production to meet a higher level of aggregate demand. When demand increases amid constant supply, consumers compete for the goods available and, therefore, pay higher prices. This dynamic induces firms to increase output to sell more goods. The resulting supply increase causes prices to normalize and output to remain elevated.





Key Takeaways

Total goods produced at a specific price point for a particular period are aggregate supply.Short-term changes in aggregate supply are impacted most significantly by increases or decreases in demand.Long-term changes in aggregate supply are impacted most significantly by new technology or other changes in an industry.


   Changes in Aggregate Supply  

A shift in aggregate supply can be attributed to many variables, including changes in the size and quality of labor, technological innovations, an increase in wages, an increase in production costs, changes in producer taxes, and subsidies and changes in inflation. Some of these factors lead to positive changes in aggregate supply while others cause aggregate supply to decline. For example, increased labor efficiency, perhaps through outsourcing or automation, raises supply output by decreasing the labor cost per unit of supply. By contrast, wage increases place downward pressure on aggregate supply by increasing production costs.


   Aggregate Supply Over the Short and Long Run  

In the short run, aggregate supply responds to higher demand (and prices) by increasing the use of current inputs in the production process. In the short run, the level of capital is fixed, and a company cannot, for example, erect a new factory or introduce a new technology to increase production efficiency. Instead, the company ramps up supply by getting more out of its existing factors of production, such as assigning workers more hours or increasing the use of existing technology.



In the long run, however, aggregate supply is not affected by the price level and is driven only by improvements in productivity and efficiency. Such improvements include increases in the level of skill and education among workers, technological advancements, and increases in capital. Certain economic viewpoints, such as the Keynesian theory, assert that long-run aggregate supply is still price elastic up to a certain point. Once this point is reached, supply becomes insensitive to changes in price.


   Example of Aggregate Supply  

XYZ Corporation produces 100,000 widgets per quarter at a total expense of $1 million, but the cost of a critical component that accounts for 10% of that expense doubles in price because of a shortage of materials or other external factors. In that event, XYZ Corporation could produce only 90,909 widgets if it is still spending $1 million on production. This reduction would represent a decrease in aggregate supply. In this example, the lower aggregate supply could lead to demand exceeding output. That, coupled with the increase in production costs, is likely to lead to a rise in price.
What Is Aggregation?  

Aggregation in the futures markets is a process that combines of all futures positions owned or controlled by a single trader or group of traders into one aggregate position. Aggregation in a financial planning sense, however, is a time-saving accounting method that consolidates an individual’s financial data from various institutions.



Aggregation is increasingly popular with advisors when servicing clients’ accounts, as they are able to discuss the accounts with the client in a cleaner, more easily understood way before they break down the account into its respective categories.





Key Takeaways

Financial advisors and banks aggregate their customer's information so that they are able to easily produce a clear picture of that client's finances. Also, it adds an additional level of protection for the client.Advisors and planners hit a wall when their clients do not give them full access, and they argue that it does not allow them the full-picture view needed to give accurate advice on their client's finances.Aggregation is beneficial for both parties but the edge goes to the financial advisor, who may or may not see a gap in a client's servicing where they might be able to upsell a product or service.


   How Aggregation Works  

Financial advisors use account-aggregation technology to gather position and transaction information from investors’ retail accounts held at other financial institutions. Aggregators provide investors and their advisors with a centralized view of the investor’s complete financial situation, including daily updates.



Financial planners handle both managed and non-managed accounts. Managed accounts contain assets under the advisor’s control that are held by the advisor’s custodian. The planners utilize portfolio management and reporting software to capture a client’s data through a direct link from the custodian. It is important for the planner to have all the accounts because aggregating them without the complete collection would paint an inaccurate picture of that client's finances.



Additionally, non-managed accounts contain assets that are not under the advisor's management but are nevertheless important to the client’s financial plan. Examples include 401(k) accounts, personal checking or savings accounts, pensions, and credit card accounts.



The advisor’s concern with managed accounts is lack of accessibility when the client does not provide log-in information. Advisors cannot offer an all-encompassing approach to financial planning and asset management without daily updates on non-managed accounts.


   Importance of Account Aggregation  

Account aggregation services solve the issue by providing a convenient method for obtaining current position and transaction information about accounts held at most retail banks or brokerages. Because investors’ privacy is protected, disclosing their personal-access information for each non-managed account is unnecessary.



Financial planners use aggregate account software for analyzing a client’s total assets, liabilities, and net worth; income and expenses; and trends in assets, liability, net worth, and transaction values. The advisor also assesses various risks in a client’s portfolio before making investment decisions.


   Effects of Account Aggregation  

Many aggregation services offer direct data connections between brokerage firms and financial institutions, rather than using banks’ consumer-facing websites. Clients give financial institutions their consent by providing personal information for the aggregate services.
What is an Aggressive Investment Strategy?  

An aggressive investment strategy typically refers to a style of portfolio management that attempts to maximize returns by taking a relatively higher degree of risk. Strategies for achieving higher than average returns typically emphasize capital appreciation as a primary investment objective, rather than income or safety of principal. Such a strategy would therefore have an asset allocation with a substantial weighting in stocks and possibly little or no allocation to bonds or cash.



Aggressive investment strategies are typically thought to be suitable for young adults with smaller portfolio sizes. Because a lengthy investment horizon enables them to ride out market fluctuations, and losses early in one's career have less impact than later, investment advisors do not consider this strategy suitable for anyone else but young adults unless such a strategy is applied to only a small portion of one's nest-egg savings. Regardless of the investor’s age, however, a high tolerance for risk is an absolute prerequisite for an aggressive investment strategy.





Key Takeaway

Aggressive investing accepts more risk in pursuit of greater return.Aggressive portfolio management may achieve its aims through one or more of many strategies including asset selection and asset allocation.Investor trends after 2012 showed a preference away from aggressive strategies and active management and towards passive index investing.


   Understanding Aggressive Investment Strategy  

The aggressiveness of an investment strategy depends on the relative weight of high-reward, high-risk asset classes, such as equities and commodities, within the portfolio.



For example, Portfolio A which has an asset allocation of 75% equities, 15% fixed income, and 10% commodities would be considered quite aggressive, since 85% of the portfolio is weighted to equities and commodities. However, it would still be less aggressive than Portfolio B, which has an asset allocation of 85% equities and 15% commodities.



Even within the equity component of an aggressive portfolio, the composition of stocks can have a significant bearing on its risk profile. For instance, if the equity component only consists of blue-chip stocks, it would be considered less risky than if the portfolio only held small-capitalization stocks. If this is the case in the earlier example, Portfolio B could arguably be considered less aggressive than Portfolio A, even though it has 100% of its weight in aggressive assets.



Yet another aspect of an aggressive investment strategy has to do with allocation. A strategy that simply divided all available money equally into 20 different stocks could be a very aggressive strategy, but dividing all money equally into just 5 different stocks would be more aggressive still.



Aggressive Investment strategies may also include a high turnover strategy, seeking to chase stocks that show high relative performance in a short time period. The high turnover may create higher returns, but could also drive higher transaction costs, thus increasing the risk of poor performance.


   Aggressive Investment Strategy and Active Management  

An aggressive strategy needs more active management than a conservative “buy-and-hold” strategy, since it is likely to be much more volatile and could require frequent adjustments, depending on market conditions. More rebalancing would also be required to bring portfolio allocations back to their target levels. Volatility of the assets could lead allocations to deviate significantly from their original weights. This extra work also drives higher fees as the portfolio manager may require more staff to manage all such positions.



Recent years have seen significant pushback against active investing strategies. Many investors have pulled their assets out of hedge funds, for example, due to those managers' underperformance. Instead, some have chosen to place their money with passive managers. These managers adhere to investing styles that often employ managing index funds for strategic rotation. In these cases, portfolios often mirror a market index, such as the S&P 500.
What Is Agribusiness?  

Agribusiness is the business sector encompassing farming and farming-related commercial activities. It involves all the steps required to send an agricultural good to market, namely production, processing, and distribution. This industry is an important component of the economy in countries with arable land since agricultural products can be exported.



Agribusiness treats the different aspects of raising agricultural products as an integrated system. Farmers raise animals and harvest fruits and vegetables with the help of sophisticated harvesting techniques, including the use of GPS to direct operations. Manufacturers develop increasingly efficient machines that can drive themselves. Processing plants determine the best way to clean and package livestock for shipping. While each subset of the industry is unlikely to interact directly with the consumer, each is focused on operating efficiently in order to keep prices reasonable.





Key Takeaways

Agribusiness is a combination of the words "agriculture" and "business" and refers to any business related to farming and farming-related commercial activities.Agribusiness involves all the steps required to send an agricultural good to market, namely production, processing, and distribution.Companies in the agribusiness industry encompass all aspects of food production.Climate change has placed intensifying pressure on many companies in the agribusiness industry to successfully adapt to the large-scale shifts in weather patterns.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding Agribusiness  

Market forces have a significant impact on the agribusiness sector, as do natural forces, such as changes in the earth's climate.



Changes in consumer taste alter what products are grown and raised. For example, a shift in consumer tastes away from red meat may cause demand—and therefore prices—for beef to fall, while increased demand for produce may shift the mix of fruits and vegetables that farmers raise. Businesses unable to rapidly change in accordance with domestic demand may look to export their products abroad. If that fails, they may not be able to compete and remain in business.
Climate change has placed intensifying pressure on many companies in the agribusiness industry to remain relevant, and profitable, while adapting to the threats posed by large-scale shifts in weather patterns.


  Agribusiness Challenges  

Countries with farming industries face consistent pressures from global competition. Products such as wheat, corn, and soybeans tend to be similar in different locations, making them commodities. Remaining competitive requires agribusinesses to operate more efficiently, which can require investments in new technologies, new ways of fertilizing and watering crops, and new ways of connecting to the global market.



Global prices of agricultural products may change rapidly, making production planning a complicated activity. Farmers may also face a reduction in usable land as suburban and urban areas expand into their regions.


  Use of New Technology  

The use of new technology is vital to remain competitive in the global agribusiness sector. Farmers need to reduce crop costs and increase yield per square acre to remain competitive.



New drone technology is at the cutting edge of the industry. An article published in 2016 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) identified Six Ways Drones Are Revolutionizing Agriculture. These techniques, including soil and field analysis, planting, and crop monitoring, will be key to improving crop yields and moving the agribusiness sector forward.



Key areas of concern for the use of drone technology remain the safety of drone operations, privacy issues, and insurance-coverage questions.






   Agribusiness Examples  

Because agribusiness is a broad industry, it incorporates a wide range of different companies and operations. Agribusinesses include small family farms and food producers up to multinational conglomerates involved in the production of food on a national scale.



Some examples of agribusinesses include farm machinery producers such as Deere & Company, seed and agrichemical manufacturers such as Monsanto, food processing companies such as Archer Daniels Midland Company, as well as farmer's cooperatives, agritourism companies, and makers of biofuels, animal feeds, and other related products.
What Is an Air Waybill (AWB)?  

An air waybill (AWB) is a document that accompanies goods shipped by an international air courier to provide detailed information about the shipment and allow it to be tracked. The bill has multiple copies so that each party involved in the shipment can document it. An air waybill (AWB), also known as an air consignment note, is a type of bill of lading. However, an AWB serves a similar function to ocean bills of lading, but an AWB is issued in non-negotiable form, meaning there's less protection with an AWB versus bills of lading.





Key Takeaways

An air waybill or AWB is a document that accompanies goods shipped by an international courier, which allow for tracking.It serves as a receipt of goods by an airline, as well as a contract of carriage between the shipper and the carrier. It’s a legal agreement that’s enforceable by law.AWBs are non-negotiable instruments and must include the shipper's name and address, consignee's name and address, destination airport, and value of contents, among other things.


   Understanding an Air Waybill (AWB)  

An air waybill (AWB) serves as a receipt of goods by an airline (the carrier), as well as a contract of carriage between the shipper and the carrier. It’s a legal agreement that’s enforceable by law. The AWB becomes an enforceable contract when the shipper (or shipper's agent) and carrier (or carrier's agent) both sign the document. 






An air waybill is a standard form distributed by the International Air Transport Association (IATA).



The air waybill also contains the shipper's name and address, consignee's name and address, three-letter origin airport code, three-letter destination airport code, declared shipment value for customs, number of pieces, gross weight, a description of the goods, and any special instructions (e.g., "perishable").



An AWB also contains the conditions of the contract that describe the carrier's terms and conditions, such as its liability limits and claims procedures, a description of the goods, and applicable charges.


   Air Waybill vs. Bill of Lading  

AWBs are unlike other bills of lading, in that they are non-negotiable instruments, meaning that it does not specify on which flight the shipment will be sent, or when it will reach its destination. Bills of lading are legal documents between the shipper of goods and the carrier, detailing the type, quantity, and destination of the goods being carried.



Bills of lading also act as a receipt of shipment when the goods are delivered at a predetermined destination. This document accompanies the goods and is signed by authorized representatives of the shipper, the carrier, and the recipient. However, unlike a bill of landing, an air waybill (AWB) is non-negotiable. Being non-negotiable, the AWB is a contract just for transportation and does not cover the merchandise value.


   Requirements for an Air Waybill  

The International Air Transport Association (IATA) designs and distributes air waybills. There are two types of AWBs—an airline-specific one and a neutral one. Each airline AWB must include the carrier’s name, head office address, logo, and air waybill number. Neutral air waybills have the same layout and format as airline AWBs; they just aren’t prepopulated.






Some airlines no longer produce paper air waybills, only allowing access to electronic air waybills.



An air waybill has 11 numbers and comes with eight copies of varying colors. With the Multilateral Electronic Air Waybill Resolution 672, paper air waybills are no longer required. Dubbed the e-AWB, it’s been in use since 2010 and became the default contract for all air cargo shipments on enabled trade lines as of 2019.




Who Provides the Air Waybill?
Air Waybills are IATA documents signed by both the shipper and the carrier. The IATA is a trade association that represents more than 80% of all air traffic, including many major airlines and major parcel services such as FedEx and UPS.




What Is Required in the Air Waybill?
An air waybill contains the names and addresses of the shipper and the recipient, the value of the cargo, three-letter codes for the origin and destination airports, the number of pieces, gross weight, description, special instructions, and other conditions of the contract.




Where Do I Get an Air Waybill?
IATA provides a standard agreement on its website for e-AWBs. Most carriers, such as FedEx, also provide access to e-AWBs for convenience.


   The Bottom Line  

If shipping goods internationally, an air waybill serves as contract between you and the carrier that defines the contents of the shipment, its origin, its destination, and other pertinent details. The default form has been electronic since 2019. It is a non-negotiable form that defines the details of the shipment and is signed by both parties. It is enforceable by law.
What Is Aktiengesellschaft (AG)?  

AG is an abbreviation of Aktiengesellschaft, which is a German term for a public limited company. This type of company shares are offered to the general public and traded on a public stock exchange. Shareholders' liability is limited to their investment. The shareholders are not responsible for the company's debts, and their assets are protected in case the company becomes insolvent. 





Key Takeaways

Aktiengesellschaft is a German term used for publicly traded corporations on German stock exchanges.Abbreviated as "AG", these letters follow the name of such public limited liability companies.Companies that are designated as AG fall under increased regulatory oversight and must satisfy several initial and ongoing requirements to maintain its status as such.


   Understanding Aktiengesellschaft  

Aktiengesellschaft is a German term made up of words meaning share and corporation. An AG is a business owned by shareholders which may be traded on a stock marketplace. Shareholders exercise power over controlling policies at regularly scheduled general meetings. The managing board decides on all operational matters, and the supervisory board carries them out.



German companies that are publicly traded are designated as such by the letters 'AG' after the company name. 'AG' is an abbreviation for the German word Aktiengesellschaft, which literally translates to 'stock corporation' or 'shares corporation' in English. AG companies trade publicly on stock exchanges with the majority of companies trading on the DAX.



Some of the largest German AG corporations include its automotive manufacturers:



Volkswagen AG
Daimler AG
BMW AG


   Establishing an AG  

Setting up an AG requires five or more members. An Aktiengesellschaft (AG) is subject to the Stock Corporation Act. This act involves share capital of approximately $56,000, with at least half paid at registration. The business owner will enlist the services of an attorney or bank in preparing documentation for registration.



The Aktiengesellschaft's name will come from the enterprise’s purpose and contains the word Aktiengesellschaft in its title. The articles of association include the corporation’s name, registered office, share capital, each shareholder’s contribution, and details regarding the shares. A court or notary will authenticate the articles of association. 



The required capital is deposited into a banking account, and the notarized documents and signed application submitted to the Commercial Registry Office. The AG will become a legal entity within seven days if all materials are in order. The Office will issue a certificate of registration, and publish news of the establishment in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce.


   AG Oversight  

An AG has a managing board of one or more members appointed by and reporting to, the supervisory board of three or more members. An Aktiengesellschaft (AG) with a share capital of $3 million or more has two or more managing board members. An AG employing over 500 workers will have employee representatives occupying one-third of the supervisory board. If the employee number exceeds 2,000, employee representatives will fill half of the board. Also, the articles of association may limit the number of members.



Auditors check the corporation’s financial documents. Meeting three or more of the following conditions for two or more years in a row requires an ordinary company audit: the company has more than 50 full-time employees; revenues exceed $2 million, or the balance sheet exceeds $100,000.


   GMbH vs. AG  

GmbH is another common business extension primarily known for its use in Germany. Like most countries, Germany has two distinct classifications for companies: publicly traded and privately held. While AG refers to public companies, the acronym 'GmbH' is used to designate certain private entities and is written after a company’s name. The letters stand for Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung which translated literally, means a 'company with limited liability.'
Who Is Alan Greenspan?  

Alan Greenspan is an American economist who was the chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Fed), the United States' central bank, from 1987 until 2006. In that role, he also served as the chair of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which is the Fed’s principal monetary policymaking committee that makes decisions on interest rates and managing the U.S. money supply.



Greenspan is best known for largely presiding over the Great Moderation, a period of relatively stable inflation and macroeconomic growth, that lasted from the mid-1980s to the financial crisis in 2007.





Key Takeaways

Alan Greenspan is an American economist and former chair of the Federal Reserve.Greenspan's policy was defined by the Great Moderation, or the long-term maintenance of low, stable inflation and economic growth.The expansionary monetary policy of "easy money" attributed to Greenspan's tenure has been blamed in part for stoking the 2000 dot-com bubble and the 2008 financial crisis.Greenspan's time as chair began with the immediate challenge of dealing with the historic 1987 stock market crash.Greenspan is considered by some to be hawkish in his concerns over inflation. He received criticism for focusing more on controlling prices than on achieving full employment. 


   Early Life and Education  

Alan Greenspan was born in New York City on March 6, 1926. He received his bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral degrees in economics, all from New York University, as well as studying economics at Columbia University in the early 1950s under Arthur Burns, who would later serve two consecutive terms as chair of the Board of Governors of the Fed.



Greenspan's first job, in 1948, was not in government but for a non-profit analyzing demand for steel, aluminum, and copper. After this, Greenspan ran an economic consulting firm in New York City, Townsend-Greenspan & Co., Inc., from 1954 to 1974 and 1977 to 1987. Greenspan began his career in the public sector in 1974 when he served as chair of the President’s Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) under President Gerald Ford.



In 1987, Greenspan became the 13th chair of the Fed, replacing Paul Volcker. President Ronald Reagan was the first to appoint Greenspan to the office, but three other presidents, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush, named him to four additional terms. His tenure as chair lasted for more than 18 years before he retired in 2006 to be replaced by Ben Bernanke. After leaving, he published his memoir, The Age of Turbulence, and began his own Washington DC-based consulting firm, Greenspan Associates LLC. 



Alan Greenspan was known as being adept at gaining consensus among Fed board members on policy issues and for serving during one of the most severe economic crises of the late 20th century, the aftermath of the stock market crash of 1987. After that crash, he advocated for sharply slashing interest rates to prevent the economy from sinking into a deep depression.





Fast Fact

Alan Greenspan was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by George W. Bush, making him the only Fed chair to receive the award.


   Alan Greenspan’s Policies and Actions  

Greenspan presided over one of the most prosperous periods in American history—thanks in no small part, supporters feel, to his helming of the Fed. Still, some of his policies and actions were controversial, either at the time or in retrospect.


  Views on Inflation  

Early in his career, Greenspan developed a reputation for being hawkish on inflation, in part due to his advocacy for a return to the gold standard in monetary policy in the 1967 essay "Gold and Economic Freedom." 



His allegedly “hawkish” stance was portrayed by early critics as a preference for sacrificing economic growth in exchange for preventing inflation. Greenspan eventually reversed those views as Fed chief; in a 1998 speech, he conceded that the new economy might not be as susceptible to inflation as he had first thought.



In practice, Greenspan's supposedly hawkish approach was flexible, to say the least. He was clearly willing to risk inflation under conditions that could create a severe depression and certainly pursued a generally easy money policy relative to his predecessor, Paul Volcker. In particular, in the early 2000s, Greenspan presided over cutting interest rates to levels not seen in many decades.


  Flip-Flop on Interest Rates  

In 2000, Greenspan advocated reducing interest rates after the dot-com bubble burst. He did so again in 2001 after 9-11, the World Trade Center attack. Following 9-11, Greenspan led the FOMC to immediately reduce the Fed funds rate from 3.5% to 3%, and, in the following months, he worked toward lowering that rate to a record (at the time) low of 1.13% and holding it there for a full year.



Some criticized those rate cuts as having the potential to inflate asset price bubbles in the U.S. Greenspan's pro-inflationary policies, particularly during this period, are today generally understood to have contributed to the U.S. housing bubble, subsequent subprime mortgage financial crisis, and the Great Recession, though this is of course disputed by Greenspan and his allies.


  Encouraging Adjustable-Rate Mortgages  

In a 2004 speech, Greenspan suggested more homeowners should consider taking out adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) where the interest rate adjusts itself to prevailing market interest rates. Under Greenspan’s tenure, interest rates subsequently rose as inflation accelerated. This increase reset many of those mortgages to much higher payments, creating even more distress for many homeowners and exacerbating the impact of that crisis.


  The "Greenspan Put"  

The "Greenspan put" was a monetary policy strategy popular during the 1990s and 2000s under Greenspan. Throughout his reign, he attempted to help support the U.S. economy by actively using the federal funds rate to aggressively lower interest rates to fight the deflation of asset price bubbles.



The Greenspan put created a substantial moral hazard in financial markets. Informed investors could expect the Fed to take predictable actions that would bailout investor's losses, which distort the incentives of market participants. This created an environment where investors were encouraged to take excessive risk because Fed monetary policy tended to inherently limit their potential losses in the event of a market downturn in an analogous way to buying put options on the open market.




How Long Was Alan Greenspan Federal Reserve Chair?
Alan Greenspan served as Chair of the Fed from 1987 to 2006, for a total of five terms.




Who Appointed Alan Greenspan?
President Ronald Reagan appointed Alan Greenspan as Chair of the Fed in 1987.




Who Replaced Alan Greenspan?
Ben Bernanke replaced Alan Greenspan as Chair of the Fed when he was appointed in 2006. Bernanke served until 2014.




How Old Is Alan Greenspan?
Alan Greenspan was born on March 6, 1926, making him 95 years old as of June 2021.




Who Is Alan Greenspan's Wife?
Alan Greenspan married journalist Andrea Mitchell in 1997.




What Is Alan Greenspan Doing Now?
After his time at the Fed, Greenspan has worked as an advisor through his company, Greenspan Associates LLC.


   The Bottom Line  

Like many other government officials, the success of Alan Greenspan's five terms as Chair of the Fed will depend on who you ask. However, it is certainly true that Greenspan faced some massive challenges during his tenure, such as the 1987 stock market crash and the attacks on the World Trade Center.



Overall, Greenspan helped usher in a strong U.S. economy in the 1990s. Opinion on how much his actions caused the economic recession that began shortly after his term ended varies.
What Is an Aleatory Contract?  

An aleatory contract is an agreement whereby the parties involved do not have to perform a particular action until a specific, triggering event occurs. Events are those that cannot be controlled by either party, such as natural disasters and death. Aleatory contracts are commonly used in insurance policies. For example, the insurer does not have to pay the insured until an event, such as a fire that results in property loss. Aleatory contracts—also called aleatory insurance—are helpful because they typically help the purchaser reduce financial risk.





Key Takeaways

An aleatory contract is an agreement whereby the parties involved do not have to perform a particular action until a specific event occurs.The trigger events aleatory contracts are those that cannot be controlled by either party, such as natural disasters or death.Insurance policies use aleatory contracts whereby the insurer doesn't have to pay the insured until an event, such as a fire resulting in property loss.


   Understanding an Aleatory Contract  

Aleatory contracts are historically related to gambling and appeared in Roman law as contracts related to chance events. In insurance, an aleatory contract refers to an insurance arrangement in which the payouts to the insured are unbalanced. Until the insurance policy results in a payout, the insured pays premiums without receiving anything in return besides coverage. When the payouts do occur, they can far outweigh the sum of premiums paid to the insurer. If the event does not occur, the promise outlined in the contract will not be performed.


   How Aleatory Contracts Work  

Risk assessment is an important factor to the party, taking a higher risk when considering entering into an aleatory contract. Life insurance policies are considered aleatory contracts, as they do not benefit the policyholder until the event itself (death) comes to pass. Only then will the policy allow the agreed amount of money or services stipulated in the aleatory contract. The death of someone is an uncertain event as no one can predict in advance with certainty that when the insured will die. However, the amount which the insured's beneficiary will receive is certainly much more than what the insured has paid as a premium.



In certain cases, if the insured has not paid the regular premiums to keep the policy in force, the insurer is not obliged to pay the policy benefit, even though an insured has made some premium payments for the policy. In other types of insurance contracts, if the insured doesn’t die during the policy term, then nothing will be payable on maturity, such as with term life insurance.


   Annuities and Aleatory Contracts  

Another type of aleatory contract where each party takes on a defined level of risk exposure is an annuity. An annuity contract is an agreement between an individual investor and an insurance company whereby the investor pays a lump sum or a series of premiums to the annuity provider. In return, the contract legally binds the insurance company to pay periodic payments to the annuity holder—called the annuitant—once the annuitant reaches a certain milestone, such as retirement. However, the investor might risk losing the premiums paid into the annuity if they withdraw the money too early. On the other hand, the person might live a long life and receive payments that far exceed the original amount that was paid for the annuity.



Annuity contracts can be very helpful to investors, but they can also be extremely complex. There are various types of annuities each with its own rules that include how and when payouts are structured, fee schedules, and surrender charges—if money is withdrawn too soon.


   Special Considerations  

For investors who plan on leaving their retirement funds to a beneficiary, it's important to note that the U.S. Congress passed the SECURE Act in 2019, which made rule changes to beneficiaries of retirement plans. As of 2020, non-spousal beneficiaries of retirement accounts must withdraw all of the funds in the inherited account within ten years of the owner's death. In the past, beneficiaries could stretch out the distributions—or withdrawals—over their lifetime. The new ruling eliminates the stretch provision, which means all of the funds, including annuity contracts within the retirement account–must be withdrawn within the 10-year rule.



Also, the new law reduces the legal risks for insurance companies by limiting their liability if they fail to make annuity payments. In other words, the Act reduces the ability for the account holder to sue the annuity provider for breach of contract. It's important that investors seek help from a financial professional to review the fine print of any aleatory contract as well as how the SECURE Act might impact their financial plan.
What is Algorithmic Trading?  

Algorithmic trading is a process for executing orders utilizing automated and pre-programmed trading instructions to account for variables such as price, timing, and volume. An algorithm is a set of directions for solving a problem. Computer algorithms send small portions of the full order to the market over time.



Algorithmic trading makes use of complex formulas, combined with mathematical models and human oversight, to make decisions to buy or sell financial securities on an exchange. Algorithmic traders often make use of high-frequency trading technology, which can enable a firm to make tens of thousands of trades per second. Algorithmic trading can be used in a wide variety of situations including order execution, arbitrage, and trend trading strategies.





Key Takeaways

Algorithmic trading is the use of process- and rules-based algorithms to employ strategies for executing trades.It has grown significantly in popularity since the early 1980s and is used by institutional investors and large trading firms for a variety of purposes.While it provides advantages, such as faster execution time and reduced costs, algorithmic trading can also exacerbate the market's negative tendencies by causing flash crashes and immediate loss of liquidity.


   Understanding Algorithmic Trading  

The use of algorithms in trading increased after computerized trading systems were introduced in American financial markets during the 1970s. In 1976, the New York Stock Exchange introduced the Designated Order Turnaround (DOT) system for routing orders from traders to specialists on the exchange floor.﻿﻿ In the following decades, exchanges enhanced their abilities to accept electronic trading, and by 2009, upwards of 60 percent of all trades in the U.S. were executed by computers.﻿﻿



Author Michael Lewis brought high-frequency, algorithmic trading to the public’s attention when he published the best-selling book Flash Boys, which documented the lives of Wall Street traders and entrepreneurs who helped build the companies that came to define the structure of electronic trading in America. His book argued that these companies were engaged in an arms race to build ever faster computers, which could communicate with exchanges ever more quickly, to gain advantage on competitors with speed, using order types which benefited them to the detriment of average investors.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Do-It-Yourself Algorithmic Trading  

In recent years, the practice of do-it-yourself algorithmic trading has become widespread. Hedge funds like Quantopian, for instance, crowd source algorithms from amateur programmers who compete to win commissions for writing the most profitable code. The practice has been made possible by the spread of high-speed internet and the development of ever-faster computers at relatively cheap prices. Platforms like Quantiacs have sprung up in order to serve day traders who wish to try their hand at algorithmic trading.



Another emergent technology on Wall Street is machine learning. New developments in artificial intelligence have enabled computer programmers to develop programs which can improve themselves through an iterative process called deep learning. Traders are developing algorithms that rely on deep learning to make themselves more profitable.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Algorithmic Trading  

Algorithmic trading is mainly used by institutional investors and big brokerage houses to cut down on costs associated with trading. According to research, algorithmic trading is especially beneficial for large order sizes that may comprise as much as 10% of overall trading volume. Typically market makers use algorithmic trades to create liquidity.



Algorithmic trading also allows for faster and easier execution of orders, making it attractive for exchanges. In turn, this means that traders and investors can quickly book profits off small changes in price. The scalping trading strategy commonly employs algorithms because it involves rapid buying and selling of securities at small price increments.



The speed of order execution, an advantage in ordinary circumstances, can become a problem when several orders are executed simultaneously without human intervention. The flash crash of 2010 has been blamed on algorithmic trading.



Another disadvantage of algorithmic trades is that liquidity, which is created through rapid buy and sell orders, can disappear in a moment, eliminating the chance for traders to profit off price changes. It can also lead to instant loss of liquidity. Research has uncovered that algorithmic trading was a major factor in causing a loss of liquidity in currency markets after the Swiss franc discontinued its Euro peg in 2015.
What Is All Risks?  

"All risks" refers to a type of insurance coverage that automatically covers any risk that the contract does not explicitly omit. For example, if an "all risk" homeowner's policy does not expressly exclude flood coverage, then the house will be covered in the event of flood damage.



This type of policy is found only in the property-casualty market.





Key Takeaways

All risks is a comprehensive insurance policy offered in the property-casualty market.All risks and named perils are two types of insurance commonly offered to homeowners and business owners.Insurance that allows for all risks means the policyholder can seek compensation for any events that the contract hasn't directly ruled out as being covered.Policyholders can usually pay more to have a rider or floater added to the contract that would cover a specific event that was ruled out.All risks insurance differs from named perils insurance, in which the policyholder can only seek compensation for events that are specified in the policy.


   Understanding All Risks  

Insurance providers generally offer two types of property coverage for homeowners and businesses—named perils and "all risks." A named perils insurance contract only covers the perils stipulated explicitly in the policy.



For example, an insurance contract might specify that any home loss caused by fire or vandalism will be covered. Therefore, an insured who experiences a loss or damage caused by a flood cannot file a claim to his or her insurance provider, as a flood is not named as a peril under the insurance coverage. Under a named perils policy, the burden of proof is on the insured.



An all risks insurance contract covers the insured from all perils, except the ones specifically excluded from the list. Contrary to a named perils contract, an all risks policy does not name the risks covered, but instead, names the risks not covered. In so doing, any peril not named in the exclusions list is automatically covered.



The most common types of perils excluded from "all risks" include earthquake, war, government seizure or destruction, wear and tear, infestation, pollution, nuclear hazard, and market loss. An individual or business who requires coverage for any excluded event under "all risks" may have the option to pay an additional premium, known as a rider or floater, to have the peril included in the contract.






"All risks" are also called open perils, all perils, or comprehensive insurance.


  Burden of Proof  

The trigger for coverage under an "all risks" policy is physical loss or damage to property. An insured must prove physical damage or loss has occurred before the burden of proof shifts to the insurer, who then has to prove that an exclusion applies to the coverage.



For example, a small business that experienced a power outage may file a claim citing physical loss. The insurance company, on the other hand, might reject the claim stating that the company experienced a loss of income from a mere loss of property use, which is not the same thing as a physical loss of property.


   Special Considerations  

Because "all risks" is the most comprehensive type of coverage available and protects the insured from a greater number of possible loss events, it is priced proportionately higher than other types of policies. The cost of this type of insurance should, therefore, be measured against the probability of a claim.



It is possible to have named perils and "all risks" in the same policy. For example, an insured may have a property insurance policy that has all risks coverage on the building and named perils on his personal property. Everyone should read the fine print of any insurance agreement to ensure that they understand what is excluded in the policy.



Also, just because an insurance policy is termed “all risks” does not mean that it covers "all risks" since the exclusions reduce the level of coverage that is offered. Make sure you look for the exclusions in any prospective policy.




What Is the Meaning of All Risk?
All risk is a type of insurance product that requires a risk to be explicitly stated for it to not be covered. For example, if the contract does not state "tree damage" as an omitting risk, then if a tree were to fall on the insured property under an all risk policy, since the tree was not explicitly mentioned, the damage would be covered.




What Are the 4 Major Types of Insurance?
There are insurance products for almost everything, but for most people, there are four types of insurance products that are seen more than any other. Life insurance, auto insurance, health insurance, and long-term disability insurance are those that cover most of an individual's risk factors. Once someone owns significant property like a house or something high-value like jewelry or other collector items, they will need additional policies tailored to these individual items. However, most people who rent will own the four major types listed above.




What Are All Risk Perils?
All risk perils is another name for all risk insurance as it relates to individual risks. Named perils is an insurance product that names what is insured in case of an accident. All risks, assuming there are no perils mentioned, could be considered all risk perils since all perils are assumed as risk (under the policy). However, these are rare as they put undue risk acceptance on the insurer, and it is much more common to see many perils listed, even on an all risks policy.


   The Bottom Line  

All risk insurance, also called all risk coverage, is an insurance product that covers any incident that isn't explicitly mentioned. These policies assume a good deal of risk for the insurer and are less common than named risk coverage, which states exactly what is covered, versus stating only what is to be omitted (which is the case with all risk).
What Are Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses (ALAE)?  

Allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) are costs attributed to the processing of a specific insurance claim. ALAE is part of an insurer’s expense reserves. It is one of the largest expenses for which an insurer has to set aside funds, along with contingent commissions.





Key Takeaways

Allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) are expenses attributed to a specific insurance claim.ALAE, along with unallocated loss adjustment expenses (ULAE), represent an insurer's estimate of the money it will pay out in claims and expenses.Expenses associated with ULAE are more general and may include overhead, investigations, and salaries.Small, straightforward claims are the easiest for an insurance company to settle and often require less ALAE when compared to claims that may take years to settle.


   Understanding Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses (ALAE)  

Allocated loss adjustment expenses, along with unallocated loss adjustment expenses (ULAE), represent an insurer's estimate of the money it will pay out in claims and expenses. Insurers set aside reserves for these expenses to ensure claims aren't made fraudulently and to process legitimate claims quickly.



ALAEs link directly to the processing of a specific claim. These costs may include payments to third parties for activities like investigating claims, acting as loss adjusters, or as legal counsel for the insurer. Expenses associated with ULAE are more general and may include overhead, investigations, and salaries.



Life insurance companies that use in-house employees for field adjustments would report that expense as an unallocated loss adjustment expense.


   Special Considerations  

Some commercial liability policies contain endorsements, which require the policyholder to reimburse its insurance company for loss adjustment expenses (ALAE or ULAE). Adjusting a loss is "the process of ascertaining the value of a loss or negotiating a settlement."



Therefore, loss adjustment expenses are most often those costs incurred by an insurance company in defending or settling a liability claim brought against its policyholder. These expenses can include fees charged by attorneys, investigators, experts, arbitrators, mediators, and other fees or expenses incidental to adjusting a claim.



It is important to carefully read the endorsement language, which may say that a loss adjustment expense is not intended to include the policyholder’s attorney fees and costs if an insurer denies coverage and a policyholder successfully sues the insurer. In this situation, where the insurance company has done no actual “adjusting” of the claim, it should not be entitled to apply its deductible to the expenses incurred by the policyholder in defending the claim abandoned by the insurance company.


   ALAE vs. Unallocated Loss Adjustment Expenses (ULAE)  

Insurers have gradually shifted from categorizing expenses as ULAE to categorizing them as ALAE. This is primarily because insurers are more sophisticated in how they treat claims and have more tools at their disposal to manage the costs associated with claims.



Small, straightforward claims are the easiest for an insurance company to settle and often require less ALAE when compared to claims that may take years to settle. Claims that could result in substantial losses are the most likely to receive extra scrutiny by insurers and may involve in-depth investigations, settlement offers, and litigation. With greater scrutiny comes greater cost.



Analysts can tell how accurate an insurance company has been at estimating its reserves by examining its loss reserve development. Loss reserve development involves an insurer adjusting estimates to its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves over a period of time.




What are the Differences Between ALAE and ULAE?
Allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) are costs attributed to the processing of a specific insurance claim. ALAE is part of an insurer’s expense reserves. Expenses associated with unallocated loss adjustment are more general and may include overhead, investigations, and salaries.




What Should Policyholders Know About "Endorsements"?
Endorsements require the policyholder to reimburse the insurance company for loss adjustment expenses. Read the endorsement language, which may say that a loss adjustment expense is not intended to include the policyholder’s attorney fees and costs if an insurer denies coverage and a policyholder successfully sues the insurer.
What Is Allocational Efficiency?  

Allocational efficiency, also known as allocative efficiency, is a characteristic of an efficient market where the optimal distribution of goods in an economy meets the needs and wants of society. The goal of allocative efficiency is to ensure that resources are used so that their marginal benefit to society is equal to their marginal cost.





Key Takeaways


Allocational or allocative efficiency is an efficient market whereby all goods and services meet the needs and wants of society.
Allocative efficiency ensures that resources are used so that their marginal benefit to society is equal to their marginal cost.
An efficient market is always reflected in the market prices of goods and services.



   Understanding Allocational Efficiency  

Allocational efficiency occurs when organizations in the public and private sectors spend their resources on projects that will be the most profitable and do the most good for the population, thereby promoting economic growth.



When all of the data for a market is accessible, companies can make accurate decisions about what projects might be most profitable, and manufacturers can concentrate on producing products most desired by the general population.



In economics, allocative efficiency materializes at the intersection of the supply and demand curves. At this equilibrium point, allocative efficiency exists for a firm producing the output for which the price is equal to the marginal cost of production.






Allocative efficiency measures how an economy uses resources to produce the goods and services people value the most.


   Requirements for Allocational Efficiency  

An efficient market is one in which all pertinent data regarding the market and its activities is readily available to all market participants and is always reflected in market prices.



For the market to be efficient, it must be both informationally efficient and transactionally or operationally efficient. When a market is informationally efficient, all necessary and pertinent information about the market is readily available to all parties involved. In other words, no parties have an informational advantage over any other.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Meanwhile, all transaction costs are reasonable and fair when a market is transactionally efficient. This ensures that all transactions are equally executable by all parties and not prohibitively expensive to anyone. If these conditions of fairness are met and the market is efficient, capital flows will go to where they will be the most effective and provide an optimal risk/reward scenario for investors.




What Is the Difference Between Allocational Efficiency and Distributive Efficiency?
Allocational efficiency is the optimal distribution of goods in an economy that meets the needs and wants of society. Distributive efficiency occurs when goods and services are consumed by those who need them most and focuses on the equitable distribution of resources.




What Is Allocative Efficiency Important?
Allocative efficiency is important because it ensures that resources are used to satisfy the highest number of wants.




When Does Allocative Efficiency Happen?
The state of allocative efficiency happens when a firm produces the output for which the price is equal to the marginal cost of production.


   The Bottom Line  

Allocational efficiency is the efficient allocation of resources that leads to maximum overall satisfaction in the economy. Allocative efficiency ensures that resources are used so that their marginal benefit to society is equal to their marginal cost. For a firm or producer, allocative efficiency happens when the price of the output is equal to the marginal cost of production.



Correction—July 31, 2023: A previous version of this article inaccurately compared allocational efficiency to distributive efficiency, the equitable distribution of resources. The article was edited to clarify that allocation efficiency is the optimal distribution of goods in an economy to meet the needs and wants of society where marginal social cost is equal to the marginal social benefit.
What Is an Allotment?  

The term allotment refers to the systematic distribution or assignment of resources in a business to various entities over time. Allotment generally means the distribution of equity, particularly shares granted to a participating underwriting firm during an initial public offering (IPO).



There are several types of allotment that arise when new shares are issued and allocated to either new or existing shareholders. Companies allot shares and other resources when demand is much stronger than the available supply.





Key Takeaways

An allotment is the systematic distribution of business resources across different entities and over time.It generally refers to the allocation of shares granted to a participating underwriting firm during an initial public offering.Allotments are commonly executed when demand is strong and exceeds demand.Companies can also execute allotments through stock splits, employee stock options, and rights offerings. The main reason that a company issues new shares for allotment is to raise money to finance business operations.


   Understanding Allotments  

In business, allotment describes the systematic distribution of resources across different entities and over time. In finance, the term typically relates to the allocation of shares during a public share issuance. When a private company wants to raise capital for any reason (to fund operations, make a large purchase, or acquire a rival), it may decide to issue shares by going public. Two or more financial institutions usually underwrite a public offering. Each underwriter receives a specific number of shares to sell.



The allotment process can get somewhat complicated during an IPO, even for individual investors. That's because stock markets are incredibly efficient mechanisms for matching prices and quantities, but the demand must be estimated before an IPO takes place. Investors must express interest in how many shares they would like to purchase at a specific price before the IPO.



If demand is too high, the actual allotment of shares received by an investor may be lower than the amount requested. If demand is too low, which means the IPO is undersubscribed, then the investor may be able to get the desired allotment at a lower price.



On the other hand, low demand often leads to the share price falling after the IPO takes place. This means that the allotment is oversubscribed.






It's a good idea for first-time IPO investors to start small because allotment can often be a tricky process.


   Other Forms of Allotment  

An IPO is not the only case of share allocation. Allotment can also occur when a company's directors earmark new shares to predetermined shareholders. These are investors who have either applied for new shares or earned them by owning existing shares. For example, the company allocates shares proportionately based on existing ownership in a stock split.



Companies allot shares to their employees through employee stock options (ESOs). This is a form of compensation that companies offer to attract new and keep existing employees in addition to salaries and wages. ESOs incentivize employees to perform better by increasing the number of shares without diluting ownership.



Rights offerings or rights issues allocate shares to investors who wish to purchase more rather than doing so automatically. Thus, it gives investors the right but not the obligation to purchase additional shares in the company. Some companies may elect to do a rights issue to the shareholders of a company they want to acquire. This allows the acquiring company to raise capital by giving investors in the target firm an ownership stake in the newly formed company.






Any remaining shares go to other firms that win the bid for the right to sell them.


   Reasons for Raising Shares  

The number one reason a company issues new shares for allotment is to raise money to finance business operations. An IPO is also used to raise capital. In fact, there are very few other reasons why a company would issue and allocate new shares.



New shares can be issued to repay a public company's short- or long-term debt. Paying down debt helps a company with interest payments. It also changes critical financial ratios such as the debt-to-equity ratio and debt-to-asset ratio. There are times when a company may want to issue new shares, even if there is little or no debt. When companies face situations where current growth is outpacing sustainable growth, they may issue new shares to fund the continuation of organic growth.



Company directors may issue new shares to fund the acquisition or takeover of another business. In the case of a takeover, new shares can be allotted to existing shareholders of the acquired company, efficiently exchanging their shares for equity in the acquiring company.



As a form of reward to existing shareholders and stakeholders, companies issue and allot new shares. A scrip dividend, for example, is a dividend that gives equity holders some new shares proportional to the value of what they would have received had the dividend been cash.


   Overallotment Options  

There are options for underwriters where additional shares can be sold in an IPO or follow-on offering. This is called an overallotment or greenshoe option.



In an overallotment, underwriters have the option to issue more than 15% shares than the company originally intended to do. This option doesn't have to be exercised the day of the overallotment. Instead, companies can take as long as 30 days to do so. Companies do this when shares trade higher than the offering price and when demand is really high.



Overallotments allow companies to stabilize the price of their shares on the stock market while ensuring it floats below the offering price. If the price increases above this threshold, underwriters can purchase the additional shares at the offering price. Doing so ensures they don't have to deal with losses. But if the price falls below the offering price, underwriters can decrease the supply by purchasing some of the shares. This may push the price up.




What Is an IPO Greenshoe?
A greenshoe is an overallotment option that occurs during an IPO. A greenshoe or overallotment agreement allows underwriters to sell additional shares than the company originally intended. This generally occurs when investor demand is particularly high—higher than originally expected.Greenshoe options allow underwriters to flatten out any fluctuations and stabilize prices. Underwriters are able to sell as much as 15% more shares up to 30 days after the initial public offering in case demand increases.




What Is Share Oversubscription and Undersubscription?
An oversubscription takes place when demand for shares is higher than anticipated. In this kind of scenario, prices can rise significantly. Investors end up receiving a lower amount of shares for a higher price.An undersubscription occurs when demand for shares is lower than a company expects. This situation causes the stock price to drop. This means that an investor gets more shares than they expected at a lower price.




How Does an IPO Determine the Allotment of Shares?
Underwriters must determine how much they expect to sell before an initial public offering takes place by estimating demand. Once this is determined, they are granted a certain number of shares, which they must sell to the public in the IPO. Prices are determined by gauging demand from the market—higher demand means the company can command a higher price for the IPO. Lower demand, on the other hand, leads to a lower IPO price per share.
What Is an Allowance for Bad Debt?  

An allowance for bad debt is a valuation account used to estimate the amount of a firm's receivables that may ultimately be uncollectible. It is also known as an allowance for doubtful accounts. When a borrower defaults on a loan, the allowance for bad debt account and the loan receivable balance are both reduced for the book value of the loan.





Key Takeaways

An allowance for bad debt is a valuation account used to estimate the amount of a firm's receivables that may ultimately be uncollectible.Lenders use an allowance for bad debt because the face value of a firm's total accounts receivable is not the actual balance that is ultimately collected.The primary ways of estimating the allowance for bad debt are the sales method and the accounts receivable method.According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the main requirement for an allowance for bad debt is that it accurately reflects the firm's collections history.


   How an Allowance for Bad Debt Works  

Lenders use an allowance for bad debt because the face value of a firm's total accounts receivable is not the actual balance that is ultimately collected. Ultimately, a portion of the receivables will not be paid. When a customer never pays the principal or interest amount due on a receivable, the business must eventually write it off entirely.


   Methods of Estimating an Allowance for Bad Debt  

There are two primary ways to calculate the allowance for bad debt. One method is based on sales, while the other is based on accounts receivable.


  Sales Method  

The sales method estimates the bad debt allowance as a percentage of credit sales as they occur. Suppose that a firm makes $1,000,000 in credit sales but knows from experience that 1.5% never pay. Then, the sales method estimate of the allowance for bad debt would be $15,000.


  Accounts Receivable Method  

The accounts receivable method is considerably more sophisticated and takes advantage of the aging of receivables to provide better estimates of the allowance for bad debts. The basic idea is that the longer a debt goes unpaid, the more likely it is that the debt will never pay. In this case, perhaps only 1% of initial sales would be added to the allowance for bad debt.



However, 10% of receivables that had not paid after 30 days might be added to the allowance for bad debt. After 90 days, it could rise to 50%. Finally, the debts might be written off after one year.


   Requirements for an Allowance for Bad Debt  

According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the main requirement for an allowance for bad debt is that it accurately reflects the firm's collections history. If $2,100 out of $100,000 in credit sales did not pay last year, then 2.1% is a suitable sales method estimate of the allowance for bad debt this year. This estimation process is easy when the firm has been operating for a few years. New businesses must use industry averages, rules of thumb, or numbers from another business.






An accurate estimate of the allowance for bad debt is necessary to determine the actual value of accounts receivable.


   Default Considerations  

When a lender confirms that a specific loan balance is in default, the company reduces the allowance for doubtful accounts balance. It also reduces the loan receivable balance, because the loan default is no longer simply part of a bad debt estimate.


   Adjustment Considerations  

The allowance for bad debt always reflects the current balance of loans that are expected to default, and the balance is adjusted over time to show that balance. Suppose that a lender estimates $2 million of the loan balance is at risk of default, and the allowance account already has a $1 million balance. Then, the adjusting entry to bad debt expense and the increase to the allowance account is an additional $1 million.
What is Allowance For Credit Losses?  

Allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the debt that a company is unlikely to recover. It is taken from the perspective of the selling company that extends credit to its buyers.


   How Allowance For Credit Losses Works  

Most businesses conduct transactions with each other on credit, meaning they do not have to pay cash at the time purchases from another entity is made. The credit results in an accounts receivable on the balance sheet of the selling company. Accounts receivable is recorded as a current asset and describes the amount that is due for providing services or goods.



One of the main risks of selling goods on credit is that not all payments are guaranteed to be collected. To factor in this possibility, companies create an allowance for credit losses entry.



Since current assets by definition are expected to turn to cash within one year, a company's balance sheet could overstate its accounts receivable and, therefore, its working capital and shareholders' equity if any part of its accounts receivable is not collectible.



The allowance for credit losses is an accounting technique that enables companies to take these anticipated losses into consideration in its financial statements to limit overstatement of potential income. To avoid an account overstatement, a company will estimate how much of its receivables it expects will be delinquent.





Key Takeaways

Allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the debt that a company is unlikely to recover.It is taken from the perspective of the selling company that extends credit to its buyers.This accounting technique allows companies to take anticipated losses into consideration in its financial statements to limit overstatement of potential income.


   Recording Allowance For Credit Losses  

Since a certain amount of credit losses can be anticipated, these expected losses are included in a balance sheet contra asset account. The line item can be called allowance for credit losses, allowance for uncollectible accounts, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for losses on customer financing receivables or provision for doubtful accounts.



Any increase to allowance for credit losses is also recorded in the income statement as bad debt expenses. Companies may have a bad debt reserve to offset credit losses.


   Allowance For Credit Losses Method  

A company can use statistical modeling such as default probability to determine its expected losses to delinquent and bad debt. The statistical calculations can utilize historical data from the business as well as from the industry as a whole. 



Companies regularly make changes to the allowance for credit losses entry to correlate with the current statistical modeling allowances. When accounting for allowance for credit losses, a company does not need to know specifically which customer will not pay, nor does it need to know the exact amount. An approximate amount that is uncollectible can be used.



In its 10-K filing covering the 2018 fiscal year, Boeing Co. (BA) explained how it calculates its allowance for credit losses. The manufacturer of airplanes, rotorcraft, rockets, satellites, and missiles said it reviews customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for different rating categories, and multiple third-party aircraft value publications every quarter to determine which customers might not pay up what they owe.



The company also disclosed that there are no guarantees that its estimates will be correct, adding that actual losses on receivables could easily be higher or lower than forecast. In 2018, Boeing’s allowance as a percentage of gross customer financing was 0.31%.















Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


   Example of Allowance For Credit Losses  

Say a company has $40,000 worth of accounts receivable on September 30. It estimates 10% of its accounts receivable will be uncollected and proceeds to create a credit entry of 10% x $40,000 = $4,000 in allowance for credit losses. In order to adjust this balance, a debit entry will be made in the bad debts expense for $4,000.



Even though the accounts receivable is not due in September, the company still has to report credit losses of $4,000 as bad debts expense in its income statement for the month. If accounts receivable is $40,000 and allowance for credit losses is $4,000, the net amount reported on the balance sheet will be $36,000.



This same process is used by banks to report uncollectible payments from borrowers who default on their loan payments.
What Is an Allowance for Doubtful Accounts?  

An allowance for doubtful accounts is a contra account that nets against the total receivables presented on the balance sheet to reflect only the amounts expected to be paid. The allowance for doubtful accounts estimates the percentage of accounts receivable that are expected to be uncollectible. However, the actual payment behavior of customers may differ substantially from the estimate.





Key Takeaways

The allowance for doubtful accounts is a contra account that records the percentage of receivables expected to be uncollectible, though companies may specifically trace accounts.The allowance is established in the same accounting period as the original sale, with an offset to bad debt expense.The percentage of sales method and the accounts receivable aging method are the two most common ways to estimate uncollectible accounts.Companies can also use specific identification, historical evidence, and or risk assignment to determine the estimate.The purpose of the allowance is to use the matching principle between revenue and expenses while also reporting the net amount of assets using the conservatism principle.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

Regardless of company policies and procedures for credit collections, the risk of the failure to receive payment is always present in a transaction utilizing credit. Thus, a company is required to realize this risk through the establishment of the allowance for doubtful accounts and offsetting bad debt expense. In accordance with the matching principle of accounting, this ensures that expenses related to the sale are recorded in the same accounting period as the revenue is earned. The allowance for doubtful accounts also helps companies more accurately estimate the actual value of their account receivables.



Because the allowance for doubtful accounts is established in the same accounting period as the original sale, an entity does not know for certain which exact receivables will be paid and which will default. Therefore, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) dictate that the allowance must be established in the same accounting period as the sale, but can be based on an anticipated or estimated figure. The allowance can accumulate across accounting periods and may be adjusted based on the balance in the account.






Companies technically don't need to have an allowance for doubtful account. If it does not issue credit sales, requires collateral, or only uses the highest credit customers, the company may not need to estimate uncollectability.


   How to Estimate the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

Two primary methods exist for estimating the dollar amount of accounts receivables not expected to be collected.


  Percentage of Sales Method  

The sales method applies a flat percentage to the total dollar amount of sales for the period. For example, based on previous experience, a company may expect that 3% of net sales are not collectible. If the total net sales for the period is $100,000, the company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts for $3,000 while simultaneously reporting $3,000 in bad debt expense.



If the following accounting period results in net sales of $80,000, an additional $2,400 is reported in the allowance for doubtful accounts, and $2,400 is recorded in the second period in bad debt expense. The aggregate balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts after these two periods is $5,400.


  Accounts Receivable Aging Method  

The second method of estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts is the aging method. All outstanding accounts receivable are grouped by age, and specific percentages are applied to each group. The aggregate of all group results is the estimated uncollectible amount.



For example, a company has $70,000 of accounts receivable less than 30 days outstanding and $30,000 of accounts receivable more than 30 days outstanding. Based on previous experience, 1% of accounts receivable less than 30 days old will be uncollectible, and 4% of those accounts receivable at least 30 days old will be uncollectible.



Therefore, the company will report an allowance of $1,900 (($70,000 * 1%) + ($30,000 * 4%)). If the next accounting period results in an estimated allowance of $2,500 based on outstanding accounts receivable, only $600 ($2,500 - $1,900) will be the adjusting entry amount.


  Risk Classification Method  

Some companies may classify different types of debt or different types of vendors using risk classifications. For example, a start-up customer may be considered a high risk, while an established, long-tenured customer may be a low risk. In this example, the company often assigns a percentage to each classification of debt. Then, it aggregates all receivables in each grouping, calculates each group by the percentage, and records an allowance equal to the aggregate of all products.


  Historical Percentage Method  

If a company has a history of recording or tracking bad debt, it can use the historical percentage of bad debt if it feels that historical measurement relates to its current debt. For example, a company may know that its 10-year average of bad debt is 2.4%. Therefore, it can assign this fixed percentage to its total accounts receivable balance since more often than not, it will approximately be close to this amount. The company must be aware of outliers or special circumstances that may have unfairly impacted that 2.4% calculation.


  Pareto Analysis Method  

A Pareto analysis is a risk measurement approach that states that a majority of activity is often concentrated among a small amount of accounts. In many different aspects of business, a rough estimation is that 80% of account receivable balances are made up of a small concentration (i.e. 20%) of vendors. This 80%/20% ratio is used throughout business.



Though the Pareto Analysis can not be used on its own, it can be used to weigh accounts receivable estimates differently. For example, a company may assign a heavier weight to the clients that make up a larger balance of accounts receivable due to conservatism.


  Specific Identification Method  

Assume a company has 100 clients and believes there are 11 accounts that may go uncollected. Instead of applying percentages or weights, it may simply aggregate the account balance for all 11 customers and use that figure as the allowance amount. Companies often have a specific method of identifying the companies that it wants to include and the companies it wants to exclude.






Management may disclose its method of estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts in its notes to the financial statements.


   How to Account for the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  
  Establishing the Allowance  

The first step in accounting for the allowance for doubtful accounts is to establish the allowance. This is done by using one of the estimation methods above to predict what proportion of accounts receivable will go uncollected. For this example, let's say a company predicts it will incur $500,000 of uncollected accounts receivable.



To create the allowance, the company must debit a loss. Most often, companies use an account called 'Bad Debt Expense'. Then, the company establishes the allowance by crediting an allowance account often called 'Allowance for Doubtful Accounts'. Though this allowance for doubtful accounts is presented on the balance sheet with other assets, it is a contra asset that reduces the balance of total assets.



DR Bad Debt Expense $500,000 CR Allowance for Doubtful Accounts $500,000


  Adjusting the Allowance  

Let's say six months passes. The company now has a better idea of which account receivables will be collected and which will be lost. For example, say the company now thinks that a total of $600,000 of receivables will be lost. This means its allowance of $500,000 is $100,000 short. The company must record an additional expense for this amount to also increase the allowance's credit balance.



DR Bad Debt Expense $100,000 CR Allowance for Doubtful Accounts $100,000






Note that if a company believes it may recover a portion of a balance, it can write off a portion of the account.


  Writing Off Account  

Now, let's say a specific customer that owes a company $50,000 officially files for bankruptcy. This client's account had previously been included in the estimate for the allowance. Because the company has a very low priority claim without collateral to the debt, the company decides it is unlikely it will every receive any of this $50,000. To properly reflect this change, the company must reduce its accounts receivable balance by this amount. On the other hand, once the receivable is removed from the books, there is no need to record an associated allowance for this account.



DR Allowance for Doubtful Accounts $50,000 CR Accounts Receivable $50,000



Note that the debit to the allowance for doubtful accounts reduces the balance in this account because contra assets have a natural credit balance. Also, note that when writing off the specific account, no income statement accounts are used. This is because the expense was already taken when creating or adjusting the allowance.


  Recovering an Account  

By a miracle, it turns out the company ended up being rewarded a portion of their outstanding receivable balance they'd written off as part of the bankruptcy proceedings. Of the $50,000 balance that was written off, the company is notified that they will receive $35,000.



The company can recover the account by reversing the entry above to reinstate the accounts receivable balance and the corresponding allowance for the doubtful account balance. Then, the company will record a debit to cash and credit to accounts receivable when the payment is collected. You'll notice that because of this, the allowance for doubtful accounts increases. A company can further adjust the balance by following the entry under the "Adjusting the Allowance" section above.



DR Accounts Receivable $35,000 CR Allowance for Doubtful Accounts $35,000DR Cash $35,000 CR Accounts Receivable $35,000




How Do You Record the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts?
You record the allowance for doubtful accounts by debiting the Bad Debt Expense account and crediting the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts account. You'll notice the allowance account has a natural credit balance and will increase when credited.




Is Allowance for Doubtful Accounts a Credit or Debit?
The Allowance for Doubtful Accounts account is a contra asset. Contra assets are still recorded along with other assets, though their natural balance is opposite of assets. While assets have natural debit balances and increase with a debit, contra assets have natural credit balance and increase with a credit.




Are Allowance for Doubtful Accounts a Current Asset?
Yes, allowance accounts that offset gross receivables are reported under the current asset section of the balance sheet. This type of account is a contra asset that reduces the amount of the gross accounts receivable account.




Why Do Accountants Use Allowance for Doubtful Accounts?
Accounts use this method of estimating the allowance to adhere to the matching principle. The matching principle states that revenue and expenses must be recorded in the same period in which they occur. Therefore, the allowance is created mainly so the expense can be recorded in the same period revenue is earned.


   The Bottom Line  

The allowance for doubtful accounts is a general ledger account that is used to estimate the amount of accounts receivable that will not be collected. A company uses this account to record how many accounts receivable it thinks will be lost. The balance may be estimated using several different methods, and management should periodically evaluate the balance of the allowance account to ensure the appropriate bad debt expense and net accounts receivables are being recorded.
What Is Alpha?  

Alpha (α) is a term used in investing to describe an investment strategy's ability to beat the market, or its "edge." Alpha is thus also often referred to as “excess return” or the “abnormal rate of return” in relation to a benchmark, when adjusted for risk. Alpha is often used in conjunction with beta (the Greek letter β), which measures the broad market's overall volatility or risk, known as systematic market risk.



Alpha is used in finance as a measure of performance, indicating when a strategy, trader, or portfolio manager has managed to beat the market return or other benchmark over some period. Alpha, often considered the active return on an investment, gauges the performance of an investment against a market index or benchmark that is considered to represent the market’s movement as a whole.



The excess return of an investment relative to the return of a benchmark index is the investment’s alpha. Alpha may be positive or negative and is the result of active investing. Beta, on the other hand, can be earned through passive index investing.





Key Takeaways

Alpha refers to excess returns earned on an investment above the benchmark return when adjusted for risk.Active portfolio managers seek to generate alpha in diversified portfolios, with diversification intended to eliminate unsystematic risk.Because alpha represents the performance of a portfolio relative to a benchmark, it is often considered to represent the value that a portfolio manager adds to or subtracts from a fund's return.Jensen’s alpha takes into consideration the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and includes a risk-adjusted component in its calculation.


   Understanding Alpha  

Alpha is one of five popular technical investment risk ratios. The others are beta, standard deviation, R-squared, and the Sharpe ratio. These are all statistical measurements used in modern portfolio theory (MPT). All of these indicators are intended to help investors determine the risk-return profile of an investment.



Active portfolio managers seek to generate alpha in diversified portfolios, with diversification intended to eliminate unsystematic risk. Because alpha represents the performance of a portfolio relative to a benchmark, it is often considered to represent the value that a portfolio manager adds to or subtracts from a fund's return.



In other words, alpha is the return on an investment that is not a result of a general movement in the greater market. As such, an alpha of zero would indicate that the portfolio or fund is tracking perfectly with the benchmark index and that the manager has not added or lost any additional value compared to the broad market.


   Applying Alpha to Investing  

The concept of alpha became more popular with the advent of smart beta index funds tied to indexes like the Standard & Poor's 500 index and the Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index. These funds attempt to enhance the performance of a portfolio that tracks a targeted subset of the market.



Despite the considerable desirability of alpha in a portfolio, many index benchmarks manage to beat asset managers the vast majority of the time. Due in part to a growing lack of faith in traditional financial advising brought about by this trend, more and more investors are switching to low-cost, passive online advisors (often called roboadvisors​) who exclusively or almost exclusively invest clients’ capital into index-tracking funds, the rationale being that if they cannot beat the market they may as well join it.



Moreover, because most “traditional” financial advisors charge a fee, when one manages a portfolio and nets an alpha of zero, it actually represents a slight net loss for the investor. For example, suppose that Jim, a financial advisor, charges 1% of a portfolio’s value for his services and that during a 12-month period, Jim managed to produce an alpha of 0.75 for the portfolio of one of his clients, Frank.



While Jim has indeed helped the performance of Frank’s portfolio, the fee that Jim charges is in excess of the alpha he has generated, so Frank’s portfolio has experienced a net loss. For investors, the example highlights the importance of considering fees in conjunction with performance returns and alpha.


   Efficient Market Hypothesis  

The Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) postulates that market prices incorporate all available information at all times, and so securities are always properly priced (the market is efficient.) Therefore, according to the EMH, there is no way to systematically identify and take advantage of mispricings in the market because they do not exist.



If mispricings are identified, they are quickly arbitraged away and so persistent patterns of market anomalies that can be taken advantage of tend to be few and far between.



Empirical evidence comparing historical returns of active mutual funds relative to their passive benchmarks indicates that fewer than 10% of all active funds are able to earn a positive alpha over a 10-plus year time period, and this percentage falls once taxes and fees are taken into consideration. In other words, alpha is hard to come by, especially after taxes and fees.



Because beta risk can be isolated by diversifying and hedging various risks (which comes with various transaction costs), some have proposed that alpha does not really exist, but that it simply represents the compensation for taking some un-hedged risk that hadn't been identified or was overlooked.






   Seeking Investment Alpha  

Alpha is commonly used to rank active mutual funds as well as all other types of investments. It is often represented as a single number (like +3.0 or -5.0), and this typically refers to a percentage measuring how the portfolio or fund performed compared to the referenced benchmark index (i.e., 3% better or 5% worse).



A deeper analysis of alpha may also include "Jensen’s alpha." Jensen’s alpha takes into consideration the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) market theory and includes a risk-adjusted component in its calculation. Beta (or the beta coefficient) is used in the CAPM, which calculates the expected return of an asset based on its own particular beta and the expected market returns. Alpha and beta are used together by investment managers to calculate, compare, and analyze returns.



The entire investing universe offers a broad range of securities, investment products, and advisory options for investors to consider. Different market cycles also have an influence on the alpha of investments across different asset classes. This is why risk-return metrics are important to consider in conjunction with alpha.


   Example of Alpha  

This is illustrated in the following two historical examples of a fixed-income ETF and an equity ETF:



The iShares Convertible Bond ETF (ICVT) is a fixed-income investment with low risk. It tracks a customized index called the Bloomberg U.S. Convertible Cash Pay Bond > $250MM Index. The 3-year standard deviation was 18.94%, as of Feb. 28, 2022. The year-to-date return, as of Feb. 28, 2022, was -6.67%. The Bloomberg U.S. Convertible Cash Pay Bond > $250MM Index had a return of -13.17% over the same period. Therefore, the alpha for ICVT was 6.5% in comparison to the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Index and a 3-year standard deviation of 18.97%.



However, since the aggregate bond index is not the proper benchmark for ICVT (it should be the Bloomberg Convertible index), this alpha may not be as large as initially thought; and in fact, may be misattributed since convertible bonds have far riskier profiles than plain vanilla bonds.



The WisdomTree U.S. Quality Dividend Growth Fund (DGRW) is an equity investment with higher market risk that seeks to invest in dividend growth equities. Its holdings track a customized index called the WisdomTree U.S. Quality Dividend Growth Index. It had a three-year annualized standard deviation of 10.58%, higher than ICVT.



As of Feb. 28, 2022, DGRW's annualized return was 18.1%, which was also higher than the S&P 500 at 16.4%, so it had an alpha of 1.7% in comparison to the S&P 500. But again, the S&P 500 may not be the correct benchmark for this ETF, since dividend-paying growth stocks are a very particular subset of the overall stock market, and may not even be inclusive of the 500 most valuable stocks in America.


   Alpha Considerations  

While alpha has been called the “holy grail” of investing, and as such, receives a lot of attention from investors and advisors alike, there are a couple of important considerations that one should take into account when using alpha.



A basic calculation of alpha subtracts the total return of an investment from a comparable benchmark in its asset category. This alpha calculation is primarily only used against a comparable asset category benchmark, as noted in the examples above. Therefore, it does not measure the outperformance of an equity ETF versus a fixed-income benchmark. This alpha is also best used when comparing the performance of similar asset investments. Thus, the alpha of the equity ETF, DGRW, is not relatively comparable to the alpha of the fixed income ETF, ICVT.
Some references to alpha may refer to a more advanced technique. Jensen’s alpha takes into consideration CAPM theory and risk-adjusted measures by utilizing the risk-free rate and beta.



When using a generated alpha calculation it is important to understand the calculations involved. Alpha can be calculated using various different index benchmarks within an asset class. In some cases, there might not be a suitable pre-existing index, in which case advisors may use algorithms and other models to simulate an index for comparative alpha calculation purposes.



Alpha can also refer to the abnormal rate of return on a security or portfolio in excess of what would be predicted by an equilibrium model like CAPM. In this instance, a CAPM model might aim to estimate returns for investors at various points along an efficient frontier. The CAPM analysis might estimate that a portfolio should earn 10% based on the portfolio’s risk profile. If the portfolio actually earns 15%, the portfolio's alpha would be 5.0, or +5% over what was predicted in the CAPM model.




What Are Alpha and Beta in Finance?
Alpha measures the excess return above a benchmark for an investment while beta is the measure of volatility, also known as risk. Active investors seek to achieve alpha returns by employing unique strategies.




What Is a Good Alpha in Finance?
In finance, specifically in trading and investing, what is considered a good alpha will vary depending on the goal of the investor and the risk tolerance. Generally, a good alpha is one that is greater than zero when adjusted for risk.




What Does a Negative Alpha Mean in Stocks?
A negative alpha in stocks means that a stock is underperforming the benchmark when adjusted for risk. If an investor is intending to match or outperform a specific benchmark and their investment portfolio is performing under that rate, then their alpha is negative.


   The Bottom Line  

The goal of an investor is to achieve the highest returns possible. Alpha is a measure of performance in regard to investment returns that is better when compared to a benchmark when adjusted for risk. Active investors seek to achieve returns that are higher than a benchmark and can employ a variety of strategies to do so. Many funds, such as hedge funds, have the purpose of achieving alpha and charge high management fees for doing so.
What Is Alphabet Stock?  

An alphabet stock refers to a separate class of common stock that is tied to a specific subsidiary of a corporation. More broadly, it refers to shares of common stock that are distinguished in some way from other common stock of the same company.



It is called an alphabet stock because the classification system used to identify each class of common stock uses letters to distinguish it from the parent company's stock. Alphabet stock may have different voting rights from the parent company's stock.





Key Takeaways

Alphabet stocks are shares of a publicly traded company that have different share classes, usually denoted as ".A shares" or ".B shares."Often, these shares differ in terms of voting and dividend rights.Alphabet stock may be designated to denote ownership in a particular subsidiary of a firm rather than the parent organization.


   Understanding Alphabet Stock  

Publicly traded companies may issue alphabet stock when purchasing a business unit from another company. This unit becomes a subsidiary of the acquirer, and holders of the alphabet stock are only entitled to the earnings, dividends, and rights of the subsidiary, not the entire acquirer. A similar situation would be the issuance of tracking stock, where a firm issues a subclass of shares on an existing subsidiary.



Alternatively, like with all stock issuance, a firm may issue a new class of common stock to raise capital. However, this new asset class of stock may have limited voting rights, allowing insiders and management to maintain control of the firm.



Alphabet shares may be indicative of a complex capital structure. Companies with complex capital structures and several subsidiaries and divisions may have a combination of several different varieties of common stock classes, with each share class carrying different voting rights and dividend rates.


   Special Considerations  

When alphabet stock is issued, typical nomenclature is to see a period and letter behind the existing stock symbol, indicating a separate share class. So, for example, if ABC company, whose stock symbol is ABC, issued Class A and B shares, the new ticker for these shares would be ABC.A. and ABC.B., respectively.



There is no standard format for alphabet stock in terms of which share class has more voting rights if voting rights differ among them. Typically, Class A shares would have more rights than Class B, and so forth, but it is important to read the details about share classes before investing. To learn more about the issuance of multiple share classes by a firm, check out related writing on the topic.
Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   What Is Altcoin?  

Altcoins are generally defined as all cryptocurrencies other than Bitcoin (BTC). However, some people consider altcoins to be all crytocurrencies other than Bitcoin and Ethereum (ETH) because most cryptocurrencies are forked from one of the two. Some altcoins use different consensus mechanisms to validate transactions and open new blocks, or attempt to distinguish themselves from Bitcoin and Ethereum by providing new or additional capabilities or purposes.



Most altcoins are designed and released by developers who have a different vision or use for their tokens or cryptocurrency. Learn more about altcoins and what makes them different from Bitcoin.





Key Takeaways

The term altcoin refers to all cryptocurrencies other than Bitcoin (and for some people, Ethereum).There are tens of thousands of altcoins on the market.Altcoins come in several types based on what they were designed for.The future value of altcoins is impossible to predict, but if the blockchain they were designed for continues to be used and developed, the altcoins will continue to exist.


   Understanding Altcoins  

"Altcoin" is a combination of the two words "alternative" and "coin." It is generally used to include all cryptocurrencies and tokens that are not Bitcoin. Altcoins belong to the blockchains they were explicitly designed for. Many are forks—a splitting of a blockchain that is not compatible with the original chain—from Bitcoin and Ethereum. These forks generally have more than one reason for occurring. Most of the time, a group of developers disagree with others and leave to make their own coin.



Many altcoins are used within their respective blockchains to accomplish something, such as ether, which is used in Ethereum to pay transaction fees. Some developers have created forks of Bitcoin and re-emerged as an attempt to compete with Bitcoin as a payment method, such as Bitcoin Cash.



Others fork and advertise themselves as a way to raise funds for specific projects. For example, the token Bananacoin forked from Ethereum and emerged in 2017 as a way to raise funds for a banana plantation in Laos that claimed to grow organic bananas.






Dogecoin, the popular meme coin, was apparently created as somewhat of a joke. It forked from Litecoin, which itself forked from Bitcoin in 2011. Whatever the intent behind its creation, it was still designed to be a digital payment method.



Altcoins attempt to improve upon the perceived limitations of whichever cryptocurrency and blockchain they are forked from or competing with. The first altcoin was Litecoin, forked from the Bitcoin blockchain in 2011. Litecoin uses a different proof-of-work (PoW) consensus mechanism than Bitcoin, called Scrypt (pronounced es-crypt), which is less energy-intensive and quicker than Bitcoin's SHA-256 PoW consensus mechanism.



Ether is another altcoin. However, it did not fork from Bitcoin. It was designed by Vitalik Buterin, Dr. Gavin Wood, and a few others to support Ethereum, the world’s largest blockchain-based scalable virtual machine. Ether (ETH) is used to pay network participants for the transaction validation work their machines do.


   Types of Altcoins  

Altcoins come in various flavors and categories. Here’s a brief summary of some of the types of altcoins and what they are intended to be used for.






It is possible for an altcoin to fall into more than one category, such as TerraUSD, which is a stablecoin and utility token.


  Payment Token  

As the name implies, payment tokens are designed to be used as currency—to exchange value between parties. Bitcoin is the prime example of a payment token.


  Stablecoins  

Cryptocurrency trading and use have been marked by volatility since launch. Stablecoins aim to reduce this overall volatility by pegging their value to a basket of goods, such as fiat currencies, precious metals, or other cryptocurrencies. The basket is meant to act as a reserve to redeem holders if the cryptocurrency fails or faces problems. Price fluctuations for stablecoins are not meant to exceed a narrow range.



Notable stablecoins include Tether's USDT, MakerDAO's DAI, and the USD Coin (USDC). In March 2021, payment processing giant Visa Inc. (V) announced that it would begin settling some transactions on its network in USDC over the Ethereum blockchain, with plans to roll out further stablecoin settlement capacity later in 2021.


  Security Tokens  

Security tokens are tokenized assets offered on stock markets. Tokenization is the transfer of value from an asset to a token, which is then made available to investors. Any asset can be tokenized, such as real estate or stocks. For this to work, the asset must be secured and held. Otherwise, the tokens are worthless because they wouldn't represent anything. Security tokens are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission because they are designed to act as securities.



In 2021, the Bitcoin wallet firm Exodus successfully completed a Securities and Exchange Commission-qualified Reg A+ token offering, allowing for $75 million shares of common stock to be converted to tokens on the Algorand blockchain. This was a historic event because it was the first digital asset security to offer equity in a United States-based issuer.


  Utility Tokens  

Utility tokens are used to provide services within a network. For example, they might be used to purchase services, pay network fees, or redeem rewards. Filecoin, which is used to buy storage space on a network and secure the information, is an example of a utility token.



Ether (ETH) is also a utility token. It is designed to be used in the Ethereum blockchain and virtual machine to pay for transactions. The stable coin USTerra uses utility tokens to attempt to maintain its peg to the dollar—which it lost on May 11, 2022—by minting and burning two utility tokens to create downward or upward pressure on its price.



Utility tokens can be purchased on exchanges and held, but they are meant to be used in the blockchain network to keep it functioning.


  Meme Coins  

As their name suggests, meme coins are inspired by a joke or a silly take on other well-known cryptocurrencies. They typically gain popularity in a short period of time, often hyped online by prominent influencers or investors attempting to exploit short-term gains.



Many refer to the sharp run-up in this type of altcoins during April and May 2021 as "meme coin season," with hundreds of these cryptocurrencies posting enormous percentage gains based on pure speculation.






An initial coin offering (ICO) is the cryptocurrency industry’s equivalent of an initial public offering (IPO). A company looking to raise money to create a new coin, app, or service launches an ICO to raise funds.


  Governance Tokens  

Governance tokens allow holders certain rights within a blockchain, such as voting for changes to protocols or having a say in decisions of a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO). Because they are generally native to a private blockchain and used for blockchain purposes, they are utility tokens but have come to be accepted as a separate type because of their purpose.


   Pros and Cons of Altcoins  



Pros

Improve upon another cryptocurrency's weaknesses
Higher survivability
Thousands to choose from



Cons

Lower popularity and smaller market cap
Less liquid than Bitcoin
Difficult to determine use cases
Many altcoins are scams or lost developer and community interest





  Pros of Altcoins Explained  

Altcoins are "improved versions" of the cryptocurrency they derived from because they aim to plug perceived shortcomings.Altcoins with more utility have a better chance of surviving because they have uses, such as Ethereum’s ether.Investors can choose from a wide variety of altcoins that perform different functions in the crypto economy.


  Cons of Altcoin Explained  

Altcoins have a smaller investment market compared to Bitcoin. Bitcoin has generally hovered around 40% of the global cryptocurrency market since May of 2021.The altcoin market is characterized by fewer investors and less activity, resulting in thin liquidity.It is not always easy to distinguish between different altcoins and their respective use cases, making investment decisions even more complicated and confusing.There are several "dead" altcoins that ended up sinking investor dollars.


   Future of Altcoins  

Discussions about the future for altcoins and cryptocurrencies have a precedent in the circumstances that led to a federally issued dollar in the 19th century. Various forms of local currencies circulated in the United States. Each had unique characteristics and was backed by a different instrument.



Local banks were also issuing currency, in some cases backed by fictitious reserves. That diversity of currencies and financial instruments parallels the current situation in altcoin markets. There are thousands of altcoins available in the markets today, each one claiming to serve a different purpose and market.



The current state of affairs in the altcoin markets is unlikely to consolidate into a single cryptocurrency. But it is also likely that a majority of the thousands of altcoins listed in crypto markets will not survive. The altcoin market will likely coalesce around a bunch of altcoins—those with strong utility, use cases, and a solid blockchain purpose—which will dominate the markets.



If you're looking to diversify within the cryptocurrency market, altcoins can be less expensive than Bitcoin. However, the cryptocurrency market, regardless of the type of coin, is young and volatile. Cryptocurrency is still finding its role in the global economy, so it's best to approach all cryptocurrencies cautiously.




What Is the Best Altcoin to Invest in?
The best altcoin to invest in depends on your financial situation, goals, risk tolerance, and the market's circumstances. It's best to speak to a financial advisor to help you decide which one is best for you.




What Are the Top 3 Altcoins?
By market cpacity, the top three altcoins are Ethereum, USD Coin, Tether (USDT).




Is It Better to Invest in Bitcoin or Altcoins?
Which cryptocurrency is better is a subjective argument based on an investor's financial circumstances, investing goals, risk tolerance, and beliefs. You should talk to a professional financial advisor about investing in cryptocurrency before buying any.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions.
What Is an Alternative Depreciation System (ADS)?  

An alternative depreciation system (ADS) is one of the methods the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires taxpayers to use to determine the depreciation allowed on business assets. An ADS has a depreciation schedule with a longer recovery period that generally better mirrors the asset's income streams than declining balance depreciation. If the taxpayer elects to use an alternative depreciation system, they must apply it to all property of the same class placed in service during the same year.



Understanding when to use ADS is important for business owners because accurately calculating depreciation expenses can help lower business taxes. However, the IRS rules regarding ADS can be complex. For this reason, many business owners opt to hire a tax professional to ensure they take as much depreciation expense as the IRS allows.





Key Takeaways

The alternative depreciation system (ADS) is a method that allows taxpayers to calculate the depreciation amount the IRS allows them to take on certain business assets.Depreciation is an accounting method that allows businesses to allocate the cost of an asset over its expected useful life.The alternative depreciation system enables taxpayers to extend the number of years they can depreciate an asset.The general depreciation system (GDS) allows taxpayers to accelerate the asset's depreciation rate by recording a larger depreciation amount during the early years of an asset's useful life.


   Understanding Alternative Depreciation System (ADS)  

Depreciation is an accounting method that allows businesses to spread out the cost of a physical asset over a specified number of years, which is known as the useful life of the asset. The useful life of an asset is an estimate of the number of years a company will use that asset to help generate revenue. The IRS allows businesses to depreciate many kinds of business assets, including computers and peripherals; office furniture, fixtures, and equipment; automobiles; and manufacturing equipment.



Taxpayers who elect to use the alternative depreciation system feel that the alternative schedule will allow for a better match of depreciation deductions against income than the recovery period under the general depreciation system. While the ADS method extends the number of years an asset can be depreciated, it also decreases the annual depreciation cost. The depreciation amount is set at an equal amount each year with the exception of the first and last years, which are generally lower because they do not include a full twelve months.






Taxpayers need to be cautious about selecting the alternative depreciation system. According to IRS rules, once a taxpayer has chosen to use the alternative depreciation system for an asset, they can't switch back to the general depreciation system.


   Alternative Depreciation System (ADS) vs. General Depreciation System (GDS)  

For property placed in service after 1986, the IRS requires that taxpayers use the Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS) to depreciate property. There are two methods that fall under the MACRS: the general depreciation system (GDS) and the alternative depreciation system (ADS).



The alternative depreciation system offers depreciation over a longer period of time than the general depreciation system, which is a declining balance method. The general depreciation system is often used by companies to depreciate assets that tend to become obsolete quickly and are replaced with newer versions on a fairly frequent basis. Computers and phone equipment are examples of this.



The general depreciation system allows companies to accelerate the asset's depreciation rate by recording a larger depreciation amount during the early years of an asset's useful life and smaller amounts in later years. The general depreciation system is more commonly used than the alternative depreciation system.


   Special Considerations  

The tax implications of calculating depreciation can affect a company's profitability. For this reason, business owners need to carefully consider the pros and cons of ADS versus GDS. Since the alternative depreciation system offers depreciation over a longer course of time, the yearly deductions for depreciation are smaller than with the other method. Taxpayers who choose the alternative depreciation system schedule must use this schedule for all property of the same class that was placed in service during the taxable year.



However, taxpayers may elect the alternative depreciation system schedule for real estate on a property-by-property basis. The alternative depreciation system recovery schedule is listed in IRS Publication 946.
What Is an Alternative Investment?  

An alternative investment is a financial asset that does not fall into one of the conventional investment categories. Conventional categories include stocks, bonds, and cash. Alternative investments can include private equity or venture capital, hedge funds, managed futures, art and antiques, commodities, and derivatives contracts. Real estate is also often classified as an alternative investment.





Key Takeaways

An alternative investment is a financial asset that does not fit into the conventional equity/income/cash categories.Private equity or venture capital, hedge funds, real property, commodities, and tangible assets are all examples of alternative investments.Most alternative investments have fewer regulations from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and tend to be somewhat illiquid.While traditionally aimed at institutional or accredited investors, alternative investments have become feasible to retail investors via alternative funds.Common forms of alternative investments include real estate, commodities, cryptocurrency, and collectibles.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Alternative Investments  

Most alternative investment assets are held by institutional investors or accredited, high-net-worth individuals because of their complex nature, lack of regulation, and degree of risk. Many alternative investments have high minimum investments and fee structures, especially when compared to mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). These investments also have less opportunity to publish verifiable performance data and advertise to potential investors. Although alternative assets may have high initial minimums and upfront investment fees, transaction costs are typically lower than those of conventional assets due to lower levels of turnover.



Most alternative assets are fairly illiquid, especially compared to their conventional counterparts. For example, investors are likely to find it considerably more difficult to sell an 80-year old bottle of wine compared to 1,000 shares of Apple Inc. due to a limited number of buyers. Investors may have difficulty even valuing alternative investments, since the assets, and transactions involving them, are often rare. For example, a seller of a 1933 Saint-Gaudens Double Eagle $20 gold coin may have difficulty determining its value, as there are only 11 known to exist and only one can be legally owned.






   Types of Alternative Investments  
  Real Estate  

Real estate as an investment includes investing in physical properties or property-based securities such as real estate investment trusts (REITs), real estate mutual funds, or crowdfunding platforms. In addition to capital appreciation of tangible assets, investors strive for operating income to potentially provide ongoing, stable cashflow.


  Commodities  

Commodities are raw materials such as gold, silver, oil, or agricultural products. Investors can invest in these tangible goods that have real world uses and often perpetual demand due to the underlying characteristics of what they are. For example, gold's price is arguably more stable because it used in a variety of industries.


  Farmland  

A blend of real estate and commodities, investors can turn to farmland as an alternative investment. In addition to reaping the benefits of physical, tangible land, farm owners may also receive ongoing cash proceeds should operations and sales of commodities yield positive results.


  Art and Collectibles  

Some investments may double as a hobby, with art, sports memorabilia, entertainment memorabilia, or other collectibles acting as an alternative investments. These items may have historical worth or develop worth over time as related parties (i.e. the artist, the associated movie star, or the associated athlete) become more historic.


  Cryptocurrencies  

The emerging form of digital currency, cryptocurrency is seen as an alternative investment as it outside the traditional scope of stocks and bonds. Though some may claim cryptocurrency does not offer a strong hedge against other risk-on investments, it may provide capital appreciation or passive income due to staking rewards.


  Venture Capital/Private Equity  

Blurring the lines of an alternative investment, venture capital or private equity are simply a refined branch of stock investments. Instead of trading shares of public companies in an open market, investors may seek alternative avenues to put capital into private companies or start-ups.


  Peer-to-Peer Lending  

Investing in peer-to-peer lending translates to making loans to individuals or businesses through online platforms that connect borrowers with investors. Peer-to-peer lending takes a very similar form as investing with bonds, though it is done on more private markets and often entail transacting with riskier clients (thus with higher potential rewards).






The term "alternative investment" simply refers to an investment being alternative to stocks and bonds. Both an unboxed Star Wars figurine with appreciating value and a rundown local warehouse may fall into the definition of an alternative investment.


   Regulation of Alternative Investments  

Even when they don't involve unique items like coins or art, alternative investments are prone to investment scams and fraud due to the lack of regulations.



Alternative investments are often subject to a less clear legal structure than conventional investments. They do fall under the purview of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and their practices are subject to examination by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). However, they usually don't have to register with the SEC. As such, they are not overseen or regulated by the SEC as are mutual funds and ETFs.



So, it is essential that investors conduct extensive due diligence when considering alternative investments. In some cases, only accredited investors may invest in alternative offerings. Accredited investors are those with a net worth exceeding $1 million—not counting their primary residence—or with an annual income of at least $200,000 (or $300,000 combined with a spousal income). Financial professionals who hold a FINRA Series 7, 65, or 82 license may also qualify as an accredited investor.






Some alternative investments are only available to accredited investors—e.g., those with a net worth above $1 million, or an annual income of at least $200,000.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Alternative Investments  
  Pros of Alternative Investments  

Because of their unique nature and differences from traditional markets, alternative investments may have low correlations to traditional investments such as stocks and bonds. Therefore, investors most often turn to alternatives to potentially help diversify an investment portfolio and reduce overall portfolio risk.



Since alternatives are considered riskier investments, they often have the potential for higher returns compared to traditional investments. In addition, alternative investments come in different forms and structures, giving investors the flexibility to choose the investment that best suits their preferences, risk appetite, and investment goals. For instance, investors may favor certain cryptocurrencies based on passive income opportunities.



Some alternative investments boast protection against rising prices. For example, consider a real estate lease with built-in escalating rent price increases or commodities that are tied to current prevailing prices that can fluctuate up or down. As opposed to other forms of investment, investors can choose certain investments that may move in tandem with inflation.



Alternative investments may provide access to markets that are not available through traditional investments, such as emerging markets or niche industries. Not only may investors find this more interesting (i.e. a baseball enthusiast may find more passion buying an autographed baseball), that investor may find it more difficult to sell that good because of marketplace illiquid. This may be perceived as a benefit as this may enhance price stability amongst investors as there is less opportunity or panic sell or transact quickly based on emotion.


  Cons of Alternative Investments  

Because of their limited accessibility, alternative investments often have higher fees and expenses compared to traditional investments. For example, private equity and hedge funds typically charge high management and performance fees, which can significantly reduce investors' returns. Whereas many brokers offer free trades of many stocks and bonds, many alternative investment products come at a cost.



As mentioned earlier, alternative investments are often illiquid which may be a benefit. However, consider the situation where an investor needs to quickly sell a rare piece of movie memorabilia because they need the cash. Because there may not be an active or large market, they may not be able to easily or quickly sell the item without incurring significant transaction costs or loss of value.



Because alternative investments may not be commonly publicly traded, it may be more difficult to obtain market data on historical trends or pricing. Whereas public companies must comply with many reporting rules, some alternative investments may be subject to less regulatory oversight and have higher risk of fraud, misconduct, and other abuses. Also mentioned above, alternative investments tend to carry higher returns though this is a function of being riskier investments.



Alternative investments are also more often complex. Some may have complex structures and terms that can be difficult for investors to understand, increasing the risk of making uninformed or inappropriate investment decisions. Others may have no readily available market prices, making it difficult to determine their true value.





Pros

May offer diversification benefits
Often have higher return potential than traditional investments
May offer protection against inflation
May allow investors or more specifically select investment preferences
May be illiquid and more difficult to panic sell, creating unofficial price and value protection



Cons

Often are associated with higher fees and transaction costs
Often have higher risk than traditional investments
Often lacks regulation or transparency
May be more complex and difficult for novice investors to understand or make smart decisions towards
May be illiquid and more difficult to sell, creating barriers for those trying to liquidate





   How to Invest in Alternative Investments  

Getting started with investing in alternative investments is very different based on the alternative you're working with. Some may require substantial capital and research; others may simply require a few clicks of a mouse button. Very broadly speaking, here's how to get started with several types of alternatives.



Private Equity: Private equity investments typically involve buying shares in a private company or a group of companies. Investors may participate in private equity investments through private equity firms, venture capital funds, or crowdfunding platforms.
Real Estate: Investors can invest in real estate through various means such as buying rental properties, investing in Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), or investing in real estate crowdfunding platforms.
Hedge Funds: Hedge funds are typically available only to accredited investors, and investors must have a high net worth and a substantial amount of investment capital to qualify. Investors can invest in hedge funds through hedge fund managers or brokers.
Commodities: Commodity investments involve buying physical assets such as gold, silver, oil, or agricultural products. Investors can also participate in commodity investments through commodity trading platforms, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), or mutual funds.
Art and Collectibles: Investors can invest in art and collectibles through art dealers, auction houses, or online marketplaces. Due to uniqueness of these goods, consider the reputation of the dealer when exploring avenues to trade.
Cryptocurrencies: Investors can invest in cryptocurrencies though cryptocurrency exchanges, brokers, or online platforms. Investors must often deposit domestic currency into a digital wallet that will house the private keys and currencies of that investor.






As most alternative investments incur a transaction or processing fee, be mindful of maintenance or one-time fees when pursuing alternatives.


   Tax Implications of Alternative Investments  

Because they represent an entirely different asset class compared to stocks and bonds, many alternative investment industries have different tax rules. In addition, consider how different alternatives may have different income streams (i.e. capital gain on the sale of a rental property in addition to rent revenue).



Some alternative investments such as collectibles and art may not offer the same tax deductions as traditional investments like stocks and bonds. In addition, collectibles such as art or coins are explicitly defined by the IRS as a collectible, and net capital gains are subject to a maximum 28% tax rate.



Cryptocurrency and other digital asset tax rules continue to evolve. Digital assets such as virtual currency, cryptocurrency, stablecoins, and non-fungible tokens may incur taxable transactions when selling the asset for fiat, exchanging the asset for goods or services, or exchanging the asset for another digital asset. In addition, whereas fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar would not incur a taxable event, fluctuations in value of digital assets often results in capital gains or losses.



Some alternative investments such as real estate and certain types of energy investments may offer tax-deferred or tax-free investing options. This may include 1031 exchanges and Opportunity Zone investments where investors can use proceeds from the sale of an alternative asset to invest in a similar or specific asset with those proceeds to avoid taxes.



As you embark on your alternative investment journey, consider speaking with a financial advisor in addition to a tax advisor to best understand how to protect your asset and ensure maximum efficiency in protecting returns.




What Are the Key Characteristics of Alternative Investments?
Alternative investments tend to have high fees and minimum investments, compared to retail-oriented mutual funds and ETFs. They also tend to have lower transaction costs, and it can be harder to get verifiable financial data for these assets. Alternative investments also tend to be less liquid than conventional securities, meaning that it may be difficult even to value some of the more unique vehicles because they are so thinly traded.




How Can Alternative Investments Be Useful to Investors?
Some investors seek out alternative investments because they have a low correlation with the stock and bond markets, meaning that they maintain their values in a market downturn. Also, hard assets such as gold, oil, and real property are effective hedges against inflation. For these reasons, many large institutions such as pension funds and family offices seek to diversify some of their holdings in alternative investment vehicles.




What Are the Regulatory Standards for Alternative Investments?
Regulations for alternative investments are less clear than they are for more traditional securities. Although alternative investment vehicles are regulated by the SEC, their securities do not have to be registered. As a result, most of these investment vehicles are only available to institutions or wealthy accredited investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Alternative investments are investment options outside of traditional investments such as stocks, bonds, and cash. Alternative investments may include a wide range of assets such as real estate, commodities, private equity, hedge funds, art, collectibles, or cryptocurrencies. These investments are generally less liquid than traditional investments, though they may boast diversification and higher returns compared to more popular forms of investing.
What Is the Alternative Minimum Tax?  

An alternative minimum tax (AMT) places a floor on the percentage of taxes that a filer must pay to the government, no matter how many deductions or credits the filer may claim.



The United States currently has an alternative minimum tax for taxpayers who earn above certain income thresholds.



The AMT recalculates income tax after adding certain tax preference items back into adjusted gross income. It uses a separate set of rules to calculate taxable income after allowed deductions. Preferential deductions are added back into the taxpayer's income to calculate their alternative minimum taxable income (AMTI), and then the AMT exemption is subtracted to determine the final taxable figure.





Key Takeaways


The AMT ensures that certain taxpayers pay their fair share or at least a minimum amount of tax.
It doesn't kick in until income reaches beyond a certain exemption level.
For 2022, the exemption is $75,900 for single filers and $118,100 for couples filing jointly.
For 2023, the exemption is $81,300 for single filers and $126,500 for couples filing jointly.
In 2012, Congress passed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that indexed the exemption amount to inflation to prevent middle-income taxpayers from owing AMT due to bracket creep.



   How the Alternative Minimum Tax Works  

The difference between a taxpayer's alternative minimum taxable income and his AMT exemption is taxed using the relevant rate schedule. This yields the tentative minimum tax (TMT).



If the tentative minimum tax is higher than the taxpayer's regular tax liability for the year, then they pay the regular tax and the amount by which the tentative minimum tax exceeds the regular tax. In other words, the taxpayer pays the full tentative minimum tax.



There are two alternative minimum tax rates, 26% and 28%. For 2022, the 28% rate applies to the excess alternative minimum taxable income of $206,100 or more for all taxpayers ($103,050 for married couples filing separate returns). For 2023, the 28% rate applies to the excess alternative minimum taxable income of $220,700 or more for all taxpayers ($110,350 for married couples filing separate returns). The 26% rate applies to incomes up to those levels.A taxpayer who has a high income and uses large tax breaks may owe a smaller percentage under the standard rules. If so, the taxpayer is obliged to recalculate the taxes owed under the alternative minimum tax system, which eliminates some of those tax breaks.The taxpayer will owe whichever amount is higher.






"The first individual minimum tax was enacted in 1969 and was an add-on minimum tax. That is, it was a tax that was paid in addition to the regular income tax. The tax rate for the add-on minimum tax was 10%, and its tax base consisted of eight tax preference items. The most significant of these tax preference items was the portion of capital gains income that was excluded from the regular income tax."Congressional Research Service


   AMT Exemption Amounts  

For tax year 2022, the AMT exemption for single filers is $75,900. For married joint filers, the figure is $118,100. For tax year 2023, the figures are $81,300 for single filers and $126,500 for married joint filers.



Taxpayers have to complete Form 6251 to see whether they might owe AMT. First, they subtract the exemption amount from their income. If their AMT is less than the exemption, they do not have to pay AMT.



It's important to note, though, that taxpayers with AMTI over a certain threshold do not qualify for the AMT exemption. For tax year 2022, the phase-out begins at $539,900 for single filers and $1,079,800 for couples filing jointly. For tax year 2023, the phase-out begins at $578,150 for single filers and $1,156,300.


   Purpose of AMT  

AMT is designed to prevent taxpayers from escaping their fair share of tax liability through tax breaks. However, in the past, the structure was not indexed to inflation or tax cuts. This can cause bracket creep, a condition in which middle-income taxpayers could be subject to this tax instead of just the wealthy taxpayers for whom AMT was invented. In 2012, however, Congress passed a law indexing the AMT exemption amount to inflation.


   Calculating AMT  

To determine if they owe AMT, individuals can use tax software that automatically does the calculation, or they can fill out IRS Form 6251. This form takes medical expenses, home mortgage interest, and several other miscellaneous deductions into account to help tax filers determine if their deductions are beyond an overall limit set by the IRS.



The form also requests information on certain types of income such as tax refunds, investment interest, and interest from private activity bonds, as well as numbers corresponding with capital gains or losses related to the disposition of property.



The IRS has specific formulas in place to determine which portion of this income and deductions the tax filers need to note on Form 6251. It uses another set of formulas to determine how these numbers lead to AMTI.




What Is the AMT?
It's a tax that applies to high-income individuals who otherwise (under the standard U.S. tax system) might pay little or even no taxes. Essentially, it involves an alternate tax system that is used in addition to the standard system. Each calculates tax owed. The taxpayer pays whichever is greater.




What Is the AMT Exemption for Tax Years 2022 and 2023?
For tax year 2022, the AMT exemption for individuals is $75,900 and $118,100 for married couples filing jointly. For tax year 2023, the figures are $81,300 and $126,500, respectively.




Does the AMT Account for Inflation?
Yes, but it only did so periodically before the passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. With that legislation, the AMT was to be permanently indexed to inflation. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 also increased the AMT exemption and the income level at which the exemption began to phase out. This reduced the number of people affected by the AMT. These changes expire after 2025.


   The Bottom Line  

The Alternative Minimum Tax is an additional or parallel tax system in the U.S. that is designed to ensure that high-income individuals pay their fair share of taxes. Prior to the AMT, certain taxpayers paid little in the way of taxes, due to preferential treatment of certain income and expenses, or tax breaks.
What Is an Alternative Trading System (ATS)?  

An alternative trading system (ATS) is a trading venue that is more loosely regulated than an exchange. ATS platforms are often used to match large buy and sell orders among its subscribers. The most widely used type of ATS in the United States are electronic communication networks (ECNs)—computerized systems that automatically match buy and sell orders for securities in the market.





Key Takeaways

Alternative trading systems (ATS) are venues for matching large buy and sell transactions.They are not as highly regulated as exchanges.Examples of ATS include dark pools and ECNs.SEC Regulation ATS establishes a regulatory framework for these trading venues.


   Understanding an Alternative Trading System (ATS)  

ATS account for much of the liquidity found in publicly traded issues worldwide. They are known as multilateral trading facilities in Europe, ECNs, cross networks, and call networks. Most ATS are registered as broker-dealers rather than exchanges and focus on finding counterparties for transactions.






Alternative trading system (ATS) is the terminology used in the U.S. and Canada. In Europe, they are known as multilateral trading facilities.



Unlike some national exchanges, ATS do not set rules governing the conduct of subscribers or discipline subscribers, other than by excluding them from trading. They are important in providing alternative means to access liquidity.



Institutional investors may use an ATS to find counterparties for transactions, instead of trading large blocks of shares on national stock exchanges. These actions may be designed to conceal trading from public view since ATS transactions do not appear on national exchange order books. The benefit of using an ATS to execute such orders is that it reduces the domino effect that large trades might have on the price of an equity.






Between 2013 and 2015, ATS accounted for approximately 18% of all stock trading, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). That figure represented an increase of more than four times from 2005.


   Criticisms of Alternative Trading Systems (ATS)  

These trading venues must be approved by the SEC. In recent years, regulators have stepped up enforcement actions against ATS for infractions such as trading against customer order flow or making use of confidential customer trading information. These violations may be more common in ATS than national exchanges because ATS face fewer regulations.


  Dark Pools  

A hedge fund interested in building a large position in an equity may use an ATS to prevent other investors from buying in advance. ATS used for these purposes may be referred to as dark pools.



Dark pools entail trading on ATS by institutional orders executed on private exchanges. Information about these transactions is mostly unavailable to the public, which is why they are called "dark." The bulk of dark pool liquidity is created by block trades facilitated away from the central stock market exchanges and conducted by institutional investors (primarily investment banks).



Although they are legal, dark pools operate with little transparency. As a result, dark pools, along with high-frequency trading (HFT), are oft-criticized by those in the finance industry; some traders believe that these elements convey an unfair advantage to certain players in the stock market.


   Regulation of Alternative Trading Systems (ATS)  

SEC Regulation ATS established a regulatory framework for ATS. An ATS meets the definition of an exchange under federal securities laws but is not required to register as a national securities exchange if the ATS operates under the exemption provided under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a). To operate under this exemption, an ATS must comply with the requirements in Rules 300-303 of Regulation ATS.



To comply with Regulation ATS, an ATS must register as a broker-dealer and file an initial operation report with the Commission on Form ATS before beginning operations. An ATS must file amendments to Form ATS to provide notice of any changes to its operations, and must file a cessation of operation report on Form ATS if it closes. The requirements for filing reports using Form ATS is in Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS. These requirements include mandated reporting of books and records.



In recent times, there have been moves to make ATS more transparent. For example, the SEC amended Regulation ATS to enhance "operational transparency" for such systems in 2018. Among other things, this entails filing detailed public disclosures to inform the general public about potential conflicts of interest and risks of information leakage. ATS are also required to have written safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers' trading information.



The SEC formally defines an alternative trading system as "any organization, association, person, group of persons, or systems (1) that constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange within the meaning of Rule 3b-16 under the Exchange Act; and (2) that does not (i) set rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the conduct of such subscribers' trading on such organization, association, person, group of persons, or system, or (ii) discipline subscribers other than by exclusion from trading."
What Is the Altman Z-Score?  

The Altman Z-score is the output of a credit-strength test that gauges a publicly traded manufacturing company's likelihood of bankruptcy.





Key Takeaways

The Altman Z-score is a formula for determining whether a company, notably in the manufacturing space, is headed for bankruptcy. The formula takes into account profitability, leverage, liquidity, solvency, and activity ratios. An Altman Z-score close to 0 suggests a company might be headed for bankruptcy, while a score closer to 3 suggests a company is in solid financial positioning.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding the Altman Z-Score  

The Altman Z-score, a variation of the traditional z-score in statistics, is based on five financial ratios that can be calculated from data found on a company's annual 10-K report. It uses profitability, leverage, liquidity, solvency, and activity to predict whether a company has a high probability of becoming insolvent.



NYU Stern Finance Professor Edward Altman developed the Altman Z-score formula in 1967, and it was published in 1968. Over the years, Altman has continued to reevaluate his Z-score. From 1969 until 1975, Altman looked at 86 companies in distress, then 110 from 1976 to 1995, and finally 120 from 1996 to 1999, finding that the Z-score had an accuracy of between 82% and 94%.



In 2012, he released an updated version called the Altman Z-score Plus that one can use to evaluate public and private companies, manufacturing and non-manufacturing companies, and U.S. and non-U.S. companies. One can use Altman Z-score Plus to evaluate corporate credit risk. The Altman Z-score has become a reliable measure of calculating credit risk.


   How to Calculate the Altman Z-Score  

One can calculate the Altman Z-score as follows:



Altman Z-Score = 1.2A + 1.4B + 3.3C + 0.6D + 1.0E



Where:



A = working capital / total assetsB = retained earnings / total assetsC = earnings before interest and tax / total assetsD = market value of equity / total liabilitiesE = sales / total assets



A score below 1.8 means it's likely the company is headed for bankruptcy, while companies with scores above 3 are not likely to go bankrupt. Investors can use Altman Z-scores to determine whether they should buy or sell a stock if they're concerned about the company's underlying financial strength. Investors may consider purchasing a stock if its Altman Z-Score value is closer to 3 and selling or shorting a stock if the value is closer to 1.8.



In more recent years, however, a Z-Score closer to 0 indicates a company may be in financial trouble. In a lecture given in 2019 titled "50 Years of the Altman Score," Professor Altman himself noted that recent data has shown that 0—not 1.8—is the figure at which investors should worry about a company's financial strength. The two-hour lecture is available to view for free on YouTube.


   2008 Financial Crisis  

In 2007, the credit ratings of specific asset-related securities had been rated higher than they should have been. The Altman Z-score indicated that the companies' risks were increasing significantly and may have been heading for bankruptcy.



Altman calculated that the median Altman Z-score of companies in 2007 was 1.81. These companies' credit ratings were equivalent to a B. This indicated that 50% of the firms should have had lower ratings, were highly distressed and had a high probability of becoming bankrupt.



Altman's calculations led him to believe a crisis would occur and there would be a meltdown in the credit market. He believed the crisis would stem from corporate defaults, but the meltdown, which brought about the 2008 financial crisis, began with mortgage-backed securities (MBS). However, corporations soon defaulted in 2009 at the second-highest rate in history.




How Is the Altman Z-Score Calculated?
The Altman Z-score, a variation of the traditional z-score in statistics, is based on five financial ratios that can be calculated from data found on a company's annual 10-K report. The formula for Altman Z-Score is 1.2*(working capital / total assets) + 1.4*(retained earnings / total assets) + 3.3*(earnings before interest and tax / total assets) + 0.6*(market value of equity / total liabilities) + 1.0*(sales / total assets).




How Should an Investor Interpret the Altman Z-Score?
Investors can use Altman Z-score Plus to evaluate corporate credit risk. A score below 1.8 signals the company is likely headed for bankruptcy, while companies with scores above 3 are not likely to go bankrupt. Investors may consider purchasing a stock if its Altman Z-Score value is closer to 3 and selling, or shorting, a stock if the value is closer to 1.8. In more recent years, Altman has stated a score closer to 0 rather than 1.8 indicates a company is closer to bankruptcy.




Did the Altman Z-Score Predict the 2008 Financial Crisis?
In 2007, Altman's Z-score indicated that the companies' risks were increasing significantly. The median Altman Z-score of companies in 2007 was 1.81, which is very close to the threshold that would indicate a high probability of bankruptcy. Altman's calculations led him to believe a crisis would occur that would stem from corporate defaults, but the meltdown, which brought about the 2008 financial crisis, began with mortgage-backed securities (MBS); however, corporations soon defaulted in 2009 at the second-highest rate in history.
What Is Always Be Closing—ABC?  

Always Be Closing (ABC) is a motivational phrase used to describe a sales strategy. It implies that a salesperson following the regimen should continuously look for new prospects, pitch products or services to those prospects, and ultimately complete a sale.



As a strategy, ABC requires that the salesperson be persistent, but also that they know when to cut their losses and move on to another prospect.





Key Takeaways

Always Be Closing is a mantra used in the sales world meaning a seller must always be in the mindset of closing deals, using whatever tactics are necessary.The phrase's origins are the 1992 David Mamet-scripted film "Glengarry Glen Ross," which is based on his Pulitzer Prize-winning play of the same name.In the modern age, studies show lead generation, customer follow-up, and strategy sessions comprise a greater part of a salesperson's day than "closing."


   The Basics of ABC  

The phrase Always Be Closing was popularized in the 1992 film, "Glengarry Glen Ross" starring Alec Baldwin, Al Pacino, and Jack Lemmon. The movie was written by David Mamet and was based on his Pulitzer Prize-winning play. It emphasized the darker, cutthroat side of the sales industry.



In the film, an aggressive representative from the corporate office is brought in to motivate a group of real estate agents, telling them to sell more property or be fired if they fail. He delivers a profanity-laced tirade, accusing the salespeople of being timid and unmotivated. He flaunts his wealth and success.



During his speech, he flips over a blackboard on which the words "Always Be Closing" are written, and he repeats the phrase several times. The speech backfires, however, because the salespeople resort to a host of unethical tactics to achieve their sales numbers.



Later, in the 2000 film "Boiler Room," a sales trainer mentoring a young stockbroker asks the trainee if he's seen "Glengarry Glen Ross." He then proceeds to quiz him on the meaning of Always Be Closing.


   The Effectiveness of Always Be Closing  

The term has become a catchall example of a few of the pithy quotations that sales managers often use to motivate their sales staffs and to drive home the importance of being tenacious with prospects. It serves as a reminder that every action a salesperson takes with a client prospect should be done with the intention of moving the sale toward a close.



From the initial rapport-building stage of the sales process to uncovering customer needs and product positioning, the representative should be "closing" the entire time, setting the customer up to to a point where the only logical thing to do is pull out his checkbook.






Always Be Closing, as a concept, may be a relic of an earlier time; savvy, modern consumers are less likely to be as susceptible to sales pitches in an era when so much information is available online about products and pricing.


   Real World Example  

While it might be entertaining on the big screen, ABC is seldom successful in real life situations for a variety of reasons.



A 2018 study by CSO Insights, an independent research and data provider, indicated that successful salespeople spent, at most, 35% of their time actually selling or "closing" deals.﻿﻿ The research found that lead generation, customer follow-up, strategy and planning sessions, and administrative tasks comprised the lion's share of their time.



As InvestementNews.com reports, research suggests that the ABC mentality is losing its effectiveness.﻿﻿ The average 21st-century customer comes armed with significantly more information than a consumer did in 1984, when the David Mamet story was a Pulitzer Prize-winning stage presentation, and even since 1992, when the film was released. Modern customers prefer to shop around and research before making purchases. They're much less susceptible to slick sales pitches than people once were.
What Is an Amalgamation?  

An amalgamation is the combination of two or more companies into an entirely new entity. Amalgamations are distinct from acquisitions in that none of the companies involved in the transaction survives as a legal entity. Instead, a completely new entity, with the combined assets and liabilities of the former companies, is born.



The term amalgamation has generally fallen out of popular use in the United States, being replaced with terms like merger or consolidation, with which it can be synonymous. But it is still commonly used in certain countries, such as India.





Key Takeaways

Amalgamation combines two or more companies into a new entity by merging their assets and liabilities.This differs from an acquisition or takeover in that none of the companies involved survives as an entity.Amalgamation can help increase cash resources, reduce competition, and save companies on taxes, among other potential benefits.But it can also lead to a monopoly if too much competition is eliminated, raise the new entity's debt load to a dangerous level, and cost some employees their jobs.


   How Amalgamations Work  

Amalgamations typically happen between two (or more) companies that are engaged in the same line of business or that share some similarity in their operations. Usually, the process involves a larger entity, called a "transferee" company, absorbing one or more smaller "transferor" companies before the creation of the new entity.



The terms of an amalgamation are finalized by the board of directors of each company involved. The plan is prepared and submitted to regulators for approval. In India, for example, that authority resides in the High Court and Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).



Indian tax law defines "amalgamation" somewhat broadly as "the merger of one or more companies with another company or the merger of two or more companies to form one company." It refers to the merging companies as "the amalgamating company or companies," while the company they merge with or which is newly formed as a result of the merger is "the amalgamated company."



In Canada, amalgamations must be approved by Corporations Canada and the relevant provincial and territorial governments. Canada defines amalgamation as "when two or more corporations, known as predecessor corporations, combine their businesses to form a new successor corporation."



Once approved, the new company officially becomes a legal entity and can issue shares of stock in its own name.


   The Pros and Cons of Amalgamations  

Amalgamation is a way to acquire cash resources, reach a broader customer base, eliminate competition, save on taxes, and/or improve economies of scale. Amalgamation may also increase shareholder value, reduce risk through diversification, improve managerial effectiveness, and help the new company achieve financial results and levels of growth that would have been more difficult for its predecessor companies.



On the other hand, if too much competition is eliminated, amalgamation may lead to a monopoly, which can be troublesome for consumers and the marketplace as well as bring about government intervention. It may also lead to the reduction of the new company's workforce by making some former employees redundant and costing them their jobs. In addition, it can increase debt, possibly to a dangerous level: by combining two or more companies together, the new entity assumes the liabilities of them all.





Pros

Can improve competitiveness
May reduce taxes
Increases economies of scale
Has potential to increase shareholder value
Diversifies the business



Cons

Can concentrate too much power into a monopolistic company
May lead to job losses
Increases the new company's debt load





   Example of Amalgamation  

In April 2022, the telecom giant AT&T and the television entertainment company Discovery, Inc. announced that they had finalized a deal to combine AT&T's WarnerMedia business unit with Discovery. That month, a new entity known as Warner Bros. Discovery Inc. began trading on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the symbol WBD.





Note

In accounting, amalgamations may also be referred to as consolidations.


   Amalgamation vs. Acquisition  

As mentioned, in a typical amalgamation, two or more companies agree to combine their assets and liabilities and form an entirely new company. In an acquisition, by contrast, one company purchases another (usually by buying up enough of its stock) and takes on its assets and liabilities, with no new company being created as a result.



While amalgamations tend to involve voluntary agreements between the different parties, acquisitions can occur without the assent of the acquired company, in what's known as a hostile takeover.




What Is the Objective of an Amalgamation?
In general, the objective of an amalgamation is to establish a unique entity capable of more effectively competing in the marketplace, while also benefiting from greater economies of scale. In that respect it is not all that different from an acquisition and similar strategies to aid corporate growth.




What Are the Methods of Accounting for Amalgamation?
There are two primary ways to account for an amalgamation in some countries: the pooling-of-interests method, which uses book values, and the purchase method, which uses fair market values. In the United States, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) put an end to the use of the pooling-of-interests method in 2001, requiring combining companies to use only the purchase method. In 2007, however, the FASB adopted a new standard known as the purchase acquisition accounting method.




What Is an Amalgamation Reserve in Accounting?
In accounting, the amalgamation reserve is the amount of cash left over at the new entity after the amalgamation is completed. If this amount is negative, it will be booked as goodwill.


   The Bottom Line  

Amalgamations are one of several ways that existing companies can join forces, in this case creating an entirely new company. While the term is rarely heard in the U.S. today, the practice continues both there and elsewhere around the world. Amalgamation can also refer to the combining of other types of organizations into a single one, such as nonprofit groups and entities in the public sector, including government agencies and municipalities.
What Is an Amended Return?  

An amended return is a form filed in order to make corrections to a tax return from a previous year. An amended return can correct errors and claim a more advantageous tax status, such as a refund. For example, one might choose to file an amended return in instances of misreported earnings or tax credits. Mathematical errors, however, do not require amendments because the IRS automatically corrects for such errors when processing the tax return.





Key Takeaways

An amended return is a form filed in order to make corrections to a tax return from a previous year.Form 1040-X, available on the IRS website, is the form for filing amended returns. Changes in filing status, changes in the number of claimed dependents, incorrectly claimed tax credits and deductions, and incorrectly reported income are reasons individual taxpayers file an amended return. There is a three-year statute of limitations on issuing tax refund checks.


   Who Should File an Amended Return?  

All taxpayers are required to file their taxes annually for the previous tax year. Taxpayers may realize that they made a mistake in filling out their tax forms, or their circumstances may have changed after they have submitted or mailed a return that has been accepted by the government. If this occurs, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has provided a way for these individuals to redo their taxes by providing an amended return form, Form 1040-X, on the IRS website.






An amended tax return can be filed even after the tax filing deadline for the tax year has passed.



Not all errors need amending by the form. The IRS will spot and correct a mathematical error, for example, when the initial tax return is sent in for processing. When this happens, any refund owed will be adjusted and any extra tax liability due will be billed to the taxpayer. In the event that the individual fails to include a required form or schedule in their submitted original tax return, the IRS will send a letter requesting that they mail the missing information to one of their offices.


   When to File an Amended Return  

A taxpayer must file an amended return if:



The taxpayer’s filing status for the tax year changed or was incorrectly entered. For example, if an individual filed as single but actually got married on the last day of the tax year, they will need to amend their return by filing their taxes under the appropriate status—married filing jointly (MFJ) or married filing separately (MFS).
The number of dependents claimed is inaccurate. An amended return will be necessary if a taxpayer needs to claim additional dependents or remove dependents that were previously claimed. For example, a couple may have included a baby born in January before taxes were filed in April on the prior year's tax return. That baby cannot be included on the previous year's tax return because they were not born before the end of the year.
Tax credits and deductions were claimed incorrectly or were not claimed. In the latter case, the taxpayer may have realized that they qualified for a credit or deduction and may want to file an amended return to reflect this.
The income reported for the tax year was incorrect. If a taxpayer receives additional tax documents for the tax year (say a Form 1099 or a K-1 arrives in the mail after the tax deadline), they may file an amended tax return to report the additional income.
Deductibility of certain expenses change as a result of legislation changes. Sometimes, legislation will come through after a taxpayer has filed a return that affects the deductibility of certain expenses. For example, the deduction for private mortgage insurance (PMI) originally expired on Dec. 31, 2017, due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, signed into law in December 2019, extended the deduction through Dec. 31, 2020. This made the deduction available for the 2019 and 2020 tax years and retroactive for the 2018 tax year.
Tax relief due to a natural disaster changes the taxpayer's tax liability. This is a common issue for taxpayers who have been affected by a natural disaster, especially one in the later part of the tax year. The government frequently offers tax relief for those affected by natural disasters, but legislation may take longer to finalize than the typical tax season window allows. Taxpayers should pay their full tax liability as it sits when the tax return is due. If legislation changes, an amended return can be filed to reclaim any refund owed to them due to natural disaster tax relief.
The taxpayer realizes that they owe more taxes than they actually paid. To avoid getting hit with a penalty from the government, they can file an amended return with the IRS.


   How to Amend a Tax Return  

Form 1040-X has three columns: A, B, and C. Under column A, the figure that was reported in the original or last-amended tax form is recorded. The taxpayer will need to input the adjusted or correct number in column C. The difference between columns A and C is reflected in column B. The adjustments made to a tax return will either result in a tax refund, balance due, or no tax change. The taxpayer also has to explain what changes they are making and the reasons for making each change in a section provided on the back of Form 1040-X.












   Disadvantages of an Amended Tax Return  

The drawback of filing an amended tax return is that Form 1040-X cannot be submitted electronically for every tax year, although the IRS has recently started accepting e-filed amended returns for tax year 2019. If filling out the form manually, the taxpayer has to mail the printed-out document to the IRS Service Center that processed the original tax form. The IRS manually processes amended returns, and the process can take 16 weeks—or even longer, if the amended return is not signed, is incomplete, has errors, requires additional information, needs clearance by the IRS bankruptcy department, has been routed to another specialized area, or has been affected by identity fraud.



There is, however, a three-year statute of limitations for issuing tax refund checks. Therefore, the taxpayer must file any amended returns that will result in a tax refund within three years after the date they filed the original tax return. An amended return filed to account for additional income or overstated deductions does not fall under any such statute and can be filed at any time.





Pros

You can correct errors on an amended tax return.
You can claim a refund you were owed even if you didn't file for it.
You can correct for circumstances that changed since you originally filed.



Cons

Form 1040-X cannot be filed electronically for all tax years.
Processing an amended return can take 16 weeks or longer.
There is a three-year statute of limitations for collecting tax refunds.





   Download Amended Tax Return Form Here  

All current and prior revisions of the IRS Form 1040-X are available on the IRS website by searching for 1040-X.
What Is an American Depositary Receipt (ADR)?  

The term American depositary receipt (ADR) refers to a negotiable certificate issued by a U.S. depositary bank representing a specified number of shares—usually one share—of a foreign company's stock. The ADR trades on U.S. stock markets as any domestic shares would.



ADRs offer U.S. investors a way to purchase stock in overseas companies that would not otherwise be available. Foreign firms also benefit, as ADRs enable them to attract American investors and capital without the hassle and expense of listing on U.S. stock exchanges.





Key Takeaways

An American depositary receipt is a certificate issued by a U.S. bank that represents shares in foreign stock.These certificates trade on American stock exchanges.ADRs and their dividends are priced in U.S. dollars.ADRs represent an easy, liquid way for U.S. investors to own foreign stocks.These investments may open investors up to double taxation and there are a limited number of options available.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   How American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) Work  

American depositary receipts are denominated in U.S. dollars. The underlying security is held by a U.S. financial institution, often by an overseas branch. These securities are priced and traded in dollars and cleared through U.S. settlement systems.



In order to begin offering ADRs, a U.S. bank must purchase shares on a foreign exchange. The bank holds the stock as inventory and issues an ADR for domestic trading. ADRs list on either the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or the Nasdaq, but they are also sold over-the-counter (OTC).



U.S. banks require that foreign companies provide them with detailed financial information. This requirement makes it easier for American investors to assess a company's financial health.






   Types of American Depositary Receipts  

American depositary receipts come in two basic categories:


  Sponsored ADRs  

A bank issues a sponsored ADR on behalf of the foreign company. The bank and the business enter into a legal arrangement. The foreign company usually pays the costs of issuing an ADR and retains control over it, while the bank handles the transactions with investors. Sponsored ADRs are categorized by what degree the foreign company complies with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations and American accounting procedures.


  Unsponsored ADRs  

A bank also issues an unsponsored ADR. However, this certificate has no direct involvement, participation, or even permission from the foreign company. Theoretically, there could be several unsponsored ADRs for the same foreign company, issued by different U.S. banks. These different offerings may also offer varying dividends. With sponsored programs, there is only one ADR, issued by the bank working with the foreign company.



One primary difference between the two types of ADRs is where they trade. All except the lowest level of sponsored ADRs register with the SEC and trade on major U.S. stock exchanges. Unsponsored ADRs will trade only over the counter. Unsponsored ADRs never include voting rights.





2,000+

The number of ADRs available, which represent companies from more than 70 different countries.


  ADR Levels  

ADRs are additionally categorized into three levels, depending on the extent to which the foreign company has accessed the U.S. markets.


  Level I  

This is the most basic type of ADR where foreign companies either don't qualify or don't want to have their ADR listed on an exchange. This type of ADR can be used to establish a trading presence but not to raise capital.



Level I ADRs found only on the over-the-counter market have the loosest requirements from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and they are typically highly speculative. While they are riskier for investors than other types of ADRs, they are an easy and inexpensive way for a foreign company to gauge the level of U.S. investor interest in its securities.


  Level II  

As with Level I ADRs, Level II ADRs can be used to establish a trading presence on a stock exchange, and they can’t be used to raise capital. Level II ADRs have slightly more requirements from the SEC than do Level I ADRs, but they get higher visibility and trading volume. 


  Level III  

Level III ADRs are the most prestigious. With these, an issuer floats a public offering of ADRs on a U.S. exchange. They can be used to establish a substantial trading presence in the U.S. financial markets and raise capital for the foreign issuer. Issuers are subject to full reporting with the SEC.


   American Depositary Receipt Pricing and Costs  

An ADR may represent the underlying shares on a one-for-one basis, a fraction of a share, or multiple shares of the underlying company. The depositary bank will set the ratio of U.S. ADRs per home-country share at a value that they feel will appeal to investors. If an ADR’s value is too high, it may deter some investors. Conversely, if it is too low, investors may think the underlying securities resemble riskier penny stocks.



Because of arbitrage, an ADR's price closely tracks that of the company's stock on its home exchange. Remember that arbitrage is buying and selling the same asset at the same time in different markets. This allows traders to profit from any differences in the asset's listed price. 


  ADR Fees  

Investing in an ADR may incur additional fees that are not charged for domestic stocks. The depositary bank that holds the underlying stock may charge a fee, known as a custody fee, to cover the cost of creating and issuing an ADR.



This fee will be outlined in the ADR prospectus, and typically ranges from one to three cents per share. The fee will be either deducted from dividends, or passed on to the investor's brokerage firm.


   ADRs and Taxes  

Holders of ADRs realize any dividends and capital gains in U.S. dollars. However, dividend payments are net of currency conversion expenses and foreign taxes. Usually, the bank automatically withholds the necessary amount to cover expenses and foreign taxes.



Since this is the practice, American investors would need to seek a credit from the IRS or a refund from the foreign government's taxing authority to avoid double taxation on any capital gains realized.



Those interested in learning more about ADRs and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of American Depositary Receipts  

As with any investment, there are distinct advantages and disadvantages of investing in ADRs. We've listed some of the main ones below.


  Advantages  

As noted above, ADRs are just like stocks. This means they trade on a stock exchange or over the counter, making them fairly easy to access and trade. Investors can also easily track their performance by reviewing market data.



Purchasing ADRs is easy because they're available directly through American brokers. This eliminates the need to go through foreign channels to buy stock in a company in which you may be interested. Since they're available domestically, shares are denominated in U.S. dollars. But that doesn't mean you avoid any direct risks associated with fluctuations in currency rates.





ADRs and Exchange Rate Risk

It is a common misconception that since the ADR is traded in U.S. dollars in the United States, there is no exchange rate risk. ADRs have currency risk because of the way they are structured. The global bank that creates the ADRs establishes a conversion rate, meaning that an ADR share is worth a certain number of local shares. In order to preserve this conversion rate over time, movements in the exchange rate of the home country vs. the U.S. dollar must be also reflected in the price of the ADR in U.S. dollars.



One of the most obvious benefits of investing in ADRs is that they provide investors with a way to diversify their portfolios. Investing in international securities allows you to open your investment portfolio up to greater rewards (along with the risks).


  Disadvantages  

The main problems associated with ADRs are that they may involve double taxation—locally and abroad—and how many companies are listed. Unlike domestic companies, there are a limited number of foreign entities whose ADRs are listed for the public to trade.



As noted above, some ADRs may not comply with SEC regulations. These are called unsponsored ADRs, which have no direct involvement by the company. In fact, some companies may not even provide permission to list their shares this way.



Although investors can avoid any of the direct risks that come with currency exchange, they may incur currency conversion fees when they invest in ADRs. These fees are established in order to directly link the foreign security and the one traded on the domestic market.





Pros

Easy to track and trade
Available through U.S. brokers
Denominated in dollars
Offer portfolio diversification



Cons

Could face double taxation
Limited selection of companies
Unsponsored ADRs may not be SEC-compliant
Investor's may incur currency conversion fees





   History of American Depositary Receipts  

Before American depositary receipts were introduced in the 1920s, American investors who wanted shares of a non-U.S. listed company could only do so on international exchanges—an unrealistic option for the average person back then.



While easier in the contemporary digital age, there are still drawbacks to purchasing shares on international exchanges. One particularly daunting roadblock is currency exchange issues. Another important drawback is the regulatory differences between U.S. and foreign exchanges.



Before investing in an internationally traded company, U.S. investors have to familiarize themselves with the different financial authority's regulations, or they could risk misunderstanding important information, such as the company's financials. They might also need to set up a foreign account, as not all domestic brokers can trade internationally.



ADRs were developed because of the complexities involved in buying shares in foreign countries and the difficulties associated with trading at different prices and currency values. J.P. Morgan’s (JPM) predecessor firm Guaranty Trust pioneered the ADR concept. In 1927, it created and launched the first ADR, enabling U.S. investors to buy shares of famous British retailer Selfridges and helping the luxury depart store tap into global markets. The ADR was listed on the New York Curb Exchange.



A few years later, in 1931, the bank introduced the first sponsored ADR for British music company Electrical & Musical Industries (also known as EMI), the eventual home of the Beatles. Today, J.P. Morgan and BNY Mellon, another U.S. bank, continue to be actively involved in the ADR markets.


   Real-World Example of ADRs  

Between 1988 and 2018, German car manufacturer Volkswagen AG traded OTC in the U.S. as a sponsored ADR under the ticker VLKAY. In August 2018, Volkswagen terminated its ADR program. The next day, J.P. Morgan established an unsponsored ADR for Volkswagen, now trading under the ticker VWAGY.



Investors who held the old VLKAY ADRs had the option of cashing out, exchanging the ADRs for actual shares of Volkswagen stock—trading on German exchanges—or exchanging them for the new VWAGY ADRs.




If I Own an ADR, Is It the Same As Owning Shares in the Company?
Not exactly. ADRs are U.S. dollar-denominated certificates that trade on American stock exchanges and track the price of a foreign company's domestic shares. ADRs represent the prices of those shares, but do not actually grant you ownership rights as common stock typically does. Some ADRs pay dividends and may be issued at various ratios. The most common ratio is 1:1 where each ADR represents one common share of the company.If an ADR is listed on an exchange, you can buy and sell it through your broker like any other share. Because of this, and since they are priced in U.S. dollars, ADRs allow American investors a way to diversify their portfolios geographically without having to open overseas accounts or dealing with foreign currency exchange and taxes.




Why Do Foreign Companies List ADRs?
Foreign companies often seek to have their shares traded on U.S. exchanges through ADRs in order to obtain greater visibility in the international market, access to a larger pool of investors, and coverage by more equity analysts. Companies that issue ADRs may also find it easier to raise money in international markets when their ADRs are listed in U.S. markets.




What Is a Sponsored vs. an Unsponsored ADR?
All ADRs are required to have a U.S. investment bank act as their depositary bank. The depositary bank is the institution that issues ADRs, maintains a record of the holders of ADRs, registers the trades carried out, and distributes the dividends or interest on shareholders' equity payments in dollars to ADR holders.In a sponsored ADR, the depositary bank works with the foreign company and their custodian bank in their home country to register and issue the ADRs. An unsponsored ADR is instead issued by a depositary bank without the involvement, participation, or even the consent of the foreign company it represents ownership in. Unsponsored ADRs are normally issued by broker-dealers that own common stock in a foreign company and trade over-the-counter. Sponsored ADRs are more commonly found on exchanges.




What Is the Difference Between an ADR and a GDR?
ADRs provide a listing to foreign shares in one market. U.S. Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), on the other hand, give access to two or more markets (most frequently the U.S. and Euro markets) with one fungible security. GDRs are most commonly used when the issuer raises capital in the local market as well as in the international and U.S. markets. This can be done either through private placement or public offerings.




Is an ADR the Same As an American Depositary Share (ADS)?
American depositary shares (ADSs) are the actual underlying shares that the ADR represents. In other words, the ADS is the actual share available for trading, while the ADR represents the entire bundle of ADSs issued.




Do ADRs Eliminate Exchange Rate Risk?
No, and this is a common misconception. American Depository Receipts have currency risk or exchange rate risk despite trading in the U.S. and in U.S. dollars. This is due to the way they are structured. ADRs are created by a global bank that possesses a large number of an international firm’s local shares. The bank sets a particular ADR conversion rate, meaning that an ADR share is worth a certain number of local shares. To preserve this conversion rate over time, movements in the exchange rate of the home country vs. the U.S. dollar must be also reflected in the price of the U.S.-traded ADR in U.S. dollars. If this did not occur, it would be impossible to preserve the conversion rate established by the bank.


   The Bottom Line  

American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, allow Americans to invest in foreign companies. Although these companies do not ordinarily trade on the U.S. stock market, an ADR allows an investor to buy these stocks as easily as they would invest in any domestic stock. The arrangement also benefits foreign firms, allowing them to raise capital from the U.S. market.



Correction—Jan. 24, 2023: This article has been updated from a previous version that mistakenly stated that ADRs do not carry any direct risks associated with fluctuations in currency rates. The price of an ADR is affected by the movements of both the company's local share price and the national currency rate of exchange against the U.S. dollar
What Is an American Depositary Share (ADS)?  

An American depositary share (ADS) is an equity share of a non-U.S. company that is held by a U.S. depositary bank and is available for purchase by U.S. investors.



The entire issuance of shares by a foreign company is called an American Depositary Receipt (ADR), while the individual shares are referred to as ADSs. But the terms American Depositary Shares and American Depositary Receipts are often used interchangeably.





Key Takeaways

American Depositary Shares (ADS) refer to shares in foreign companies that are held by U.S. depositary banks and can be traded in the U.S., including on major exchanges.The terms American Depositary Shares and American Depositary Receipts are often used interchangeably.ADSs allow foreign companies access to a wider investor base and the world's most sophisticated financial marketplace.The main drawback of ADSs for investors is that there is still some currency risk, even though they are denominated in U.S. dollars.


   Understanding American Depositary Shares  

An ADR is a negotiable certificate issued by a U.S. bank, under an agreement with a foreign company, and is evidence of ownership of ADSs, much the same way a stock certificate denotes ownership of equity shares.



ADSs are meant to facilitate the trading of shares. They can trade over-the-counter (OTC) or on a major exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or the Nasdaq (Nasdaq), depending on how much the foreign company is willing to comply with U.S. regulations. Listing on a major exchange generally requires the same level of reporting as that done by domestic companies, as well as adherence to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).


   The Benefits of ADSs  

Foreign companies that choose to offer shares on U.S. exchanges gain the advantage of a wider investor base, which can also lower costs of future capital. For U.S. investors, ADSs offer the opportunity to invest in foreign companies without dealing with currency conversions and other cross-border administrative hoops.


   The Downside of ADSs  

There is some currency risk involved in holding ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency will have some effect on the price of shares as well as on any income payments, which must be converted into U.S. dollars.



Tax treatment of dividends from ADSs is also different. Most countries apply a withholding amount on dividends issued for ADRs. This withholding amount can vary. For example, Chile and Switzerland withhold 35% while France can withhold as much as 75% of the tax on dividends, in the case of non-cooperative countries within the EU. The withholding tax is in addition to the dividend tax already levied by U.S. authorities. The dividend tax can be avoided by ADR investors by filling out Form 1116 for foreign tax credit.


   Real World Examples of ADSs  

A single ADS often represents more than one share of common stock. Further, ADSs can "gap" up or down outside of U.S. trading hours, when trading is happening in the company's home country and U.S. markets are closed.



For example, South Korea's Woori Bank, a subsidiary of Woori Financial Group, has ADSs that are traded in the U.S. The bank's ADS gapped up by $0.03 on July 20, 2016. A technical analysis of the price action on this ADS shows that for the past decade, its price continued higher two-thirds of the time after a gap up.
What Is the American Dream?  

The American dream is the belief that anyone, regardless of where they were born or what class they were born into, can attain their own version of success in a society in which upward mobility is possible for everyone.



The American dream is believed to be achieved through sacrifice, risk-taking, and hard work, rather than by chance.





Key Takeaways

The term "American dream" was coined in a best-selling book in 1931 titled Epic of America. James Truslow Adams described it as "that dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement."The American dream was aided by a number of factors that gave the United States a competitive advantage over other countries.Homeownership and education are often seen as paths to achieving the American dream.Though the definition of the American Dream has changed to mean different things to different generations, it's undoubtedly part of the American ethos, and likely always will be.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding the American Dream  

The term was coined by writer and historian James Truslow Adams in his best-selling 1931 book Epic of America. He described it as "that dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement."



Adams went on to explain, "It is a difficult dream for the European upper classes to interpret adequately, and too many of us ourselves have grown weary and mistrustful of it. It is not a dream of motorcars and high wages merely, but a dream of social order in which each man and woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable, and be recognized by others for what they are, regardless of the fortuitous circumstances of birth or position."



The idea of the American dream has much deeper roots. Its tenets can be found in the Declaration of Independence, which states: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.”



In a society based on these principles, an individual can live life to its fullest as they define it. America also grew mostly as a nation of immigrants who created a nation where becoming an American—and passing that citizenship to your children—didn't require being the child of an American.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the American Dream  
  Advantages  

Achieving the American dream requires political and economic freedom, as well as rules of law and private property rights. Without them, individuals cannot make the choices that will permit them to attain success, nor can they have confidence that their achievements will not be taken away from them through arbitrary force.



The American dream promises freedom and equality. It offers the freedom to make both the large and small decisions that affect one’s life, the freedom to aspire to bigger and better things and the possibility of achieving them, the freedom to accumulate wealth, the opportunity to lead a dignified life, and the freedom to live in accordance with one’s values—even if those values are not widely held or accepted.



The books of post-Civil War writer Horatio Alger, in which impoverished but hardworking teenage boys rise to success through pluck, determination, and good fortune, came to personify realizing the Dream.






The American dream also offers the promise that the circumstances of someone's birth—including whether they were born American citizens or immigrants—do not completely determine their future.


  Disadvantages  

Terming it a "dream" also carries with it the notion that these ideals aren't necessarily what has played out in the lives of many actual Americans and those who hope to become Americans. The criticism that reality falls short of the American dream is at least as old as the idea itself. The spread of settlers into Native American lands, slavery, the limitation of the vote (originally) to white male landowners, and a long list of other injustices and challenges have undermined the realization of the dream for many who live in the United States.



As income inequality has increased substantially since the 1970s, the American dream has begun to seem less attainable for those who aren't already affluent or born into affluence. According to U.S. Census family income data, real family income began to grow much more among the top income group than among other segments of American society.



These realities, however, do not diminish the luster of the American dream as an ideal and a beacon to all nations.





Pros

The American dream promises freedom and equality.
The ideals of the American dream are motivating, including the freedom to be in charge of one's own life.



Cons

The reality of the American dream often falls short of the idea itself.
As income inequality has increased, the American dream has seemed less attainable.





   How to Measure the American Dream  

Today, homeownership is frequently cited as an example of attaining the American dream. It is a symbol of financial success and independence, and it means the ability to control one’s own dwelling place instead of being subject to the whims of a landlord. Owning a business and being one’s own boss also represents the American dream fulfillment. In addition, access to education and healthcare have been cited as elements of the Dream.



Homeownership has steadily increased over time in the U.S., reflecting a key aspect of owning your own property as a sign of achieving the American Dream. For example, the homeownership rate at the end of 2020 was 65.8%, reflecting an increase of 0.7% higher than the previous year. Entrepreneurship has always been important to the U.S. economy too. In 2019, small businesses created 1.6 million net jobs alone.



Owning property, one's own business, and carving a life of one's own making is all part of the American dream, and the U.S. as a first-world country also offers the benefits of pursuing these passions, without having to worry about basics such as accessing good education and healthcare.


   Special Considerations  

In her book Spreading the American Dream: American Economic and Cultural Expansion, 1890-1945, sociologist Emily S. Rosenberg identifies five components of the American dream that have shown up in countries around the world. These include the following:



The belief that other nations should replicate America's development
Faith in a free market economy
Support for free trade agreements and foreign direct investment
Promotion of a free flow of information and culture
Acceptance of government protection of private enterprise



The American dream was aided by a number of factors that gave the United States a competitive advantage over other countries. For starters, it is relatively isolated geographically, compared to many other countries, and enjoys a temperate climate. It has a culturally diverse population that businesses use to foster innovation in a global landscape. Abundant natural resources—including oil, arable land, and long coastlines—generate food and income for the country and its residents.






“The American Dream” has always been about the prospect of success, but 100 years ago, the phrase meant the opposite of what it does now. The original “American Dream” was not a dream of individual wealth; it was a dream of equality, justice, and democracy for the nation used in the early 1900s The phrase was repurposed by each generation, until the Cold War, when it became an argument for a consumer capitalist version of democracy. Our ideas about the “American Dream” froze in the 1950s. Today, it doesn’t occur to anybody that it could mean anything else.




What Is the Original American Dream?
The phrase “American dream” was often used by Progressive-era reformers of the 1900s. Rather than exalting the pursuit of wealth, they sought to tame monopoly capitalism and protect workers and communities from robber barons. This concept was popularized by writer and historian James Truslow Adams in his best-selling 1931 book Epic of America. He described it as "that dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement."




What Are Examples of the American Dream?
Examples of the American Dream include owning your own house, starting a family, and having a stable job or owning your own business.




Is the American Dream Still Achievable?
It's widely debated if the American Dream is still achievable, and what that achievement even entails. Indeed, today, many people wonder if they can keep up with rising housing costs and interest payments on loans needed to purchase things like homes and cars. Moreover, American's need to save for their own retirement and pay large out-of-pocket costs for healthcare and higher education, which can leave families saddled with high-interest debt that is hard to crawl back from.




What Is the American Dream in Dr. Martin Luther King's Speech?
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s famous speech referenced the concept of the American dream by stating: "I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: 'We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal.'" Since the early 1960s, Dr. King had pondered and preached about how African Americans didn't get a chance to access the reality of the American dream because they were not truly equal to white men and women. Ultimately, Dr. King's "American dream" was equality.




How Has the American Dream Changed?
Over time, the American dream has shifted from an ethos of equality and solidarity to one of individualistic competition to succeed materialistically, fueled by consumption. In the 1990s and early 2000s, mortgage company Fannie Mae began promulgating the notion that buying a home was a cornerstone of the American Dream, and use the term prominently in ads selling home loans. This ideology led to the housing boom and ultimate bubble that popped ultimately, leading to the 2008-09 financial crisis.


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of the American dream is still one of the most uniquely "American" ideals—the ultimate idea that any individual should be able to pursue their dreams and build the life they want if they put in the hard work. This motivating drive influences the economy with entrepreneurship and individual ambition, infusing a romantic notion to anyone trying to be successful in the United States. Though the definition of the American Dream has changed to mean different things to different generations, it's undoubtedly part of the American ethos, and always will be.
What Is an American Express Card?  

An American Express card, also known as an “Amex” card, is an electronic payment card branded by the publicly traded financial services company American Express (AXP). The company issues and processes prepaid, charge, and credit cards. American Express cards are available to individuals, small businesses, and corporate consumers across the United States and around the world.





Key Takeaways

American Express cards are issued by American Express—a publicly traded financial services company—and are charge cards, credit cards, or prepaid cards.An American Express card, also called an “Amex” card, can offer a variety of perks, including rewards points, cash back, and travel perks. Some cards are co-branded, such as those with Delta and Hilton.American Express is one of the few companies that issues cards and has a network to process card payments. Visa and Mastercard have processing networks but don’t issue cards.


   Understanding American Express Cards  

American Express cards are issued by American Express and processed on the American Express network. American Express is one of only a few financial service companies in the industry that has the capability to both issue and process electronic payment cards.



American Express is a publicly traded company in the financial services industry. It offers both credit lending and network processing services, giving it a broad range of competitors in the industry. As with traditional lenders, it has the capability to issue credit products, which it provides in the form of charge cards and credit cards.



American Express has its own processing network that competes with Mastercard (MA) and Visa (V). Its most comparable competitor is Discover Financial Services (DFS), which is also a publicly traded financial service company offering both credit lending and a processing service network. With multiproduct capabilities, American Express generates revenue from both interest-earning products and network processing transaction services.






The term “Black Card” refers to the American Express Centurion card, which is offered by invitation only.


   American Express Fees  

American Express generates a significant portion of its revenue from transaction processing. Many merchants accept American Express cards and are willing to pay the transaction fees associated with processing because of the advantages that come with offering American Express as a payment option to customers.



In an American Express transaction, the merchant’s acquiring bank communicates with American Express as both the processor and the issuing bank in the transaction process. Merchant acquiring banks must work with the American Express processing network to transmit communications in American Express transactions. American Express is also the issuer that authenticates and approves the transaction. 



Merchants pay a small fee to American Express for its processing network services, which are part of the comprehensive fees involved with a single transaction. As both a processor and high-quality lender, American Express has built a strong reputation in the financial services industry.


   Types of American Express Cards  

As noted above, American Express credit cards and prepaid debit cards are offered to a variety of both retail and commercial customers. It is also an industry-leading provider of charge cards, which offer month-to-month credit with card balances that must be paid off each month.



American Express charge and credit cards follow standard underwriting procedures. The company seeks good- to high-credit quality borrowers—which means a credit score of at least 670—and generally is not a subprime lender.



American Express credit and charge cards come with a variety of benefits in the form of rewards points and travel perks, which depend, in part, on the annual fee charged. American Express cards may offer cash back on certain purchases, though they aren’t among the best cash back cards currently available. American Express also offers numerous branded prepaid debit cards, which can be used as gift cards or special-purpose reloadable payment cards.



Annual fees for American Express cards tend to run high: $95 for the Blue Cash Preferred Card, $99 for the Delta SkyMiles Gold American Express Card, $150 for the Green Card, $250 for the Gold Card, and $550 for the Platinum Card. That said, the Green, Gold, and Platinum cards have no predetermined spending limits. American Express does offer at least six cards with no annual fee. Customer service for all Amex cards is highly rated, with the company coming in No. 1 on J.D. Power’s 2020 U.S. Credit Card Satisfaction Study.


  Partnerships, co-branded cards  

American Express issues many of its cards directly to consumers, but it also has partnerships with other financial institutions. In the U.S., for example, Wells Fargo issued an American Express card (new applications were paused in April 2021, although this doesn’t affect current cardholders), and in Mexico, Banco Santander offers American Express cards. American Express also has partnerships with other companies to encourage consumers to apply for its credit cards. Two examples are its co-branded cards with Delta Air Lines, which allow consumers to earn frequent flier miles redeemable on Delta, and its Hilton Hotels co-branded cards.


   Pros and Cons of an American Express Card  



Pros

Green, Gold, and Platinum Amex cards don’t have any predetermined spending limits.
Amex is known for the high quality of its customer service, ranking number one in J.D. Power’s 2020 U.S. Credit Card Satisfaction Study.
Amex cards offer a host of rewards, perks, and cash back on purchases.
You must pay the balance on Amex charge cards in full each month, which prevents you from running up high interest charges.



Cons

Due to higher transaction fees than other cards, some merchants won’t accept Amex cards.
You can’t get an Amex card without at least a good (670 or higher) credit score.
Annual fees for Amex cards can be high.
You must pay the balance on Amex charge cards in full each month, so you can’t use them to “borrow” money.
What Is the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC)?  

The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) is a tax credit for qualified education expenses associated with the first four years of a student’s postsecondary education. The maximum annual credit is $2,500 per eligible student. The student, someone claiming the student as a dependent, or a spouse making postsecondary education payments can claim the AOTC on their tax return.





Key Takeaways

The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) helps offset the costs of postsecondary education for students or their parents (if the student is a dependent).The AOTC allows an annual $2,500 tax credit for qualified tuition expenses, school fees, and course materials.Room and board, medical costs, transportation, and insurance do not qualify, nor do qualified expenses paid for with 529 plan funds.To claim the full credit, your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) must be $80,000 or less ($160,000 if married filing jointly).


   Understanding the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC)  

With the AOTC, a household with a qualifying student can receive a maximum $2,500 tax credit per year for the first four years of higher education. Parents claiming a dependent child who is a full-time student ages 19 to 24 can claim an additional $500 Child Tax Credit.



The AOTC helps with educational costs such as tuition and other expenses related to a student’s coursework. Eligible students (or their parents) can claim 100% of the first $2,000 spent on school expenses and 25% of the next $2,000. This comes out to a maximum credit of $2,500: (100% × $2,000) + (25% × $2,000).






The American Opportunity Tax Credit is partially refundable, which means that it could provide a refund even if your tax liability is $0.



In general, tax credits are refundable, nonrefundable, or partially refundable. Up to $1,000 (40%) of the AOTC is refundable, making it a partially refundable tax credit. So, if the credit brings your tax liability to $0, you can receive 40% of your eligible credit (up to $1,000) as a refund.


   AOTC Eligibility Requirements  

Like other tax credits, you must meet specific eligibility requirements to claim the AOTC.


  Who Can Claim the AOTC?  

To claim the AOTC on your tax return, you must meet all three of these requirements:



You pay qualified education expenses for higher education.You pay the education expenses for an eligible student.The eligible student is either you, your spouse, or a dependent whom you claim on your tax return.



Additionally, you must receive Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1098-T to claim the credit. Here’s an example of a completed form:













Source: Internal Revenue Service


  Which Students Qualify for the AOTC?  

A student is eligible for the AOTC only if they meet certain requirements. Specifically, the student must:



Be taking courses toward a degree or some other recognized education qualification
Be enrolled at least part time for at least one academic period beginning in the tax year
Not have finished the first four years of higher education at the beginning of the tax year
Not have claimed the AOTC (or the former Hope credit) for more than four tax years
Not have a felony drug conviction at the end of the tax year






Academic periods can be quarters, trimesters, semesters, or summer school sessions. If the school doesn’t have academic terms, you can treat the payment period as an academic period.


  Which Expenses Qualify for the AOTC?  

For the purposes of the AOTC, qualified education expenses include tuition and some related costs required for attending an eligible educational institution. An eligible educational institution is any accredited public, nonprofit, or private college, university, vocational school, or other postsecondary educational institution. Related expenses include:



Student activity fees paid to the school as a condition of enrollment or attendanceBooks, supplies, and equipment needed for classes, whether or not you buy them from the school






Insurance, medical expenses (including student health fees), room and board, transportation, and living expenses do not count as qualified education expenses.



You can pay for qualified education expenses with student loans. However, you can’t claim the credit if you paid for expenses with scholarships, grants, employer-provided assistance, or funds from a 529 savings plan.


  What Are the Income Limits for the AOTC?  

To claim the full credit, your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) must be $80,000 or less ($160,000 if married filing jointly). The credit begins to phase out above these limits and disappears entirely if your MAGI is above $90,000 ($180,000 for married filing jointly).










Income Limits for the American Opportunity Tax Credit


 
Single
Married Filing Jointly




Full Credit
$80,000 or less
$160,000 or less


Partial Credit
More than $80,000 but less than $90,000
More than $160,000 but less than $180,000


No Credit
More than $90,000
More than $180,000



Source: Internal Revenue Service


   AOTC vs. Lifetime Learning Credit  

The AOTC and the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC) are popular tax breaks that people with educational expenses can claim on their annual tax returns. While similar, the LLC and the AOTC differ in several ways.



With the LLC, you can claim up to 20% of the first $10,000 of qualifying expenses ($2,000). The LLC is not limited to students pursuing a degree or studying at least part time. Instead, it covers a broader group of students—including part-time, full-time, undergraduate, graduate, and courses for skill development. Finally, the LLC is nonrefundable, meaning that once your tax bill hits zero, you won’t receive a refund on any credit balance.










American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) vs. Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC)


 Criteria
AOTC
LLC




Maximum Benefit
Up to $2,500 per student
Up to $2,000 per return


Credit Type
Partially refundable (40% of credit)
Nonrefundable


MAGI Limit (Single)
$90,000
$80,000


MAGI Limit (Married Filing Jointly)
$180,000
$160,000


# of Tax Years Available
Four per student
Unlimited


Program Requirement
Degree seeking
N/A


Course Load
At least half time for at least one academic period
At least one course


Qualified Expenses
Tuition, required fees, and course materials
Tuition and fees


Felony Drug Conviction
Not allowed
N/A



Source: Internal Revenue Service



If you’re eligible for both the AOTC and the LLC, be sure to assess your individual situation to determine which tax credit provides the greater benefit. The partial refundability of the AOTC can be an important factor. Of course, some taxpayers may only qualify for the LLC, making the decision easy.






You can claim the AOTC and the LLC (as well as the deduction for tuition and fees) on the same tax return—but not for the same student or the same qualified expenses.


   Other Tax Breaks for Education  

Federal and state governments support higher education expenses through various tax credits, tax deductions, and tax-advantaged savings plans. Each of these programs can help lower your income tax liability and make education more affordable. Beyond the AOTC and the LLC, be sure to claim any education-related tax deductions for which you may be eligible, including those for:



Tuition and fees
Student loan interest
Qualified education expenses
Business deduction for work-related education



Savings plans can also help with higher education expenses. These are tax-advantaged accounts that allow you to save—and pay for—education expenses. Two popular programs include:



Qualified tuition programs (529 plans)
Coverdell Education Savings Account (ESA)






Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, you can now use up to $10,000 of 529 plan distributions to pay for K–12 costs per beneficiary each year. Previously, you could use the funds only for college and other postsecondary education expenses.


   AOTC Example  

Rosa is a full-time undergraduate college student at a four-year institution. She also works for a law firm. Her parents have a substantial 529 savings account in place, but it doesn’t cover all of Rosa’s expenses. Rosa also has a student loan with deferred payments and interest until after graduation.



Rosa and her family pay her tuition with student loans and use funds from a 529 plan to cover room and board. Rosa receives her annual 1098-T statement and, since she is working, she plans to take the AOTC herself. She is eligible for both the AOTC and the LLC, but she chooses the AOTC because it provides a larger credit and is partially refundable.



Rosa paid her tuition with a student loan, which is allowable for the AOTC. The AOTC helps alleviate any tax that she owes and she also gets a partial refund. Rosa doesn’t owe anything on her loans until after she graduates. The money distributed from the 529 was tax-free because it was used for room and board, which is a qualified 529 expense.




How Do I Claim the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC)?
To claim the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), complete Form 8863 and submit it with your Form 1040 or 1040-SR when filing your annual income tax return. Enter the nonrefundable part of the credit on Schedule 3 of your 1040 or 1040-SR, line 3. The refundable portion of the credit goes on line 29 of the 1040 or 1040-SR.




Can I Claim the AOTC and the Lifetime Learning Credit?
Yes. You can claim the AOTC and the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC) on the same tax return. However, you can’t claim both credits for the same student or the same expenses during a single tax year.




Can I Claim the AOTC if I Get a Grant?
Yes. However, you need to subtract that amount from your qualified education expenses before claiming the tax credit. So, if you have $5,000 in costs and a $4,000 grant, you would be able to claim $1,000 of qualified education expenses for the AOTC. For the purposes of the AOTC, grants include:Tax-free parts of scholarships and fellowshipsPell Grants and other need-based education grantsEmployer-provided assistanceVeterans’ educational assistanceAny other tax-free payments that you receive for educational aid (excluding gifts and inheritances)
What Is an American Option?  

An American option, aka an American-style option, is a version of an options contract that allows holders to exercise the option rights at any time before and including the day of expiration. It contrasts with another type of option, called the European option, that only allows execution on the day of expiration.



An American-style option allows investors to capture profit as soon as the stock price moves favorably, and to take advantage of dividend announcements as well.





Key Takeaways

An American option is a style of options contract that allows holders to exercise their rights at any time before and including the expiration date.An American-style option allows investors to capture profit as soon as the stock price moves favorably.American options are often exercised before an ex-dividend date allowing investors to own shares and get the next dividend payment.


   How American Options Work  

American options outline the timeframe when the option holder can exercise their option contract rights. These rights allow the holder to buy or sell—depending on if the option is a call or put—the underlying asset, at the set strike price on or before the predetermined expiration date. Since investors have the freedom to exercise their options at any point during the life of the contract, American-style options are more valuable than the limited European options. However, the ability to exercise early carries an added premium or cost.



The last day to exercise a weekly American option is normally on the Friday of the week in which the option contract expires. Conversely, the last day to exercise a monthly American option is normally the third Friday of the month.



The majority of exchange-traded options on single stocks are American, while options on indexes tend to be European style.






The names American and European have nothing to do with the geographic location of the option but only apply to the style of rights execution.


   American Call and Put Options  

A long call option gives the holder the right to demand delivery of the underlying security or stock on any day within the contract period. This feature includes any day leading up to and the day of expiration. As with all options, the buyer does not have an obligation to receive the shares and is not required to exercise their right. The strike price remains the same specified value throughout the contract.



If an investor purchased a call option for a company in March with an expiration date at the end of December of the same year, they would have the right to exercise the call option at any time up until its expiration date.



American put options also allow the execution at any point up to and including the expiration date. This ability gives the buyer the freedom to demand the seller takes delivery of the underlying asset whenever the price falls below the specified strike price.



One reason for the early exercise has to do with the cost of carry or the opportunity cost associated with not investing the gains from the put option. When a put is exercised, investors are paid the strike price immediately. As a result, the proceeds can be invested in another security to earn interest.



However, the drawback to exercising puts is that the investor would miss out on any dividends since exercising would sell the shares. Also, the option itself might continue to increase in value if held to expiry, and exercising early might lead to missing out on any further gains.


   When to Exercise Early  

In many instances, holders of American-style options do not utilize the early exercise provision, since it's usually more cost-effective to either hold the contract until expiration or exit the position by selling the option contract outright. In other words, as a stock price rises, the value of a call option increases, as does its premium. Traders can sell an option back to the options market if the current premium is higher than the initial premium paid at the onset. The trader would earn the net difference between the two premiums minus any fees or commissions from the broker.



However, there are times when options are typically exercised early. Deep-in-the-money call options—where the asset's price is well above the option's strike price—will usually be exercised early. Puts can also be deep-in-the-money when the price is significantly below the strike price. In most cases, deep prices are those that are more than $10 in-the-money. With lower-priced equities, deep-in-the-money might be characterized as a $5 spread between the strike price and market price.



Early execution can also happen leading up to the date a stock goes ex-dividend—the cutoff date by which shareholders must own the stock to receive the next scheduled dividend payment. Option holders do not receive dividend payments. So, many investors will exercise their options before the ex-dividend date to capture the gains from a profitable position and get paid the dividend.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of American Options  

American options are helpful since investors don't have to wait to exercise the option when the asset's price rises above the strike price. However, American-style options carry a premium—an upfront cost—that investors pay and which must be factored into the overall profitability of the trade.





Pros

Allows exercise at any time
Allows exercise before an ex-dividend date
Allows profits to be put back to work



Cons

Charges a higher premium
Not available for index option contracts
May miss out on additional option appreciation





   Examples of an American Option  

Say an investor purchased an American-style call option for Apple Inc. (AAPL) in March with an expiration date at the end of December in the same year. The premium is $5 per option contract—one contract is 100 shares ($5 x 100 = $500)—and the strike price on the option is $100. Following the purchase, the stock price rose to $150 per share.



The investor exercises the call option on Apple before expiration buying 100 shares of Apple for $100 per share. In other words, the investor would be long 100 shares of Apple at the $100 strike price. The investor immediately sells the shares for the current market price of $150 and pockets the $50 per share profit. The investor earned $5,000 in total minus the premium of $500 for buying the option and any broker commission.



Let's say an investor believes shares of Meta Inc. (META), formerly Facebook, will decline in the upcoming months. The investor purchases an American-style July put option in January, which expires in September of the same year. The option premium is $3 per contract (100 x $3 = $300) and the strike price is $150.



Meta's stock price falls to $90 per share, and the investor exercises the put option and is short 100 shares of Meta at the $150 strike price. The transaction effectively has the investor buying 100 shares of Meta at the current $90 price and immediately selling those shares at the $150 strike price. However, in practice, the net difference is settled, and the investor earns a $60 profit on the option contract, which equates to $6,000 minus the premium of $300 and any broker commissions.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)?  

The American Stock Exchange (AMEX) was once the third-largest stock exchange in the United States, as measured by trading volume. The exchange, at its height, handled about 10% of all securities traded in the U.S.



Today, the AMEX is known as the NYSE American. In 2008, NYSE Euronext acquired the AMEX. In the subsequent years, it also became known as NYSE Amex Equities and NYSE MKT.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The American Stock Exchange (AMEX) was once the third-largest stock exchange in the U.S.NYSE Euronext acquired the AMEX in 2008 and today it is known as the NYSE American.The majority of trading on the NYSE American is in small cap stocks.The NYSE American uses market makers to ensure liquidity and an orderly marketplace for its listed securities.


   Understanding the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)  

The AMEX developed a reputation over time as an exchange that introduced and traded new products and asset classes. For example, it launched its options market in 1975. Options are a type of derivative security. They are contracts that grant the holder the right to buy or sell an asset at a set price on or before a certain date, without the obligation to do so. When the AMEX launched its options market, it also distributed educational materials to help educate investors as to the potential benefits and risks.﻿﻿






The AMEX used to be a larger competitor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), but over time the Nasdaq filled that role.



In 1993, the AMEX introduced the first exchange traded fund (ETF). The ETF, now a popular investment, is a type of security that tracks an index or a basket of assets. They are much like mutual funds but differ in that they trade like stocks on an exchange.﻿﻿



Over time, the AMEX gained the reputation of listing companies that could not meet the strict requirements of the NYSE. Today, a good portion of trading on the NYSE American is in small cap stocks. It operates as a fully electronic exchange.


   History of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)  

The AMEX dates back to the late 18th century when the American trading market was still developing. At that time, without a formalized exchange, stockbrokers would meet in coffeehouses and on the street to trade securities. For this reason, the AMEX became known at one time as the New York Curb Exchange.﻿﻿



The traders who originally met in the streets of New York became known as curbstone brokers. They specialized in trading stocks of emerging companies. At the time, many of these emerging businesses were in industries such as railroads, oil, and textiles, while those industries were still getting off the ground.﻿﻿



In the 19th century, this type of curbside trading was informal and quite disorganized. In 1908, the New York Curb Market Agency was established in order to bring rules and regulations to trading practices.﻿﻿



In 1929, the New York Curb Market became the New York Curb Exchange. It had a formalized trading floor and a set of rules and regulations. In the 1950s, more and more emerging businesses began trading their stocks on the New York Curb Exchange. The value of companies listed on the exchange almost doubled between 1950 and 1960, going from $12 billion to $23 billion during that time. The New York Curb Exchange changed its name to the American Stock Exchange in 1953.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Over the years, the NYSE American has become an attractive listing place for younger, entrepreneurial companies, some of whom are in the early stages of their growth and certainly not as well-known as blue chip companies. Compared to the NYSE and Nasdaq, the NYSE American trades at much smaller volumes.



Because of these factors, there could be concerns that investors would not be able to quickly buy and sell some securities in the market. To ensure market liquidity—which is the ease at which a security can be converted to cash without impacting its market price—the NYSE American offers electronic designated market makers.



Market makers are individuals or firms that are available to buy and sell a particular security as needed throughout the trading session. These designated market makers have quoting obligations for specific NYSE American-listed companies. In return for making a market for a security, market makers earn money through the bid-ask spread and from fees and commissions. So, despite the fact that the NYSE American is a smaller-volume exchange specializing in listing smaller companies, its use of market makers enables it to maintain liquidity and an orderly market.
What Is the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)?  

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities and guarantees that they have equal opportunity to participate in mainstream American life.



Passed in 1990, this federal law made it illegal to discriminate against a disabled person in terms of employment opportunities, access to transportation, public accommodations, communications, and government activities.



The ADA prohibits private employers, state and local governments, employment agencies, and labor unions from discriminating against those who have disabilities. Under the ADA, employers are also required to make reasonable accommodations for an employee with a disability to perform their job function.





Key Takeaways

The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was passed in 1990 to prevent workplace and hiring discrimination against people with disabilities.The ADA applies to all private businesses with 15 or more employees.It also covers government employers, employment agencies, and labor unions.The ADA also had the effect of increasing accessibility and mobility for disabled people by mandating automatic doorways, ramps, and elevators to accommodate wheelchairs in public places and businesses.


   Understanding the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)  

To be covered by the ADA, a person must have a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. Four major sections comprise the primary protections introduced by the ADA.



Title I of the law prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities during job application procedures, hiring, firing, the pursuit of career advancement, compensation, job training, and other aspects of employment. It holds authority over employers who have 15 or more employees.



Title II applies to state and local government entities. This part of the law further extends the protection from discrimination to qualified individuals with disabilities. It requires that these individuals have reasonable access to services, programs, and activities provided by the government.






The Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008 allowed for a broader legal definition of “disability.” It made it easier for people seeking protection under the ADA to establish that they have a disability. Before the amendment, people with disabilities including cancer, diabetes, epilepsy, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and learning disabilities could be excluded from ADA coverage. 



Title III prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities regarding access to activities at public venues. This includes businesses that are generally open to the public, such as restaurants, schools, daycare facilities, movie theaters, recreation facilities, and doctors’ offices.



The law also requires newly constructed, rebuilt, or refurbished places of public accommodation to comply with ADA standards. In addition, Title III applies to commercial facilities that include privately owned, nonresidential facilities such as factories, warehouses, or office buildings.



Title IV oversees telephone and television access for individuals with hearing and speech disabilities. Common carriers, such as telephone companies, are required to establish interstate and intrastate telecommunications relay services (TRS) 24 hours a day, seven days a week.



Different government agencies play a role in enforcing the ADA. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces Title I. The Department of Labor enforces state and local government services under Title II and public accommodations under Title III. Title IV is enforced by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).


   How the Americans With Disabilities Act Increased Accessibility   

The ADA established standards for accessible design for public accommodations that include creating automatic doorways, ramps, and elevators to accommodate wheelchairs. Water fountains must be made available at heights that individuals with disabilities can reach.



Some examples of accommodations in the workplace include supplying a hearing-impaired applicant with a sign language interpreter during a job interview, modifying a work schedule to meet the needs of a person who needs treatment, or restructuring an existing facility to make it readily accessible to people with disabilities.






Websites are required by law to be accessible to the disabled and must comply with ADA accessibility standards.



An employer is not required by the ADA to make reasonable accommodations if doing so presents an undue hardship for the business and requires significant expenses compared with the size of the company.



Title IV of the ADA requires telephone companies to provide telephone relay services, or similar devices, for the hearing- and speech-impaired.




What Does the Americans With Disabilities Act Do?
The Americans with Disabilities Act seeks to prevent discrimination against disabled people in the areas of employment, communication, transportation, state and government programs, and public accommodation. It seeks to ensure disabled people are able to participate equally in everyday life.




Is Anxiety Covered by ADA?
Yes, anxiety disorders are covered by the ADA and are considered disabilities. If you suffer from anxiety disorders, you are not allowed to be discriminated against in the workplace or any other area of your life.




What Are the Types of ADA?
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is broken down into four main sections: Title I, which covers employment; Title II, which covers public entities and transportation; Title III, which covers public accommodations and public facilities, and Title IV, which covers telecommunications.


   The Bottom Line  

The Americans with Disabilities Act was passed with the goal of ensuring Americans with disabilities are guaranteed equal opportunities to participate in mainstream life. This includes laws against the discrimination of disabled people in regard to employment, transportation, communication, public accommodations, and government activities. The act has done much to further the lives of disabled individuals.
What Is an Amortizable Bond Premium?  

The amortizable bond premium is a tax term that refers to the excess price paid for a bond over and above its face value. Depending on the type of bond, the premium can be tax-deductible and amortized over the life of the bond on a pro-rata basis.





Key Takeaways


A tax term, the amortizable bond premium refers to the excess price (the premium) paid for a bond, over and above its face value.
The premium paid for a bond represents part of the cost basis of the bond, and so can be tax-deductible, at a rate spread out (amortized) over the bond's lifespan.
Amortizing the premium can be advantageous, since the tax deduction can offset any interest income the bond generates, thus reducing an investor's taxable income overall.
The IRS requires that the constant yield method be used to calculate the amortizable bond premium every year.



   Understanding an Amortizable Bond Premium  

A bond premium occurs when the price of the bond has increased in the secondary market due to a drop in market interest rates. A bond sold at a premium to par has a market price that is above the face value amount.



The difference between the bond's current price (or carrying value) and the bond's face value is the premium of the bond. For example, a bond that has a face value of $1,000 but is sold for $1,050 has a $50 premium. Over time, as the bond premium approaches maturity, the value of the bond falls until it is at par on the maturity date. The gradual decrease in the value of the bond is called amortization.


  Cost Basis  

For a bond investor, the premium paid for a bond represents part of the cost basis of the bond, which is important for tax purposes. If the bond pays taxable interest, the bondholder can choose to amortize the premium—that is, use a part of the premium to reduce the amount of interest income included for taxes.



Those who invest in taxable premium bonds typically benefit from amortizing the premium, because the amount amortized can be used to offset the interest income from the bond. This, in turn, will reduce the amount of taxable income the bond generates, and thus any income tax due on it as well. The cost basis of the taxable bond is reduced by the amount of premium amortized each year.



In a case where the bond pays tax-exempt interest, the bond investor must amortize the bond premium. Although this amortized amount is not deductible in determining taxable income, the taxpayer must reduce their basis in the bond by the amortization for the year. The IRS requires that the constant yield method be used to amortize a bond premium every year.


   Amortizing Bond Premium With the Constant Yield Method  

The constant yield method is used to determine the bond premium amortization for each accrual period. It amortizes a bond premium by multiplying the adjusted basis by the yield at issuance and then subtracting the coupon interest. Or in formula form:



Accrual = Purchase Basis x (YTM /Accrual periods per year) - Coupon Interest



The first step in calculating the premium amortization is to determine the yield to maturity (YTM), which is the discount rate that equates the present value of all remaining payments to be made on the bond to the basis in the bond.



For example, consider an investor that purchased a bond for $10,150. The bond has a five-year maturity date and a par value of $10,000. It pays a 5% coupon rate semi-annually and has a yield to maturity of 3.5%. Let’s calculate the amortization for the first period and second period.


  The First Period  

Since this bond makes semi-annual payments, the first period is the first six months after which the first coupon payment is made; the second period is the next six months, after which the investor receives the second coupon payment, and so on. Since we’re assuming a six-month accrual period, the yield and coupon rate will be divided by 2.



Following our example, the yield used to amortize the bond premium is 3.5%/2 = 1.75%, and the coupon payment per period is 5% / 2 x $10,000 = $250. The amortization for period 1 is as follows:



Accrualperiod1 = ($10,150 x 1.75%) - $250Accrualperiod1 = $177.63 - $250Accrualperiod1 = -$72.38


  The Second Period  

The bond’s basis for the second period is the purchase price plus the accrual in the first period—that is, $10,150 - $72.38 = $10,077.62:



Accrualperiod2 = ($10,077.62 x 1.75%) - $250Accrualperiod2 = $176.36 - $250Accrualperiod2 = -$73.64



For the remaining eight periods (there are 10 accrual or payment periods for a semi-annual bond with a maturity of five years), use the same structure presented above to calculate the amortizable bond premium.



Intrinsically, a bond purchased at a premium has a negative accrual; in other words, the basis amortizes.
What Is the Amortization of Intangibles?  

Amortization of intangibles, also simply known as amortization, is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset over the projected life of the asset for tax or accounting purposes. Intangible assets, such as patents and trademarks, are amortized into an expense account called amortization. Tangible assets are instead written off through depreciation. The amortization process for corporate accounting purposes may differ from the amount of amortization used for tax purposes.





Key Takeaways

Amortization of intangible assets is a process by which the cost of such an asset is incrementally expensed or written off over time.Amortization applies to intangible (non-physical) assets, while depreciation applies to tangible (physical) assets.Intangible assets may include various types of intellectual property—patents, goodwill, trademarks, etc.Most intangibles are required to be amortized over a 15-year period for tax purposes.For accounting purposes, there are six amortization methods—straight line, declining balance, annuity, bullet, balloon, and negative amortization.


   Understanding the Amortization of Intangibles  

For tax purposes, the cost basis of an intangible asset is amortized over a specific number of years, regardless of the actual useful life of the asset (as most intangibles don't have a set useful life). The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows intangibles to be amortized over a 15-year period if it's one of the ones included in Section 197.



Intangible assets are non-physical assets that can be assigned an economic value. Intellectual property (IP) is considered to be an intangible asset and is a broad term that encompasses most intangible assets. Most IP is covered under Section 197. Examples of these Section 197 intangible assets include patents, goodwill, trademarks, and trade and franchise names.



Not all IP is amortized over the 15-year period set by the IRS, however. There are certain exclusions, such as software acquired in a transaction that is readily available for purchase by the general public, subject to a nonexclusive license, and has not been substantially modified. In those cases and select others, the intangibles are amortized under Section 167.






Per generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), businesses amortize intangibles over time to help tie the cost of an asset to the revenues it generates in the same accounting period.


   Special Considerations  

When a parent company purchases a subsidiary company and pays more than the fair market value (FMV) of the subsidiary's net assets, the amount over fair market value is posted to goodwill (an intangible asset). IP is initially posted as an asset on the firm's balance sheet when it is purchased.



IP can also be internally generated by a company's own research and development (R&D) efforts. For instance, a company may win a patent for a newly developed process, which has some value. That value, in turn, increases the value of the company and so must be recorded appropriately.



In either case, the process of amortization allows the company to write off annually a part of the value of that intangible asset according to a defined schedule.


   Amortization vs. Depreciation  

Assets are used by businesses to generate revenue and produce income. Over a period of time, the costs related to the assets are moved into an expense account as the useful life of the asset dwindles. By expensing the cost of the asset over a period of time, the company is complying with GAAP, which requires the matching of revenue with the expense incurred to generate the revenue.



Tangible assets are expensed using depreciation, and intangible assets are expensed through amortization. Depreciation generally includes a salvage value for the physical asset—the value that the asset can be sold for at the end of its useful life. Amortization doesn't take into account a salvage value.






Intangible amortization is reported to the IRS using Form 4562.


   Types of Amortization  

For accounting (financial statement) purposes, a company can choose from six amortization methods: straight line, declining balance, annuity, bullet, balloon, and negative amortization. There are only four depreciation methods that can be used for accounting purposes: straight line, declining balance, sum-of-the-years' digits, and units of production.



For tax purposes, there are two options for amortization of intangibles that the IRS allows. These are straight line and the income forecast method. The income forecast method can be used instead of the straight-line method if the asset is: motion picture films, videotapes, sound recordings, copyrights, books, or patents. For depreciation of physical assets, the IRS only allows the Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS).


   Example of Amortization  

Assume, for example, that a construction company buys a $32,000 truck to contractor work, and that the truck has a useful life of eight years. The annual depreciation expense on a straight-line basis is the $32,000 cost basis minus the expected salvage value—in this case, $4,000—divided by eight years. The annual deprecation for the truck would be $3,500 per year, or ($32,000 - $4,000) ÷ 8.



On the other hand, assume that a corporation pays $300,000 for a patent that allows the firm exclusive rights over the intellectual property for 30 years. The firm's accounting department posts a $10,000 amortization expense each year for 30 years.



Both the truck and the patent are used to generate revenue and profit over a particular number of years. Since the truck is a physical asset, depreciation is used, and since the rights are intangible, amortization is used.




How Do You Define Amortization of Intangibles?
The term amortization of intangibles describes the process of expensing costs associated with intangible assets, such as patents and trademarks, over the course of their life. This is done for tax or accounting purposes. Simply referred to as amortization, these assets are expensed into an amortization account.




How Do You Compute Amortization of Intangibles?
There are several ways to calculate the amortization of intangibles. The most common way to do so is by using the straight line method, which involves expensing the asset over a period of time. Amortization is calculated by taking the difference between the cost of the asset and its anticipated salvage or book value and dividing that figure by the total number of years it will be used.




Where Do You Find Amortization of Intangibles on a Company's Financial Statements?
Amortization of intangibles (or amortization for short) appears on a company's profit and loss statement under the expenses category. This figure is also recorded on corporate balance sheets under the non-current assets section.
What Is Amortization?  

Amortization is an accounting technique used to periodically lower the book value of a loan or an intangible asset over a set period of time. Concerning a loan, amortization focuses on spreading out loan payments over time. When applied to an asset, amortization is similar to depreciation.



Spanish Translation of Amortization





Key Takeaways

Amortization typically refers to the process of writing down the value of either a loan or an intangible asset.Amortization schedules are used by lenders, such as financial institutions, to present a loan repayment schedule based on a specific maturity date.Intangibles are amortized (expensed) over time to tie the cost of the asset to the revenues it generates, in accordance with the matching principle of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).Negative amortization may happen when the payments of a loan are lower than the accumulated interest, causing the borrower to owe more money instead of less.Most accounting and spreadsheet software have functions that can calculate amortization automatically.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Amortization  

The term “amortization” refers to two situations. First, amortization is used in the process of paying off debt through regular principal and interest payments over time. An amortization schedule is used to reduce the current balance on a loan—for example, a mortgage or a car loan—through installment payments.



Second, amortization can also refer to the practice of spreading out capital expenses related to intangible assets over a specific duration—usually over the asset’s useful life—for accounting and tax purposes.


   Amortization of Loans  

Amortization can refer to the process of paying off debt over time in regular installments of interest and principal sufficient to repay the loan in full by its maturity date.



A loan amortization schedule represents the complete table of periodic loan payments, showing the amount of principal and interest that comprise each level payment until the loan is paid off at the end of its term. A higher percentage of the flat monthly payment goes toward interest early in the loan, but with each subsequent payment, a greater percentage of it goes toward the loan’s principal.



Amortization can be calculated using most modern financial calculators, spreadsheet software packages (such as Microsoft Excel), or online amortization calculators. When entering into a loan agreement, the lender may provide a copy of the amortization schedule (or at least have identified the term of the loan in which payments must be made).



Amortization schedules can be customized based on your loan and your personal circumstances. With more sophisticated amortization calculators you can compare how making accelerated payments can accelerate your amortization. If for example, you are expecting an inheritance or you get a set yearly bonus, you can use these tools to compare how applying that windfall to your debt can affect your loan's maturity date and your interest cost over the life of the loan.






Accountants use amortization to spread out the costs of an asset over the useful lifetime of that asset.


   How to calculate loan amortization  

The formula to calculate the monthly principal due on an amortized loan is as follows:


















Principal Payment


=


TMP


−


(


OLB


×



Interest Rate


12 Months



)
















where:
















TMP


=


Total monthly payment
















OLB


=


Outstanding loan balance







\begin{aligned}&\text{Principal Payment} = \text{TMP} - \Big ( \text{OLB} \times \frac { \text{Interest Rate} }{ \text{12 Months} } \Big ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{TMP} = \text{Total monthly payment} \\&\text{OLB} = \text{Outstanding loan balance} \\\end{aligned}


​Principal Payment=TMP−(OLB×12 MonthsInterest Rate​)where:TMP=Total monthly paymentOLB=Outstanding loan balance​



Typically, the total monthly payment is specified when you take out a loan. However, if you are attempting to estimate or compare monthly payments based on a given set of factors, such as loan amount and interest rate, then you may need to calculate the monthly payment as well. If you need to calculate the total monthly payment for any reason, the formula is as follows:


















Total Payment


=


Loan Amount


×


[




i


×


(


1


+


i



)


n





(


1


+


i



)


n



−


1




]
















where:
















i


=


Monthly interest payment
















n


=


Number of payments







\begin{aligned}&\text{Total Payment} = \text{Loan Amount} \times \Bigg [ \frac { i \times (1 + i) ^n }{ (1 + i)^n - 1 } \Bigg ] \\&\textbf{where:} \\&i = \text{Monthly interest payment} \\&n = \text{Number of payments} \\\end{aligned}


​Total Payment=Loan Amount×[(1+i)n−1i×(1+i)n​]where:i=Monthly interest paymentn=Number of payments​



You’ll need to divide your annual interest rate by 12. For example, if your annual interest rate is 3%, then your monthly interest rate will be 0.25% (0.03 annual interest rate ÷ 12 months). You'll also multiply the number of years in your loan term by 12. For example, a four-year car loan would have 48 payments (four years × 12 months).


  Preparing amortization schedules  

Amortization schedules usually have six columns, each communicating information to the borrower and lender. The six columns are often laid out as shown below:













 Period
Beginning Loan Balance
Payment
Interest
Principal
Ending Loan Balance


Month or period
Amount of debt owed at the start of the month or period
Amount due each month (often a fixed amount over the term of the loan)
Amount of interest included in the payment (loan balance * 1/12 of interest)
Amount of principal included in loan payment (Payment - Interest)
Amount of debt owed at the end of the month or period (Beginning Loan Balance - Principal)






The period is the timing of each loan payment, often represented on a monthly basis. However, each row on an amortization represents a payment so if a loan is due bi-weekly or quarterly, the period will be the same. This column helps a borrower and lender understand which payments will be broken down in what ways. This may either be shown as a payment number (i.e., Payment 1, Payment 2, etc.) or a date (i.e. 1/1/2023, 2/1/2023, etc.).
The beginning loan balance is the amount of debt owed at the beginning of the period. This amount is either the original amount of the loan or the amount carried over from the prior month (last month's ending loan balance equals this month's beginning loan balance).
The payment is the monthly obligation calculated above. This will often remain constant over the term of the loan. Though you usually calculate the payment amount before calculating interest and principal, payment is equal to the sum of principal and interest.
The interest portion is the amount of the payment that gets applied as interest expense. This is often calculated as the outstanding loan balance multiplied by the interest rate attributable to this period's portion of the rate. For example, if a payment is owed monthly, this interest rate may be calculated as 1/12 of the interest rate multiplied by the beginning balance. Always be mindful of how a lender calculates, applies, and compounds your annual percentage rate as this impacts your schedule. As the outstanding loan balance decreases over time, less interest should be charged each period.
The principal portion is simply the left over amount of the payment. This is the total payment amount less the amount of interest expense for this period. As the outstanding loan balance decreases over time, less interest will be charged, so the value of this column should increase over time.
The ending loan balance is the difference between the beginning loan balance and the principal portion. This represents the new debt balance owed based on the payment made for the new period.


   Pros and Cons of Loan Amortization  

Amortized loans feature a level payment over their lives, which helps individuals budget their cash flows over the long term. Amortized loans are also beneficial in that there is always a principal component in each payment, so that the outstanding balance of the loan is reduced incrementally over time.



The main drawback of amortized loans is that relatively little principal is paid off in the early stages of the loan, with most of each payment going toward interest. This means that for a mortgage, for example, very little equity is being built up early on, which is unhelpful if you want to sell a home after just a few years.


   Amortization of Intangible Assets  

Amortization can also refer to the amortization of intangibles. In this case, amortization is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset over the projected life of the asset. It measures the consumption of the value of an intangible asset, such as goodwill, a patent, a trademark, or copyright.



Amortization is calculated in a similar manner to depreciation—which is used for tangible assets, such as equipment, buildings, vehicles, and other assets subject to physical wear and tear—and depletion, which is used for natural resources.



When businesses amortize expenses over time, they help tie the cost of using an asset to the revenues that it generates in the same accounting period, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For example, a company benefits from the use of a long-term asset over a number of years. Thus, it writes off the expense incrementally over the useful life of that asset.



The amortization of intangibles is also useful in tax planning. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows taxpayers to take a deduction for certain expenses: geological and geophysical expenses incurred in oil and natural gas exploration, atmospheric pollution control facilities, bond premiums, research and development (R&D), lease acquisition, forestation and reforestation, and intangibles, such as goodwill, patents, copyrights, and trademarks.






The IRS has schedules that dictate the total number of years in which to expense tangible and intangible assets for tax purposes.


   Why Is Amortization Important?  

Amortization is important because it helps businesses and investors understand and forecast their costs over time. In the context of loan repayment, amortization schedules provide clarity concerning the portion of a loan payment that consists of interest versus the portion that is principal. This can be useful for purposes such as deducting interest payments on income tax forms. It is also useful for planning to understand what a company's future debt balance will be after a series of payments have already been made.



Amortizing intangible assets is important because it can reduce a business's taxable income, and therefore its tax liability, while giving investors a better understanding of the company’s true earnings. Intangible assets also have a finite useful life; over time, trademarks or patents may lose their value due to obsolescence. Amortizing intangible assets is also a reflection of how a company has "used up" the benefit of these assets.


   Amortization vs. Depreciation  

Amortization and depreciation are similar concepts, in that both attempt to capture the cost of holding an asset over time. The main difference between them, however, is that amortization refers to intangible assets, whereas depreciation refers to tangible assets. Examples of intangible assets include trademarks and patents; tangible assets include equipment, buildings, vehicles, and other assets subject to physical wear and tear.



Another difference is the accounting treatment in which different assets are reduced on the balance sheet. Amortizing an intangible asset is performed by directly crediting (reducing) that specific asset account. Alternatively, depreciation is recorded by crediting an account called accumulated depreciation, a contra asset account. The historical cost of fixed assets remains on a company's books; however, the company also reports this contra asset amount as a net reduced book value amount.



Finally, the calculation of each can be different. This is especially true when comparing depreciation to the amortization of a loan. Intangible assets are often amortized over their useful life using the straight-line method, while fixed assets often use a much more broad set of calculation methods (i.e., declining balance method, double-declining balance method, sum-of-the-years' digits method, or the units of production method).


   Example of Amortization  

Let’s look at a four-year, $30,000 auto loan at 3% interest. The monthly payment is going to be $664.03. That is arrived at as follows:


















$


30


,


000


×


(




0.0025


×


(


1.0025


÷


48


)




1.0025


÷


48




−


1


)







\begin{aligned}&\$30,000 \times \Bigg ( \frac { 0.0025 \times (1.0025 \div 48) }{ 1.0025 \div 48 } - 1 \Bigg ) \\\end{aligned}


​$30,000×(1.0025÷480.0025×(1.0025÷48)​−1)​



In the first month, $75 of the $664.03 monthly payment goes to interest.


















$


30


,


000


 loan balance


×


3


%


 interest rate


÷


12


 months







\begin{aligned}&\$30,000 \ \text{loan balance} \times 3\% \ \text{interest rate} \div 12 \ \text{months} \\\end{aligned}


​$30,000 loan balance×3% interest rate÷12 months​



The remaining $589.03 goes toward principal.


















$


664.03


 total monthly payment


−


$


75


 interest payment







\begin{aligned}&\$664.03 \ \text{total monthly payment} - \$75 \ \text{interest payment} \\ \end{aligned}


​$664.03 total monthly payment−$75 interest payment​



The total payment stays the same each month, while the portion going to principal increases and the portion going to interest decreases. In the final month, only $1.66 is paid in interest, because the outstanding loan balance at that point is very minimal compared with the starting loan balance.












Loan Amortization Schedule


Period
Total Payment Due
Computed Interest Due
Principal Due
Principal Balance




 
 
 
 
$30,000


1
$664.03
$75
$589.03
$29,410.97


2
$664.03
$73.53
$590.50
$28,820.47


3
$664.03
$72.05
$591.98
$28,228.49


4
$664.03
$70.57
$593.46
$27,635.03


5
$664.03
$69.09
$594.94
$27,040.09


6
$664.03
$67.60
$596.43
$26,443.66


7
$664.03
$66.11
$597.92
$25,845.74


8
$664.03
$64.61
$599.42
$25,246.32


9
$664.03
$63.12
$600.91
$24,645.41


10
$664.03
$61.61
$602.42
$24,042.99


11
$664.03
$60.11
$603.92
$23,439.07


12
$664.03
$58.60
$605.43
$22,833.64


13
$664.03
$57.08
$606.95
$22,226.69


14
$664.03
$55.57
$608.46
$21,618.23


15
$664.03
$54.05
$609.98
$21,008.24


16
$664.03
$52.52
$611.51
$20,396.73


17
$664.03
$50.99
$613.04
$19,783.69


18
$664.03
$49.46
$614.57
$19,169.12


19
$664.03
$47.92
$616.11
$18,553.02


20
$664.03
$46.38
$617.65
$17,935.37


21
$664.03
$44.84
$619.19
$17,316.18


22
$664.03
$43.29
$620.74
$16,695.44


23
$664.03
$41.74
$622.29
$16,073.15


24
$664.03
$40.18
$623.85
$15,449.30


25
$664.03
$38.62
$625.41
$14,823.89


26
$664.03
$37.06
$626.97
$14,196.92


27
$664.03
$35.49
$628.54
$13,568.38


28
$664.03
$33.92
$630.11
$12,938.28


29
$664.03
$32.35
$631.68
$12,306.59


30
$664.03
$30.77
$633.26
$11,673.33


31
$664.03
$29.18
$634.85
$11,038.48


32
$664.03
$27.60
$636.43
$10,402.05


33
$664.03
$26.01
$638.02
$9,764.02


34
$664.03
$24.41
$639.62
$9,124.40


35
$664.03
$22.81
$641.22
$8,483.18


36
$664.03
$21.21
$642.82
$7,840.36


37
$664.03
$19.60
$644.43
$7,195.93


38
$664.03
$17.99
$646.04
$6,549.89


39
$664.03
$16.37
$647.66
$5,902.24


40
$664.03
$14.76
$649.27
$5,252.96


41
$664.03
$13.13
$650.90
$4,602.06


42
$664.03
$11.51
$652.52
$3,949.54


43
$664.03
$9.87
$654.16
$3,295.38


44
$664.03
$8.24
$655.79
$2,639.59


45
$664.03
$6.60
$657.43
$1,982.16


46
$664.03
$4.96
$659.07
$1,323.09


47
$664.03
$3.31
$660.72
$662.36


48
$664.03
$1.66
$662.36
$0.00







What Is Negative Amortization?
Negative amortization is when the size of a debt increases with each payment, even if you pay on time. This happens because the interest on the loan is greater than the amount of each payment. Negative amortization is particularly dangerous with credit cards, whose interest rates can be as high as 20% or even 30%. In order to avoid owing more money later, it is important to avoid over-borrowing and to pay off your debts as quickly as possible.




What Does Amortization Mean for Intangible Assets?
Amortization measures the declining value of intangible assets, such as goodwill, trademarks, patents, and copyrights. This is calculated in a similar manner to the depreciation of tangible assets, like factories and equipment. When businesses amortize intangible assets over time, they are able to tie the cost of those assets with the revenue generated over each accounting period and deduct the costs over the lifetime of the asset.




Why Is Amortization Important in Accounting?
Amortization helps businesses and investors understand and forecast their costs over time. In the context of loan repayment, amortization schedules provide clarity into what portion of a loan payment consists of interest versus principal. This can be useful for purposes such as deducting interest payments for tax purposes. Amortizing intangible assets is also important because it can reduce a company’s taxable income and therefore its tax liability, while giving investors a better understanding of the company’s true earnings.




How Do You Amortize a Loan?
A loan is amortized by determining the monthly payment due over the term of the loan. Next, you prepare an amortization schedule that clearly identifies what portion of each month's payment is attributable towards interest and what portion of each month's payment is attributable towards principal.Since part of the payment will theoretically be applied to the outstanding principal balance, the amount of interest paid each month will decrease. Your payment should theoretically remain the same each month, which means more of your monthly payment will apply to principal, thereby paying down over time the amount you borrowed.




What Is a 30-Year Amortization Schedule?
A 30-year amortization schedule breaks down how much of a level payment on a loan goes toward either principal or interest over the course of 360 months (for example, on a 30-year mortgage). Early in the life of the loan, most of the monthly payment goes toward interest, while toward the end it is mostly made up of principal. It can be presented either as a table or in graphical form as a chart.


   The Bottom Line  

Amortization is a technique of gradually reducing an account balance over time. When amortizing loans, a gradually escalating portion of the monthly debt payment is applied to the principal. When amortizing intangible assets, amortization is similar to depreciation, where a fixed percentage of an asset's book value is reduced each month. This technique is used to reflect how the benefit of an asset is received by a company over time.
What Is Amortization?  

Amortization is an accounting technique used to periodically lower the book value of a loan or an intangible asset over a set period of time. Concerning a loan, amortization focuses on spreading out loan payments over time. When applied to an asset, amortization is similar to depreciation.



Spanish Translation of Amortization





Key Takeaways

Amortization typically refers to the process of writing down the value of either a loan or an intangible asset.Amortization schedules are used by lenders, such as financial institutions, to present a loan repayment schedule based on a specific maturity date.Intangibles are amortized (expensed) over time to tie the cost of the asset to the revenues it generates, in accordance with the matching principle of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).Negative amortization may happen when the payments of a loan are lower than the accumulated interest, causing the borrower to owe more money instead of less.Most accounting and spreadsheet software have functions that can calculate amortization automatically.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Amortization  

The term “amortization” refers to two situations. First, amortization is used in the process of paying off debt through regular principal and interest payments over time. An amortization schedule is used to reduce the current balance on a loan—for example, a mortgage or a car loan—through installment payments.



Second, amortization can also refer to the practice of spreading out capital expenses related to intangible assets over a specific duration—usually over the asset’s useful life—for accounting and tax purposes.


   Amortization of Loans  

Amortization can refer to the process of paying off debt over time in regular installments of interest and principal sufficient to repay the loan in full by its maturity date.



A loan amortization schedule represents the complete table of periodic loan payments, showing the amount of principal and interest that comprise each level payment until the loan is paid off at the end of its term. A higher percentage of the flat monthly payment goes toward interest early in the loan, but with each subsequent payment, a greater percentage of it goes toward the loan’s principal.



Amortization can be calculated using most modern financial calculators, spreadsheet software packages (such as Microsoft Excel), or online amortization calculators. When entering into a loan agreement, the lender may provide a copy of the amortization schedule (or at least have identified the term of the loan in which payments must be made).



Amortization schedules can be customized based on your loan and your personal circumstances. With more sophisticated amortization calculators you can compare how making accelerated payments can accelerate your amortization. If for example, you are expecting an inheritance or you get a set yearly bonus, you can use these tools to compare how applying that windfall to your debt can affect your loan's maturity date and your interest cost over the life of the loan.






Accountants use amortization to spread out the costs of an asset over the useful lifetime of that asset.


   How to calculate loan amortization  

The formula to calculate the monthly principal due on an amortized loan is as follows:


















Principal Payment


=


TMP


−


(


OLB


×



Interest Rate


12 Months



)
















where:
















TMP


=


Total monthly payment
















OLB


=


Outstanding loan balance







\begin{aligned}&\text{Principal Payment} = \text{TMP} - \Big ( \text{OLB} \times \frac { \text{Interest Rate} }{ \text{12 Months} } \Big ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{TMP} = \text{Total monthly payment} \\&\text{OLB} = \text{Outstanding loan balance} \\\end{aligned}


​Principal Payment=TMP−(OLB×12 MonthsInterest Rate​)where:TMP=Total monthly paymentOLB=Outstanding loan balance​



Typically, the total monthly payment is specified when you take out a loan. However, if you are attempting to estimate or compare monthly payments based on a given set of factors, such as loan amount and interest rate, then you may need to calculate the monthly payment as well. If you need to calculate the total monthly payment for any reason, the formula is as follows:


















Total Payment


=


Loan Amount


×


[




i


×


(


1


+


i



)


n





(


1


+


i



)


n



−


1




]
















where:
















i


=


Monthly interest payment
















n


=


Number of payments







\begin{aligned}&\text{Total Payment} = \text{Loan Amount} \times \Bigg [ \frac { i \times (1 + i) ^n }{ (1 + i)^n - 1 } \Bigg ] \\&\textbf{where:} \\&i = \text{Monthly interest payment} \\&n = \text{Number of payments} \\\end{aligned}


​Total Payment=Loan Amount×[(1+i)n−1i×(1+i)n​]where:i=Monthly interest paymentn=Number of payments​



You’ll need to divide your annual interest rate by 12. For example, if your annual interest rate is 3%, then your monthly interest rate will be 0.25% (0.03 annual interest rate ÷ 12 months). You'll also multiply the number of years in your loan term by 12. For example, a four-year car loan would have 48 payments (four years × 12 months).


  Preparing amortization schedules  

Amortization schedules usually have six columns, each communicating information to the borrower and lender. The six columns are often laid out as shown below:













 Period
Beginning Loan Balance
Payment
Interest
Principal
Ending Loan Balance


Month or period
Amount of debt owed at the start of the month or period
Amount due each month (often a fixed amount over the term of the loan)
Amount of interest included in the payment (loan balance * 1/12 of interest)
Amount of principal included in loan payment (Payment - Interest)
Amount of debt owed at the end of the month or period (Beginning Loan Balance - Principal)






The period is the timing of each loan payment, often represented on a monthly basis. However, each row on an amortization represents a payment so if a loan is due bi-weekly or quarterly, the period will be the same. This column helps a borrower and lender understand which payments will be broken down in what ways. This may either be shown as a payment number (i.e., Payment 1, Payment 2, etc.) or a date (i.e. 1/1/2023, 2/1/2023, etc.).
The beginning loan balance is the amount of debt owed at the beginning of the period. This amount is either the original amount of the loan or the amount carried over from the prior month (last month's ending loan balance equals this month's beginning loan balance).
The payment is the monthly obligation calculated above. This will often remain constant over the term of the loan. Though you usually calculate the payment amount before calculating interest and principal, payment is equal to the sum of principal and interest.
The interest portion is the amount of the payment that gets applied as interest expense. This is often calculated as the outstanding loan balance multiplied by the interest rate attributable to this period's portion of the rate. For example, if a payment is owed monthly, this interest rate may be calculated as 1/12 of the interest rate multiplied by the beginning balance. Always be mindful of how a lender calculates, applies, and compounds your annual percentage rate as this impacts your schedule. As the outstanding loan balance decreases over time, less interest should be charged each period.
The principal portion is simply the left over amount of the payment. This is the total payment amount less the amount of interest expense for this period. As the outstanding loan balance decreases over time, less interest will be charged, so the value of this column should increase over time.
The ending loan balance is the difference between the beginning loan balance and the principal portion. This represents the new debt balance owed based on the payment made for the new period.


   Pros and Cons of Loan Amortization  

Amortized loans feature a level payment over their lives, which helps individuals budget their cash flows over the long term. Amortized loans are also beneficial in that there is always a principal component in each payment, so that the outstanding balance of the loan is reduced incrementally over time.



The main drawback of amortized loans is that relatively little principal is paid off in the early stages of the loan, with most of each payment going toward interest. This means that for a mortgage, for example, very little equity is being built up early on, which is unhelpful if you want to sell a home after just a few years.


   Amortization of Intangible Assets  

Amortization can also refer to the amortization of intangibles. In this case, amortization is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset over the projected life of the asset. It measures the consumption of the value of an intangible asset, such as goodwill, a patent, a trademark, or copyright.



Amortization is calculated in a similar manner to depreciation—which is used for tangible assets, such as equipment, buildings, vehicles, and other assets subject to physical wear and tear—and depletion, which is used for natural resources.



When businesses amortize expenses over time, they help tie the cost of using an asset to the revenues that it generates in the same accounting period, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For example, a company benefits from the use of a long-term asset over a number of years. Thus, it writes off the expense incrementally over the useful life of that asset.



The amortization of intangibles is also useful in tax planning. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows taxpayers to take a deduction for certain expenses: geological and geophysical expenses incurred in oil and natural gas exploration, atmospheric pollution control facilities, bond premiums, research and development (R&D), lease acquisition, forestation and reforestation, and intangibles, such as goodwill, patents, copyrights, and trademarks.






The IRS has schedules that dictate the total number of years in which to expense tangible and intangible assets for tax purposes.


   Why Is Amortization Important?  

Amortization is important because it helps businesses and investors understand and forecast their costs over time. In the context of loan repayment, amortization schedules provide clarity concerning the portion of a loan payment that consists of interest versus the portion that is principal. This can be useful for purposes such as deducting interest payments on income tax forms. It is also useful for planning to understand what a company's future debt balance will be after a series of payments have already been made.



Amortizing intangible assets is important because it can reduce a business's taxable income, and therefore its tax liability, while giving investors a better understanding of the company’s true earnings. Intangible assets also have a finite useful life; over time, trademarks or patents may lose their value due to obsolescence. Amortizing intangible assets is also a reflection of how a company has "used up" the benefit of these assets.


   Amortization vs. Depreciation  

Amortization and depreciation are similar concepts, in that both attempt to capture the cost of holding an asset over time. The main difference between them, however, is that amortization refers to intangible assets, whereas depreciation refers to tangible assets. Examples of intangible assets include trademarks and patents; tangible assets include equipment, buildings, vehicles, and other assets subject to physical wear and tear.



Another difference is the accounting treatment in which different assets are reduced on the balance sheet. Amortizing an intangible asset is performed by directly crediting (reducing) that specific asset account. Alternatively, depreciation is recorded by crediting an account called accumulated depreciation, a contra asset account. The historical cost of fixed assets remains on a company's books; however, the company also reports this contra asset amount as a net reduced book value amount.



Finally, the calculation of each can be different. This is especially true when comparing depreciation to the amortization of a loan. Intangible assets are often amortized over their useful life using the straight-line method, while fixed assets often use a much more broad set of calculation methods (i.e., declining balance method, double-declining balance method, sum-of-the-years' digits method, or the units of production method).


   Example of Amortization  

Let’s look at a four-year, $30,000 auto loan at 3% interest. The monthly payment is going to be $664.03. That is arrived at as follows:


















$


30


,


000


×


(




0.0025


×


(


1.0025


÷


48


)




1.0025


÷


48




−


1


)







\begin{aligned}&\$30,000 \times \Bigg ( \frac { 0.0025 \times (1.0025 \div 48) }{ 1.0025 \div 48 } - 1 \Bigg ) \\\end{aligned}


​$30,000×(1.0025÷480.0025×(1.0025÷48)​−1)​



In the first month, $75 of the $664.03 monthly payment goes to interest.


















$


30


,


000


 loan balance


×


3


%


 interest rate


÷


12


 months







\begin{aligned}&\$30,000 \ \text{loan balance} \times 3\% \ \text{interest rate} \div 12 \ \text{months} \\\end{aligned}


​$30,000 loan balance×3% interest rate÷12 months​



The remaining $589.03 goes toward principal.


















$


664.03


 total monthly payment


−


$


75


 interest payment







\begin{aligned}&\$664.03 \ \text{total monthly payment} - \$75 \ \text{interest payment} \\ \end{aligned}


​$664.03 total monthly payment−$75 interest payment​



The total payment stays the same each month, while the portion going to principal increases and the portion going to interest decreases. In the final month, only $1.66 is paid in interest, because the outstanding loan balance at that point is very minimal compared with the starting loan balance.












Loan Amortization Schedule


Period
Total Payment Due
Computed Interest Due
Principal Due
Principal Balance




 
 
 
 
$30,000


1
$664.03
$75
$589.03
$29,410.97


2
$664.03
$73.53
$590.50
$28,820.47


3
$664.03
$72.05
$591.98
$28,228.49


4
$664.03
$70.57
$593.46
$27,635.03


5
$664.03
$69.09
$594.94
$27,040.09


6
$664.03
$67.60
$596.43
$26,443.66


7
$664.03
$66.11
$597.92
$25,845.74


8
$664.03
$64.61
$599.42
$25,246.32


9
$664.03
$63.12
$600.91
$24,645.41


10
$664.03
$61.61
$602.42
$24,042.99


11
$664.03
$60.11
$603.92
$23,439.07


12
$664.03
$58.60
$605.43
$22,833.64


13
$664.03
$57.08
$606.95
$22,226.69


14
$664.03
$55.57
$608.46
$21,618.23


15
$664.03
$54.05
$609.98
$21,008.24


16
$664.03
$52.52
$611.51
$20,396.73


17
$664.03
$50.99
$613.04
$19,783.69


18
$664.03
$49.46
$614.57
$19,169.12


19
$664.03
$47.92
$616.11
$18,553.02


20
$664.03
$46.38
$617.65
$17,935.37


21
$664.03
$44.84
$619.19
$17,316.18


22
$664.03
$43.29
$620.74
$16,695.44


23
$664.03
$41.74
$622.29
$16,073.15


24
$664.03
$40.18
$623.85
$15,449.30


25
$664.03
$38.62
$625.41
$14,823.89


26
$664.03
$37.06
$626.97
$14,196.92


27
$664.03
$35.49
$628.54
$13,568.38


28
$664.03
$33.92
$630.11
$12,938.28


29
$664.03
$32.35
$631.68
$12,306.59


30
$664.03
$30.77
$633.26
$11,673.33


31
$664.03
$29.18
$634.85
$11,038.48


32
$664.03
$27.60
$636.43
$10,402.05


33
$664.03
$26.01
$638.02
$9,764.02


34
$664.03
$24.41
$639.62
$9,124.40


35
$664.03
$22.81
$641.22
$8,483.18


36
$664.03
$21.21
$642.82
$7,840.36


37
$664.03
$19.60
$644.43
$7,195.93


38
$664.03
$17.99
$646.04
$6,549.89


39
$664.03
$16.37
$647.66
$5,902.24


40
$664.03
$14.76
$649.27
$5,252.96


41
$664.03
$13.13
$650.90
$4,602.06


42
$664.03
$11.51
$652.52
$3,949.54


43
$664.03
$9.87
$654.16
$3,295.38


44
$664.03
$8.24
$655.79
$2,639.59


45
$664.03
$6.60
$657.43
$1,982.16


46
$664.03
$4.96
$659.07
$1,323.09


47
$664.03
$3.31
$660.72
$662.36


48
$664.03
$1.66
$662.36
$0.00







What Is Negative Amortization?
Negative amortization is when the size of a debt increases with each payment, even if you pay on time. This happens because the interest on the loan is greater than the amount of each payment. Negative amortization is particularly dangerous with credit cards, whose interest rates can be as high as 20% or even 30%. In order to avoid owing more money later, it is important to avoid over-borrowing and to pay off your debts as quickly as possible.




What Does Amortization Mean for Intangible Assets?
Amortization measures the declining value of intangible assets, such as goodwill, trademarks, patents, and copyrights. This is calculated in a similar manner to the depreciation of tangible assets, like factories and equipment. When businesses amortize intangible assets over time, they are able to tie the cost of those assets with the revenue generated over each accounting period and deduct the costs over the lifetime of the asset.




Why Is Amortization Important in Accounting?
Amortization helps businesses and investors understand and forecast their costs over time. In the context of loan repayment, amortization schedules provide clarity into what portion of a loan payment consists of interest versus principal. This can be useful for purposes such as deducting interest payments for tax purposes. Amortizing intangible assets is also important because it can reduce a company’s taxable income and therefore its tax liability, while giving investors a better understanding of the company’s true earnings.




How Do You Amortize a Loan?
A loan is amortized by determining the monthly payment due over the term of the loan. Next, you prepare an amortization schedule that clearly identifies what portion of each month's payment is attributable towards interest and what portion of each month's payment is attributable towards principal.Since part of the payment will theoretically be applied to the outstanding principal balance, the amount of interest paid each month will decrease. Your payment should theoretically remain the same each month, which means more of your monthly payment will apply to principal, thereby paying down over time the amount you borrowed.




What Is a 30-Year Amortization Schedule?
A 30-year amortization schedule breaks down how much of a level payment on a loan goes toward either principal or interest over the course of 360 months (for example, on a 30-year mortgage). Early in the life of the loan, most of the monthly payment goes toward interest, while toward the end it is mostly made up of principal. It can be presented either as a table or in graphical form as a chart.


   The Bottom Line  

Amortization is a technique of gradually reducing an account balance over time. When amortizing loans, a gradually escalating portion of the monthly debt payment is applied to the principal. When amortizing intangible assets, amortization is similar to depreciation, where a fixed percentage of an asset's book value is reduced each month. This technique is used to reflect how the benefit of an asset is received by a company over time.
What Is an Amortized Bond?  

An amortized bond is one in which the principal (face value) on the debt is paid down regularly, along with its interest expense over the life of the bond. A fixed-rate residential mortgage is one common example because the monthly payment remains constant over its life of, say, 30 years. However, each payment represents a slightly different percentage mix of interest versus principal. An amortized bond is different from a balloon or bullet loan, where there is a large portion of the principal that must be repaid only at its maturity.


   Understanding Amortized Bonds  

The principal paid off over the life of an amortized loan or bond is divvied up according to an amortization schedule, typically through calculating equal payments all along the way. This means that in the early years of a loan, the interest portion of the debt service will be larger than the principal portion. As the loan matures, however, the portion of each payment that goes towards interest will become lesser and the payment to principal will be larger. The calculations for an amortizing loan are similar to that of an annuity using the time value of money, and can be carried out quickly using an amortization calculator.





Key Takeaways

An amortized bond is a type where each payment goes towards both interest and principal.In the early stages of the loan, much of each payment will go towards interest, and in late stages, a greater percentage goes towards principal.A fixed-rate 30-year mortgage is an example of an amortized loan.An amortization schedule is used to compute the percentage that is interest and the percentage that is principal within each bond payment.Two accounting methods are used for amortizing bond premiums and discounts: straight-line and effective-interest.



Amortization of debt affects two fundamental risks of bond investing. First, it greatly reduces the credit risk of the loan or bond because the principal of the loan is repaid over time, rather than all at once upon maturity, when the risk of default is the greatest. Second, amortization reduces the duration of the bond, lowering the debt's sensitivity to interest rate risk, as compared with other non-amortized debt with the same maturity and coupon rate. This is because as time passes, there are smaller interest payments, so the weighted-average maturity (WAM) of the cash flows associated with the bond is lower.


   Example of Amortizing a Bond  

30-year fixed-rate mortgages are amortized so that each monthly payment goes towards interest and principal. Say you purchase a home with a $400,000 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with a 5% interest rate. The monthly payment is $2,147.29, or $25,767.48 per year.



At the end of year one, you have made 12 payments, most of the payments have been towards interest, and only $3,406 of the principal is paid off, leaving a loan balance of $396,593. The next year, the monthly payment amount remains the same, but the principal paid grows to $6,075. Now fast forward to year 29 when $24,566 (almost all of the $25,767.48 annual payments) will go towards principal. Free mortgage calculators or amortization calculators are easily found online to help with these calculations quickly.


   Straight-Line vs. Effective-Interest Method of Amortization  

Treating a bond as an amortized asset is an accounting method used by companies that issue bonds. It allows issuers to treat the bond discount as an asset over the life of the bond until its maturity date. A bond is sold at a discount when a company sells it for less than its face value and sold at a premium when the price received is greater than face value.



If a bond is issued at a discount—that is, offered for sale below its par or face value—the discount must be treated either as an expense or it can be amortized as an asset. In this way, an amortized bond is used specifically for tax purposes because the amortized bond discount is treated as part of a company's interest expense on its income statement. The interest expense, a non-operating cost, reduces a company's earnings before tax (EBT) and, therefore, the amount of its tax burden.






Amortization is an accounting method that gradually and systematically reduces the cost value of a limited-life, intangible asset.



Effective-interest and straight-line amortization are the two options for amortizing bond premiums or discounts. The easiest way to account for an amortized bond is to use the straight-line method of amortization. Under this method of accounting, the bond discount that is amortized each year is equal over the life of the bond.



Companies may also issue amortized bonds and use the effective-interest method. Rather than assigning an equal amount of amortization for each period, effective-interest computes different amounts to be applied to interest expense during each period. Under this second type of accounting, the bond discount amortized is based on the difference between the bond's interest income and its interest payable. Effective-interest method requires a financial calculator or spreadsheet software to derive.
What Is an Amortized Loan?  

An amortized loan is a type of loan with scheduled, periodic payments that are applied to both the loan's principal amount and the interest accrued. An amortized loan payment first pays off the relevant interest expense for the period, after which the remainder of the payment is put toward reducing the principal amount. Common amortized loans include auto loans, home loans, and personal loans from a bank for small projects or debt consolidation.





Key Takeaways

An amortized loan is a type of loan that requires the borrower to make scheduled, periodic payments that are applied to both the principal and interest.An amortized loan payment first pays off the interest expense for the period; any remaining amount is put towards reducing the principal amount.As the interest portion of the payments for an amortization loan decreases, the principal portion increases.


   How an Amortized Loan Works  

The interest on an amortized loan is calculated based on the most recent ending balance of the loan; the interest amount owed decreases as payments are made. This is because any payment in excess of the interest amount reduces the principal, which in turn, reduces the balance on which the interest is calculated. As the interest portion of an amortized loan decreases, the principal portion of the payment increases. Therefore, interest and principal have an inverse relationship within the payments over the life of the amortized loan.



An amortized loan is the result of a series of calculations. First, the current balance of the loan is multiplied by the interest rate attributable to the current period to find the interest due for the period. (Annual interest rates may be divided by 12 to find a monthly rate.) Subtracting the interest due for the period from the total monthly payment results in the dollar amount of principal paid in the period.



The amount of principal paid in the period is applied to the outstanding balance of the loan. Therefore, the current balance of the loan, minus the amount of principal paid in the period, results in the new outstanding balance of the loan. This new outstanding balance is used to calculate the interest for the next period.


   Amortized Loans vs. Balloon Loans vs. Revolving Debt (Credit Cards)  

While amortized loans, balloon loans, and revolving debt—specifically credit cards—are similar, they have important distinctions that consumers should be aware of before signing up for one of them.


  Amortized Loans  

Amortized loans are generally paid off over an extended period of time, with equal amounts paid for each payment period. However, there is always the option to pay more, and thus, further reduce the principal owed.


  Balloon Loans  

Balloon loans typically have a relatively short term, and only a portion of the loan's principal balance is amortized over that term. At the end of the term, the remaining balance is due as a final repayment, which is generally large (at least double the amount of previous payments).


  Revolving Debt (Credit Cards)   

Credit cards are the most well-known type of revolving debt. With revolving debt, you borrow against an established credit limit. As long as you haven't reached your credit limit, you can keep borrowing. Credit cards are different than amortized loans because they don't have set payment amounts or a fixed loan amount.






Amortized loans apply each payment to both interest and principal, initially paying more interest than principal until eventually that ratio is reversed.


   Example of an Amortization Loan Table  

The calculations of an amortized loan may be displayed in an amortization table. The table lists relevant balances and dollar amounts for each period. In the example below, each period is a row in the table. The columns include the payment date, principal portion of the payment, interest portion of the payment, total interest paid to date, and ending outstanding balance. The following table excerpt is for the first year of a 30-year mortgage in the amount of $165,000 with an annual interest rate of 4.5%












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




Can I Pay Off an Amortized Loan Early?
Yes. To pay off an amortized loan early, you can make payments more frequently or make principal-only payments. Since the interest is charged on the principal, making extra payments on the principal lowers the amount that can accrue interest. Check your loan agreement to see if you will be charged early payoff penalty fees before attempting this.




How Can I See How Much of my Payment Is Interest?
Most lenders will provide amortization tables that show how much of each payment is interest versus principle. You can also request this information from your lender.




Do I Pay More Interest in the Beginning of my Loan or the End?
Amortized loans typically start with payments more heavily weighted toward interest payments.


   The Bottom Line  

An amortized loan tackles both the projected amount of interest you'll owe and your principal simultaneously. You can make extra principal payments to lower your total loan amount if your loan allows. Try using an amortization calculator to see how much you'll pay in interest versus principal for potential loans.
What Is the Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) .AS?  

Founded in 1602, along with the creation of the Dutch East India Company (VOC), the Amsterdam Stock Exchange is considered the oldest, still-functioning stock exchange in the world.



The need for a bank grew with the prevalence of European trade and with the need to offer financiers a way to profit in this commerce. The Dutch East India Company was one of the earliest businesses to compete for the exports from the spice and slave trade. It was a joint-stock company and would offer shares to investors who would bankroll the voyages. Financiers required a safe and regulated place where buy and sell shares of these early global enterprises.



Before the AEX, many regions and towns had independent systems of asset valuation and trade regulation which operated much like stock exchanges, but the AEX was the first official stock exchange as we know it.





24

The number of companies listed on the AEX as of May 7, 2019.


   The Basics of the Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) .AS  

Over its centuries-long history, the Amsterdam Stock Exchange has gone through several ownership changes and governance structures.



Looking to recent history, in 1997 the Amsterdam Stock Exchange and the European Options Exchange (EOE) merged, and its blue-chip index was renamed AEX for "Amsterdam Exchange."



In September 2000, the Amsterdam Stock Exchange merged with the Brussels Stock Exchange and the Paris Stock Exchange to form Euronext Amsterdam. Euronext is Europe's largest cash equities market. For some time fell under the umbrella of NYSE Euronext, which operated several exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, the Liffe in London, and NYSE Arca Options. In 2014, Euronext was spun off to become an independent entity once again. As of 2017, Euronext was the sixth largest combined stock exchange by market cap.






The AEX is one of Euronext's main indexes.


   Equity Indexes of the AEX  

Euronext Amsterdam's three broad equity indexes are the blue-chip AEX, mid-cap AMX, and small-cap AScX. By far, the most traded and influential index is the AEX, which began in 1983 and is composed of more than 20 of the most frequently traded Dutch companies which trade on Euronext Amsterdam. These companies include international businesses such as Unilever, ING Group, Philips, and Royal Dutch Shell. It is one of the leading national indices of the stock exchange group Euronext alongside Brussels' BEL 20, Paris's CAC 40, and Germany's DAX.





Key Takeaways

The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, founded in 1602, is considered one of the world's oldest stock exchanges.AEX merged with the Brussels Stock Exchange and the Paris Stock Exchange to form Euronext Amsterdam in 2000.Its three broad equity indexes are the blue-chip AEX, mid-cap AMX, and small-cap AScX.More than 20 of the most frequently traded Dutch companies trade on the exchange.


   Real World Example  

Review of the composition of the AEX index is done each quarter, with a comprehensive review conducted in March and interim reviews in June, September, and December. Any changes made to the index as a result of these examinations take effect on the third Friday of the month. Before 2008, index changes were made only once annually in March.



The AEX is a market capitalization-weighted index, with initial index weightings of any one company capped at 15%. The index weights are calculated concerning the closing prices of the relevant companies on March 1. During quarterly reviews, weightings after adjustment are left as close as possible to those of the previous day and are not re-capped.
What Is Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)?  

Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is an analysis tool used in statistics that splits an observed aggregate variability found inside a data set into two parts: systematic factors and random factors. The systematic factors have a statistical influence on the given data set, while the random factors do not. Analysts use the ANOVA test to determine the influence that independent variables have on the dependent variable in a regression study.



The t- and z-test methods developed in the 20th century were used for statistical analysis until 1918, when Ronald Fisher created the analysis of variance method. ANOVA is also called the Fisher analysis of variance, and it is the extension of the t- and z-tests. The term became well-known in 1925, after appearing in Fisher's book, "Statistical Methods for Research Workers." It was employed in experimental psychology and later expanded to subjects that were more complex.





Key Takeaways

Analysis of variance, or ANOVA, is a statistical method that separates observed variance data into different components to use for additional tests.A one-way ANOVA is used for three or more groups of data, to gain information about the relationship between the dependent and independent variables.If no true variance exists between the groups, the ANOVA's F-ratio should equal close to 1.


   The Formula for ANOVA is:  

﻿















F


=




MST




MSE


















where:
















F


=


ANOVA coefficient
















MST


=


Mean sum of squares due to treatment
















MSE


=


Mean sum of squares due to error








\begin{aligned} &\text{F} = \frac{ \text{MST} }{ \text{MSE} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{F} = \text{ANOVA coefficient} \\ &\text{MST} = \text{Mean sum of squares due to treatment} \\ &\text{MSE} = \text{Mean sum of squares due to error} \\ \end{aligned}


​F=MSEMST​where:F=ANOVA coefficientMST=Mean sum of squares due to treatmentMSE=Mean sum of squares due to error​﻿






   What Does the Analysis of Variance Reveal?  

The ANOVA test is the initial step in analyzing factors that affect a given data set. Once the test is finished, an analyst performs additional testing on the methodical factors that measurably contribute to the data set's inconsistency. The analyst utilizes the ANOVA test results in an f-test to generate additional data that aligns with the proposed regression models.



The ANOVA test allows a comparison of more than two groups at the same time to determine whether a relationship exists between them. The result of the ANOVA formula, the F statistic (also called the F-ratio), allows for the analysis of multiple groups of data to determine the variability between samples and within samples.



If no real difference exists between the tested groups, which is called the null hypothesis, the result of the ANOVA's F-ratio statistic will be close to 1. The distribution of all possible values of the F statistic is the F-distribution. This is actually a group of distribution functions, with two characteristic numbers, called the numerator degrees of freedom and the denominator degrees of freedom.


   Example of How to Use ANOVA  

A researcher might, for example, test students from multiple colleges to see if students from one of the colleges consistently outperform students from the other colleges. In a business application, an R&D researcher might test two different processes of creating a product to see if one process is better than the other in terms of cost efficiency.



The type of ANOVA test used depends on a number of factors. It is applied when data needs to be experimental. Analysis of variance is employed if there is no access to statistical software resulting in computing ANOVA by hand. It is simple to use and best suited for small samples. With many experimental designs, the sample sizes have to be the same for the various factor level combinations.



ANOVA is helpful for testing three or more variables. It is similar to multiple two-sample t-tests. However, it results in fewer type I errors and is appropriate for a range of issues. ANOVA groups differences by comparing the means of each group and includes spreading out the variance into diverse sources. It is employed with subjects, test groups, between groups and within groups.


   One-Way ANOVA Versus Two-Way ANOVA  

There are two main types of ANOVA: one-way (or unidirectional) and two-way. There also variations of ANOVA. For example, MANOVA (multivariate ANOVA) differs from ANOVA as the former tests for multiple dependent variables simultaneously while the latter assesses only one dependent variable at a time. One-way or two-way refers to the number of independent variables in your analysis of variance test. A one-way ANOVA evaluates the impact of a sole factor on a sole response variable. It determines whether all the samples are the same. The one-way ANOVA is used to determine whether there are any statistically significant differences between the means of three or more independent (unrelated) groups.



A two-way ANOVA is an extension of the one-way ANOVA. With a one-way, you have one independent variable affecting a dependent variable. With a two-way ANOVA, there are two independents. For example, a two-way ANOVA allows a company to compare worker productivity based on two independent variables, such as salary and skill set. It is utilized to observe the interaction between the two factors and tests the effect of two factors at the same time.




How does ANOVA differ from a T test?
ANOVA differs from T tests in that ANOVA can compare three or more groups while T tests are only useful for comparing two groups at one time.




What is Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA)?
Analysis of Covariance combines ANOVA and regression. It can be useful for understanding within-group variance that ANOVA tests do not explain.




Does ANOVA rely on any assumptions?
Yes, ANOVA tests assume that the data is normally distributed and that the levels of variance in each group is roughly equal. Finally, it assumes that all observations are made independently. If these assumptions are not accurate, ANOVA may not be useful for comparing groups.


   The Bottom Line  

ANOVA is a good way to compare more than two groups to identify relationships between them. The technique can be used in scholarly settings to analyze research or in the world of finance to try to predict future movements in stock prices. Understanding how ANOVA works and when it may be a useful tool can be helpful for advanced investors.
What Is the Android Operating System?  

The Android operating system is a mobile operating system that was developed by Google (GOOGL​) to be primarily used for touchscreen devices, cell phones, and tablets. Its design lets users manipulate the mobile devices intuitively, with finger movements that mirror common motions, such as pinching, swiping, and tapping. Google also employs Android software in televisions, cars, and wristwatches—each of which is fitted with a unique user interface.





Key Takeaways

The Android operating system was developed by Google (GOOGL​) for use in all of its touchscreen devices, tablets, and cell phones.This operating system was first developed by Android Inc., a software company located in Silicon Valley before it was acquired by Google in 2005.While the Android source code is released in an open-source format to help advance open standards across mobile devices, it is still packaged with proprietary software when sold on handset devices.


   Understanding the Android Operating System  

The Android operating system was first developed by Android Inc., a software company located in Silicon Valley before Google acquired it in 2005. Investors and electronics industry analysts have questioned Google’s true intentions for entering the mobile market space since that acquisition. But in any case, soon thereafter, Google announced the impending rollout of its first commercially available Android-powered device in 2007, although that product actually hit the marketplace in 2008.



Since then, software and application developers have been able to use Android technology to develop mobile apps, which are sold through app stores, such as Google Play. And because it is developed as a Google product, Android users are given the opportunity to link their mobile devices to other Google products, such as cloud storage, email platforms, and video services.



The Android source code is released in an open-source format to help advance open standards across mobile devices. However, despite being released as “open,” Android is still packaged with proprietary software when sold on handset devices.






According to research from Bitdefender, Downloader.DN is the most common type of Android trojan as of February 2022. It involves "repacked applications taken from Google App Store and bunded with aggressive adware."


   Android Operating System vs. Apple iOS  

The emergence of Android created a new rivalry between smartphone manufacturers, with Apple (AAPL) serving as Google's chief competitor. To some, this competitive dynamic mirrors that of the “cola wars” between Coca-Cola (KO) and Pepsi (PEP) over the past 40 years, where no clear winner or loser has emerged. Android was the most popular operating system on mobile devices as of Q1 2022, with 23.7% of the global market share while Apple's iOS was in second place with 18%, according to International Data Corporation.



The increased popularity of the system has also led to a number of patent-related lawsuits, including a lawsuit brought forth by Oracle (ORCL). In 2010, the company alleged that Google unlawfully used Java APIs to develop its Android software. In April 2021, the case was decided with the Supreme Court ruling 6-2 in Google's favor.


   Limitations of the Android Operating System  

While Android offers users a viable alternative to other mobile operating systems, several limitations still remain. On the developer side, coding complex user experiences and interfaces is an often difficult task that demands a greater reliance on Java than Objective-C. For users, the apps on the Android Market tend to have lower standards than comparable app stores.



In other words, the apps have lower security profiles and make users more susceptible to data breaches. Meanwhile, Android's lack of a voice-controlled assistant and its heavy dependence on advertising can repel some users.
What Is Anchoring?  

Anchoring is a heuristic in behavioral finance that describes the subconscious use of irrelevant information, such as the purchase price of a security, as a fixed reference point (or anchor) for making subsequent decisions about that security. Thus, people are more likely to estimate the value of the same item higher if the suggested sticker price is $100 than if it is $50.



In sales, price, and wage negotiations, anchoring can be a powerful tool. Studies have shown that setting an anchor at the outset of a negotiation can have more effect on the final outcome than the intervening negotiation process. Setting a starting point that is deliberately too high can affect the range of all subsequent counteroffers.





Key Takeaways

Anchoring is a behavioral finance term to describe an irrational bias towards an arbitrary benchmark figure.This benchmark then skews decision-making regarding a security by market participants, such as when to sell the investment.Anchoring can be used to advantage in sales and price negotiations where setting an initial anchor can influence subsequent negotiations in your favor.


   Understanding Anchoring  

Anchoring is a cognitive bias in which the use of an arbitrary benchmark such as a purchase price or sticker price carries a disproportionately high weight in one's decision-making process. The concept is part of the field of behavioral finance, which studies how emotions and other extraneous factors influence economic choices.



In the context of investing, one consequence of anchoring is that market participants with an anchoring bias tend to hold investments that have lost value because they have anchored their fair value estimate to the original price rather than to fundamentals. As a result, market participants assume greater risk by holding the investment in the hope the security will return to its purchase price.



Market participants are often aware that their anchor is imperfect and attempt to make adjustments to reflect subsequent information and analysis. However, these adjustments often produce outcomes that reflect the bias of the original anchors.






Anchoring is often paired with a heuristic known as adjusting, whereby the reference level or anchor is adjusted as conditions change and prices are re-evaluated.


   Anchoring Bias  

An anchoring bias can cause a financial market participant, such as a financial analyst or investor, to make an incorrect financial decision, such as buying an overvalued investment or selling an undervalued investment. Anchoring bias can be present anywhere in the financial decision-making process, from key forecast inputs, such as sales volumes and commodity prices, to final output like cash flow and security prices.



Historical values, such as acquisition prices or high-water marks, are common anchors. This holds for values necessary to accomplish a certain objective, such as achieving a target return or generating a particular amount of net proceeds. These values are unrelated to market pricing and cause market participants to reject rational decisions.



Anchoring can be present with relative metrics, such as valuation multiples. Market participants using a rule-of-thumb valuation multiple to evaluate securities prices demonstrate anchoring when they ignore evidence that one security has a greater potential for earnings growth.



Some anchors, such as absolute historical values and values necessary to accomplish an objective, can be harmful to investment objectives, and many analysts encourage investors to reject these types of anchors. Other anchors can be helpful as market participants deal with the complexity and uncertainty inherent in an environment of information overload. Market participants can counter anchoring bias by identifying the factors behind the anchor and replacing suppositions with quantifiable data.



Comprehensive research and assessment of factors affecting markets or a security's price are necessary to eliminate anchoring bias from decision-making in the investment process.


   Examples of Anchoring Bias  

It is easy to find examples of anchoring bias in everyday life. Customers for a product or service are typically anchored to a sales price based on the price marked by a shop or suggested by a salesperson. Any further negotiation for the product is in relation to that figure, regardless of its actual cost.



Within the investing world, anchoring bias can take on several forms. For instance, traders are typically anchored to the price at which they bought a security. If a trader bought stock ABC for $100, then they will be psychologically fixated on that price for judging when to sell or make additional purchases of the same stock -- regardless of ABC's actual value based on an assessment of relevant factors or fundamentals affecting it.



In another case, analysts may become anchored to the value of a given index at a certain level instead of considering historical figures. For example, if the S&P 500 is on a bull run and has a value of 3,000, then analysts' propensity will be to predict values closer to that figure rather than considering the standard deviation of values, which have a fairly wide range for that index.



Anchoring also appears frequently in sales negotiations.  A salesman can offer a very high price to start negotiations that is objectively well above fair value. Yet, because the high price is an anchor, the final selling price will also tend to be higher than if the salesman had offered a fair or low price to start. A similar technique may be applied in hiring negotiations when a hiring manager or prospective hire proposes an initial salary. Either party may then push the discussion to that starting point, hoping to reach an agreeable amount that was derived from the anchor.




How Do You Avoid Anchoring Bias?
Studies have shown that some factors can mitigate anchoring, but it is difficult to avoid altogether, even when people are made aware of the bias and deliberately try to avoid it. In experimental studies, telling people about anchoring and advising them to "consider the opposite" can reduce, but not eliminate, the effect of anchoring.




How Can I Use Anchoring to My Advantage?
If you are selling something or negotiating a salary, you can start with a higher price than you expect to get as it will set an anchor that will tend to pull the final price up. If you are buying something or a hiring manager, you would instead start with a lowball level to induce the anchoring effect lower.




What Is Anchoring and Adjustment?
The anchoring and adjustment heuristic describes cases in which an anchor is subsequently adjusted based on new information until an acceptable value is reached over time. Often, those adjustments, however, prove inadequate and remain too close to the original anchor, which is a problem when the anchor is very different from the true or fair value.



Correction—July 21, 2022: This article was updated to make clear a risk of anchoring resulting in buying overvalued assets or selling undervalued ones, not buying undervalued assets and selling overvalued ones.
What Is Anchoring and Adjustment?  

Anchoring and adjustment is a phenomenon wherein an individual bases their initial ideas and responses on one point of information and makes changes driven by that starting point. The anchoring and adjustment heuristic describes cases in which a person uses a specific target number or value as a starting point, known as an anchor, and subsequently adjusts that information until an acceptable value is reached over time. Often, those adjustments are inadequate and remain too close to the original anchor, which is a problem when the anchor is very different from the true answer.





Key Takeaways

Anchoring and adjustment is a cognitive heuristic where a person starts off with an initial idea and adjusts their beliefs based on this starting point.Anchoring and adjustment have been shown to produce erroneous results when the initial anchor deviates from the true value. Awareness of anchoring, monetary incentives, giving careful consideration to a range of possible ideas, expertise, experience, personality, and mood can all modify the effects of anchoring.  Anchoring can be used to advantage in sales and price negotiations where setting an initial anchor can influence subsequent negotiations in your favor.


   Understanding Anchoring and Adjustment  

Anchoring is a cognitive bias described by behavioral finance in which individuals fixate on a target number or value—usually, the first one they get, such as an expected price or economic forecast. Unlike the conservatism bias, which has similar effects but is based on how investors relate new information to old information, anchoring occurs when an individual makes new decisions based on the old, anchor number. Giving new information thorough consideration to determine its impact on the original forecast or opinion might help mitigate the effects of anchoring and adjustment, but the characteristics of the decision-maker are as important as conscious consideration.



The problem with anchoring and adjustment is that if the value of the initial anchor is not the true value, then all subsequent adjustments will be systematically biased toward the anchor and away from the true value. However, if the anchor is close to the true value then there is essentially no problem.



One of the issues with adjustments is that they may be influenced by irrelevant information that the individual may be thinking about and drawing unfounded connections to the actual target value. For instance, suppose an individual is shown a random number, then asked an unrelated question that seeks an answer in the form of an estimated value or requires a mathematical equation to be performed quickly. Even though the random number they were shown has nothing to do with the answer sought, it might be taken as a visual cue and become an anchor for their responses. Anchor values can be self-generated, be the output of a pricing model or forecasting tool, or be suggested by an outside individual.



Studies have shown that some factors can influence anchoring, but it is difficult to avoid, even when people are made aware of it and deliberately try to avoid it. In experimental studies, telling people about anchoring, cautioning them that it can bias their judgment, and even offering them monetary incentives to avoid anchoring can reduce, but not eliminate, the effect of anchoring.



Higher levels of experience and skill in a specific field can help reduce the impact of anchoring in that subject area, and higher general cognitive ability may reduce anchoring effects in general. Personality and emotion can also play a role. A depressed mood increases anchoring, as do the personality traits of agreeableness, conscientiousness, introversion, and openness.﻿﻿﻿


   Anchoring and Adjustment in Business and Finance  

In sales, price, and wage negotiations, anchoring and adjustment can be a powerful tool. Studies have shown that setting an anchor at the outset of a negotiation can have more effect on the final outcome than the intervening negotiation process. Setting a deliberate starting point can affect the range of all subsequent counteroffers.﻿﻿﻿



For example, a used car salesman (or any salesman) can offer a very high price to start negotiations that are arguably well above the fair value. Because the high price is an anchor, the final price will tend to be higher than if the car salesman had offered a fair or low price to start. A similar technique may be applied in hiring negotiations when a hiring manager or prospective hire proposes an initial salary. Either party may then push the discussion to that starting point, hoping to reach an agreeable amount that was derived from the anchor.



In finance, the output of a pricing model or from an economic forecasting tool may become the anchor for an analyst. One possible way to counteract this is to look at multiple, diverse models or strands of evidence. Social psychology researcher Phillip Tetlock has found that forecasters who make predictions based on many different ideas or perspectives ("foxes") tend to make better forecasts than those who focus on only a single model or a few big ideas ("hedgehogs").﻿﻿﻿ Considering several different models and a range of different forecasts may make an analyst’s work less vulnerable to anchoring effects.
What Is an Angel Investor?  

An angel investor provides initial seed money for startup businesses, usually in exchange for ownership equity in the company.



The angel investor may be involved in a series of projects on a purely professional basis or may be found among an entrepreneur's family and friends. The investor's involvement may be a one-time infusion of seed money or an ongoing injection of cash to get a product to market.



Angel investors aren't usually in the loan business. They're putting money into an idea they like, with the expectation of a reward only if and when the business takes off.





Key Takeaways

Angel investing may be the primary source of funding for an entrepreneur who finds it more appealing than other forms of financing like bank loans.This is risky business for the angel investor and usually represents no more than 10% of an angel investor's portfolio.An angel investor may be hands-off or get deeply involved in the early stages.












Investopedia / Laura Porter






   Understanding Angel Investors  

Most angel investors are relatively wealthy individuals who are looking for a higher rate of return than can be found in more traditional investment opportunities. They search for startups with intriguing ideas and invest their own money to help develop them further.



The ventures are by nature extremely risky. A survey by The Angel Capital Association estimated that only 11% of such ventures end with a positive result. Their investments in each venture are relatively modest, averaging about $42,000.



Most angels keep their involvement in startups to no more than 10% of their portfolios.


  Why Look for an Angel?  

An entrepreneur may seek an angel investor over more conventional financing. The terms tend to be more favorable and, in fact, the angel investor doesn't expect to get the money back unless the idea succeeds. They often seek an equity stake and a seat on the board.



Angel investors focus on helping startups take their first steps rather than getting a favorable return on a loan.



Angel investors have also been called informal investors, angel funders, private investors, seed investors, or business angels. They seek prospects through online crowdfunding platforms or join networks that pool capital for greater impact.


   Origins of Angel Investors  

The term angel investor originated in the Broadway theatrical world, where plays were often financed by wealthy individuals rather than formal lenders and payments were due only when and if the production was a success.



The term "angel investor" was first used by the University of New Hampshire's William Wetzel, founder of the Center for Venture Research. Wetzel completed a study on how entrepreneurs gathered capital.



These days, Silicon Valley is the center of the angel investor's world, and the ideas being financed are related to the internet, software, or artificial intelligence.


   Who Can Be an Angel Investor?  

Angel investors have a genuine interest in innovation and a desire to be involved. Many have been entrepreneurs in the past.



Anyone who has the money and the desire to provide funding for startups can be an angel investor. They are welcomed by cash-hungry entrepreneurs who can't get conventional bank loans or don't want the burden of big debt until their ideas take off.


  Accreditation of Angel Investors  

Angel investors have often obtained accredited investor status, although this isn’t a prerequisite. Accredited investor status is a formal designation, regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), that gives individuals access to the private capital markets based on their assets and financial acumen.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defines an accredited investor as an individual who has a net worth of $1 million or more in assets or has earned $200,000 in income for the previous two years, or a couple with a combined income of $300,000. Applicants must also demonstrate an understanding of sophisticated investment proposals.


   Sources of Angel Funding  

Angel investors usually are using their own money, unlike venture capitalists who pool money from many investors.



Though angel investors are usually individuals, the entity that actually provides the funds may be a limited liability company (LLC), a business, a trust, or an investment fund. These are vehicles that the investor sets up for tax purposes or legal protection.


   Investment Profile  

Angel investors who seed startups that fail during their early stages lose their entire investments. This is why professional angel investors look for opportunities that have a defined exit strategy, an acquisition opportunity, or participation in an initial public offering (IPO).



The effective internal rate of return for a successful portfolio for angel investors is about 22%, according to one study. This may look good to investors and too expensive to entrepreneurs, but other sources of financing are not usually available for such business ventures. This makes angel investments a good fit for an entrepreneur with a good idea and little or no cash to pursue it.




What Kind of Ideas Get Angel Investor Financing?
It may be most closely associated with the Silicon Valley tech industry but some angels look far afield for good ideas to bankroll.Ask for Funding, a site for entrepreneurs, lists recent ideas that have gotten backing from their members. They include a plan to build a franchise of archery facilities, a quick-dissolving tablet created by an anaesthesiologist, and a developer of carriers for electronic instruments.However, many of the pitches were from business owners and would-be business owners seeking to establish or expand a business. A New York marijuana dispensary wants to expand its reach. A UPS worker wants to open a franchise.




What's the Difference Between an Angel Investor and a Venture Capitalist?
Venture capitalists deploy vast sums of cash pooled from many investors. They have big money to spend and they tend to spend it only on existing businesses that they think have an opportunity to turn a substantially bigger profit. For example, they might buy a moribund retail chain with the goal of revitalizing it over the next two years.Angel investors are a different breed. They are individuals who are looking to put their own money into good ideas at their earliest stages of becoming successful businesses. They are committing their own money in hopes of making a good idea a reality.




What Are the Disadvantages of Angel Investing to an Entrepreneur?
The entrepreneur is giving up a share of the company and its future profits in return for angel investing. Many angel investors want some control over the development of the product as well. They often want a seat on the board or its equivalent.


   The Bottom Line  

Angel investing has grown over the past few decades into a primary source of funding for many entrepreneurs in the early planning stages of turning their ideas into businesses.



This, in turn, has fostered innovation which translates into economic growth.



For the entrepreneur, an angel investor provides a much-needed lifeline that is not available through more conventional funding sources.



For the angel investor, involvement in early-stage startups has big risks but the potential for big rewards, including personal participation in an innovative project.
What Are Animal Spirits?  

"Animal spirits" is a term coined by the famous British economist, John Maynard Keynes, to describe how people arrive at financial decisions, including buying and selling securities, in times of economic stress or uncertainty. In Keynes’s 1936 publication, The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, he speaks of animal spirits as the human emotions that affect consumer confidence.



Today, animal spirits describe the psychological and emotional factors that drive investors to take action when faced with high levels of volatility in the capital markets. The term comes from the Latin spiritus animalis, which means "the breath that awakens the human mind." In some ways, Keynes' insights into human behavior predicted the rise of behavioral economics.





Key Takeaways

Animal spirits come from the Latin spiritus animalis: "the breath that awakens the human mind." It was coined by British economist, John Maynard Keynes in 1936.Animal spirits refer to the ways that human emotion can drive financial decision-making in uncertain environments and volatile times.Animal spirits essentially account for market psychology and in particular the role of emotion and herd mentality in investing.Animal spirits are used to help explain why people behave irrationally, and are the forerunner to modern behavioral economics.We may observe the concept of animal spirits in action during financial crises, including the Great Recession of 2007–2009.












Investopedia / Bailey Mariner


   Understanding Animal Spirits  

The technical concept of spiritus animalis can be traced as far back as 300 B.C., in the fields of human anatomy and medical physiology. There, animal spirits applied to the fluid or spirit present in sensory activities and nerve endings in the brain that resulting in mass psychological phenomena like manias or hysterias.



Animal spirits also appeared in literary culture, where they referred to states of physical courage, gaiety, and exuberance. The literary meaning implies that animal spirits can be high or low depending on an individual's degree of health and energy.


   Animal Spirits in Finance and Economics  

Today in finance, the term animal spirits arise in market psychology and behavioral economics. Animal spirits represent the emotions of confidence, hope, fear, and pessimism that can affect financial decision-making, which in turn can fuel or hamper economic growth. If spirits are low, then confidence levels will be low, which will drive down a promising market—even if the market or economy fundamentals are strong. Likewise, if spirits are high, confidence among participants in the economy will be high, and market prices will soar.






Animal spirits can give rise to bubbles in asset prices, and also can lead to panic selling.


  The Role of Emotion in Business Decisions  

According to the theory behind animal spirits, the decisions of business leaders are based on intuition and the behavior of their competitors rather than on solid analysis. Keynes understood that in times of economic upheaval, irrational thoughts might influence people as they pursue their financial self-interests.



Keynes further posited in The General Theory that trying to estimate the future yield of various industries, companies, or activities using general knowledge and available insight "amounts to little and sometimes to nothing." He proposed that the only way people can make decisions in an uncertain environment is if animal spirits guide them.


  Animal Spirits Enter the 21st Century  

In 2009, the term animal spirits returned to popularity when two economists—George A. Akerlof (Nobel laureate and professor of economics at University of California) and Robert J. Shiller (professor of economics at Yale University)—published their book, Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology Drives the Economy, and Why it Matters for Global Capitalism.



Here, the authors argue that although animal spirits are important, it is equally important that the government actively intervene to control them—via economic policymaking—when necessary. Otherwise, the authors postulate, the spirits might follow their own devices—that is, capitalism could get out of hand, and result in the kind of overindulgence that we saw in the 2008 financial crisis.



The five cognitive and psychological types of animal spirits identified by Akerlof and Shiller include following. These phenomena help economists consider answers to tricky questions such as "why do economies fall into depression" and why are financial prices and corporate investments so volatile?"



ConfidenceCorruptionMoney IllusionFairnessStories 


   Examples of Animal Spirits in Action  
  The Dotcom Bubble  

Animal spirits often manifest as market psychology defined by either fear or greed. For the latter, the term "irrational exuberance" has been used to describe investor enthusiasm that drives asset prices far higher than those assets' fundamentals justify. Simply tacking on "dotcom" to the name of a company increased its market value to extraordinary levels, with startups showing zero earnings commanding ever-higher share prices.



The crash that followed saw the Nasdaq index, which had risen five-fold between 1995 and 2000, tumble from a peak of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000, to 1,139.90 on Oct 4, 2002, a 76.81% fall. By the end of 2001, most dot-com stocks had gone bust.


  The Great Recession  

Another example was the lead-up to the 2008-09 financial crisis and the Great Recession, when the markets were rife with financial innovations. Creative use of both new and existing financial products—like collateralized debt obligations (CDOs)—abounded, particularly in the housing market. Initially, this trend was thought to be positive, that is until the new financial instruments were found to be deceptive and fraudulent. At this point, investor confidence plummeted, a sell-off ensued, and the markets plunged. A clear case of animal spirits run amok.


   Critiques of Animal Spirits  

"Animal spirits" refers to the tendency for investment prices to rise and fall based on human emotion rather than intrinsic value. This theory, however, has been critiqued by some economists who argue that markets are nonetheless efficient and that individual irrationality washes out in the aggregate. The animal spirits thesis, like behavioral economics, essentially throws a monkey wrench into the assumptions of efficiency and rationality.



Other critics argue that bubbles are not the result of mass psychology, but are due to the over-involvement of central banks and too much regulation, which stymie economic growth and throw markets out of equilibrium. These arguments often stem from Austrian economic theory or libertarianism that asserts that large increases in the money supply ("printed" by governments) are the cause of bubbles and their ultimate demise by encouraging malinvestment.


   The Bottom Line  

Animal Spirits is a concept developed by economist John Maynard Keynes, to describe the human emotions that affect consumer confidence. These account for market psychology and, in particular, the role of emotion and herd mentality in investing. This upends the assumptions of rationality and efficiency and primary drivers of economic behavior.
What Is the Annual Equivalent Rate (AER)?  

The annual equivalent rate (AER) is the interest rate for a savings account or investment product that has more than one compounding period. AER is calculated under the assumption that any interest paid is included in the principal payment's balance and the next interest payment will be based on the slightly higher account balance.





Key Takeaways

The annual equivalent rate (AER) is the actual interest rate an investment, loan, or savings account will yield after accounting for compounding.AER is also known as the effective annual interest rate or the annual percentage yield (APY).The AER will be higher than the stated or nominal rate if there is more than one compounding period a year.



The AER method means that interest can be compounded several times in a year, depending on the number of times that interest payments are made.



AER is also known as the effective annual interest rate or the annual percentage yield (APY).



The AER is the actual interest rate that an investor will earn for an investment, a loan, or another product, based on compounding. The AER reveals to investors what they can expect to return from an investment (the ROI)—the actual return of the investment based on compounding, which is more than the stated, or nominal, interest rate.



Assuming that interest is calculated—or compounded—more than once a year, the AER will be higher than the stated interest rate. The more compounding periods, the greater the difference between the two will be. Investors can compare the AER for different banking products to find the best savings accounts or other investment vehicles.


   Formula for the AER  

﻿















Annual equivalent rate


=




(


1


+




r




n




)



n



−


1
















where:
















n


=


The number of compounding periods (times per year interest is paid)
















r


=


The stated interest rate








\begin{aligned} &\text{Annual equivalent rate}=\left(1 + \frac{r}{n}\right)^n-1\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &n=\text{The number of compounding periods (times per year interest is paid)}\\ &r = \text{The stated interest rate}\\ \end{aligned}


​Annual equivalent rate=(1+nr​)n−1where:n=The number of compounding periods (times per year interest is paid)r=The stated interest rate​﻿


   How to Calculate the AER  

To calculate AER:



Divide the stated interest rate by the number of times a year that interest is paid (compounded) and add one.Raise the result to the number of times a year that interest is paid (compounded).Subtract one from the subsequent result.



The AER is displayed as a percentage (%).


   Example of AER  

Let's look at AER in both savings accounts and bonds.


  For a Savings Account  

Assume an investor wishes to sell all the securities in their investment portfolio and place all the proceeds in a savings account. The investor is deciding between placing the proceeds in Bank A, Bank B, or Bank C, depending on the highest rate offered. Bank A has a quoted interest rate of 3.7% that pays interest on an annual basis. Bank B has a quoted interest rate of 3.65% that pays interest quarterly, and Bank C has a quoted interest rate of 3.7% that pays interest semi-annually.






The stated interest rate paid on an account offering monthly interest may be lower than the rate on an account offering only one interest payment per year. However, when interest is compounded, the former account may offer higher returns than the latter account. For example, an account offering a rate of 6.25% paid annually may look more attractive than an account paying 6.12% with monthly interest payments. However, the AER on the monthly account is 6.29%, as opposed to an AER of 6.25% on the account with annual interest payments.



Therefore, Bank A would have an annual equivalent rate of 3.7%, or (1 + (0.037 / 1))1 - 1. Bank B has an AER of 3.7% = (1 + (0.0365 / 4))4 - 1, which is equivalent to that of Bank A even though Bank B is compounded quarterly. It would thus make no difference to the investor if they placed their cash in Bank A or Bank B.



On the other hand, Bank C has the same interest rate as Bank A, but Bank C pays interest semi-annually. Consequently, Bank C has an AER of 3.73%, which is more attractive than the other two banks' AER. The calculation is (1 + (0.037 / 2))2 - 1 = 3.73%.


  With a Bond  

Let's now consider a bond issued by General Electric. As of March 2019, General Electric offers a noncallable semiannual coupon with a 4% coupon rate expiring Dec. 15, 2023. The nominal, or stated rate, of the bond, is 8%—or the 4% coupon rate times two annual coupons. However, the annual equivalent rate is higher, given the fact that interest is paid twice a year. The AER of the bond is calculated as (1+ (0.04 / 2 ))2 - 1 = 8.16%.


   Annual Equivalent Rate vs. Stated Interest  

While the stated interest rate doesn't account for compounding, the AER does. The stated rate will generally be lower than AER if there's more than one compounding period. AER is used to determine which banks offer better rates and which investments might be attractive.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the AER  

The primary advantage of AER is that it is the real rate of interest because it accounts for the effects of compounding. In addition, it is an important tool for investors because it helps them evaluate bonds, loans, or accounts to understand their real return on investment (ROI).



Unfortunately, when investors are evaluating different investment options, the AER is usually not stated. Investors must do the work of calculating the figure themselves. It's also important to keep in mind that AER doesn't include any fees that might be tied to purchasing or selling the investment. Also, compounding itself has limitations, with the maximum possible rate being continuous compounding.





Pros of AER

Unlike the APR, AER reveals the actual interest rate.
Crucial in finding the true ROI from interest-bearing assets. 



Cons of AER

Investors must do the work of calculating AER themselves.
AER doesn't take into account fees that may be incurred from the investment.
Compounding has limitations, with the maximum possible rate being continuous compounding.





   Special Considerations  

AER is one of the various ways to calculate interest on interest, which is called compounding. Compounding refers to earning or paying interest on previous interest, which is added to the principal sum of a deposit or loan. Compounding allows investors to boost their returns because they can accrue additional profit based on the interest they've already earned.



One of Warren Buffett's famous quotes is, "My wealth has come from a combination of living in America, some lucky genes, and compound interest." Albert Einstein reportedly referred to compound interest as mankind's greatest invention. 



When you are borrowing money (in the form of loans), you want to minimize the effects of compounding. On the other hand, all investors want to maximize compounding on their investments. Many financial institutions will quote interest rates that use compounding principles to their advantage. As a consumer, it is important to understand AER so you can determine the interest rate you are really getting.




Where Can I Find an AER Calculator Online?
There are many websites that offer tools for calculating AER, including the websites Calculator Soup, Get Calc, and Omni Calculator.




What Is a Nominal Interest Rate?
The nominal interest rate is the advertised or stated interest rate on a loan, without taking into account any fees or compounding of interest. The nominal interest rate is what is specified in the loan contract, without adjusting for compounding. Once the compounding adjustment has been made, this is the effective interest rate.




What Is a Real Interest Rate?
A real interest rate is an interest rate that has been adjusted to remove the effects of inflation. Real interest rates reflect the real cost of funds, in the case of a loan (and a borrower) and the real yield (or ROI) for an investor. The real interest rate of an investment is calculated as the difference between the nominal interest rate and the inflation rate.


   The Bottom Line  

The annual equivalent rate, or AER, is the actual interest rate on a loan when you account for how interest is compounded. This rate is higher than the nominal interest rate for a loan, if interest is compounded more than once a year. Because this is a more accurate representation of the returns of a loan than the nominal rate, the AER is also known as the effective annual interest rate.
What Is an Annual General Meeting (AGM)?  

An annual general meeting (AGM) is a yearly gathering of a company's interested shareholders. At an AGM, the directors of the company present an annual report containing information for shareholders about the company's performance and strategy.



Shareholders with voting rights vote on current issues, such as appointments to the company's board of directors, executive compensation, dividend payments, and the selection of auditors.





Key Takeaways

An annual general meeting (AGM) is the yearly gathering of a company's interested shareholders.At an annual general meeting (AGM), directors of the company present the company's financial performance and shareholders vote on the issues at hand.Shareholders who do not attend the meeting in person may usually vote by proxy, which can be done online or by mail.At an AGM, there is often a time set aside for shareholders to ask questions to the directors of the company.Activist shareholders may use an AGM as an opportunity to express their concerns.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   How an Annual General Meeting (AGM) Works  

An annual general meeting, or annual shareholder meeting, is primarily held to allow shareholders to vote on both company issues and the selection of the company's board of directors. In large companies, this meeting is typically the only time during the year when shareholders and executives interact.



The exact rules governing an AGM vary according to jurisdiction. As outlined by many states in their laws of incorporation, both public and private companies must hold AGMs, though the rules tend to be more stringent for publicly traded companies.






If a company needs to resolve a problem between annual general meetings, it may call an extraordinary general meeting.



Public companies must file annual proxy statements, known as Form DEF 14A, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The filing will specify the date, time, and location of the annual meeting, as well as executive compensation and any material matters of the company concerning shareholder voting and nominated directors.



Annual general meetings (AGMs) are important for the transparency they provide, the ability to include shareholders, as well as bringing management to accountability.


   Qualifications for an Annual General Meeting (AGM)  

The corporate bylaws that govern a company, along with its jurisdiction, memorandum, and articles of association, contain the rules governing an AGM. For example, there are provisions detailing how far in advance shareholders must be notified of where and when an AGM will be held and how to vote by proxy. In most jurisdictions, the following items, by law, must be discussed at an AGM:



Minutes of the previous meeting: The minutes of the previous year's AGM must be presented and approved.Financial statements: The company presents its annual financial statements to its shareholders for approval.Ratification of the director's actions: The shareholders approve and ratify (or not) the decisions made by the board of directors over the previous year. This often includes the payment of a dividend.Election of the board of directors: The shareholders elect the board of directors for the upcoming year.


   Additional Topics Covered at an Annual General Meeting (AGM)  

If the company has not been performing well, the AGM is also when shareholders can question the board of directors and management as to why performance has been poor. The shareholders can demand satisfactory answers as well as inquire about the strategies that management plans to implement to turn the company around.



The AGM is also when shareholders can vote on company matters other than electing the board of directors. For example, if management is contemplating a merger or an acquisition, the proposal can be presented to the shareholders and they can vote on whether or not the company should proceed.



Several other elements may be added to an AGM agenda. Often, the company's directors and executives use an AGM as their opportunity to share their vision of the company's future with the shareholders. For example, at the AGM for Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett delivers long speeches on his views of the company and the economy as a whole.



Berkshire Hathaway's annual gathering has become so popular that it is attended by tens of thousands of people each year, and it's been dubbed the "Woodstock for Capitalists."
What Is Annual Percentage Rate (APR)?  

Annual percentage rate (APR) refers to the yearly interest generated by a sum that's charged to borrowers or paid to investors. APR is expressed as a percentage that represents the actual yearly cost of funds over the term of a loan or income earned on an investment. This includes any fees or additional costs associated with the transaction but does not take compounding into account. The APR provides consumers with a bottom-line number they can compare among lenders, credit cards, or investment products.



Spanish Translation of Annual Percentage Rate (APR)





Key Takeaways

An annual percentage rate (APR) is the yearly rate charged for a loan or earned by an investment.Financial institutions must disclose a financial instrument’s APR before any agreement is signed.The APR provides a consistent basis for presenting annual interest rate information in order to protect consumers from misleading advertising.An APR may not reflect the actual cost of borrowing because lenders have a fair amount of leeway in calculating it, excluding certain fees.APR shouldn't be confused with APY (annual percentage yield), a calculation that takes the compounding of interest into account.


   How the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) Works  

An annual percentage rate is expressed as an interest rate. It calculates what percentage of the principal you’ll pay each year by taking things such as monthly payments and fees into account. APR is also the annual rate of interest paid on investments without accounting for the compounding of interest within that year.



The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) of 1968 mandates that lenders disclose the APR they charge to borrowers. Credit card companies are allowed to advertise interest rates on a monthly basis, but they must clearly report the APR to customers before they sign an agreement.






Credit card companies can increase your interest rate for new purchases, but not existing balances if they provide you with 45 days' notice first.


  How Is APR Calculated?  

APR is calculated by multiplying the periodic interest rate by the number of periods in a year in which it was applied. It does not indicate how many times the rate is actually applied to the balance.


















APR


=



(



(





Fees


+


Interest



Principal



n



)



×


365


)



×


100
















where:
















Interest


=


Total interest paid over life of the loan
















Principal


=


Loan amount
















n


=


Number of days in loan term







\begin{aligned} &\text{APR} = \left ( \left ( \frac{ \frac{ \text{Fees} + \text{Interest} }{ \text {Principal} } }{ n } \right ) \times 365 \right ) \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Interest} = \text{Total interest paid over life of the loan} \\ &\text{Principal} = \text{Loan amount} \\ &n = \text{Number of days in loan term} \\ \end{aligned}


​APR=((nPrincipalFees+Interest​​)×365)×100where:Interest=Total interest paid over life of the loanPrincipal=Loan amountn=Number of days in loan term​


   Types of APRs  

Credit card APRs vary based on the type of charge. The credit card issuer may charge one APR for purchases, another for cash advances, and yet another for balance transfers from another card. Issuers also charge high-rate penalty APRs to customers for late payments or violating other terms of the cardholder agreement. There’s also the introductory APR—a low or 0% rate—with which many credit card companies try to entice new customers to sign up for a card.



Bank loans generally come with either fixed or variable APRs. A fixed APR loan has an interest rate that is guaranteed not to change during the life of the loan or credit facility. A variable APR loan has an interest rate that may change at any time.



The APR borrowers are charged also depends on their credit. The rates offered to those with excellent credit are significantly lower than those offered to those with bad credit.





Compound Interest or Simple Interest?

APR does not take into account the compounding of interest within a specific year: It is based only on simple interest.


   APR vs. Annual Percentage Yield (APY)  

Though an APR only accounts for simple interest, the annual percentage yield (APY) takes compound interest into account. As a result, a loan’s APY is higher than its APR. The higher the interest rate—and to a lesser extent, the smaller the compounding periods—the greater the difference between the APR and APY.



Imagine that a loan’s APR is 12%, and the loan compounds once a month. If an individual borrows $10,000, their interest for one month is 1% of the balance, or $100. That effectively increases the balance to $10,100. The following month, 1% interest is assessed on this amount, and the interest payment is $101, slightly higher than it was the previous month. If you carry that balance for the year, your effective interest rate becomes 12.68%. APY includes these small shifts in interest expenses due to compounding, while APR does not.



Here's another way to look at it. Say you compare an investment that pays 5% per year with one that pays 5% monthly. For the first month, the APY equals 5%, the same as the APR. But for the second, the APY is 5.12%, reflecting the monthly compounding.



Given that an APR and a different APY can represent the same interest rate on a loan or financial product, lenders often emphasize the more flattering number, which is why the Truth in Savings Act of 1991 mandated both APR and APY disclosure in ads, contracts, and agreements. A bank will advertise a savings account’s APY in a large font and its corresponding APR in a smaller one, given that the former features a superficially larger number. The opposite happens when the bank acts as the lender and tries to convince its borrowers that it’s charging a low rate. A great resource for comparing both APR and APY rates on a mortgage is a mortgage calculator.


  APR vs. APY Example  

Let's say that XYZ Corp. offers a credit card that levies interest of 0.06273% daily. Multiply that by 365, and that’s 22.9% per year, which is the advertised APR. Now, if you were to charge a different $1,000 item to your card every day and waited until the day after the due date (when the issuer started levying interest) to start making payments, you’d owe $1,000.6273 for each thing you bought.



To calculate the APY or effective annual interest rate—the more typical term for credit cards—add one (that represents the principal) and take that number to the power of the number of compounding periods in a year; subtract one from the result to get the percentage:


















APY


=


(


1


+


Periodic Rate



)


n



−


1
















where:
















n


=


Number of compounding periods per year







\begin{aligned} &\text{APY} = (1 + \text{Periodic Rate} ) ^ n - 1 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &n = \text{Number of compounding periods per year} \\ \end{aligned}


​APY=(1+Periodic Rate)n−1where:n=Number of compounding periods per year​



In this case your APY or EAR would be 25.7%:


















(


(


1


+


.


0006273



)


365



)


−


1


=


.


257







\begin{aligned} &( ( 1 + .0006273 ) ^ {365} ) - 1 = .257 \\ \end{aligned}


​((1+.0006273)365)−1=.257​



If you only carry a balance on your credit card for one month’s period, you will be charged the equivalent yearly rate of 22.9%. However, if you carry that balance for the year, your effective interest rate becomes 25.7% as a result of compounding each day.


   APR vs. Nominal Interest Rate vs. Daily Periodic Rate  

An APR tends to be higher than a loan’s nominal interest rate. That’s because the nominal interest rate doesn’t account for any other expense accrued by the borrower. The nominal rate may be lower on your mortgage if you don’t account for closing costs, insurance, and origination fees. If you end up rolling these into your mortgage, your mortgage balance increases, as does your APR.



The daily periodic rate, on the other hand, is the interest charged on a loan’s balance on a daily basis—the APR divided by 365. Lenders and credit card providers are allowed to represent APR on a monthly basis, though, as long as the full 12-month APR is listed somewhere before the agreement is signed.


   Disadvantages of Annual Percentage Rate (APR)  

The APR isn’t always an accurate reflection of the total cost of borrowing. In fact, it may understate the actual cost of a loan. That’s because the calculations assume long-term repayment schedules. The costs and fees are spread too thin with APR calculations for loans that are repaid faster or have shorter repayment periods. For instance, the average annual impact of mortgage closing costs is much smaller when those costs are assumed to have been spread over 30 years instead of seven to 10 years.





Who Calculates APR?

Lenders have a fair amount of authority to determine how to calculate the APR, including or excluding different fees and charges.



APR also runs into some trouble with adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs). Estimates always assume a constant rate of interest, and even though APR takes rate caps into consideration, the final number is still based on fixed rates. Because the interest rate on an ARM will change when the fixed-rate period is over, APR estimates can severely understate the actual borrowing costs if mortgage rates rise in the future.



Mortgage APRs may or may not include other charges, such as appraisals, titles, credit reports, applications, life insurance, attorneys and notaries, and document preparation. There are other fees that are deliberately excluded, including late fees and other one-time fees.



All this may make it difficult to compare similar products because the fees included or excluded differ from institution to institution. In order to accurately compare multiple offers, a potential borrower must determine which of these fees are included and, to be thorough, calculate APR using the nominal interest rate and other cost information.




Why Is the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) Disclosed?
Consumer protection laws require companies to disclose the APRs associated with their product offerings in order to prevent companies from misleading customers. For instance, if they were not required to disclose the APR, a company might advertise a low monthly interest rate while implying to customers that it was an annual rate. This could mislead a customer into comparing a seemingly low monthly rate against a seemingly high annual one. By requiring all companies to disclose their APRs, customers are presented with an “apples to apples” comparison.




What Is a Good APR?
What counts as a “good” APR will depend on factors such as the competing rates offered in the market, the prime interest rate set by the central bank, and the borrower’s own credit score. When prime rates are low, companies in competitive industries will sometimes offer very low APRs on their credit products, such as the 0% on car loans or lease options. Although these low rates might seem attractive, customers should verify whether these rates last for the full length of the product’s term, or whether they are simply introductory rates that will revert to a higher APR after a certain period has passed. Moreover, low APRs may only be available to customers with especially high credit scores.




How Do You Calculate APR?
The formula for calculating APR is straightforward. It consists of multiplying the periodic interest rate by the number of periods in a year in which the rate is applied. The exact formula is as follows:APR=((Fees+InterestPrincipaln)×365)×100where:Interest=Total interest paid over life of the loanPrincipal=Loan amountn=Number of days in loan term\begin{aligned} &\text{APR} = \left ( \left ( \frac{ \frac{ \text{Fees} + \text{Interest} }{ \text {Principal} } }{ n } \right ) \times 365 \right ) \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Interest} = \text{Total interest paid over life of the loan} \\ &\text{Principal} = \text{Loan amount} \\ &n = \text{Number of days in loan term} \\ \end{aligned}​APR=((nPrincipalFees+Interest​​)×365)×100where:Interest=Total interest paid over life of the loanPrincipal=Loan amountn=Number of days in loan term​


   The Bottom Line  

The APR is the basic theoretical cost or benefit of money loaned or borrowed. By calculating only the simple interest without periodic compounding, the APR gives borrowers and lenders a snapshot of how much interest they are earning or paying within a certain period of time. If someone is borrowing money, such as by using a credit card or applying for a mortgage, the APR can be misleading because it only presents the base number of what they are paying without taking time into the equation. Conversely, if someone is looking at the APR on a savings account, it doesn't illustrate the full impact of interest earned over time.



APRs are often a selling point for different financial instruments, such as mortgages or credit cards. When choosing a tool with an APR, be careful to also take into account the APY because it will prove a more accurate number for what you will pay or earn over time. Though the formula for your APR may stay the same, different financial institutions will include different fees in the principal balance. Be aware of what is included in your APR when signing any agreement.
What Is the Annual Percentage Yield (APY)?  

The annual percentage yield (APY) is the real rate of return earned on an investment, taking into account the effect of compounding interest. Unlike simple interest, compounding interest is calculated periodically and the amount is immediately added to the balance. With each period going forward, the account balance gets a little bigger, so the interest paid on the balance gets bigger as well.





Key Takeaways

APY is the actual rate of return that will be earned in one year if the interest is compounded.Compound interest is added periodically to the total invested, increasing the balance. That means each interest payment will be larger, based on the higher balance.The more often interest is compounded, the higher the APY will be.APY has a similar concept as annual percentage rate (APR), but APR is used for loans. The APY on checking, savings, or certificate of deposit holdings will vary across product and may have a variable or fixed rate.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Formula and Calculation of APY  

APY standardizes the rate of return. It does this by stating the real percentage of growth that will be earned in compound interest assuming that the money is deposited for one year. The formula for calculating APY is:













Where:



r = period rate n = number of compounding periods


   What Annual APY Can Tell You  

Any investment is ultimately judged by its rate of return, whether it's a certificate of deposit (CD), a share of stock, or a government bond. The rate of return is simply the percentage of growth in an investment over a specific period of time, usually one year. But rates of return can be difficult to compare across different investments if they have different compounding periods. One may compound daily, while another compounds quarterly or biannually.



Comparing rates of return by simply stating the percentage value of each over one year gives an inaccurate result, as it ignores the effects of compounding interest. It is critical to know how often that compounding occurs, since the more often a deposit compounds, the faster the investment grows. This is due to the fact that every time it compounds the interest earned over that period is added to the principal balance and future interest payments are calculated on that larger principal amount.


  Comparing the APY on 2 Investments  

Suppose you are considering whether to invest in a one-year zero-coupon bond that pays 6% upon maturity or a high-yield money market account that pays 0.5% per month with monthly compounding.



At first glance, the yields appear equal because 12 months multiplied by 0.5% equals 6%. However, when the effects of compounding are included by calculating the APY, the money market investment actually yields (1 + .005)^12 - 1 = 0.06168 = 6.17%.






Comparing two investments by their simple interest rates doesn't work as it ignores the effects of compounding interest and how often that compounding occurs.


   APY vs. APR  

APY is similar to the annual percentage rate (APR) used for loans. The APR reflects the effective percentage that the borrower will pay over a year in interest and fees for the loan. APY and APR are both standardized measures of interest rates expressed as an annualized percentage rate.



However, APY takes into account compound interest while APR does not. Furthermore, the equation for APY does not incorporate account fees, only compounding periods. That's an important consideration for an investor, who must consider any fees that will be subtracted from an investment's overall return.


   Example of APY  

If you deposited $100 for one year at 5% interest and your deposit was compounded quarterly, at the end of the year you would have $105.09. If you had been paid simple interest, you would have had $105.



The APY would be (1 + .05/4) * 4 - 1 = .05095 = 5.095%.



It pays 5% a year interest compounded quarterly, and that adds up to 5.095%. That's not too dramatic. However, if you left that $100 for four years and it was being compounded quarterly then the amount your initial deposit would have grown to $121.99. Without compounding it would have been $120.



X = D(1 + r/n)n*y



= $100(1 + .05/4)4*4



= $100(1.21989)



= $121.99



where:



X = Final amountD = Initial Depositr = period rate n = number of compounding periods per yeary = number of years


   Special Considerations  
  Compound Interest  

The premise of APY is rooted in the concept of compounding or compound interest. Compound interest is the financial mechanism that allows investment returns to earn returns of their own.



Imagine investing $1,000 at 6% compounded monthly. At the start of your investment, you have $1,000.



After one month, your investment will have earned one month worth of interest at 6%. Your investment will now be worth $1,005 ($1,000 * (1 + .06/12)). At this point, we have not yet seen compounding interest.



After the second month, your investment will have earned a second month of interest at 6%. However, this interest is earned on both your initial investment as well as your $5 interest earned last month. Therefore, your return this month will be greater than last month because your investment basis will be higher. Your investment will now be worth $1,010.03 ($1,005 * (1 + .06/12)). Notice that the interest earned this second month is $5.03, different from the $5.00 from last month.



After the third month, your investment will earn interest on the $1,000, the $5.00 earned from the first month, and the $5.03 earned from the second month. This demonstrates the concept of compound interest: the monthly amount earned will continually increase as long as the APY doesn't decrease and the investment principal is not reduced.






Banks in the U.S. are required to include the APY when they advertise their interest-bearing accounts. That tells potential customers exactly how much money a deposit will earn if it is deposited for 12 months.


  Variable APY vs. Fixed APY  

Savings or checking accounts may have either a variable APY or fixed APY. A variable APY is one that fluctuates and changes with macroeconomic conditions, while a fixed APY does not change (or changes much less frequently). One type of APY isn't necessarily better than the other. While locking into a fixed APY sounds appealing, consider periods when the Federal Reserve is raising rates and APYs increase each month.



Most checking, savings, and money market accounts have variable APYs, though some promotional bank accounts or bank account bonuses may have a higher fixed APY up to a specific level of deposits. For example. a bank may reward 5% APY on the first $500 deposited, then pay 1% APY on all other deposits.


  APY and Risk  

In general, investors are usually awarded higher yields when they take on greater risk or agree to make sacrifices. The same can be said regarding the APY of checking, saving, and certificate of deposits.



When a consumer holds money in a checking account, the consumer is asking to have their money on demand to pay for expenses. At a given notice, the consumer may need to pull out their debit card, buy groceries, and draw down their checking account. For this reason, checking accounts often have the lowest APY because there is no risk or sacrifice for the consumer.



When a consumer holds money in a savings account, the consumer may not have immediate need. The consumer may need to transfer funds to their checking account before it can be used. Alternatively, you cannot write checks from normal savings accounts. For this reason, savings accounts usually have higher APYs than checking accounts because consumers face greater limits with savings accounts.



Last, when consumers hold a certificate of deposit, the consumer is agreeing to sacrifice liquidity and access to funds in return for a higher APY. The consumer can't use or spend the money in a CD (or they can after paying a penalty to break the CD). For this reason, the APY on a CD is highest of three as the consumer is being rewarded for sacrificing immediate access to their funds.




What Is APY and How Does It Work?
APY is the annual percent yield that reflects compounding on interest. It reflects the actual interest rate you earn on an investment because it considers the interest you make on your interest.Consider the example above where the $100 investment yields 5% compounded quarterly. During the first quarter, you earn interest on the $100. However, during the second quarter, you earn interest on the $100 as well as the interest earned in the first quarter.




What Is a Good APY Rate?
APY rates fluctuate often, and a good rate at one time may no longer be a good rate due to shifts in macroeconomic conditions. In general, when the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, the APY on savings accounts tends to increase. Therefore, APY rates on savings accounts are usually better when monetary policy is tight or tightening. In addition, there are often low-cost, high-yield savings accounts that consistently deliver competitive APYs.




How Is APY Calculated?
APY standardizes the rate of return. It does this by stating the real percentage of growth that will be earned in compound interest assuming that the money is deposited for one year. The formula for calculating APY is: (1+r/n)n - 1, where r = period rate and n = number of compounding periods.




How Can APY Assist an Investor?
Any investment is ultimately judged by its rate of return, whether it's a certificate of deposit, a share of stock, or a government bond. APY allows an investor to compare different returns for different investments on an apples-to-apples basis, allowing them to make a more informed decision.




What Is the Difference Between APY and APR?
APY calculates that rate earned in one year if the interest is compounded and is a more accurate representation of the actual rate of return. APR includes any fees or additional costs associated with the transaction, but it does not take into account the compounding of interest within a specific year. Rather, it is a simple interest rate.


   The Bottom Line  

APY in banking is the actual rate of return you will earn on your checking or savings account. As opposed to simple interest calculations, APY considers the compounding effect of prior interest earned generating future returns. For this reason, APY will often be higher than simple interest, especially if the account compounds often.
What Is an Annual Report?  

An annual report is a document that public corporations must provide annually to shareholders that describes their operations and financial conditions. The front part of the report often contains an impressive combination of graphics, photos, and an accompanying narrative, all of which chronicle the company's activities over the past year and may also make forecasts about the future of the company. The back part of the report contains detailed financial and operational information.





Key Takeaways

An annual report is a corporate document disseminated to shareholders that spells out the company's financial condition and operations over the previous year.It was not until legislation was enacted after the stock market crash of 1929 that the annual report became a regular component of corporate financial reporting.Registered mutual funds must also distribute a full annual report to their shareholders each year.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Annual Reports  

Annual reports became a regulatory requirement for public companies following the stock market crash of 1929 when lawmakers mandated standardized corporate financial reporting. The intent of the required annual report is to provide public disclosure of a company's operating and financial activities over the past year. The report is typically issued to shareholders and other stakeholders who use it to evaluate the firm's financial performance and to make investment decisions.



Typically, an annual report will contain the following sections:



General corporate information
Operating and financial highlights
Letter to the shareholders from the CEO
Narrative text, graphics, and photos
Management's discussion and analysis (MD&A)
Financial statements, including the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement
Notes to the financial statements
Auditor's report
Summary of financial data
Accounting policies






Current and prospective investors, employees, creditors, analysts, and any other interested party will analyze a company using its annual report.



In the U.S., a more detailed version of the annual report is referred to as Form 10-K and is submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Companies may submit their annual reports electronically through the SEC's EDGAR database. Reporting companies must send annual reports to their shareholders when they hold annual meetings to elect directors. Under the proxy rules, reporting companies are required to post their proxy materials, including their annual reports, on their company websites.


   Special Considerations  

The annual report contains key information on a company's financial position that can be used to measure:



A company's ability to pay its debts as they come dueWhether a company made a profit or loss in its previous fiscal yearA company's growth over a number of yearsHow much of earnings are retained by a company to grow its operationsThe proportion of operational expenses to revenue generated



The annual report also determines whether the information conforms to the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This confirmation will be highlighted as an "unqualified opinion" in the auditor's report section.



Fundamental analysts also attempt to understand a company's future direction by analyzing the details provided in its annual report.


   Mutual Fund Annual Reports  

In the case of mutual funds, the annual report is a required document that is made available to a fund's shareholders on a fiscal-year basis. It discloses certain aspects of a mutual fund's operations and financial condition. In contrast to corporate annual reports, mutual fund annual reports are best described as "plain vanilla" in terms of their presentation.



A mutual fund annual report, along with a fund's prospectus and statement of additional information, is a source of multi-year fund data and performance, which is made available to fund shareholders as well as to prospective fund investors. Unfortunately, most of the information is quantitative rather than qualitative, which addresses the mandatory accounting disclosures required of mutual funds.



All mutual funds that are registered with the SEC are required to send a full report to all shareholders every year. The report shows how well the fund fared over the fiscal year. Information that can be found in the annual report includes:



Table, chart, or graph of holdings by category (e.g., type of security, industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity)Audited financial statements, including a complete or summary (top 50) list of holdingsCondensed financial statementsTable showing the fund’s returns for one-, five- and 10-year periodsManagement’s discussion of fund performanceManagement information about directors and officers, such as name, age, and tenureRemuneration or compensation paid to directors, officers, and others




How Do You Write an Annual Report?
An annual report has a few sections and steps that must convey a certain amount of information, much of which is legally required for public companies. Most public companies hire auditing companies to write their annual reports. An annual report begins with a letter to the shareholders, then a brief description of the business and industry. Following that, the report should include the audited financial statements: balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows. The last part will typically be notes to the financial statements, explaining certain facts and figures.




Is an Annual Report the Same As a 10-K Filing?
In general, an annual report is similar to the 10-K filing in that both report on the company's performance for the year. Both are considered to be the last financial filing of the year and summarize how the company did for that period. Annual reports are much more visually friendly. They are designed well and contain images and graphics. The 10-K filing only reports numbers and other qualitative information without any design elements or additional flair.




What Is a 10-Q Filing?
A 10-Q filing is a form that is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that reports the quarterly earnings of a company. Most public companies have to file a 10-Q with the SEC to report their financial position for the quarter.


   The Bottom Line  

Public companies must produce annual reports to show their current financial conditions and operations. Annual reports can be used to examine a company's financial position and, possibly, understand what direction it will move in the future. These reports function differently for mutual funds; in this case, they are made available each fiscal year and are typically simpler.
What Is an Annual Return?  

The annual return is the return that an investment provides over a period of time, expressed as a time-weighted annual percentage. Sources of returns can include dividends, returns of capital and capital appreciation. The rate of annual return is measured against the initial amount of the investment and represents a geometric mean rather than a simple arithmetic mean.


   Understanding Annual Return  

The de facto method for comparing the performance of investments with liquidity, an annual return can be calculated for various assets, which include stocks, bonds, funds, commodities and some types of derivatives. This process is a preferred method, considered to be more accurate than a simple return, as it includes adjustments for compounding interest. Different asset classes are considered to have different strata of annual returns.





Key Takeaways

An annual or annualized return is a measure of how much an investment has increased on average each year, during a specific time period.The annualized return is calculated as a geometric average to show what the annual return compounded would look like.An annual return can be more useful than a simple return when you want to see how an investment has performed over time, or to compare two investments.An annual return can be determined for a variety of assets, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, commodities, and certain derivatives.


   Annual Returns on Stocks  

Also known as an annualized return, the annual return expresses the stock’s increase in value over a designated period of time. In order to calculate an annual return, information regarding the current price of the stock and the price at which it was purchased are required. If any splits have occurred, the purchase price needs to be adjusted accordingly. Once the prices are determined, the simple return percentage is calculated first, with that figure ultimately being annualized. The simple return is just the current price minus the purchase price, divided by the purchase price.


   Example Annual Return Calculation  

﻿















CAGR


=



(




(




Ending Value




Beginning Value 




)





1




Years





)



−


1
















where:
















CAGR


=


compound annual growth rate
















Years


=


holding period, in years








\begin{aligned} &\text{CAGR} = \left ( \left ( \frac{ \text{Ending Value} }{ \text{Beginning Value } } \right ) ^ \frac{ 1 }{ \text{Years} } \right ) - 1 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CAGR} = \text{compound annual growth rate} \\ &\text{Years} = \text{holding period, in years} \\ \end{aligned}


​CAGR=((Beginning Value Ending Value​)Years1​)−1where:CAGR=compound annual growth rateYears=holding period, in years​﻿



Consider an investor that purchases a stock on Jan. 1, 2000, for $20. The investor then sells it on Jan. 1, 2005, for $35 – a $15 profit. The investor also receives a total of $2 in dividends over the five-year holding period. In this example, the investor's total return over five years is $17, or (17/20) 85% of the initial investment. The annual return required to achieve 85% over five years follows the formula for the compound annual growth rate (CAGR):



﻿
















(




(




3


7




2


0




)





1




5





)



−


1


=


1


3


.


1


%


 annual return








\begin{aligned} &\left ( \left ( \frac { 37 }{ 20 } \right ) ^ \frac{ 1 }{ 5 } \right ) - 1 = 13.1\% \text{ annual return} \\ \end{aligned}


​((2037​)51​)−1=13.1% annual return​﻿



The annualized return varies from the typical average and shows the real gain or loss on an investment, as well as the difficulty in recouping losses. For instance, losing 50% on an initial investment requires a 100% gain the next year in order to make up the difference. Because of the sizable difference in gains and losses that can occur, annualized returns help even out investment results for better comparison. 






Annual-return statistics are commonly quoted in promotional materials for mutual funds, ETFs and other individual securities.


   Annual Returns on a 401K  

The calculation differs when determining the annual return of a 401K during a specified year. First, the total return must be calculated. The starting value for the time period being examined is needed, along with the final value. Before performing the calculations, any contributions to the account during the time period in question must be subtracted from the final value.



Once the adjusted final value is determined, it is divided by the starting balance. Finally, subtract 1 from the result and multiply that amount by 100 to determine the percentage total return.
What Is Annual Turnover?  

Annual turnover is the percentage rate at which something changes ownership over the course of a year. For a business, this rate could be related to its yearly turnover in inventories, receivables, payables, or assets.



In investments, a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) turnover rate replaces its investment holdings on a yearly basis. Portfolio turnover is the comparison of assets under management (AUM) to the inflow, or outflow, of a fund's holdings. The figure is useful to determine how actively the fund changes the underlying positions in its holdings. High figure turnover rates indicate an actively managed fund. Other funds are more passive and have a lower percentage of holding turnovers. An index fund is an example of a passive holding fund.





Key Takeaways

A turnover rate is computed by counting how many times an asset, security, or payment changed hands over a year-long period.Businesses look at annual turnover rates to determine their efficiency and productivity while investment managers and investors use turnover rate to understand the activity of a portfolio.Annualized turnover is often a future projection based on one month—or another shorter period of time—of investment turnover.A high turnover rate by itself is not a reliable indicator of fund quality or performance.


   Calculating Annual Turnover  

To calculate the portfolio turnover ratio for a given fund, first determine the total amount of assets purchased or sold (whichever happens to be greater), during the year. Then, divide that amount by the average assets held by the fund over the same year.



﻿















portfolio turnover


 


=


 




max


&ApplyFunction;



{







fund purchases











fund sales










average assets










\begin{aligned}&\text{portfolio turnover}\ =\ \frac{\operatorname{max}\begin{cases} \text{fund purchases}\\ \quad \text{fund sales}\end{cases}}{\text{average assets}}\end{aligned}


​portfolio turnover = average assetsmax{fund purchasesfund sales​​​﻿



For example, if a mutual fund held $100 million in assets under management (AUM) and $75 million of those assets were liquidated at some point during the measurement period, the calculation is:



﻿

















$


7


5


m




$


1


0


0


m




=


0


.


7


5
















where:








\begin{aligned}&\frac{\$75\text{m}}{\$100\text{m}}=0.75\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{m}=\text{million}\end{aligned}


​$100m$75m​=0.75where:​﻿



It is important to note that a fund turning over at 100% annually has not necessarily liquidated all positions with which it began the year. Instead, the complete turnover accounts for the frequent trading in and out of positions and the fact that sales of securities equal total AUM for the year. Also, using the same formula, the turnover rate is also measured by the number of securities bought in the measurement period.


   Annualized Turnover in Investments  

Annualized turnover is a future projection based on one month—or another shorter period of time—of investment turnover. For example, suppose that an ETF has a 5% turnover rate for the month of February. Using that figure, an investor may estimate annual turnover for the coming year by multiplying the one-month turnover by 12. This calculation provides an annualized holdings turnover rate of 60%.


  Actively Managed Funds  

Growth funds rely on trading strategies and stock selection from seasoned professional managers who set their sights on outperforming the index against which the portfolio benchmarks. Owning large equity positions is less about a commitment to corporate governance than it is a means to positive shareholder results. Managers who consistently beat the indices stay on the job and attract significant capital inflows.



While the passive versus active management argument persists, high volume approaches can realize moderate success. Consider the American Century Small Cap Growth fund (ANOIX), a four-star-rated Morningstar fund with a frantic 141% turnover rate (as of February 2021) that outperformed the S&P 500 Index considently over the last 15 years (through 2021).


  Passively Managed Funds  

Index funds, such as the Fidelity 500 Index Fund (FXAIX), adopt a buy-and-hold strategy. Following this system, the fund owns positions in equities as long as they remain components of the benchmark. The funds maintain a perfect, positive correlation to the index, and thus, the portfolio turnover rate is just 4%. Trading activity is limited to purchasing securities from inflows and infrequently selling issues removed from the index. More than 60% of the time, indices have historically outpaced managed funds.



Also, it is important to note, a high turnover rate judged in isolation is never an indicator of fund quality or performance. The Fidelity Spartan 500 Index Fund, after expenses, trailed the S&P 500 by 2.57% in 2020.


   Annual Turnover in Business: Inventory Turnover  

Businesses use several annual turnover metrics for understanding how well the business is running on a yearly basis. Inventory turnover measures how fast a company sells inventory and how analysts compare it to industry averages. A low turnover implies weak sales and possibly excess inventory, also known as overstocking. It may indicate a problem with the goods being offered for sale or be a result of too little marketing. A high ratio implies either strong sales or insufficient inventory. The former is desirable while the latter could lead to lost business. Sometimes a low inventory turnover rate is a good thing, such as when prices are expected to rise (inventory pre-positioned to meet fast-rising demand) or when shortages are anticipated.



The speed at which a company can sell inventory is a critical measure of business performance. Retailers that move inventory out faster tend to outperform. The longer an item is held, the higher its holding cost will be, and the fewer reasons consumers will have to return to the shop for new items.
What Is Annualization?  

To annualize a number means to convert a short-term calculation or rate into an annual rate. Typically, an investment that yields a short-term rate of return is annualized to determine an annual rate of return, which may also include compounding or reinvestment of interest and dividends. It helps to annualize a rate of return to better compare the performance of one security versus another.



Annualization is a similar concept to reporting financial figures on an annual basis.





Key Takeaways

Annualizing can be used to forecast the financial performance of an asset, security, or a company for the next year.To annualize a number, multiply the shorter-term rate of return by the number of periods that make up one year. One month's return would be multiplied by 12 months while one quarter's return by four quarters.An annualized rate of return or forecast is not guaranteed and can change due to outside factors and market conditions.


   Understanding Annualization  

When a number is annualized, it's usually for rates of less than one year in duration. If the yield being considered is subject to compounding, annualization will also account for the effects of compounding. Annualizing can be used to determine the financial performance of an asset, security, or company.



When a number is annualized, the short-term performance or result is used to forecast the performance for the next twelve months or one year. Below are a few of the most common examples of when annualizing is utilized.


  Company Performance  

An annualized return is similar to a run rate, which refers to the financial performance of a company based on current financial information as a predictor of future performance. The run rate functions as an extrapolation of current financial performance and assumes that current conditions will continue.


  Loans  

The annualized cost of loan products is often expressed as an annual percentage rate (APR). The APR considers every cost associated with the loan, such as interest and origination fees, and converts the total of these costs to an annual rate that is a percentage of the amount borrowed.



Loan rates for short-term borrowings can be annualized as well. Loan products including payday loans and title loans, charge a flat finance fee such as $15 or $20 to borrow a nominal amount for a few weeks to a month. On the surface, the $20 fee for one month doesn't appear to be exorbitant. However, annualizing the number equates to $240 and could be extremely large relative to the loan amount.






To annualize a number, multiply the shorter-term rate of return by the number of periods that make up one year. One month's return would be multiplied by 12 months while one quarter's return by four quarters.


  Tax Purposes  

Taxpayers annualize by converting a tax period of less than one year into an annual period. The conversion helps wage earners establish an effective tax plan and manage any tax implications.



For example, taxpayers can multiply their monthly income by 12 months to determine their annualized income. Annualizing income can help taxpayers estimate their effective tax rate based on the calculation and can be helpful in budgeting their quarterly taxes.


   Example: Investments  

Investments are annualized frequently. Let's say a stock returned 1% in one month in capital gains on a simple (not compounding) basis. The annualized rate of return would be equal to 12% because there are 12 months in one year. In other words, you multiply the shorter-term rate of return by the number of periods that make up one year. A monthly return would be multiplied by 12 months.



However, let's say an investment returned 1% in one week. To annualize the return, we'd multiply the 1% by the number of weeks in one year or 52 weeks. The annualized return would be 52%.



Quarterly rates of return are often annualized for comparative purposes. A stock or bond might return 5% in Q1. We could annualize the return by multiplying 5% by the number of periods or quarters in a year. The investment would have an annualized return of 20% because there are four quarters in one year or (5% * 4 = 20%).


   Limitations of Annualizing  

The annualized rate of return or forecast is not guaranteed and can change due to outside factors and market conditions. Consider an investment that returns 1% in one month; the security would return 12% on an annualized basis. However, the annualized return of a stock cannot be forecasted with a high degree of certainty using the stock's short-term performance.



There are many factors that could impact a stock's price throughout the year such as market volatility, the company's financial performance, and macroeconomic conditions. As a result, fluctuations in the stock price would make the original annualized forecast incorrect. For example, a stock might return 1% in month one and return -3% the following month.




Why Might an Investor Annualize a Stock’s One-Month Return?
Investors may annualize a stock's one-month return to forecast its performance over the next 12 months. Understanding a stock's longer-term returns can help investors better manage their risk and compare performance against other benchmarks.




What Periods do Investors Typically Annualize?
Investors annualize returns of less than one year. As mentioned, a monthly rate of return is often annualized to project the returns on a stock over the next 12 months. Quarterly figures are also frequently annualized when analyzing a company’s metrics, such as its earnings and sales.




Why is Understanding Annualization Important when Determining Loan Costs?
Understanding annualization allows borrowers to better understand the annual costs associated with a loan. Most lenders display an APR, which is the yearly rate of costs, such as fees and interest, expressed as a percentage of the amount borrowed. 




What is the Main Limitation of Annualizing?
The primary drawback of annualizing a return is that it can change over time due to outside factors and market conditions. Stock market volatility, a company's financial performance, and macroeconomic conditions can all significantly impact yearly returns.


   The Bottom Line  

Annualize refers to converting a short-term number, such as an investment return or interest rate, into an annual rate. A number is annualized by multiplying the short-term figure by the number of periods that make up one year. Investors and lenders typically annualize a return to forecast an investment’s 12-month performance or a loan’s annual costs, helping to make comparisons and manage risk. Annualizing figures can also help investors to measure a company’s performance metrics and assist taxpayers in establishing an effective tax plan. Investors should keep in mind that annualized figures can change due to shifting conditions over a 12-month period.
What Is Annualized Income?  

Annualized income is an estimate of the sum of money that an individual or a business generates over a year's time. Annualized income is calculated with less than one year's worth of data, so it is only an approximation of total income for the year. Annualized income figures can be helpful for creating budgets and making estimated income tax payments.


   Understanding Annualized Income  

Annualized income can be calculated by multiplying the earned income figure by the ratio of the number of months in a year divided by the number of months for which income data is available. If, for example, a consultant earned $10,000 in January, $12,000 in February, $9,000 in March and $13,000 in April, the earned income figure for those four months totals $44,000. To annualize the consultant's income, multiply $44,000 by 12/4 to equal $132,000.


   How Estimated Tax Payments Work  

Taxpayers pay annual tax liabilities through tax withholdings and by making estimated tax payments each quarter. There are many sources of income that are not subject to tax withholding. Income from self-employment, interest and dividend income and capital gains are not subject to tax withholdings, along with alimony and some other sources of income that may be reported to a taxpayer on Form 1099.﻿﻿ To avoid a penalty for tax underpayment, the total tax withholdings and estimated tax payments must equal to the lesser of 90% of the tax owed for the current year or the full tax owed the previous year.﻿﻿


   Examples of Annualized Income That Fluctuates  

Computing estimated tax payments is difficult if the taxpayer’s income sources fluctuate during the year. Many self-employed people generate income that varies greatly from one month to the next. Assume, for example, that a self-employed salesperson earns $25,000 during the first quarter and $50,000 in the second quarter of the year. The higher income in the second quarter indicates a higher total level of income for the year, and the first quarter’s estimated tax payment is based on a lower level of income. As a result, the salesperson may be assessed an underpayment penalty for the first quarter.


   Factoring in the Annualized Income Installment Method  

To avoid the underpayment penalties due to fluctuating income, the IRS Form 2210 allows the taxpayer to annualize income for a particular quarter and compute the estimated tax payments based on that amount. Schedule AI of Form 2210 provides a column for each quarterly period, and the taxpayer annualizes the income for that period and computes an estimated tax payment based on that estimate.﻿﻿ Using the salesperson example, Form 2210 allows the taxpayer to annualize the $25,000 first quarter income separately from the $50,000 second quarter income.
What Is the Annualized Income Installment Method?  

Taxpayers who are self-employed typically pay quarterly installments of their estimated tax in four even amounts as figured by the regular installment method. Additionally, taxpayers should pay estimated taxes if they receive substantial dividends, interest, alimony, or other forms of income that are not subject to income tax withholding.



When a taxpayer has a fluctuating income, it often causes them to underpay on one or more of the quarterly estimates leading to underpayment penalties. The annualized income installment method calculates the taxpayer's estimated tax installment payments and helps to decrease underpayment and corresponding underpayment penalties related to fluctuating income. Through the use of the annualized income installment method, taxpayers may estimate their taxes based on known information from the beginning of the tax year through the end of the period paid.





Key Takeaways

Self-employed taxpayers must pay quarterly estimated tax payments. Typically, these estimated tax payments are made in four equal installments under the regular installment method. The annualized income installment method refigures estimated tax payment installments so it correlates to when the taxpayer earned the money in the year. It is designed to limit underpayment and corresponding underpayment penalties related to uneven payments when a taxpayer's income fluctuates throughout the year.


   How the Annualized Income Installment Method Works  

The purpose of the regular installment method is to figure in quarterly tax installments. It divides the annual estimated tax into four equal segments. The resulting payments are appropriate for the quarterly estimated taxes of taxpayers with a steady income, but this does not work as well for taxpayers whose income fluctuates. Some taxpayers may have a hard time finding the cash to pay estimated taxes in slower months.



Consider, for example, taxpayers Jane and John. Each of them owes $100,000 in annual estimated tax. Jane pays her estimated payments in four $25,000 installments per the regular installment method. She evenly earned her income, 25% each quarter, so the quarterly portions paid her estimated tax in full and on time. 



John's earnings were uneven, with each tax quarter at 0%, 20%, 30%, and 50%, respectively. John may have a difficult time coming up with the cash necessary to make his first and second quarter estimated tax payments when his earnings are low. Using the regular installment method, if John were to pay less estimated tax in the first two quarters and more in the second two quarters, he would owe an underpayment penalty for the first two quarters.



The annualized income installment method allows John to refigure his installments, so they correlate to his income as he earns it. It does so by annualizing John’s installments over four overlapping periods. Each period begins on Jan. 1. The first period ends on March 31, the second ends on May 31, the third on Aug. 31, and the fourth period ends on Dec. 31. Each period includes all the previous periods, with the final period encompassing the entire year. It allows John to estimate his tax payments based on his income to that point in the year.



In this example, we know the exact percentage of John's annual earnings from each tax quarter. John pays $0 in March, $20,000 in May, $30,000 in August, and $50,000 in December. John now has four installments of different amounts that, when added together, equal his full annual estimated tax of $100,000. John's refigured installments are now paid on time, his underpayment penalties abated.



IRS Publication 505 has forms, schedules, and worksheets that guide taxpayers desiring to refigure their installments using the annualized income installment method. However, figuring installments this way is complicated and best done on an IRS worksheet by your favorite tax professional.




How do I annualize my income for the annualized income installment method?
Unlike our scenario above, in real life, you will not already know your full annual tax payment when your quarterly estimated tax payment is due. Instead, you will have to estimate your annual tax payment by annualizing your income from the beginning of the year until the end of the period in which you are paying taxes. Because the "quarters" do not always fall on actual calendar quarters, year-to-date (YTD) income through May 31 is annualized by multiplying by 2.4, through Aug. 31 YTD by 1.5, and through Dec. 31 YTD by 1.




What is the tax form for the annualized income installment method?
The annualized method can be calculated using IRS Form 2210.




I owed $500 when I filed my tax return. Do I need to file Form 2210?
No, there is no underpayment penalty if the difference between your total tax on your return and the amount of tax you paid through withholding is less than $1,000.
What Is an Annualized Rate of Return?  

An annualized rate of return is calculated as the equivalent annual return an investor receives over a given period. The Global Investment Performance Standards dictate that returns of portfolios or composites for periods of less than one year may not be annualized. This prevents "projected" performance in the remainder of the year from occurring.





Key Takeaways

The annualized rate of return is a process for determining investment returns on an annual basis. The rate of return looks at gains or losses on investments over varying periods of time, while the annualized rate looks at the returns on a yearly basis.The annualized rate of return is expressed as a percentage and is consistent over the years that the investment has provided returns.It differs from the annual performance of an investment, which can vary considerably from year-to-year.


   Understanding Annualized Rate  

Annualized returns are returns over a period scaled down to a 12-month period. This scaling process allows investors to objectively compare the returns of any assets over any period.


   Calculation Using Annual Data  

Calculating the annualized performance of an investment or index using yearly data uses the following data points:



P = principal, or initial investment



G = gains or losses



n = number of years



AP = annualized performance rate



The generalized formula, which is exponential to take into account compound interest over time, is:



AP = ((P + G) / P) ^ (1 / n) - 1






   Annualized Rate of Return Examples  

For example, assume an investor invested $50,000 into a mutual fund and, four years later, the investment is worth $75,000. This is a $25,000 gain in four years. Thus, the annualized performance is:



AP = (($50,000 + $25,000) / $50,000) ^ (1/4) - 1



In this example, the annualized performance is 10.67 percent.



A $25,000 gain on a $50,000 investment over four years is a 50 percent return. It is inaccurate to say the annualized return is 12.5 percent, or 50 percent divided by four because this does not take into effect compound interest. If reversing the 10.67 percent result to compound over four years, the result is exactly what is expected:



$75,000 = $50,000 x (1 + 10.67%) ^ 4



It is important not to confuse annualized performance with annual performance. The annualized performance is the rate at which an investment grows each year over the period to arrive at the final valuation. In this example, a 10.67 percent return each year for four years grows $50,000 to $75,000. But this says nothing about the actual annual returns over the four-year period. Returns of 4.5 percent, 13.1 percent, 18.95 percent and 6.7 percent grow $50,000 into approximately $75,000. Also, returns of 15 percent, -7.5 percent, 28 percent, and 10.2 percent provide the same result.


   Using Days in the Calculation  

Industry standards for most investments dictate the most precise form of annualized return calculation, which uses days instead of years. The formula is the same, except for the exponent:



AP = ((P + G) / P) ^ (365 / n) - 1



Assume from the previous example that the fund returned $25,000 over a 1,275-day period. The annualized return is then:



AP = (($50,000 + $25,000) / $50,000) ^ (365/1275) - 1



The annualized performance in this example is 12.31 percent.
What Is Annualized Total Return?  

An annualized total return is the geometric average amount of money earned by an investment each year over a given time period. The annualized return formula is calculated as a geometric average to show what an investor would earn over a period of time if the annual return was compounded.



An annualized total return provides only a snapshot of an investment's performance and does not give investors any indication of its volatility or price fluctuations.





Key Takeaways

An annualized total return is the geometric average amount of money earned by an investment each year over a given time period.The annualized return formula shows what an investor would earn over a period of time if the annual return was compounded.Calculating the annualized rate of return needs only two variables: the returns for a given period and the time the investment was held.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Annualized Total Return  

To understand annualized total return, we'll compare the hypothetical performances of two mutual funds. Below is the annualized rate of return over a five-year period for the two funds:



Mutual Fund A Returns: 3%, 7%, 5%, 12%, and 1%Mutual Fund B Returns: 4%, 6%, 5%, 6%, and 6.7%



Both mutual funds have an annualized rate of return of 5.5%, but Mutual Fund A is much more volatile. Its standard deviation is 4.2%, while Mutual Fund B's standard deviation is only 1%. Even when analyzing an investment's annualized return, it is important to review risk statistics.


   Annualized Return Formula and Calculation  

The formula to calculate annualized rate of return needs only two variables: the returns for a given period of time and the time the investment was held. The formula is:



﻿









Annualized Return


=









(


(


1


+



r


1



)


×


(


1


+



r


2



)


×


(


1


+



r


3



)


×
















⋯


×


(


1


+



r


n



)



)




1




n





−


1








\begin{aligned} \text{Annualized Return} = &\big ( (1 + r_1 ) \times (1 + r_2) \times (1 + r_3) \times \\ &\dots \times (1 + r_n) \big ) ^ \frac{1}{n} - 1 \\ \end{aligned}


Annualized Return=​((1+r1​)×(1+r2​)×(1+r3​)×⋯×(1+rn​))n1​−1​﻿



For example, take the annual rates of returns of Mutual Fund A above. An analyst substitutes each of the "r" variables with the appropriate return, and "n" with the number of years the investment was held. In this case, five years. The annualized return of Mutual Fund A is calculated as:



﻿









Annualized Return









=


(


(


1


+


.


0


3


)


×


(


1


+


.


0


7


)


×


(


1


+


.


0


5


)


×


















(


1


+


.


1


2


)


×


(


1


+


.


0


1


)



)




1




5





−


1
















=


1


.


3


0



9



0


.


2


0




−


1
















=


1


.


0


5


5


3


−


1
















=


.


0


5


5


3


,


or 


5


.


5


3


%








\begin{aligned} \text{Annualized Return} &= \big ( (1 + .03) \times (1 + .07) \times (1 + .05) \times \\ &\quad \quad (1 + .12) \times (1 + .01) \big ) ^ \frac{1}{5} -1 \\ &= 1.309 ^ {0.20} - 1 \\ &= 1.0553 - 1 \\ &= .0553, \text{or } 5.53\% \\ \end{aligned}


Annualized Return​=((1+.03)×(1+.07)×(1+.05)×(1+.12)×(1+.01))51​−1=1.3090.20−1=1.0553−1=.0553,or 5.53%​﻿



An annualized return does not have to be limited to yearly returns. If an investor has a cumulative return for a given period, even if it is a specific number of days, an annualized performance figure can be calculated; however, the annual return formula must be slightly adjusted to:



﻿















Annualized Return


=


(


1


+


Cumulative Return



)




3


6


5




Days Held





−


1








\begin{aligned} &\text{Annualized Return} = ( 1 + \text{Cumulative Return} ) ^ \frac {365}{ \text{Days Held} } - 1 \\ \end{aligned}


​Annualized Return=(1+Cumulative Return)Days Held365​−1​﻿



For example, assume a mutual fund was held by an investor for 575 days and earned a cumulative return of 23.74%. The annualized rate of return would be:



﻿









Annualized Return









=


(


1


+


.


2


3


7


4



)




3


6


5




5


7


5





−


1
















=


1


.


1


4


5


−


1
















=


.


1


4


5


,


or 


1


4


.


5


%








\begin{aligned} \text{Annualized Return} &= ( 1 + .2374) ^ \frac{365}{575} - 1 \\ &= 1.145 - 1 \\ &= .145, \text{or } 14.5\% \\ \end{aligned}


Annualized Return​=(1+.2374)575365​−1=1.145−1=.145,or 14.5%​﻿


   Difference Between Annualized Return and Average Return  

Calculations of simple averages only work when numbers are independent of each other. The annualized return is used because the amount of investment lost or gained in a given year is interdependent with the amount from the other years under consideration because of compounding.



For example, if a mutual fund manager loses half of her client's money, she has to make a 100% return to break even. Using the more accurate annualized return also gives a clearer picture when comparing various mutual funds or the return of stocks that have traded over different time periods. 






   Reporting Annualized Return  

According to the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)—a set of standardized, industry-wide principles that guide the ethics of performance reporting—any investment that does not have a track record of at least 365 days cannot "ratchet up" its performance to be annualized.



Thus, if a fund has been operating for only six months and earned 5%, it is not allowed to say its annualized performance is approximately 10% since that is predicting future performance instead of stating facts from the past. In other words, calculating an annualized rate of return must be based on historical numbers.




How Is Annualized Total Return Calculated?
The annualized total return is a metric that captures the average annual performance of an investment or portfolio of investments. It is calculated as a geometric average, meaning that it captures the effects of compounding over time. The annualized total return is sometimes referred to as the compound annual growth rate (CAGR).




What Is the Difference Between an Annualized Total Return and an Average Return?
The key difference between the annualized total return and the average return is that the annualized total return captures the effects of compounding, whereas the average return does not.For example, consider the case of an investment that loses 50% of its value in year 1 but has a 100% return in year 2. Simply averaging these two percentages would give you an average return of 25% per year. However, common sense would tell you that the investor in this scenario has actually broken even on their money (losing half its value in year one, then regaining that loss in year 2). This fact would be better captured by the annualized total return, which would be 0.00% in this instance.




What Is the Difference Between the Annualized Total Return and the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
The annualized total return is conceptually the same as the CAGR, in that both formulas seek to capture the geometric return of an investment over time. The main difference between them is that the CAGR is often presented using only the beginning and ending values, whereas the annualized total return is typically calculated using the returns from several years. This, however, is more a matter of convention. In substance, the two measures are the same.


   The Bottom Line  

Annualized total return represents the geometric average amount that an investment has earned each year over a specific period. By calculating a geometric average, the annualized total return formula accounts for compounding when depicting the yearly earnings that the investment would generate over the holding period. While the metric provides a useful snapshot of an investment's performance, it does not reveal volatility and price fluctuations.
What Is an Annuitant?  

An annuitant is an individual who is entitled to collect the regular payments of a pension or an annuity investment. The annuitant may be the contract holder or another person, such as a surviving spouse. Annuities are generally seen as retirement income supplements. They may be tied to an employee pension plan or a life insurance product. The size of the payments is usually determined by the life expectancy of the annuitant as well as the amount invested.





Key Takeaways

An annuitant is an investor or a pension plan beneficiary who is entitled to receive the regular payments of a pension or an annuity investment.The annuitant may be eligible for a deferred annuity or an immediate annuity.A deferred annuity is usually a retirement investment similar to an IRA or 401(k).


   Understanding Annuitants  

An annuity is a regular payment of a guaranteed income for life or for some specified number of years. An annuitant may be a retired civil servant who receives a pension plan, or an investor who has paid a sum of money to an insurance company in return for a regular income supplement.



Depending on the specifics of the contract, the owner of an annuity may name one or more annuitants, such as a spouse and an elderly parent, or may arrange a joint annuity. The annuitant can also arrange for the payments to be transferred to a surviving spouse if the need arises. In any case, the annuitant must be a person, not a company, or a trust.



The amount of the payments to an annuitant is based on the individual's age and life expectancy, and the age and life expectancy of any beneficiaries. For example, if the annuitant is 65 years old, but the annuity is transferrable to his 60-year-old wife if she survives him, the insurance company will calculate that it will make monthly payments for about 24 years, which is the life expectancy of a 60-year-old woman.






Most annuities are taxed as ordinary income.



In yet another variation, an annuity can be for a term of "life-plus"—that is, the payments will continue for the annuitant's lifetime and then be transferred to a surviving spouse for a specified period of time.


   Types of Annuities  

There are many variations of annuity, but they can be boiled down to two basic types:



A deferred annuity is often used as a retirement savings vehicle. The annuitant invests money regularly over time in return for a stream of annuity payments at some point in the future. Many company pension plans are structured this way.
An immediate annuity is just what it sounds like. The annuitant pays a lump sum of money in return for a series of payments that begin immediately and are paid for life or for a specific period of time. The latter option is called a life plus period certain annuity.


   Taxes on Annuitants  

Annuities are generally taxed as ordinary income. The portion of the annuity payments that represents the contract holder's basis is not taxed, only the gain portion. In the case of an employer pension, the entire payment is generally taxed as ordinary income.
What Is Annuitization?  

Annuitization is the process of converting an annuity investment into a series of periodic income payments. Annuities may be annuitized for a specific period or for the life of the annuitant. Annuity payments may only be made to the annuitant or to the annuitant and a surviving spouse in a joint life arrangement. Annuitants can arrange for beneficiaries to receive a portion of the annuity balance upon their death.





Key Takeaways

Annuitization is the process of converting an annuity investment into a series of periodic income payments. Annuities may be annuitized for a specific period or for the life of the annuitant. Annuity payments may only be made to the annuitant or to the annuitant and a surviving spouse in a joint life arrangement. Annuitants can arrange for beneficiaries to receive a portion of the annuity balance upon their death.


   Understanding Annuitization  

The concept of annuitization dates back centuries, but life insurance companies formalized it into a contract offered to the public in the 1800s.



Individuals can enter into a contract with a life insurance company that involves the exchange of a lump sum of capital for a promise to make periodic payments for a specified period or for the lifetime of the individual who is the annuitant.


   How Annuitization Works  

Upon receiving the lump sum of capital, the life insurer makes calculations to determine the annuity payout amount. The key factors used in the calculation are the annuitant's current age, life expectancy, and the projected interest rate the insurer will credit to the annuity balance. The resulting payout rate establishes the amount of income that the insurer will pay whereby the insurer will have returned the entire annuity balance plus interest to the annuitant by the end of the payment period.



The payment period may be a specified period or the life expectancy of the investor. If the insurer determines that the investor’s life expectancy is 25 years, then that becomes the payment period. The significant difference between using a specified period versus a lifetime period is that, if the annuitant lives beyond their life expectancy, the life insurer must continue the payments until the annuitant's death. This is the insurance aspect of an annuity in which the life insurer assumes the risk of extended longevity.


   Annuity Payments Based on a Single Life  

Annuity payments based on a single life cease when the annuitant dies, and the insurer retains the remaining annuity balance. When payments are based on joint lives, the payments continue until the death of the second annuitant. When an insurer covers joint lives, the amount of the annuity payment is reduced to cover the longevity risk of the additional life.



Annuitants may designate a beneficiary to receive the annuity balance through a refund option. Annuitants can select refund options for varying periods of time during which, if death occurs, the beneficiary will receive the proceeds. For instance, if an annuitant selects a refund option for a period certain of 10 years, death must occur within that 10-year period for the insurer to pay the refund to the beneficiary. An annuitant may select a lifetime refund option, but the length of the refund period will affect the payout rate. The longer the refund period is, the lower the payout rate.


   Changes to Annuities in Retirement Accounts  

In 2019, the U.S. Congress passed the SECURE Act, which made changes to retirement plans, including those containing annuities. The good news is that the new ruling makes annuities more portable. For example, if you change jobs, your 401(k) annuity from your old job can be rolled over into the 401(k) plan at your new job.



However, the SECURE Act removed some of the legal risks for retirement plans. The ruling limits the ability for account holders to sue the retirement plan if it doesn't pay the annuity payments—as in the case of bankruptcy. Note that a safe harbor provision of the SECURE Act prevents retirement plans (and not annuity providers) from being sued.



The SECURE Act also eliminated the stretch provision for those beneficiaries who inherit an IRA. In years past, a beneficiary of an IRA could stretch out the required minimum distributions from the IRA over their lifetime, which helped to stretch out the tax burden.



With the new ruling, non-spousal beneficiaries must distribute all of the funds from the inherited IRA within 10 years of the death of the owner. However, there are exceptions to the new law. By no means is this article a comprehensive review of the SECURE Act. As a result, it's important for investors to consult a financial professional to review the new changes to retirement accounts, annuities, and their designated beneficiaries.
Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   What Is an Annuity?  

The term "annuity" refers to an insurance contract issued and distributed by financial institutions with the intention of paying out invested funds in a fixed income stream in the future. Investors invest in or purchase annuities with monthly premiums or lump-sum payments. The holding institution issues a stream of payments in the future for a specified period of time or for the remainder of the annuitant's life. Annuities are mainly used for retirement purposes and help individuals address the risk of outliving their savings.





Key Takeaways

Annuities are financial products that offer a guaranteed income stream, usually for retirees.The accumulation phase is the first stage of an annuity, whereby investors fund the product with either a lump sum or periodic payments.The annuitant begins receiving payments after the annuitization period for a fixed period or for the rest of their life.Annuities can be structured into different kinds of instruments, which gives investors flexibility.These products can be categorized into immediate and deferred annuities and may be structured as fixed or variable.







What Is An Annuity?


   How an Annuity Works  

Annuities are designed to provide a steady cash flow for people during their retirement years and to alleviate the fears of outliving their assets. Since these assets may not be enough to sustain their standard of living, some investors may turn to an insurance company or other financial institution to purchase an annuity contract.



As such, these financial products are appropriate for investors, who are referred to as annuitants, who want stable, guaranteed retirement income. Because invested cash is illiquid and subject to withdrawal penalties, it is not recommended for younger individuals or for those with liquidity needs to use this financial product.



An annuity goes through several different phases and periods. These are called:



The accumulation phase, the period of time when an annuity is being funded and before payouts begin. Any money invested in the annuity grows on a tax-deferred basis during this stage.
The annuitization phase, which kicks in once payments commence.



These financial products can be immediate or deferred. Immediate annuities are often purchased by people of any age who have received a large lump sum of money, such as a settlement or lottery win, and who prefer to exchange it for cash flows into the future. Deferred annuities are structured to grow on a tax-deferred basis and provide annuitants with guaranteed income that begins on a date they specify.






Annuities often come with complicated tax considerations, so it's important to understand how they work. As with any other financial product, be sure to consult with a professional before you purchase an annuity contract.



Annuity products are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Agents or brokers selling annuities need to hold a state-issued life insurance license, and also a securities license in the case of variable annuities. These agents or brokers typically earn a commission based on the notional value of the annuity contract.


   Special Considerations  

Annuities usually have a surrender period. Annuitants cannot make withdrawals during this time, which may span several years, without paying a surrender charge or fee. Investors must consider their financial requirements during this time period. For example, if a major event requires significant amounts of cash, such as a wedding, then it might be a good idea to evaluate whether the investor can afford to make requisite annuity payments.



Contracts also have an income rider that ensures a fixed income after the annuity kicks in. There are two questions that investors should ask when they consider income riders:



At what age do they need the income? Depending on the duration of the annuity, the payment terms and interest rates may vary.
What are the fees associated with the income rider? While there are some organizations that offer the income rider free of charge, most have fees associated with this service.






Defined benefit pensions and Social Security are two examples of lifetime guaranteed annuities that pay retirees a steady cash flow until they pass.



Many insurance companies will allow recipients to withdraw up to 10% of their account value without paying a surrender fee. However, if you withdraw more than that, you may end up paying a penalty, even if the surrender period has already lapsed. There are also tax implications for withdrawals before age 59 and a half.



Because of the potentially high cost of withdrawals, some hard-up annuitants may opt to sell their annuity payments instead. This is similar to borrowing against any other income stream: the annuitant receives a lump sum, and in exchange gives up their right to some (or all) of their future annuity payments.



Individuals who invest in annuities cannot outlive their income stream, which hedges longevity risk. So long as the purchaser understands that they are trading a liquid lump sum for a guaranteed series of cash flows, the product is appropriate. Some purchasers hope to cash out an annuity in the future at a profit, however, this is not the intended use of the product.


   Types of Annuities  

Annuities can be structured according to a wide array of details and factors, such as the duration of time that payments from the annuity can be guaranteed to continue. As mentioned above, annuities can be created so that payments continue so long as either the annuitant or their spouse (if survivorship benefit is elected) is alive. Alternatively, annuities can be structured to pay out funds for a fixed amount of time, such as 20 years, regardless of how long the annuitant lives.


  Immediate and Deferred Annuities  

Annuities can begin immediately upon deposit of a lump sum, or they can be structured as deferred benefits. The immediate payment annuity begins paying immediately after the annuitant deposits a lump sum. Deferred income annuities, on the other hand, don't begin paying out after the initial investment. Instead, the client specifies an age at which they would like to begin receiving payments from the insurance company.



Depending on the type of annuity you choose, the annuity may or may not be able to recover some of the principal invested in the account. In the case of a straight, lifetime payout, there is no refund of the principal–the payments simply continue until the beneficiary dies. If the annuity is set for a fixed period of time, the recipient may be entitled to a refund of any remaining principal–or their heirs, if the annuitant has deceased.


  Fixed and Variable Annuities  

Annuities can be structured generally as either fixed or variable:



Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant.
Variable annuities allow the owner to receive larger future payments if investments of the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly, which provides for less stable cash flow than a fixed annuity but allows the annuitant to reap the benefits of strong returns from their fund's investments.



While variable annuities carry some market risk and the potential to lose principal, riders and features can be added to annuity contracts—usually for an extra cost. This allows them to function as hybrid fixed-variable annuities. Contract owners can benefit from upside portfolio potential while enjoying the protection of a guaranteed lifetime minimum withdrawal benefit if the portfolio drops in value.



Other riders may be purchased to add a death benefit to the agreement or to accelerate payouts if the annuity holder is diagnosed with a terminal illness. The cost of living rider is another common rider that will adjust the annual base cash flows for inflation based on changes in the consumer price index (CPI).


   Criticism of Annuities  

One criticism of annuities is that they are illiquid. Deposits into annuity contracts are typically locked up for a period of time, known as the surrender period, where the annuitant would incur a penalty if all or part of that money were touched.



These periods can last anywhere from two to more than 10 years, depending on the particular product. Surrender fees can start out at 10% or more and the penalty typically declines annually over the surrender period.


   Annuities vs. Life Insurance  

Life insurance companies and investment companies are the two primary types of financial institutions offering annuity products. For life insurance companies, annuities are a natural hedge for their insurance products. Life insurance is bought to deal with mortality risk, which is the risk of dying prematurely. Policyholders pay an annual premium to the insurance company that will pay out a lump sum upon their death.



If the policyholder dies prematurely, the insurer pays out the death benefit at a net loss to the company. Actuarial science and claims experience allow these insurance companies to price their policies so that on average insurance purchasers will live long enough so that the insurer earns a profit. In many cases, the cash value inside of permanent life insurance policies can be exchanged via a 1035 exchange for an annuity product without any tax implications.



Annuities, on the other hand, deal with longevity risk, or the risk of outliving one's assets. The risk to the issuer of the annuity is that annuity holders will survive to outlive their initial investment. Annuity issuers may hedge longevity risk by selling annuities to customers with a higher risk of premature death.


   Example of an Annuity  

A life insurance policy is an example of a fixed annuity in which an individual pays a fixed amount each month for a pre-determined time period (typically 59.5 years) and receives a fixed income stream during their retirement years.



An example of an immediate annuity is when an individual pays a single premium, say $200,000, to an insurance company and receives monthly payments, say $5,000, for a fixed time period afterward. The payout amount for immediate annuities depends on market conditions and interest rates.



Annuities can be a beneficial part of a retirement plan, but annuities are complex financial vehicles. Because of their complexity, many employers don't offer them as part of an employee's retirement portfolio.



However, the passage of the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act, signed into law by President Donald Trump in late December 2019, loosens the rules on how employers can select annuity providers and includes annuity options within 401(k) or 403(b) investment plans. The easement of these rules may trigger more annuity options open to qualified employees in the near future.




Who Buys Annuities?
Annuities are appropriate financial products for individuals seeking stable, guaranteed retirement income. Because the lump sum put into the annuity is illiquid and subject to withdrawal penalties, it is not recommended for younger individuals or for those with liquidity needs to use this financial product. Annuity holders cannot outlive their income stream, which hedges longevity risk.




What Is a Non-Qualified Annuity?
Annuities can be purchased with either pre-tax or after-tax dollars. A non-qualified annuity is one that has been purchased with after-tax dollars. A qualified annuity is one that has been purchased with pre-tax dollars. Qualified plans include 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans. Only the earnings of a non-qualified annuity are taxed at the time of withdrawal, not the contributions, as they are after-tax money.




What Is an Annuity Fund?
An annuity fund is the investment portfolio in which an annuity holder's funds are invested. The annuity fund earns returns, which correlate to the payout that an annuity holder receives. When an individual buys an annuity from an insurance company, they pay a premium. The premium is invested by the insurance company into an investment vehicle that contains stocks, bonds, and other securities, which is the annuity fund.




What Is the Surrender Period?
The surrender period is the amount of time an investor must wait before they can withdraw funds from an annuity without facing a penalty. Withdrawals made before the end of the surrender period can result in a surrender charge, which is essentially a deferred sales fee. This period generally spans several years. Investors can incur a significant penalty if they withdraw the invested amount before the surrender period is over.




What Are Common Types of Annuities?
Annuities are generally structured as either fixed or variable instruments. Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant and are often used in retirement planning. Variable annuities allow the owner to receive larger future payments if investments of the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly. This provides for less stable cash flow than a fixed annuity but allows the annuitant to reap the benefits of strong returns from their fund's investments.
What Is Annuity Due?  

An annuity due is an annuity whose payment is due immediately at the beginning of each period. A common example of an annuity due payment is rent, as landlords often require payment upon the start of a new month as opposed to collecting it after the renter has enjoyed the benefits of the apartment for an entire month.





Key Takeaways

Annuity due is an annuity whose payment is due immediately at the beginning of each period.Annuity due can be contrasted with an ordinary annuity where payments are made at the end of each period.A common example of an annuity due payment is rent paid at the beginning of each month.An example of an ordinary annuity includes loans, such as mortgages.The present and future value formulas for an annuity due differ slightly from those for an ordinary annuity as they account for the differences in when payments are made.


   How Annuity Due Works  

An annuity due requires payments made at the beginning, as opposed to the end, of each annuity period. Annuity due payments received by an individual legally represent an asset. Meanwhile, the individual paying the annuity due has a legal debt liability requiring periodic payments.



Because a series of annuity due payments reflect a number of future cash inflows or outflows, the payer or recipient of the funds may wish to calculate the entire value of the annuity while factoring in the time value of money. One can accomplish this by using present value calculations.



A present value table for an annuity due has the projected interest rate across the top of the table and the number of periods as the left-most column. The intersecting cell between the appropriate interest rate and the number of periods represents the present value multiplier. Finding the product between one annuity due payment and the present value multiplier yields the present value of the cash flow.



A whole life annuity due is a financial product sold by insurance companies that require annuity payments at the beginning of each monthly, quarterly, or annual period, as opposed to at the end of the period. This is a type of annuity that will provide the holder with payments during the distribution period for as long as they live. After the annuitant passes on, the insurance company retains any funds remaining.






Income payments from an annuity are taxed as ordinary income.


   Annuity Due vs. Ordinary Annuity  

An annuity due payment is a recurring issuance of money upon the beginning of a period. Alternatively, an ordinary annuity payment is a recurring issuance of money at the end of a period. Contracts and business agreements outline this payment, and it is based on when the benefit is received. When paying for an expense, the beneficiary pays an annuity due payment before receiving the benefit, while the beneficiary makes ordinary due payments after the benefit has occurred.



The timing of an annuity payment is critical based on opportunity costs. The collector of the payment may invest an annuity due payment collected at the beginning of the month to generate interest or capital gains. This is why an annuity due is more beneficial for the recipient as they have the potential to use funds faster. Alternatively, individuals paying an annuity due lose out on the opportunity to use the funds for an entire period. Those paying annuities thus tend to prefer ordinary annuities.


   Examples of Annuity Due  

An annuity due may arise due to any recurring obligation. Many monthly bills, such as rent, car payments, and cellphone payments, are annuities due because the beneficiary must pay at the beginning of the billing period. Insurance expenses are typically annuities due as the insurer requires payment at the start of each coverage period. Annuity due situations also typically arise relating to saving for retirement or putting money aside for a specific purpose.


   How to Calculate the Value of an Annuity Due  

The present and future values of an annuity due can be calculated using slight modifications to the present value and future value of an ordinary annuity.


  Present Value of an Annuity Due  

The present value of an annuity due tells us the current value of a series of expected annuity payments. In other words, it shows what the future total to be paid is worth now.



Calculating the present value of an annuity due is similar to calculating the present value of an ordinary annuity. However, there are subtle differences to account for when annuity payments are due. For an annuity due, payments are made at the beginning of the interval, and for an ordinary annuity, payments are made at the end of a period. The formula for the present value of an annuity due is:















Present Value of Annuity Due.
Investopedia 



With:



C = Cash flows per periodi = interest raten = number of payments



Let's look at an example of the present value of an annuity due. Suppose you are a beneficiary designated to immediately receive $1000 each year for 10 years, earning an annual interest rate of 3%. You want to know how much the stream of payments is worth to you today. Based on the present value formula, the present value is $8,786.11.















Present Value of an Annuity Due.
Investopedia 


  Future Value of an Annuity Due  

The future value of an annuity due shows us the end value of a series of expected payments or the value at a future date.



Just as there are differences in how the present value is calculated for an ordinary annuity and an annuity due, there are also differences in how the future value of money is calculated for an ordinary annuity and an annuity due. The future value of an annuity due is calculated as:















Future Value of an Annuity Due.
 Investopedia



Using the same example, we calculate that the future value of the stream of income payments to be $11,807.80.















Future Value of an Annuity Due.
Investopedia


   Annuity Due FAQs  
  Which Is Better, Ordinary Annuity or Annuity Due?  

Whether an ordinary annuity or an annuity due is better depends on whether you are the payee or payer. As a payee, an annuity due is often preferred because you receive payment up front for a specific term, allowing you to use the funds immediately and enjoy a higher present value than that of an ordinary annuity. As a payer, an ordinary annuity might be favorable as you make your payment at the end of the term, rather than the beginning. You are able to use those funds for the entire period before paying.



Often, you are not afforded the option to choose. For example, insurance premiums are an example of an annuity due, with premium payments due at the beginning of the covered period. A car payment is an example of an ordinary annuity, with payments due at the end of the covered period.


  What Is an Immediate Annuity?  

An immediate annuity is an account, funded with a lump sum deposit, that generates an immediate stream of income payments. The income can be for a stated amount (e.g., $1,000/month), a stated period (e.g., 10 years), or a lifetime.


  How Do You Calculate the Future Value of an Annuity Due?  

The future value of an annuity due is calculated using the formula:















Future Value of an Annuity Due.
 Investopedia



where



C = cash flows per periodi = interest raten = number of payments


  What Does Annuity Mean?  

An annuity is an insurance product designed to generate payments immediately or in the future to the annuity owner or a designated payee. The account holder either makes a lump sum payment or a series of payments into the annuity and can either receive an immediate stream of income or defer receiving payments until some time in the future, usually after an accumulation period where the account earns interest tax-deferred.


  What Happens When an Annuity Expires?  

Once an annuity expires, the contract terminates and no future payments are made. The contractual obligation is fulfilled, with no further duties owed from either party.


   The Bottom Line  

An annuity due is an annuity with payment due or made at the beginning of the payment interval. In contrast, an ordinary annuity generates payments at the end of the period. As a result, the method for calculating the present and future values differ. A common example of an annuity due is rent payments made to a landlord, and a common example of an ordinary annuity includes mortgage payments made to a lender. Depending on whether you are the payer or payee, the annuity due might be a better option.
What Is an Annuity Table?  

An annuity table is a tool for determining the present value of an annuity or other structured series of payments. Such a tool, used by accountants, actuaries, and other insurance personnel, takes into account how much money has been placed into an annuity and how long it has been there to determine how much money would be due to an annuity buyer or annuitant.



Figuring the present value of any future amount of an annuity may also be performed using a financial calculator or software built for such a purpose.





Key Takeaways

An annuity table is a tool used to determine the present value of an annuity.An annuity table calculates the present value of an annuity using a formula that applies a discount rate to future payments.An annuity table uses the discount rate and number of period for payment to give you an appropriate factor. Using an annuity table, you will multiply the dollar amount of your recurring payment by the given factor.







What Is An Annuity?


   How an Annuity Table Works  

An annuity table provides a factor, based on time, and a discount rate (interest rate) by which an annuity payment can be multiplied to determine its present value. For example, an annuity table could be used to calculate the present value of an annuity that paid $10,000 a year for 15 years if the interest rate is expected to be 3%.



According to the concept of the time value of money, receiving a lump sum payment in the present is worth more than receiving the same sum in the future. As such, having $10,000 today is better than being given $1,000 per year for the next 10 years because the sum could be invested and earn interest over that decade. At the end of the 10-year period, the $10,000 lump sum would be worth more than the sum of the annual payments, even if invested at the same interest rate.


   Annuity Table and the Present Value of an Annuity  
  Present Value of an Annuity Formulas  

The formula for the present value of an ordinary annuity, as opposed to an annuity due, is as follows:















P


=


PMT


×




1


−


(


1


+


r



)


−



n



r

















where:
















P


=


Present value of an annuity stream
















PMT


=


Dollar amount of each annuity payment
















r


=


Interest rate (also known as the discount rate)
















n


=


Number of periods in which payments will be made







\begin{aligned}&\text{P} =\text{PMT}\times\frac{ 1 - (1 + r) ^ -n}{r}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{P} = \text{Present value of an annuity stream}\\&\text{PMT} =\text{Dollar amount of each annuity payment}\\&r = \text{Interest rate (also known as the discount rate)}\\&n = \text{Number of periods in which payments will be made}\end{aligned}


​P=PMT×r1−(1+r)−n​where:P=Present value of an annuity streamPMT=Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr=Interest rate (also known as the discount rate)n=Number of periods in which payments will be made​
Assume an individual has an opportunity to receive an annuity that pays $50,000 per year for the next 25 years, with a discount rate of 6%, or a lump sum payment of $650,000. He needs to determine the more rational option. Using the above formula, the present value of this annuity is:















PVA


=


$


50


,


000


×




1


−


(


1


+


0.06



)


−



25



0.06



=


$


639


,


168
















where:
















PVA


=


Present value of annuity







\begin{aligned}&\text{PVA} = \$50,000 \times \frac{1 - (1 + 0.06) ^ -25}{0.06} = \$639,168\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{PVA}=\text{Present value of annuity}\end{aligned}


​PVA=$50,000×0.061−(1+0.06)−25​=$639,168where:PVA=Present value of annuity​
Given this information, the annuity is worth $10,832 less on a time-adjusted basis, and the individual should choose the lump sum payment over the annuity.
Note, this formula is for an ordinary annuity where payments are made at the end of the period in question. In the above example, each $50,000 payment would occur at the end of the year, each year, for 25 years. With an annuity due, the payments are made at the beginning of the period in question. To find the value of an annuity due, simply multiply the above formula by a factor of (1 + r):















P


=


PMT


×



(




1


−


(


1


+


r



)


−



n



r



)



×


(


1


+


r


)







\begin{aligned}&\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times\left(\frac{1 - (1 + r) ^ -n}{r}\right) \times (1 + r)\end{aligned}


​P=PMT×(r1−(1+r)−n​)×(1+r)​
If the above example of an annuity due, its value would be:















P


=


$


50


,


000

















×



(




1


−


(


1


+


0.06



)


−



25



0.06



)



×


(


1


+


0.06


)


=


$


677


,


518







\begin{aligned}&\text{P}= \$50,000\\&\quad \times\left( \frac{1 - (1 + 0.06) ^ -25}{0.06}\right)\times (1 + 0.06) = \$677,518\end{aligned}


​P=$50,000×(0.061−(1+0.06)−25​)×(1+0.06)=$677,518​
In this case, the individual should choose the annuity due, because it is worth $27,518 more than the lump sum payment.


  Present Value of an Annuity Table  

Rather than working through the formulas above, you could alternatively use an annuity table. An annuity table simplifies the math by automatically giving you a factor for the second half of the formula above. For example, the present value of an ordinary annuity table would give you one number (referred to as a factor) that is pre-calculated for the (1 - (1 + r) ^ - n) / r) portion of the formula.



The factor is determined by the interest rate (r in the formula) and the number of periods in which payments will be made (n in the formula). In an annuity table, the number of periods is commonly depicted down the left column. The interest rate is commonly depicted across the top row. Simply select the correct interest rate and number of periods to find your factor in the intersecting cell. That factor is then multiplied by the dollar amount of the annuity payment to arrive at the present value of the ordinary annuity.



Below is an example of a present value of an ordinary annuity table:














n
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%


1
0.9901
0.9804
0.9709
0.9615
0.9524
0.9434


2
1.9704
1.9416
1.9135
1.8861
1.8594
1.8334


3
2.9410
2.8839
2.8286
2.7751
2.7233
2.6730


4
3.9020
3.8077
3.7171
3.6299
3.5460
3.4651


5
4.8534
4.7135
4.5797
4.4518
4.3295
4.2124


10
9.4713
8.9826
8.5302
8.1109
7.7217
7.3601


15
13.8651
12.8493
11.9380
11.1184
10.3797
9.7123


20
18.0456
16.3514
14.8775
13.5903
12.4622
11.4699


25
22.0232
19.5235
17.4132
15.6221
14.0939
12.7834






If we take the example above with a 6% interest rate and a 25 year period, you will find the factor = 12.7834. If you multiply this 12.7834 factor from the annuity table by the $50,000 payment amount, you will get $639,170, almost the same as the $639,168 result in the formula highlighted in the previous section. The slight difference in the figures reflects the fact that the 12,7834 number in the annuity table is rounded.



There is a separate table for the present value of an annuity due, and it will give you the correct factor based on the second formula.




What Is an Annuity Table Used For?
An annuity table is a tool used mostly by accounting, insurance or other financial professionals to determine the present value of an annuity. It takes into account the amount of money that has been placed in the annuity and how long it's been sitting there, so as to decide the amount of money that should be paid out to an annuity buyer or annuitant.




What Is the Difference Between an Ordinary Annuity and an Annuity Due?
An ordinary annuity generates payments at the end of the annuity period, while an annuity due is an annuity with the payment expected or paid at the start of the payment period.




Can a Lottery Winner Use an Annuity Table?
A lottery winner could use an annuity table to determine whether it makes more financial sense to take his lottery winnings as a lump-sum payment today or as a series of payments over many years. However, Lottery winnings are a rare form of an annuity. More commonly, annuities are a type of investment used to provide individuals with a steady income in retirement.
What Is an Anomaly?  

In economics and finance, an anomaly is when the actual result under a given set of assumptions is different from the expected result predicted by a model. An anomaly provides evidence that a given assumption or model does not hold up in practice. The model can either be a relatively new or older model.





Key Takeaways

Anomalies are occurrences that deviate from the predictions of economic or financial models that undermine those models' core assumptions.In markets, patterns that contradict the efficient market hypothesis like calendar effects are prime examples of anomalies.Most market anomalies are psychologically driven.Anomalies, however, tend to quickly disappear once knowledge about them has been made public.


   Understanding Anomalies  

In finance, two common types of anomalies are market anomalies and pricing anomalies. Market anomalies are distortions in returns that contradict the efficient market hypothesis (EMH). Pricing anomalies are when something—for example, a stock—is priced differently than how a model predicts it will be priced.



Common market anomalies include the small-cap effect and the January effect. The small-cap effect refers to the small company effect, where smaller companies tend to outperform larger ones over time. The January effect refers to the tendency of stocks to return much more in the month of January than in others.



Anomalies also often occur with respect to asset pricing models, in particular, the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Although the CAPM was derived by using innovative assumptions and theories, it often does a poor job of predicting stock returns. The numerous market anomalies that were observed after the formation of the CAPM helped form the basis for those wishing to disprove the model. Although the model may not hold up in empirical and practical tests, it still does hold some utility.



Anomalies tend to be few and far between. In fact, once anomalies become publicly known, they tend to quickly disappear as arbitragers seek out and eliminate any such opportunity from occurring again.


   Types of Market Anomalies  

In financial markets, any opportunity to earn excess profits undermines the assumptions of market efficiency, which states that prices already reflect all relevant information and so cannot be arbitraged.


  January Effect  

The January effect is a rather well-known anomaly. According to the January effect, stocks that underperformed in the fourth quarter of the prior year tend to outperform the markets in January. The reason for the January effect is so logical that it is almost hard to call it an anomaly. Investors will often look to jettison underperforming stocks late in the year so that they can use their losses to offset capital gains taxes (or to take the small deduction that the IRS allows if there is a net capital loss for the year). Many people call this event tax-loss harvesting.



As selling pressure is sometimes independent of the company's actual fundamentals or valuation, this "tax selling" can push these stocks to levels where they become attractive to buyers in January.



Likewise, investors will often avoid buying underperforming stocks in the fourth quarter and wait until January to avoid getting caught up in the tax-loss selling. As a result, there is excess selling pressure before January and excess buying pressure after Jan. 1, leading to this effect.


  September Effect  

The September effect refers to historically weak stock market returns for the month of September. There is a statistical case for the September effect depending on the period analyzed, but much of the theory is anecdotal. It is generally believed that investors return from summer vacation in September ready to lock in gains as well as tax losses before the end of the year.



There is also a belief that individual investors liquidate stocks going into September to offset schooling costs for children. As with many other calendar effects, the September effect is considered a historical quirk in the data rather than an effect with any causal relationship. 


  Days of the Week Anomalies  

Efficient market supporters hate the "Days of the Week" anomaly because it not only appears to be true, but it also makes no sense. Research has shown that stocks tend to move more on Fridays than Mondays and that there is a bias toward positive market performance on Fridays. It is not a huge discrepancy, but it is a persistent one.



The Monday effect is a theory which states that returns on the stock market on Mondays will follow the prevailing trend from the previous Friday. Therefore, if the market was up on Friday, it should continue through the weekend and, come Monday, resume its rise. The Monday effect is also known as the "weekend effect."



On a fundamental level, there is no particular reason that this should be true. Some psychological factors could be at work. Perhaps an end-of-week optimism permeates the market as traders and investors look forward to the weekend. Alternatively, perhaps the weekend gives investors a chance to catch up on their reading, stew and fret about the market, and develop pessimism going into Monday.


  Superstitious Indicators  

Aside from calendar anomalies, there are some non-market signals that some people believe will accurately indicate the direction of the market. Here is a short list of superstitious market indicators:



The Super Bowl Indicator: When a team from the old American Football League wins the game, the market will close lower for the year. When an old National Football League team wins, the market will end the year higher. Silly as it may seem, the Super Bowl indicator was correct almost three-quarters of the time over a 53-year period ending in 2021. However, the indicator has one limitation: It contains no allowance for an expansion-team victory!
The Hemline Indicator: The market rises and falls with the length of skirts. Sometimes this indicator is referred to as the "bare knees, bull market" theory. To its merit, the hemline indicator was accurate in 1987, when designers switched from miniskirts to floor-length skirts just before the market crashed. A similar change also took place in 1929, but many argue as to which came first, the crash or the hemline shifts.
The Aspirin Indicator: Stock prices and aspirin production are inversely related. This indicator suggests that when the market is rising, fewer people need aspirin to heal market-induced headaches. Lower aspirin sales should indicate a rising market.
What Is an Anti-Dilution Provision?  

Anti-dilution provisions are clauses built into convertible preferred stocks and some options to help shield investors from their investment potentially losing value. When new issues of a stock hit the market at a cheaper price than that paid by earlier investors in the same stock, then equity dilution can occur. Anti-dilution provisions are also referred to as anti-dilution clauses, subscription rights, subscription privileges, or preemptive rights.


   Understanding Anti-Dilution Provisions  

Anti-dilution provisions act as a buffer to protect investors against their equity ownership positions becoming diluted or less valuable. This can happen when the percentage of an owner's stake in a company decreases because of an increase in the total number of shares outstanding. Total shares outstanding may increase because of new share issuance based on a round of equity financing. Dilution can also occur when holders of stock options, such as company employees, or holders of other optionable securities exercise their options.






When the number of shares outstanding increases, each existing stockholder owns a smaller, or diluted, percentage of the company, making each share less valuable.



Sometimes the company receives enough cash in exchange for the shares that the increase in the value of the shares offsets the effects of dilution; but often this is not the case.


   Anti-Dilution Provisions at Work  

Dilution can be particularly vexing to preferred shareholders of venture capital deals, whose stock ownership may become diluted when later issues of the same stock hit the market at a cheaper price. Anti-dilution provisions can discourage this from happening by tweaking the conversion price between convertible securities, such as corporate bonds or preferred shares, and common stocks. In this way, anti-dilution clauses can keep an investor's original ownership percentage intact.


  Dilution in Action  

As a simple example of dilution, assume that an investor owns 200,000 shares of a company that has 1,000,000 shares outstanding. The price per share is $5, meaning that the investor has a $1,000,000 stake in a company valued at $5,000,000. The investor owns 20% of the company.Next, assume that the company enters a new round of financing and issues 1,000,000 more shares, bringing the total shares outstanding to 2,000,000. Now, at that same $5 per share price, the investor owns a $1,000,000 stake in a $10,000,000 company. Instantly, the investors' ownership has been diluted to 10%.


  Types of Anti-Dilution Provisions  

The two common types of anti-dilution clauses are known as "full ratchet" and "weighted average."



With a full ratchet provision, the conversion price of the existing preferred shares is adjusted downward to the price at which new shares are issued in later rounds. Very simply, if the original conversion price was $5 and in a later round the conversion price is $2.50, the investor's original conversion price would adjust to $2.50.



The weighted average provision uses the following formula to determine new conversion prices:



C2 = C1 x (A + B) / (A + C)



Where:



C2 = new conversion priceC1 = old conversion priceA = number of outstanding shares before a new issueB = total consideration received by the company for the new issueC = number of new shares issued





Key Takeaways

Anti-dilution provisions are clauses built into convertible preferred stocks to help shield investors from their investment potentially losing value.Dilution can occur when the percentage of an owner's stake in a company decreases because of an increase in the total number of shares outstanding. Anti-dilution provisions are also referred to as anti-dilution clauses, subscription rights, subscription privileges, or preemptive rights.
What Is an Anti-Dumping Duty?  

An anti-dumping duty is a protectionist tariff that a domestic government imposes on foreign imports that it believes are priced below fair market value. Dumping is a process wherein a company exports a product at a price that is significantly lower than the price it normally charges in its home (or its domestic) market.





Key Takeaways

An anti-dumping duty is a protectionist tariff that a domestic government imposes on foreign imports that it believes are priced below fair market value.In order to protect their respective economy, many countries impose duties on products they believe are being dumped in their national market; this is done with the rationale that these products have the potential to undercut local businesses and the local economy.While the intention of anti-dumping duties is to save domestic jobs, these tariffs can also lead to higher prices for domestic consumers.In the long-term, anti-dumping duties can reduce the international competition of domestic companies producing similar goods.In the U.S., the International Trade Commission (ITC)–an independent government agency–is tasked with imposing anti-dumping duties.﻿﻿The World Trade Organization (WTO)–an international organization that deals with the rules of trade between nations–also operates a set of international trade rules, including the international regulation of anti-dumping measures.﻿﻿



In order to protect their respective economy, many countries impose duties on products they believe are being dumped in their national market because these products have the potential to undercut local businesses and the local economy.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Anti-Dumping Duties  

In the U.S., the International Trade Commission (ITC)–an independent government agency–is tasked with imposing anti-dumping duties. Their actions are based on recommendations they receive from the U.S. Department of Commerce and investigations by the ITC and/or the Department of Commerce.﻿﻿ 



In many cases, the duties imposed on these goods exceeds the value of the goods. Anti-dumping duties are typically levied when a foreign company is selling an item significantly below the price at which it is being produced.



While the intention of anti-dumping duties is to save domestic jobs, these tariffs can also lead to higher prices for domestic consumers. And, in the long-term, anti-dumping duties can reduce the international competition of domestic companies producing similar goods.



The World Trade Organization (WTO) is an international organization that deals with the rules of trade between nations. The WTO also operates a set of international trade rules, including the international regulation of anti-dumping measures. The WTO does not intervene in the activities of companies engaged in dumping. Instead, it focuses on how governments can—or cannot—react to the practice of dumping.﻿﻿ In general, the WTO agreement permits governments to act against dumping "if it causes or threatens material injury to an established industry in the territory of a contracting party or materially retards the establishment of a domestic industry."﻿﻿



This intervention must be justified in order to uphold the WTO's commitment to free-market principles.﻿﻿ Anti-dumping duties have the potential to distort the market. In a free market, governments cannot normally determine what constitutes a fair market price for any good or service.


   Example of an Anti-Dumping Duty  

In June 2015, American steel companies United States Steel Corp., Nucor Corp., Steel Dynamics Inc., ArcelorMittal USA, AK Steel Corp., and California Steel Industries, Inc. filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Commerce and the ITC. Their complaint alleged that several countries, including China, were dumping steel into the U.S. market and keeping prices unfairly low.﻿﻿



After conducting a review, one year later the U.S. announced that it would be imposing a total of 522% combined anti-dumping and countervailing import duties on certain steel imported from China.﻿﻿ In 2018, China filed a complaint with the WTO challenging the tariffs imposed by the Trump administration.﻿﻿ Since then, the Trump administration has continued to use the WTO to challenge what it claims are unfair trading practices by the Chinese government and other trading partners.﻿﻿
What Is Anti Money Laundering (AML)?  

Anti money laundering (AML) refers to the web of laws, regulations, and procedures aimed at uncovering efforts to disguise illicit funds as legitimate income. Money laundering seeks to conceal crimes ranging from small-time tax evasion and drug trafficking to public corruption and the financing of groups designated as terrorist organizations.



AML legislation was a response to the growth of the financial industry, the lifting of international capital controls and the growing ease of conducting complex chains of financial transactions.



A high-level United Nations panel has estimated annual money laundering flows at $1.6 trillion, accounting for 2.7% of global GDP in 2020.





Key Takeaways

Anti Money Laundering (AML) efforts seek to make it harder to hide profits from crime.Criminals use money laundering to make illicit funds appear to have a legitimate origin.AML regulations require financial institutions to develop sophisticated customer due diligence plans to assess money laundering risks and detect suspicious transactions.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Anti Money Laundering (AML)  

AML regulations in the U.S. have expanded from the 1970 Bank Secrecy Act's requirement that banks report cash deposits of more than $10,000 to a complex regulatory framework requiring financial institutions to conduct due diligence on customers and to seek out and report suspicious transactions. The European Union and other jurisdictions have adopted similar measures.


  Know Your Customer  

For banks, compliance starts with verifying the identity of new clients, a process sometimes called Know Your Customer (KYC). In addition to establishing the customer's identity, banks are required to understand the nature of a client's activity and verify deposited funds are from a legitimate source.



The KYC process also requires banks and brokers to screen new customers against lists of crime suspects, individuals and companies under economic sanctions, and "politically exposed persons"—foreign public officials, their family members and close associates.



Money laundering can be divided into three steps:



Deposit of illicit funds into the financial system
Transactions designed to conceal the illicit origin of the funds, known as "layering"
Use of laundered funds to acquire real estate, financial instruments or commercial investments



The KYC process aims to stop such schemes at the first deposit window.


  Customer Due Diligence  

Customer due diligence is integral to the KYC process, for example by ensuring the information a potential customer provides is accurate and legitimate. But it is also a constant process extending to customers old and new, and their transactions.



Customer due diligence requires ongoing assessment of the risk of money laundering posed by each client and the use of that risk-based approach to conduct closer due diligence for those identified as higher non-compliance risks. That includes identifying customers as they are added to sanctions and other AML lists.



According to the U.S. Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the four core requirements of customer due diligence in the U.S. are:



Identifying and verifying the customer's identityIdentifying and verifying the identity of beneficial owners with a stake of 25% or more in a company opening an accountUnderstanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships to develop customer risk profilesConducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and update customer information 



Customer due diligence seeks to detect money laundering strategies including layering and structuring, also known as "smurfing"—the breaking up of large money laundering transactions into smaller ones to evade reporting limits and avoid scrutiny.



One rule in place to foil layering is the AML holding period, which requires deposits to remain in an account for a minimum of five trading days before they can be transferred elsewhere.



Financial institutions are required to develop and implement a written AML compliance policy, which much be approved in writing by a member of senior management and overseen by a designated AML compliance officer. These programs must specify "risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence" and conduct "ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions."






Some AML requirements apply to individuals as well as financial institutions. Notably, U.S. residents are required to report receipts of more than $10,000 in cash to the Internal Revenue Service on IRS Form 8300. The requirement extends to multiple related payments within 24 hours or multiple related transactions within 12 months totaling more than $10,000.


   History of Anti Money Laundering  

Efforts to police illicit gains have a history stretching back centuries, while the term "money laundering" is only about 100 years old and in wide use for less than 50.



The first major piece of U.S. AML legislation was the 1970 Bank Secrecy Act, passed in part to thwart organized crime. In addition to requiring banks to report cash deposits of more than $10,000, the legislation also required banks to identify individuals conducting transactions and to maintain records of transactions. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Bank Secrecy Act's constitutionality in 1974, the same year "money laundering" entered wide use amid the Watergate scandal.



Additional legislation passed in the 1980s amid increased efforts to fight drug trafficking, in the 1990s to expand financial monitoring and in the 2000s to cut off funding for terrorist organizations.



Anti-money laundering assumed greater global prominence in 1989, when a group of countries and international organizations formed the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Its mission is to devise international standards to prevent money laundering and promote their adoption. In October 2001, following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, FATF expanded its mandate to include combating terrorist financing.



Another important organization in the fight against money laundering is the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Like the FATF, the IMF has pressed its member countries to comply with international standards to thwart terrorist financing.



The United Nations included AML provisions in its 1998 Vienna Convention addressing drug trafficking, the 2001 Palermo Convention against international organized crime and the 2005 Merida Convention against corruption.



The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, passed in early 2021, was the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. AML regulations since the Patriot Act of 2001. The 2021 legislation included the Corporate Transparency Act, which made it harder to use shell companies to evade anti-money laundering and economic sanctions measures.



The legislation also subjected cryptocurrency exchanges as well as arts and antiquities dealers to the same customer due diligence requirements as financial institutions.




What Are Some Ways That Money Is Laundered?
Money launderers often funnel illicit funds through associates' cash-generating businesses, or by inflating invoices in shell company transactions. Layering transactions are money transfers designed to disguise the source of illicit funds. Structuring, or smurfing, refers to the practice of breaking up a large transfer into smaller ones to evade reporting limits and AML scrutiny.




Can Money Laundering Be Stopped?
Given estimated annual flows approaching 3% of global economic output, increasingly aggressive AML enforcement can at best aim to contain money laundering rather than stop it entirely. Money launderers never seem to run short of money or accomplices, though AML measures certainly make their lives harder.




What's the Difference Between AML, CDD and KYC?
Anti-money laundering (AML) is the broad category of the laws, rules and procedures aimed at deterring money laundering, while customer due diligence (CDD) describes the scrutiny financial institutions (and others) are required to perform to thwart, identify and report violations. Know your client (KYC) rules apply customer due diligence to the task of screening and verifying prospective clients.
What Is an Anticipatory Breach?  

An anticipatory breach of contract is an action that shows one party's intention to fail to fulfill its contractual obligations to another party. An anticipatory breach can end the counterparty's responsibility to perform its duties.



Demonstrating the other party's intention to breach the contract gives the counterparty grounds for beginning legal action. An anticipatory breach is also referred to as an anticipatory repudiation.





Key Takeaways

An anticipatory breach, or repudiation, preempts a failure of a party to meet its contractual obligations to another party.Parties claiming an anticipatory breach are obliged to make every effort to mitigate their own damages if they wish to seek compensation in court.The intent to break the contract must be an absolute refusal to fulfill the terms in order for it to qualify as an anticipatory breach.


   Understanding Anticipatory Breaches  

An anticipatory breach occurs when a party demonstrates its intention to break a contract. However, vocal or written confirmation is not required, and failure to perform any obligation in a timely matter can result in a breach.



By declaring an anticipatory breach, the counterparty may begin legal action immediately rather than waiting until the terms of a contract are actually broken.


  Compensation Considerations  

Parties claiming an anticipatory breach are obliged to make every effort to mitigate their own damages if they wish to seek compensation in court. That could include halting payments to the party that committed the breach and immediately looking for ways to minimize the effects of the breach. It also might mean seeking a third party who could perform the duties outlined in the original contract.


   Requirements for an Anticipatory Breach  

The intent to break the contract must be an absolute refusal to fulfill the terms for it to qualify as an anticipatory breach. The expected breach cannot be based solely on the assumption that the other party will not meet its obligations.



If the anticipatory breach involves the sale of goods, then section 2-609 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) also lays down several requirements. The party anticipating a breach has the right to ask the other party to provide reassurance that the contract will be fulfilled. While awaiting assurance, payments and other duties can and should be stopped. If the other party does not offer the proper assurance within 30 days, the contract is officially breached.






The requirements for an anticipatory breach can vary. It is a good idea to consult an attorney before taking any action.


   Example of an Anticipatory Breach  

Let's say a real estate developer contracts an architecture firm to create plans for a new building by a specific deadline. If the developer requests regular updates on the project and is not pleased with the latest results, this is not grounds to claim an anticipatory breach. The architects may be behind schedule while continuing to work on the project. Such a circumstance still leaves the possibility that the architects might meet their deadline if corrective steps are taken.



If the architects took actions that made it impossible to meet the deadline, it would constitute an anticipatory breach. For example, the architects might halt all work on the first project and commit all their resources to a new project with a different developer. That would preclude them from fulfilling the initial contract.
What Is Antitrust?  

Antitrust laws are regulations that encourage competition by limiting the market power of any particular firm. This often involves ensuring that mergers and acquisitions don’t overly concentrate market power or form monopolies, as well as breaking up firms that have become monopolies.



Antitrust laws also prevent multiple firms from colluding or forming a cartel to limit competition through practices such as price fixing. Due to the complexity of deciding what practices will limit competition, antitrust law has become a distinct legal specialization.





Key Takeaways

Antitrust laws were designed to protect and promote competition within all sectors of the economy.The Sherman Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, and the Clayton Act are the three pivotal laws in the history of antitrust regulation.Today, the Federal Trade Commission, sometimes in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Justice, is tasked with enforcing federal antitrust laws.


   Understanding Antitrust  

Antitrust laws are the broad group of state and federal laws that are designed to make sure businesses are competing fairly. The “trust” in antitrust refers to a group of businesses that team up or form a monopoly to dictate pricing in a particular market.



Supporters say antitrust laws are necessary and that competition among sellers gives consumers lower prices, higher-quality products and services, more choices, and greater innovation. Most people agree with this concept and the benefits of an open marketplace, although there are some who claim that allowing businesses to compete as they see fit would ultimately give consumers the best prices.


   The Antitrust Laws  

The Sherman Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, and the Clayton Act are the key laws that set the groundwork for antitrust regulation. Predating the Sherman Act, the Interstate Commerce Act was also beneficial in establishing antitrust regulations, although it was less influential than some of the others.



Congress passed the Interstate Commerce Act in 1887 in response to growing public demand that railroads be regulated. Among other requirements, the law ordered railroads to charge a fair fee to travelers and post those fees publicly. It was the first example of antitrust law but was less influential than the Sherman Act, passed in 1890.



The Sherman Act outlawed contracts and conspiracies restraining trade and/or monopolizing industries in an attempt to stop competing individuals or businesses fixing prices, dividing markets, or attempting to rig bids. The Sherman Act laid out specific penalties and fines for violating the terms.



In 1914, Congress passed the Federal Trade Commission Act, banning unfair competition methods and deceptive acts or practices. The Clayton Act was also passed in 1914, addressing specific practices that the Sherman Act does not ban. For example, the Clayton Act prohibits appointing the same person to make business decisions for competing corporations.






The antitrust laws describe unlawful mergers and business practices in general terms, leaving courts to decide which ones are illegal based on the specifics of each case.


   Special Considerations  

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) are tasked with enforcing federal antitrust laws. In some cases, these two authorities may also work with other regulatory agencies to ensure that certain mergers fit the public interest.



The FTC mainly focuses on segments of the economy where consumer spending is high, including healthcare, drugs, food, energy, technology, and anything related to digital communications. Factors that could spark an FTC investigation include premerger notification filings, certain consumer or business correspondence, congressional inquiries, or articles on consumer or economic subjects.



If the FTC thinks that a law has been violated, the agency will try to stop the questionable practices or find a resolution to the anticompetitive portion of, say, a proposed merger between two competitors. If no resolution is found, the FTC may put out an administrative complaint and/or pursue injunctive relief in federal court.



The FTC might also refer evidence of criminal antitrust violations to the DOJ. The DOJ has the power to impose criminal sanctions and holds sole antitrust jurisdiction in certain sectors, such as telecommunications, banks, railroads, and airlines.


   Major Example of Antitrust Law  

In January 2023, the DOJ and eight states filed an antitrust lawsuit against Alphabet’s Google, alleging that the search giant has illegal monopolization of the digital advertising business. “Today’s complaint alleges that Google has used anticompetitive, exclusionary, and unlawful conduct to eliminate or severely diminish any threat to its dominance over digital advertising technologies,” the government agency said.



The filing, which seeks to make Google divest parts of its advertising business, alleges that the company has used acquisitions as a strategy for “neutralizing or eliminating” rivals and forces advertisers to use its products by making competitors’ products difficult to use. The complaint claims that the company’s monopolistic practices curtail innovation, raise advertising fees, and prevent small businesses and publishers from growing.



Google’s advertising business has come under fire from critics who argue that the search giant controls both the supply and demand sides of the digital advertising market. The company provides tools that help websites offer ad space and that assist advertisers in placing online ads. The suit alleges that Google’s dominance in the market allows it to pocket 30 cents of each dollar that advertisers spend using its suite of advertising tools.



The lawsuit marks the second federal antitrust complaint against Google in three years. Under the former Trump administration, the DOJ filed a lawsuit in October 2020, accusing the tech giant of using its monopoly to reduce competition through exclusionary agreements. That case is expected to go to trial this fall.



Google responded to the suit, saying the DOJ was attempting to intervene in the free market. “Today’s lawsuit from the Department of Justice attempts to pick winners and losers in the highly competitive advertising technology sector,” Google Global Ads Vice President Dan Taylor said in a statement.






On Oct. 20, 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice filed an antitrust lawsuit against Google for anticompetitive practices related to its alleged dominance in search advertising.




What are antitrust laws, and are they necessary?
Antitrust laws were implemented to prevent companies from getting greedy and abusing their power. Without these regulations in place, many politicians fear that big businesses would gobble up the smaller ones. This would result in less competition and fewer choices for consumers, potentially leading to higher prices, lower quality, and less innovation, among other things.




How many antitrust laws are there?
There are three federal antitrust laws in effect today: the Sherman Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, and the Clayton Act.




Who enforces antitrust laws?
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) are responsible for making sure that antitrust laws are abided by. The FTC mainly focuses on segments of the economy where consumer spending is high, while the DOJ holds sole antitrust jurisdiction in sectors such as telecommunications, banks, railroads, and airlines and has the power to impose criminal sanctions.


   The Bottom Line  

Antitrust laws regulate the concentration of economic power to prevent companies from price colluding or creating monopolies. Proponents of antitrust laws argue that they keep consumer prices lower and foster innovation through increased competition. Critics say antitrust regulations intervene in the free market and reduce efficiency.



Antitrust laws are enforced by the FTC and DOJ, with the agencies focusing on areas of the economy that receive significant consumer spending, such as technology, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and communications. Typically, antitrust investigations arise from premerger notification filings, congressional inquiries, or consumer and business correspondence.
What Are Appellate Courts?  

Appellate courts, also known as the court of appeals, are the part of the American judicial system that is responsible for hearing and reviewing appeals from legal cases that have already been heard in a trial-level or other lower court.



Persons or entities such as corporations that experience an unsuccessful outcome in a trial-level or other lower courts may file an appeal with an appellate court to have the decision reviewed. If the appeal has merit, the lower ruling may be reversed. Appellate courts are present at both the state and federal levels and do not include a jury. 





Key Takeaways

Appellate courts hear and review appeals from legal cases that have already been heard and ruled on in lower courts. Appellate courts exist for both state and federal-level matters but feature only a committee of judges (often called justices) instead of a jury of one's peers.There are 13 appeals courts on the federal level, with each state having its own appeals court system, some of which include intermediate appellate courts.


   How Appellate Courts Work  

Appellate courts review the decisions of lower courts to determine if the court applied the law correctly. They exist as part of the judicial system to provide those who have judgments made against them an opportunity to have their case reviewed.



A publicly traded company with an unfavorable judgment against it will likely experience a drop in share price, but an appeal could overturn this previous ruling. If an appeal is successful, the stock price usually jumps.






Unsuccessful appeals may further be appealed to the Supreme Court.



Courts at the appellate level review the findings and evidence from the lower court and determine if there is sufficient evidence to support the determination made by the lower court. In addition, the appellate court will determine if the trial or lower court correctly applied the law.



The highest form of an appellate court in the U.S. is the U.S. Supreme Court, which hears only appeals of major importance and consequence.


   Appellate Courts vs. Supreme Courts  

Supreme courts typically have more authority and breadth than appellate courts. The U.S. Supreme Court is the highest legal authority there is in America and many states have their own supreme courts, or court of last resort.



Supreme courts review decisions made by appeals courts. Overall, there are 13 appellate courts on the federal level⁠—12 district appellate courts and an appeals court for the Federal Circuit. 



Many states have intermediate appellate courts, which serve as appeals courts meant to cut down on the workload for the state Supreme Court.






Forty-one of the 50 states have at least one intermediate appellate court.


   Example of an Appellate Court Ruling  

Shares of ride-sharing companies Uber Technologies Inc. and Lyft Inc. rose in the summer of 2020 after an appellate court granted a delay in the implementation of a new California law that requires many so-called "gig workers," including drivers for ride-share companies, to be reclassified as employees.



In this instance, the appellate court decided that a previous ruling from a lower California court, affirming the constitutionality or legality of the state employment law, would be put on hold until it could evaluate the appeal and rule on its merits.



Not long after, investor hopes that Uber and Lyft could potentially get away with offering drivers no access to benefit plans or workers' compensation coverage were dashed. In October of 2020, the California First District Court of Appeals ruled that the law was, in fact, legal and enforceable, meaning Uber and Lyft must treat their California drivers as employees, rather than independent contractors, and provide them with the benefits and wages they are entitled to under state labor law.



In February of 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear Uber and Lyft’s appeal, affirming the lower court’s decision. The U.K. Supreme Court has also done the same.
What Is the Applicable Federal Rate (AFR)?  

The applicable federal rate (AFR) is the minimum interest rate that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows for private loans. Each month the IRS publishes a set of interest rates that the agency considers the minimum market rate for loans. Any interest rate that is less than the AFR would have tax implications. The IRS publishes these rates in accordance with Section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code.





Key Takeaways

If the interest on a loan is lower than the applicable AFR, it may result in a taxable event for the parties involved.AFRs are used to determine the original issue discount, unstated interest, gift tax, and income tax consequences of below-market loans.Parties must use the AFR that is published by the IRS at the time when the lender initially makes the loan.


   Understanding the Applicable Federal Rate (AFR)  

The AFR is used by the IRS as a point of comparison versus the interest on loans between related parties, such as family members. If you were giving a loan to a family member, you would need to be sure that the interest rate charged is equal to or higher than the minimum applicable federal rate.



The IRS publishes three AFRs: short-term, mid-term, and long-term. Short-term AFR rates are determined from the one-month average of the market yields from marketable obligations, such as U.S. government T-bills with maturities of three years or less. Mid-term AFR rates are from obligations of maturities of more than three and up to nine years. Long-term AFR rates are from bonds with maturities of more than nine years.






In addition to the three basic rates, the rulings in which the AFRs are published contain several other rates that vary according to compounding period (annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly) and various other criteria and situations.


   Example of How to Use the AFR  

As of May 2023, the IRS stated that the annual short-term AFR was 4.30%, the mid-term AFR was 3.57%, and the long-term AFR was 3.72%. Please bear in mind that these AFR rates are subject to change by the IRS.



Which AFR rate to use for a family loan would depend on the length of time designated for payback. Let's say you were giving a loan to a family member for $10,000 to be paid back in one year. You would need to charge the borrower a minimum interest rate of 4.30% for the loan. In other words, you should receive $430 in interest from the loan.



In our example above, any rate below 4.30% could trigger a taxable event. For example, let's say you gave the same loan, but you didn't charge any interest. By not charging any interest, you would have "foregone" $430 in interest income, and according to the IRS, it would be considered a taxable gift. Any interest rate charged below the stated AFR for the particular term of the loan would be considered foregone interest and, as a result, be taxable.


   Special Considerations  

When preparing to make a loan between related parties, taxpayers should consider two factors to select the correct AFR. The length of the loan should correspond to the AFRs: short-term (three years or less), mid-term (up to nine years), and long-term (more than nine years).



If the lender charges interest at a lower rate than the proper AFR, the IRS may reassess the lender and add imputed interest to the income to reflect the AFR rather than the actual amount paid by the borrower. Also, if the loan is more than the annual gift tax exclusion, it may trigger a taxable event, and income taxes may be owed. Depending on the circumstances, the IRS may also assess penalties.




Am I Required to Charge Interest When Loaning Money to Family?
No, you're not required to charge interest. However, by not doing so, the IRS may consider your loan a gift and levy taxes accordingly.




How Often Is the AFR Determined?
The AFR is released monthly with updated interest rates based on the market interest rates.




Does My Loan Agreement With a Family Member Have to Be Notarized?
No. While notarization may take it the next step, your written and signed agreement is legally binding on its own.


   The Bottom Line  

The applicable federal rate exists to set a standard for what differentiates a gift from a loan. Check this rate before loaning money to anyone—if you charge an interest rate less than this benchmark, you may be subject to gift taxes.
What Is an Application Programming Interface (API)?  

An application programming interface (API) is a set of programming codes that queries data, parse responses, and sends instructions between one software platform and another. APIs are used extensively in providing data services across a range of fields and contexts.



APIs have become increasingly popular tools, with the likes of Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, SalesForce, and many more establishing their own APIs that allow companies to access some of their services without having to fully migrate into their ecosystem. This new paradigm has led to the rise of what some experts call the "API economy," a model that enhances a company’s bottom line by improving interoperability and thus creating new systems from existing ones.



In the domain of financial markets and trading, one may use an API to establish a connection between a set of automated trading algorithms and the trader's preferred trading broker platform for the purpose of obtaining real-time quotes and pricing data or to place electronic trades.





Key Takeaways

An application programming interface (API) establishes an online connection between a data provider and an end-user.For financial markets, APIs interface trading algorithms or models and an exchange's and/or broker's platform.An API is essential to implementing an automated trading strategy.More brokers are making their platforms available through an API.


   Understanding Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)  

APIs have become increasingly popular with the rise of automated trading systems. In the past, retail traders were forced to screen for opportunities in one application and separately place trades with their broker. Many retail brokers now provide APIs that enable traders to directly connect their screening software with the brokerage account to share real-time prices and place orders. Traders can even develop their own applications using programming languages like Python and execute trades using a broker's API.



Two types of traders use broker APIs:



Third-Party Applications - Many traders use third-party applications that require access to broker APIs for pricing data and placing trades. For example, MetaTrader is one of the most popular foreign exchange (forex) trading applications and requires API access to secure real-time pricing and place trades.
Developer Applications - A growing number of traders develop their own automated trading systems, using programming languages like Python, and require a way to access pricing data and place trades.



Despite the apparent benefits of APIs, there are many risks to consider. Most APIs are provided to a broker's customers free of charge, but there are some cases where traders may incur an extra fee. It's important to understand these fees before using the API.



Traders should also be aware of any API limitations, including the potential for downtime, which could significantly affect trading results.


   Where to Find APIs for Traders  

The most popular brokers supporting API access in the traditional stock and futures markets include TradeStation, TDAmeritrade, and InteractiveBrokers, but many smaller brokers have expanded access over time. APIs are more common among forex brokers where third-party applications and trading systems—such as MetaTrader—have been commonly used for many years.



Many brokers provide online documentation for their APIs. Developers can find out exactly how to authenticate with the API, what data is available for consumption, how to place orders through the API, and other technical details. It's essential to be familiar with these details before choosing a broker when looking for specific functionality.



Some brokers also provide libraries in various languages to make interaction with their API easier. For example, a broker may offer a Python library that provides a set of functions, or methods, for placing a trade rather than having to write your own functions to do so. This can help accelerate the development of trading systems and make them less costly to develop.
What Is an Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) Miner?  

An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) is an integrated circuit chip designed for a specific purpose. An ASIC miner is a computerized device that uses ASICs for the sole purpose of "mining" digital currency. Generally, each ASIC miner is constructed to mine a specific digital currency. So, a Bitcoin ASIC miner can mine only bitcoin. One way to think about bitcoin ASICs is as specialized bitcoin mining computers optimized to solve the mining algorithm.



Developing and manufacturing ASICs as mining devices is costly and complex. However, because ASICs are built especially for mining cryptocurrency, they do the job faster than less powerful computers. As a result, ASIC chips for cryptocurrency mining have become increasingly efficient, with the latest generation hashing at 158 terahashes per second but only using 34.5 joules per terahash.





Key Takeaways

An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) miner is a computerized device that uses ASICs for the sole purpose of mining bitcoin or another cryptocurrency.An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) is generally optimized to compute just a single function or set of related functions.Bitcoin miners review and verify previous bitcoin transactions and create new blocks to add the data to the blockchain.


   Understanding Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) Miners  

Instead of being general-purpose integrated circuits—like RAM chips or PC or mobile device microprocessors—ASICs employed in cryptocurrency mining are specific integrated circuits designed solely to mine cryptocurrencies.



Initially, Bitcoin’s creator(s) intended for bitcoin to be mined on central processing units (CPUs) of commonly used laptops or desktop computers. However, Bitcoin ASICs surpassed both CPUs and graphics processing units (GPUs) because of their reduced electricity consumption and greater computing capacity. After gaining traction in mid-2013, when other hardware mining devices started hitting bottlenecks in their mining, Bitcoin ASIC miners increased and retained their lead.






Contrary to popular belief, mining is not complex mathematical computation. It is the process of changing few numbers on a hash find one that is less than the target hash (the original hash).



A hash is a long hexadecimal number used to identify blocks in a blockchain, called the block header hash or block hash. To mine a block, miners begin adding values to a hash to generate new ones until a number less than the target difficulty (original hash) is reached. This is called hashing. The more hashes that can be performed in a set period, the more likely a miner is to earn bitcoin. ASIC miners are optimized to compute hash functions efficiently and quickly.



Although mining cryptocurrencies can be an expensive proposition of declining profitability, many people are drawn to it. Despite the uncertain return on investment, would-be cryptocurrency miners are willing to incur high upfront expenses for pricey ASICs and pay significant ongoing costs for electricity in return for the prospect of earning cryptocurrency.


   Development of the ASIC Miner  

Cryptocurrency mining is required by a proof of work (PoW) blockchain like Bitcoin to carry out its operations. The mining process involves solving a block's hash by randomly generating numbers until reaching a number below the target difficulty number. The first miner to find the solution to the puzzle closes the block. Each winner in the bitcoin mining competition receives a reward (a specific amount of bitcoin) along with the transaction fees for the transactions in that block.



In Bitcoin's early days, any computer with adequate processing power could mine bitcoin. However, those days are long gone; bitcoin's soaring popularity and growing acceptance have attracted hordes of crypto miners.



At the same time, cryptocurrency mining has become exponentially more difficult because the mining difficulty changes as miners enter and exit the network. Over time, the number of miners has constantly grown, which increased the difficulty. These developments have resulted in a race to harness the most "hashing power," the term used to describe how many hashes per second a miner can generate (or the combined hashes per second of a networked mining rig or pool). ASIC miners came about as a result of this quest for more hashing power; modern Bitcoin ASICs can hash at more than 150 terahashes per second (nine zeros, or 150 x 1012 hashes per second).



ASIC devices were popularized by Bitmain (headquartered in China), which dominates ASIC Bitcoin mining activities through its Antminer ASIC product range.


   ASIC Miner Advantages  

Though GPU and CPU mining rigs rely on components that have more than one function, ASIC miners are designed for the sole purpose of mining cryptocurrency. This singular focus makes an ASIC miner much more powerful and energy-efficient than a comparable GPU miner.



Because each cryptocurrency has its own cryptographic hash algorithm, an ASIC miner is designed to mine using that specific algorithm. For example, Bitcoin ASIC miners are designed to hash the SHA-256 algorithm, while Litecoin (LTC) uses scrypt (pronounced es-crypt). Though this means that an ASIC miner could technically mine any other cryptocurrency based on the same algorithm, most miners who invest in ASIC hardware designed to mine bitcoin or Litecoin stick to mining that specific cryptocurrency.






Many miners join a mining pool to increase their chances of earning bitcoin. Mining pools usually pay shares of rewards based on a miner's hashrate and work contributed.


   ASIC Miner Considerations  

Before investing thousands of dollars in an ASIC mining rig, here are some factors to be considered:



What coins can be mined? The list of cryptocurrencies that can be mined with ASICs is far smaller than those that can be mined with a GPU rig. Cryptocurrencies that can be mined with ASICs include Bitcoin, Litecoin, and several others.Rig location: Though GPU mining rigs can be located in one's home, ASIC miners are louder and generate much more heat. This means that one's home is not ideal for an ASIC miner, and alternate locations like a basement or garage with cooling need to be considered.Power consumption: The latest generation of ASIC machines are more energy-efficient than GPU rigs but consume tremendous power nevertheless. An ASIC miner based in one's home may necessitate upgrading the electrical wiring system to handle the increased power load.Choosing a Bitcoin mining pool: Mining pools enable miners to combine the power of their ASIC miner rigs to mine bitcoin and share the rewards for successfully minted blocks. Factors to be considered when choosing a pool include its reputation, size, and payment rules.Return on Investment: Is the return on investment sufficiently high enough to justify the upfront cost of an ASIC miner and ongoing operating expenses?




What Is Bitcoin Mining?
Bitcoin mining is the process of solving for the two-digit encrypted number contained in a block's hash called the nonce. A miner adds values (the nonce) to a block's hash trying to generate a number less than the difficulty target. When it is solved, the hash is solved, and the block is validated. The validator receives a reward.




What Is the Difference Between ASIC Mining and GPU Mining?
ASIC mining machines are developed for mining a specific cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoin or Litecoin. GPU mining involves using a graphics processing unit (GPU) such as those sold by NVIDIA or AMD for mining. GPUs are significantly cheaper than the equipment required for ASIC mining. However, they are slower and much less efficient for mining cryptocurrencies than ASIC miners.




What Are ASIC-Resistant Coins?
ASIC-resistant coins are cryptocurrencies with ASIC-resistant algorithms. Mining these cryptocurrencies with ASIC mining equipment is virtually impossible; even if one tries to do so, the returns would be limited. The primary rationale for ASIC-resistant coins is to preserve the decentralization of their blockchains, which was one of the core principles behind creating Bitcoin.
What Is Applied Economics?  

Applied economics applies the conclusions drawn from economic theories and empirical studies to real-world situations with the desired aim of informing economic decisions and predicting possible outcomes. The purpose of applied economics is to improve the quality of practice in business, public policy, and daily life by thinking rigorously about costs and benefits, incentives, and human behavior. Applied economics can involve the use of case studies and econometrics, which is the application of real-world data to statistical models and comparing the results against the theories being tested.





Key Takeaways

Applied economics is the use of the insights gained from economic theory and research to make better decisions and solve real-world problems. Applied economics is a popular tool in business planning and for public policy analysis and evaluation.Individuals can also benefit from applying economic thinking and insights to personal and financial decisions.


   Understanding Applied Economics  

Applied economics is the application of economic theory to determine the likely outcomes associated with various possible courses of action in the real world. By better understanding the likely consequences of choices made by individuals, businesses, and policy makers, we can help them make better choices. If economics is the science of studying how people use various, limited means available to them to achieve given ends, then applied economics is the tool to help choose the best means to reach those ends. As a result, applied economics can lead to "to do" lists for steps that can be taken to increase the probability of positive outcomes in real-world events.



The use of applied economics may first involve exploring economic theories to develop questions about a circumstance or situation and then draw upon data resources and other frames of reference to form a plausible answer to that question. The idea is to establish a hypothetical outcome based on the specific ongoing circumstances, drawn from the known implications of general economic laws and models.


   Applied Economics Relevance in the Real World  

Applied economics can illustrate the potential outcomes of financial choices made by individuals. For example, if a consumer desires to own a luxury good but has limited financial resources, an assessment of the cost and long-term impact such a purchase would have on assets can compare them to the expected benefit of the good. This can help determine if such an expense is worthwhile. Beyond finances, understanding the meaning of the economic theories of rational choice, game theory, or the findings of behavioral economics and evolutionary economics can help a person make better decisions and plan for success in their personal life and even relationships. For example, a person who wants to quit smoking might recognize that they are prone to hyperbolic discounting and might choose to employ precommitment strategies to support their long-term preference to quit over more powerful short-term preferences to smoke. Or a group of friends sharing a large bowl of popcorn might explicitly or implicitly agree to limits or shares on how much popcorn each will take in order to avoid a tragedy of the commons situation.



Applied economics can also help businesses make better decisions. Understanding the implications of economic laws of supply and demand combined with past sales data and marketing research regarding their target market can help a business with pricing and production decisions. Awareness of economic leading indicators and their relationship to a firm's industry and markets can help with operational planning and business strategy. Understanding economic ideas such as principal-agent problems, transaction costs, and the theory of the firm can help businesses design better compensation schemes, contracts, and corporate strategies. 



Applied economics is an invaluable tool for public policy makers. Many economists are employed to predict both the macro- and microeconomic consequences of various policy proposals or to evaluate the effects of ongoing policy. Applied macroeconomic modeling is routinely used to project changes in unemployment, economic growth, and inflation at the national, regional, and state level. Understanding the way the economic incentives and compensating behaviors created by public policy impact real-world trends in things like job growth, migration, and crime rates is critical to implementing effective policy and avoiding unintended consequences. For example, understanding what the application of the laws of supply and demand imply about the effects of price floors, along with case studies and empirical research, can inform better policy regarding minimum wage laws.
What Is an Appraisal?  

An appraisal is a valuation of property, such as real estate, a business, collectible, or an antique, by the estimate of an authorized person. The authorized appraiser must have a designation from a regulatory body governing the jurisdiction of the appraiser. Appraisals are typically used for insurance and taxation purposes or to determine a possible selling price for an item or property.





Key Takeaways

An appraisal is an assessment of the fair market value of a property, business, antique, or even a collectible.Appraisals are used to estimate the value of items that are infrequently traded, and are unique.The authorized appraiser must have a designation from a regulatory body governing the jurisdiction of the appraiser.Appraisals can be done for many reasons such as tax purposes when valuing charitable donations.Home appraisals can positively or negatively impact the sale of a house or property.Appraisals help banks and other lenders avoid losses on a loan.


   Understanding Appraisals  

Appraisals are used in many types of transactions, including real estate. If a home valuation, for example, comes in below the amount of the purchase price, mortgage lenders are likely to decline to fund the deal. Unless the prospective buyer is willing and able to come up with the difference between the appraised value and the lender's financing offer, the transaction will not go forward.



The appraiser can use any number of valuation methods to determine the appropriate value of an item or property, including comparing the current market value of similar properties or objects.



Appraisals are also done for tax purposes when determining the value of charitable donations for itemized deductions. Deductions can reduce your taxes owed to the IRS by deducting the value of your donation from your taxable income.



Appraisals can also be a helpful tool in resolving conflicts between heirs to an estate by establishing the value of the real estate or personal property to be divided.


   Types of Appraisals  
  Home Appraisals  

A home valuation is necessary during the process of buying and selling a home, as well as a refinance of an existing mortgage. A refinance is when a loan or mortgage is reevaluated and updated to current interest rates and new terms.



An appraisal determines the home's value to ensure that the price reflects the home's condition, age, location, and features such as the number of bathrooms. Also, valuations help banks and lenders avoid loaning more money to the borrower than the house is worth.



In the event of default, when the borrower can't make the payments anymore, the bank uses the appraisal as a valuation of the home. If the home is in foreclosure, whereby the bank takes possession of the house, it must be resold to help the lender recoup any losses from making the mortgage loan.



It's important to remember that when a bank lends for a mortgage, it gives the full amount of the home's value to the seller on the date it's sold. In other words, the bank is out the money and, in return, has a promise to pay, plus interest, from the borrower. As a result, the valuation is important to the lending process since it helps the bank avoid losses and protect itself against lending more than it might be able to recover if the borrower defaults.





Note

A home appraisal is separate from a home inspection, which is completed to determine the condition of the home and identify any potentially serious issues before a buyer moves forward with closing.


  Collectibles or Antiques  

Professional appraisals can be done for many items, including collectibles, antiques, or grandma's silver. Ideally, you'll want multiple valuations for an item from an accredited professional. Appraisers might charge an hourly rate or a flat fee. 



A certified appraiser's valuation will likely be fair and unbiased, whereas the local collectible shop has an incentive to offer you less for the item. Also, owners can get an idea of an item's value by checking collectible magazines and online appraisal websites. Most websites charge a small fee, such as $10, to value an item. Of course, obtaining a value online is done through photos of the item and is not an official valuation, but it should give you an idea of what it's worth before proceeding. If you decide to pursue an appraisal, the American Society of Appraisers has thousands of members and is a great place to begin searching for an accredited professional.


  Appraisals and Insurance  

Some types of insurance policies also require appraisals of goods being insured. Homeowners' and renters' insurance policies protect policyholders against the loss of personal property due to theft or damage. These blanket policies cover items up to a preset dollar limit. Obtaining an appraisal of the contents of a home creates an inventory of the owner's property and establishes its value, which helps to ensure a swift settlement if a claim is filed.



When the value of specific items exceeds a homeowners policy limit, the policyholder may wish to obtain additional insurance that covers luxury items such as jewelry or collectibles, including art objects and antiques. Before issuing personal property insurance policies for high-end items, many insurance underwriters require applicants to have the object appraised. The appraisal creates a record of the item's existence, along with its description. It also helps establish the item's actual value.



Some insurance contracts include an appraisal clause that specifies the owner agrees to obtain an appraisal from a mutually agreeable expert in the event of a dispute between the owner and the insurance company. Neutral appraisals can speed the resolution of a settlement and keep disputes from escalating into lengthy and expensive lawsuits.





Tip

The actual amount you pay for a home appraisal can depend on where the property is located and how much time is required to complete the appraisal.


   Home Appraisal Process and Cost  

The home appraisal process typically begins after a buyer makes an offer on a home and that offer is accepted by the seller. The buyer's mortgage lender or broker may order the appraisal on their behalf, though the buyer is typically expected to pay for it out of pocket. On average, a home appraisal for a single-family property runs between $300 and $450 while appraisals for multi-family homes can start at around $500.



Once the appraisal is ordered, the appraiser will schedule a time to visit the property. The appraiser will then conduct a thorough review of the interior and exterior of the home to determine what it's worth. This may require them to take measurements or photos of the property. Appraisals can take a few minutes to a few hours to complete, depending on the details of the home and the appraiser's methods.



After visiting the home, the appraiser will use the information they've collected to create a reasonable estimate for the home's value. At this stage, the appraiser will also look at the values of comparable homes in the area. Using these comps and what they've learned from visiting the home, the appraiser will prepare an appraisal report that includes a figure that represents their perceived value of the home.



A copy of this appraisal report is then shared with the buyer and the buyer's mortgage lender. It can take anywhere from a week to 10 days for the report to be completed. Sellers can also request a copy of the report.



If a buyer disagrees with the appraisal report, they can request a reconsideration from the lender or opt to pay for a second appraisal.


  How To Improve Your Home's Appraisal Value  

The appraisal process is meant to be objective, but appraisers are human. Good curb appeal and clean, uncluttered rooms send a message of a well-maintained home. And they can be achieved without a great deal of time or expense. There are some easy ways to quickly improve the appraised value of your home:



Lean and uncluttered rooms convey the message that a home is well-maintained.Minor cosmetic improvements can make a big difference.Point out any major improvements you've made to the appraiser, in case they miss them.



On the other hand, you should avoid big expensive improvements just for the sake of increasing your home's appraisal value. They generally don't pay off.



Make sure you know your rights as well. If you hire the appraiser to determine your home’s value, the appraisal belongs to you. If you’re refinancing your mortgage and the lender hires the appraiser, the lender is required to provide you with a copy–possibly for a reasonable fee–of the appraisal and any other home value estimates.If you think the appraiser has the value wrong, first review the written appraisal for errors. Check whether the comps the appraiser chose are reasonably similar to your home. If you still think the price is incorrect, you can appeal the valuation with your lender or ask it to order a second appraisal. 




How Much Does a Home Appraisal Cost?
On average, a home appraisal can cost anywhere from $300 to $450. The price may be higher for appraisals of multi-family homes or properties that are above average in size. The buyer is most often responsible for paying appraisal fees at the time the appraisal is ordered.




Is a Home Appraisal Required?
A home appraisal is almost always a requirement when purchasing a home with a mortgage. Lenders use the appraisal to determine whether the home is worth the amount of money the buyer is asking to borrow. A buyer may not require an valuation if they're paying cash for a home versus taking out a mortgage loan.




Can the Buyer Be Present During an Appraisal?
Both buyers and sellers can ask to be present at the home appraisal with the approval of the appraiser. In lieu of attending themselves, buyers and sellers can request that their agents be allowed to attend the appraisal. But typically, only the appraiser is present as it's less common for buyers or sellers to show up.




What Happens If the Appraisal Comes in Too Low?
If a home appraisal comes in below what the buyer has agreed to pay, there are several options they could choose from. The first is to ask the seller to renegotiate the home's price so that it aligns with the home's appraisal value. The next option is to pay the difference between the appraisal value and the asking price out of pocket. Buyers could also use a piggyback mortgage to make up the difference between the home's value and its sales price.




Do I Need an Appraisal to Refinance a Mortgage?
In most cases, yes. Lenders use appraisals to determine a home's value for refinancing mortgages the way they do for purchase mortgages. There are a couple of exceptions, however. In some cases, you will not need an valuation if you are taking out an FHA refinance loan if it is what is called a "streamline" refinance loan. If you hold a VA-backed loan, you will need an appraisal if you are planning to take out a cash-out refinance loan.Due to the COVID- 19 pandemic, there is a partial waiver on appraisals from April 26, 2021, to April 26, 2022, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.


   The Bottom Line  

An appraisal is an assessment of the fair market value of a property, business, antique, or even a collectible. Appraisals are used to estimate the value of items that are infrequently traded and are often rare or unique. The authorized appraiser must have a designation from a regulatory body governing the jurisdiction of the appraiser. Appraisals can be done for many reasons such as tax purposes when valuing charitable donations, but the most familiar form of appraisal is for a property.



Home appraisals can positively or negatively impact the sale of a house or property, and so are an important part of the process of financing a house. A home appraisal is almost always a requirement when purchasing a home with a mortgage, for example, and if you are refinancing your property your lender may hire their own appraiser to make a valuation of your home.
What Are Appraisal Costs?  

Appraisal costs are a specific category of quality control costs. Companies pay appraisal costs as part of the quality control process to ensure that their products and services meet customer expectations and regulatory requirements. These costs could include expenses for field tests and inspections.





Key Takeaways

Appraisal costs are fees a company pays to detect defects in its products ahead of delivering them to customers; they are a form of quality control.For most companies, the money that would be lost as a result of selling faulty products or services far outweighs the appraisal costs.Appraisals are used in many industries, with costs influenced by how extensive quality control is and what stage in the product cycle the company is at.Quality control is important to the reputation of a business, which is why appraisal costs are necessary costs to the success of a company.


   Understanding Appraisal Costs  

Appraisal costs can be a key expense for companies seeking to maintain high levels of customer and regulatory satisfaction. Payments for secret shopper salaries, factory floor inspectors, and technical screening equipment all fall into this category. Companies that spend large amounts of money on appraisal costs show that they are concerned with their reputations.






Common appraisal costs include inspecting materials delivered from suppliers, materials that are a work-in-process or finished goods, supplies used for inspections, and maintenance of test equipment.



To prevent defective inventory or products from reaching their customers, companies get creative while incurring appraisal costs to spot suspect products. In the end, it is less expensive to incur appraisal costs than to lose customers who are frustrated by the receipt of low-quality goods.



The Internet and social media now give consumers unprecedented opportunities to voice their dissatisfaction with any companies or products that fail to meet their standards. The threat of unpleasant reviews or viral PR mishaps keeps companies on their toes and investing in appraisals of their products.



Appraisal costs can simply be looked at as part of the cost of doing business as well as the cost of creating a product or service. A company's reputation is one of the most important assets that it has. Once a company's reputation slips into the negative after the release of faulty products and bad publicity, it is almost always impossible or extremely difficult to shift consumer opinion.



It is for this reason that management needs to pay strict attention to quality control to ensure the lasting success of their company; appraisal costs are a part of that process.


   Examples of Appraisal Costs  

There are many examples of appraisal costs and every industry has different types of appraisals and therefore the costs associated with them. Appraisal costs can even be driven by where the industry is in a market cycle.



A classic appraisal cost would be what is spent to inspect materials delivered from suppliers. For example, let's say a music retailer gets a shipment of guitars from a major manufacturer. Last year, the guitar manufacturer's first round of guitars had faulty tuners, causing customers to return opened products, file complaints with the guitar store's corporate parent, and in some cases, switch their loyalty to a different music retailer.



So this year, when the new shipment of guitars comes in, the music retailer opens the boxes, inspects each guitar to make sure the tuners are in good shape, and then repackages them before making them available to customers. This process costs money and time, which is accounted for on the balance sheet as an appraisal cost.



Other examples of appraisal costs include:



Inspecting work-in-process materialsInspecting finished goodsThe supplies used to conduct inspectionsThe inventory destroyed as part of the testing processSupervision of the inspection staffDepreciation of test equipment and softwareMaintenance of any test equipment



The next best thing to incurring appraisal costs includes working on increasing the quality of the production processes of all suppliers and the company itself. The idea of vendor and supply chain management seeks to improve the entire process so that it's inherently incapable of producing defective parts. Like a final product, suppliers need to ensure that their raw materials are in good condition, or else they risk losing supply contracts with the final producer of a good.
What Is an Appraisal Management Company (AMC)?  

An Appraisal Management Company (AMC) is an independent entity through which mortgage lenders order residential real estate valuation services for properties on which they are considering extending loans to homebuyers.



AMCs fulfill an administrative function in the appraisal process, including selecting an appraiser and delivering the appraisal report to the lender. Individual appraisers who work for AMCs provide the actual property valuation services.





Key Takeaways

An Appraisal Management Company (AMC) is an independent real estate appraisal company hired by a lender to perform valuations on potentially mortgaged properties.AMCs select state-licensed or state-qualified appraisers to valuate properties and deliver appraisal reports to lenders.Customers seeking a mortgage on a prospective property, lenders, and mortgage brokers cannot choose the appraiser.The U.S. government developed appraiser independence guidelines, restricting the influence lenders have on appraisers.


   Understanding Appraisal Management Companies (AMC)  

AMCs have been a part of the real estate landscape for the past 50 years. However, their numbers remained limited until the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008.



In 2009, the New York Attorney General, government-sponsored enterprises Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) established the Home Valuation Code of Conduct (HVCC) appraisal guidelines. The HVCC guidelines, no longer on the books, laid the foundation for the appraiser independence found in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Truth in Lending Act. Laws obligating lenders to use independent appraisers led to a sharp rise in the use and number of AMCs.



The HVCC and later federal regulation sought to limit the amount of direct contact that lenders could have with appraisers. Essentially, the U.S. federal government created appraiser independence requirements to prevent lenders from influencing appraisers to inflate property values, a problem believed to have contributed to the housing crisis.



With an AMC, mortgage brokers, loan officers, nor homeowners may select the appraiser for the property on which they want to lend/borrow funds. Since the former parties have a financial interest in the transaction, there is a risk they might attempt to influence the appraiser to assign a higher value to the property than market conditions support so the transaction will go through.






When the system works correctly, the AMC chooses an appraiser with local knowledge of the market for the property being appraised.


   Appraisal Management Company (AMC) Requirements  

AMCs maintain a pool of state-licensed or state-qualified appraisers to meet requests from lending institutions. An appraiser is then assigned to provide an appraisal report for the property.



AMC appraisers are not provided with any prior information regarding the property or put in contact with the lending institution. The appraiser’s assessment must meet the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) guidelines. If there are any issues, the AMC can legally assist.
What Is Appreciation?  

Appreciation, in general terms, is an increase in the value of an asset over time. The increase can occur for a number of reasons, including increased demand or weakening supply, or as a result of changes in inflation or interest rates. This is the opposite of depreciation, which is a decrease in value over time.





Key Takeaways

Appreciation is an increase in the value of an asset over time.This is unlike depreciation, which lowers an asset’s value over its useful life. The appreciation rate is the rate at which an asset grows in value. Capital appreciation refers to an increase in the value of financial assets such as stocks.Currency appreciation refers to the increase in the value of one currency relative to another in the foreign exchange markets.


   How Appreciation Works  

Appreciation can be used to refer to an increase in any type of asset, such as a stock, bond, currency, or real estate. For example, the term capital appreciation refers to an increase in the value of financial assets such as stocks, which can occur for reasons such as improved financial performance of the company.



Just because the value of an asset appreciates does not necessarily mean its owner realizes the increase. If the owner revalues the asset at its higher price on their financial statements, this represents a realization of the increase.



Another type of appreciation is currency appreciation. The value of a country's currency can appreciate or depreciate over time in relation to other currencies.






Capital gain is the profit achieved by selling an asset that has appreciated in value.


   How to Calculate the Appreciation Rate  

The appreciation rate is virtually the same as the compound annual growth rate (CAGR). Thus, you take the ending value, divide by the beginning value, then take that result to 1 dividend by the number of holding periods (e.g. years). Finally, you subtract one from the result. 



 However, in order to calculate the appreciation rate that means you need to know the initial value of the investment and the future value. You also need to know how long the asset will appreciate.



For example, Rachel buys a home for $100,000 in 2016. In 2021, the value has increased to $125,000. The home has appreciated by 25% [($125,000 - $100,000) / $100,000] during these five years. The appreciate rate (or CAGR) is 4.6% [($125,000 / $100,000)^(1/5) - 1].


   Appreciation vs. Depreciation  

Appreciation is also used in accounting when referring to an upward adjustment of the value of an asset held on a company's accounting books. The most common adjustment on the value of an asset in accounting is usually a downward one, known as depreciation.



Certain assets are given to appreciation, while other assets tend to depreciate over time. As a general rule, assets that have a finite useful life depreciate rather than appreciate.



Depreciation is typically done as the asset loses economic value through use, such as a piece of machinery being used over its useful life. While appreciation of assets in accounting is less frequent, assets such as trademarks may see an upward value revision due to increased brand recognition.



Real estate, stocks, and precious metals represent assets purchased with the expectation that they will be worth more in the future than at the time of purchase. By contrast, automobiles, computers, and physical equipment gradually decline in value as they progress through their useful lives.


   Example of Capital Appreciation  

An investor purchases a stock for $10 and the stock pays an annual dividend of $1, equating to a dividend yield of 10%. A year later, the stock is trading at $15 per share and the investor has received the dividend of $1.



The investor has a return of $5 from capital appreciation as the price of the stock went from the purchase price or cost basis of $10 to a current market value of $15. In percentage terms, the stock price increase led to a return from capital appreciation of 50%. The dividend income return is $1, equating to a return of 10% in line with the original dividend yield. The return from capital appreciation combined with the return from the dividend leads to a total return on the stock of $6 or 60%.


   Example of Currency Appreciation  

China's ascension onto the world stage as a major economic power has corresponded with price swings in the exchange rate for its currency, the yuan. Beginning in 1981, the currency rose steadily against the dollar until 1996, when it plateaued at a value of $1 equaling 8.28 yuan until 2005. The dollar remained relatively strong during this period. It meant cheaper manufacturing costs and labor for American companies, who migrated to the country in droves.



It also meant that American goods were competitive on the world stage as well as the U.S. due to their cheap labor and manufacturing costs. In 2005, however, China's yuan reversed course and appreciated 33% in value against the dollar. As of May 2021, it's still near that retraced level, trading at 6.4 yuan.


   Appreciation FAQs  
  What Is an Appreciating Asset?  

An appreciating asset is any asset which value is increasing. For example, appreciating assets can be real estate, stocks, bonds, and currency.


  What Is Appreciation Rate?  

Appreciation rate is another word for growth rate. The appreciation rate is the rate at which an asset's value grows.


  What Is a Good Home Appreciation Rate?  

A good appreciation rate is relative to the asset and risk involved. What might be a good appreciation rate for real estate is different than what is a good appreciation rate for a certain currency given the risk involved.


  What Is Meant by Capital Appreciation?  

Capital appreciation is the increase in the value or price of an asset. This can include stocks, real estate, or the like.  


   The Bottom Line  

Appreciation is the rise in the value of an asset, such as currency or real estate. It’s the opposite of depreciation, which reduces the value of an asset over its useful life. Increases in value can be attributed to interest rate changes, supply and demand changes, or various other reasons.
What Is an Appropriation?  

Appropriation is when money is set aside for a specific purpose. A company or a government appropriates funds in order to delegate cash for the necessities of its operations. Appropriations for the U.S. federal government are decided by Congress through various committees. A company might appropriate money for short-term or long-term needs that include employee salaries, research and development, and dividends.





Key Takeaways

Appropriation is the act of setting aside money for a specific purpose.A company or a government appropriates money in its budget-making processes.In the U.S., appropriations for the federal government are earmarked by congress.


   What Does an Appropriation Tell You?  

Appropriations tell us how money or capital is being allocated whether it's through the federal government's budget or a company's use of cash and capital. Appropriations by governments are made for federal funds each year for various programs. Appropriations for companies may also be known as capital allocation.



Appropriation could also refer to setting apart land or buildings for public use such as for public buildings or parks. Appropriation can also refer to when the government claims private property through eminent domain.


  Federal Appropriations  

In the United States, appropriations bills for the federal government's spending are passed by U.S. Congress. The government's fiscal year runs from October 1 through September 30 of each calendar year.



Each fiscal year, the U.S. President submits a budget proposal to Congress. Budget committees in the U.S. House and Senate, then determine how the discretionary portion of the budget will be spent through a budget resolution process. The process yields an allocation of an amount of money that is assigned to the various appropriations committees. The House and Senate appropriations committees divide the money up between the various subcommittees that represent the departments that'll receive the money. Some of the departments include the following:



Department of AgricultureDepartment of DefenseDepartment of EnergyDepartment of CommerceDepartment of LaborDepartment of Transportation



Federal programs such as Social Security and Medicare fall under the mandatory expenditures category and receive funding through an automatic formula rather than through the appropriations process.



Congress also passes supplemental appropriations bills for instances when special funding is needed for natural disasters and other emergencies. For example, in December 2014, Congress approved the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015. The act approved $5.2 billion to fight the Ebola virus in West Africa and for domestic emergency responses to the disease. The act also allocated funding for controlling the virus and developing treatments for the disease.


  Appropriations in Business  

Corporate appropriations refer to how a company allocates its funds and can include share buybacks, dividends, paying down debt, and purchases of fixed assets. Fixed assets are property, plant, and equipment. In short, how a company allocates capital spending is important to investors and the long-term growth prospects of the company.



How a company appropriates money or invests its cash is monitored closely by market participants. Investors watch to determine whether a company is using its cash effectively to build shareholder value or whether the company is engaged in frivolous use of its cash, which can lead to the destruction of shareholder value.


   Monitoring Corporate Appropriations  

Investors monitor corporate appropriations of cash by analyzing a company's cash flow statement. The cash flow statement (CFS) measures how well a company manages its cash position, meaning how well the company generates cash to pay its debt obligations and fund its operating expenses. The cash flow of a company is divided into three activities or behavior:



Operating activities on the cash flow statement include any sources and uses of cash from business activities such as cash generated from a company's products or services.
Investing activities include any sources and uses of cash from a company's investments such as a purchase or sale of an asset.
Cash from financing activities includes the sources of cash from investors or banks, as well as the uses of cash paid to shareholders. The payment of dividends, the payments for stock repurchases, and the repayment of debt principal (loans) are included in this category.


   Example of Company Appropriations  

Below is the cash flow statement for Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM) from Sept 30, 2018, as reported in its 10Q filing. The cash flow statement shows how the executive management of Exxon appropriated the company's cash and profits:



Under the investing activities section (highlighted in red), $13.48 billion was allocated to purchase fixed assets or property, plant, and equipment.Under the financing activities section (highlighted in green), cash was allocated to pay down short-term debt in the amount of $4.279 billion.Also under financing activities, dividends were paid to shareholders (highlighted in blue), which totaled $10.296 billion.















Exxon Mobil cash flow statement 09-30-2018.
 Investopedia



Whether Exxon's use of cash is effective or not is up to investors and analysts to debate since evaluating the process of appropriating cash is highly subjective. Some investors might want more money allocated to dividends while other investors might want Exxon to allocate money towards investing in the future of the company by purchasing and upgrading equipment.


   Appropriations vs. Appropriated Retained Earnings  

Appropriated retained earnings are retained earnings (RE) that are specified by the board of directors for a particular use. Retained earnings are the amount of profit left over after a company has paid out dividends. Retained earnings accumulate over time similar to a savings account whereby the funds are used at a later date.



Appropriated retained earnings can be used for many purposes, including acquisitions, debt reduction, stock buybacks, and R&D. There may be more than one appropriated retained earnings accounts simultaneously. Typically, appropriated retained earnings are used only to indicate to outsiders the intention of management to use the funds for some purpose. Appropriation is the use of cash by a company showing how money is allocated and appropriated retained earnings outlines the specific use of that cash by the board of directors.


   Limitations of an Appropriation  

For investors, the cash flow statement reflects a company's financial health since typically the more cash that's available for business operations, the better. However, there are limitations to analyzing how money is spent. An investor won't know if the purchase of a fixed asset, for example, is a good decision until the company begins to generate revenue from the asset.



As a result, the investor can only infer whether the management is effectively deploying or appropriating its funds properly. Sometimes a negative cash flow results from a company's growth strategy in the form of expanding its operations.



By studying how a company allocates its spending and uses its cash, an investor can get a clear picture of how much cash a company generates and gain a solid understanding of the financial well being of a company.
What is an Appropriation Account?  

Appropriation is the act of setting aside money for a specific purpose. In accounting, it refers to a breakdown of how a firm’s profits are divided up, or for the government, an account that shows the funds a government department has been credited with. A company or a government appropriates funds in order to delegate cash for the necessities of its business operations. 


   How Appropriation Accounts Work  

In general accounting, appropriation accounts are mainly prepared by partnerships and limited liability companies (LLCs). They are an extension of the profit and loss statement, showing how the profits of a firm are allocated to shareholders or to increase reserves indicated in the balance sheet. A company might appropriate money for short-term or long-term needs to finance things such as employee salaries, research and development, and dividends.



For a partnership, the primary purpose of the appropriation account is to show how profits are distributed among the partners. For an LLC, the appropriation account will start with profits before taxes and then subtract corporate taxes and dividends to arrive at retained profits.



Government appropriation accounts come into play when they create their budgets. Appropriation credits are taken out of estimated revenues from taxes and trade and allocated to the proper agencies. Credits in appropriation accounts that are unused may be redistributed to other agencies or used for other purposes.



Appropriations for the U.S. federal government are decided by Congress through various committees. The U.S. government's fiscal year runs from October 1 through September 30 of each calendar year.





Key Takeaways

Appropriation accounts show how companies and governments distribute their funds.Companies and governments appropriate funds in order to delegate cash for the necessities of business operations.In general accounting, appropriation accounts are mainly prepared by partnerships and limited liability companies.Government appropriation accounts come into play when they create their budgets. Appropriation credits are taken out of estimated revenues from taxes and trade and allocated to the proper agencies.


   Real World Example of Appropriation Accounts  

Investors can monitor appropriations of publicly listed corporations by analyzing their cash flow statements (CFS). The CFS shows if a firm is generating enough cash to pay its debt obligations and fund its operating expenses.



Here’s a breakdown of how Tobacco giant Altria Group Inc. (MO), a popular income stock, appropriated its cash and profits in the nine months to Sep. 30, 2018.












SEC​ company filing​https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/764180/000076418018000095/a2018form10qq32018.htm












SEC​ company filinghttps://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/764180/000076418018000095/a2018form10qq32018.htm
What Is an Aptitude Test?  

An aptitude test is an exam used to determine an individual's skill or propensity to succeed in a given activity. Aptitude tests assume that individuals have inherent strengths and weaknesses and have a natural inclination toward success or failure in specific areas based on their innate characteristics.



Aptitude tests are generally used for job placement, college program entry, and to help people to get an idea of where their interests and aptitudes can take them regarding careers.





Key Takeaways

An aptitude test is used to determine an individual's abilities, assessing how they are likely to perform in an area in which they have no prior training or knowledge.Schools use aptitude tests to determine if students are inclined toward advanced placement classes or specific areas of study, such as engineering or a foreign language.Human resources departments at some companies will use career assessment tests to learn about a potential candidate's strengths and weaknesses.An aptitude test does not test knowledge or intelligence, only a particular skill or propensity. Therefore, it is not a test for which a person can study.


   Understanding Aptitude Tests  

Aptitude tests can be used to determine your capabilities in a variety of subjects. For example, individuals may take an aptitude test to determine the careers that are a good match for their skills and interests. Similarly, high school students may take an aptitude test when thinking about what would be an appropriate college major or whether college is the best choice for them.



In general, aptitude tests measure one's competence in logical reasoning, numerical skills, or verbal ability; competency can be evaluated through problem-solving tasks and testing one's critical thinking across various contexts.


   When You Might Take an Aptitude Test  

Some schools administer aptitude tests to students beginning in elementary school. Combined with intelligence and achievement tests that measure student mastery of academic content, aptitude tests may be used to determine placement in gifted and talented programs or other specific educational tracks.


  Language Aptitudes  

For example, the Modern Language Aptitude Test (MLAT) measures a student's potential for successfully mastering foreign languages. Aptitude tests can also help determine if a student needs special education services.


  Older Students  

For older students, Differential Aptitude Tests (DATs) assess a range of aptitudes from spatial relations to language usage. The results can help administrators make curricular recommendations.






Aptitude and personality tests can be useful in determining skills and abilities to highlight on a resume or cover letter when applying for a job.


  Curriculum Guidance  

Counselors might use high scores in mechanical reasoning tests to guide students toward courses that prepare them for engineering or designing studies in college. For instance, students who score well in tests measuring speed, accuracy, and problem-solving might choose coursework in computer science, finance, or other fields requiring attention to detail.


  Hiring Decisions  

Some companies use aptitude tests to help them make hiring decisions. These tests, called career assessment tests, help human resources (HR) personnel learn more about a prospective employee's strengths and weaknesses. Career assessment tests may also be used within a company to make promotion decisions.



Situational judgment tests are a specific kind of career aptitude test that can help predict how an employee might respond to specific situations in the workplace. They are also used to assess an employee's communication style and ability to work within a team.



Some situational judgment tests focus specifically on customer service careers. These tests analyze personality traits predictive of successful public interaction, such as empathy, diplomacy, and patience. Situational judgment tests may also be used to predict future competency in sales-related careers.


   Types of Aptitude Tests  

Many types of aptitude tests are taken for educational or career discovery and ability purposes. The most common aptitude tests are:



Mechanical reasoning: These types test your knowledge of physical concepts and are generally used to evaluate you for technical positions.Situational judgment: These tests gauge your reactions to situations and your decision-making.Diagrammatic/spatial reasoning: These tests see how well you can reach a conclusion based on processes contained in diagrams.Abstract reasoning: These measure problem-solving abilities and identify relationships between abstract arrays.Numerical reasoning: In these tests, your abilities with numbers, math, and data are tested.Verbal reasoning: Your language, reading comprehension, and vocabulary are tested in these types.Inductive reasoning: Under the pressure of time, these tests see how well you analyze patterns and data.Logical reasoning: Logical reasoning tests measure how well you recognize patterns and sequences and identify relationships between objects.Clerical aptitude: Clerical tests measure how fast and accurate you can be, seeing how well you can concentrate.


   How to Pass an Aptitude Test  

You might have heard that you can't prepare for an aptitude test, but nothing could be further from the truth. Study guides and practice aptitude tests are readily available online and in community or high school libraries.






If you're unsure about what kind of job you want or where you want to go next in your career, an aptitude or assessment test—offered on various websites, either for free or for a small fee—can be a great way of narrowing down options to make a choice.



Conduct an online search for the type of test you'll be taking. You'll find many guides that offer tips on subjects you can read about and practice tests. Once you've found the practice tests and some study material:



Practice the test daily: Practicing every day gives you continuous exposure to the questions and answers and helps you identify weak spots.Learn the test format: Remembering the format helps you move through the test. It also allows you to identify areas you need to work on.Carefully read the instructions: When you take the test, don't dive into it. Instead, read all instructions and ensure you understand them, so you don't work through a section giving wrong answers.Manage your testing time: Answer the questions you know first. Then, go back and work on the more challenging questions.




What Is an Aptitude Test and an Example?
An aptitude test measures your capabilities in specific areas. One aptitude test most people hear of in high school is the Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB). The ASVAB tests general science, arithmetic reasoning and mathematics, word knowledge, reading comprehension, mechanical comprehension, and more. The information is used to place applicants in job positions where they will have a better chance of succeeding.




Is an IQ Test an Aptitude Test?
An IQ test tries to measure your intelligence, while an aptitude test measures your ability to apply your intelligence.




Is There an Online Aptitude Test?
While some aptitude tests may still be given using test booklets and bubble sheets, many aptitude tests are administered online. You can find free and paid versions.


   The Bottom Line  

An aptitude test is a measure of your ability to learn or perform required tasks and succeed in the environment you're in. They are not a measure of intelligence—these tests look for your strengths and weaknesses, giving you and the evaluator an idea of your abilities.



Most aptitude tests can indicate success in education and a career, but they are not always 100% accurate predictions. For example, it is possible to score very low on an aptitude test for a specific job and be successful with hard work and dedication—the test may have merely taken a snapshot of your knowledge and abilities at a point where you didn't know much about the field.



Remember that preparation can help you pass an aptitude test even if you have no prior knowledge in an area—if you think of it as learning something new and interesting, you may surprise yourself with what you can do.
What Is the Arab League?  

The Arab League is a union of Arabic-speaking African and Asian countries. It was formed in Cairo in 1945 to promote the independence, sovereignty, affairs, and interests of its member countries and observers. The organization began with seven founding members and is now comprised of 22 different member nations and four observer states. The League is bound by a charter and has a council in place to ensure that its goals are met.





Key Takeaways

The Arab League is a regional multi-national organization of Arabic-speaking countries in the Middle East and North Africa.Established in 1945, the League is headquartered in Cairo.The Arab league's mission is to promote trade and economic growth as well as sovereignty and political stability in the region.The League is made up of 22 member states and four observer nations.Members of the Arab League adhere to the charter, which is an agreement of 20 articles and three annexes.


   Understanding the Arab League  

As noted above, the Arab League is an organization that is made up of 22 different nations across the Middle East and Northern Africa. Many of these countries are part of the Middle East North Africa (MENA) region. It was founded in 1945 and is headquartered in Cairo. Known officially as the League of Arab States, it focuses on the economic and political development of its member states along with conflict resolution.



The members of the League (and the years they were admitted) include:











Member Nations of the Arab League




Algeria (1962) 
Jordan*
Oman (1971)
Syria*


Bahrain (1971)
Kuwait (1961)
Palestine (1976)
Tunisia (1958)


Comoros (1993)
Lebanon* 
Qatar (1971)
United Arab Emirates (1971)


Djibouti (1977)
Libya (1953)
Saudi Arabia* 
Yemen*


Egypt* 
Mauritania (1973)
Somalia (1974)



Iraq*
Morocco (1958)
Sudan (1956)




Source: Council on Foreign Relations 



*denotes a founding member state



There are four nations that were conferred observer status by the League: Brazil, Eritrea, India, and Venezuela.



The Arab League countries have widely varying levels of population, wealth, gross domestic product (GDP), and literacy. They are all predominantly Muslim, Arabic-speaking countries, but Egypt and Saudi Arabia are considered the dominant players in the League. Through agreements for joint defense, economic cooperation, and free trade, among others, the league helps its member countries to coordinate government and cultural programs to facilitate cooperation and limit conflict.






When Jordan joined the Arab League, its official name was Transjordan.


   History of the Arab League  

The League was formed in 1945 after the seven founding members signed the Alexandria Protocol in Cairo the previous year. The prominent issue at the time was freeing the Arab countries that were still under colonial rule.



Cairo was the original headquarters for the League in 1945. That changed in 1979 when it was moved to Tunis, Tunisia. The organization revoked Egypt's membership after it signed a peace treaty with Israel. The League reestablished ties with Egypt in 1987 and moved its headquarters back to Cairo when it was admitted back as a member state in 1989.



The Arab League acted decisively and unanimously during the Arab Spring uprisings in early 2011 by revoking the country's membership that same year. It supported United Nations (UN) action against then-leader Muammar Gaddafi's forces. Libya's membership was reinstated later that year after a representative of the National Transitional Council was installed following Gaddafi's removal from office to act as the interim government.



The Arab League condemned the Islamic State in 2014 and several of its members launched airstrikes against the militant organization. But it did little as a whole to assist the Shiite-led Iraqi government. Syria's membership was also under threat because of government violence against civilian protestors as the League passed a resolution to revoke it in 2011. In 2018 and 2019, the organization called on Turkey to withdraw from Syria.



In April 2021, the League called on Somalia to hold postponed presidential and parliamentary elections.


  Views on Israel  

One of the original goals of the Arab League was to prevent the breakup of Palestine via the creation of the Jewish state of Israel, as the organization recognizes Palestine as a separate nation.



The League's position on Israel has been inconsistent. In 2019, it denounced Israel's plans to annex the Jordan Valley. In February 2020, the League denounced the Middle East peace plan put forth by President Donald Trump’s administration, saying it “does not meet the minimum rights and aspirations of Palestinian people."



Several members seemed to approve of the plan. And in September 2020, the League didn't condemn the decision by the United Arab Emirates to normalize ties with the Jewish state.






One of the Arab League's longest-lasting and unanimous actions: Its members' economic boycott of Israel between 1948 and 1993.


   The Arab League Charter  

The charter of the Arab League was established on March 22, 1945, and is referred to as the Pact of the League of Arab States. It was signed by the leaders of the seven founding member states: Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, and Yemen. As per the agreement, the member states aim to strengthen their ties and reinforce their sovereignty.



The pact is composed of 20 articles that outline the goals, governance, headquarters, and the creation of the Arab League Council. It also features what actions must be taken to resolve disputes among members.



There are also annexes on the following issues:



PalestineThe cooperation with other non-member Arab countriesThe appointment of the League's Secretary-General


   The Arab League Council  

The League Council is the highest body of the Arab League and is composed of representatives of member states, typically foreign ministers, their representatives, or permanent delegates. Each member state has one vote.



The Council meets twice a year, in March and September. Two or more members may request a special session if they desire.



The general secretariat manages the daily operations of the league and is headed by the secretary-general. The general secretariat is the administrative body of the league, the executive body of the council, and the specialized ministerial councils.


   Arab League Member Conflicts  

(The Arab League's effectiveness and influence have been hampered by divisions among member states. During the Cold War, some members were supportive of the Soviet Union while others aligned with Western nations. There has also been rivalry over League leadership—especially between Egypt and Iraq.



Hostilities between monarchies such as Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Morocco have been disruptive, as have the conduct of states that have undergone political change such as Egypt under Gamal Abdel Nasser, and Libya under Muammar Gaddafi. The attack on Saddam Hussein's Iraq by the United States also created significant rifts between members of the Arab League.



Resolutions by the Council don't have to be unanimously approved by members. However, because they are binding only on the nations that voted for them (no country has to abide by them against its will) their effectiveness is somewhat limited, often amounting to little more than declarations rather than implemented policies.




What Is the Purpose of the Arab League?
The Arab League's state purpose is to seek close cooperation among its members on matters of common interest—specifically, economics, communication, culture, nationality, social welfare, and health; to strengthen ties, improve communication, and promote common interest among Arabic-speaking nations.The Pact of the League of Arab States, the organization's founding document, identifies the mission of the League as follows:“The purpose of the League is to draw closer the relations between member States and coordinate their political activities with the aim of realizing a close collaboration between them, to safeguard their independence and sovereignty, and to consider in a general way the affairs and interests of the Arab countries."




Who Is the Leader of the Arab League?
The Arab League is headed by the Secretary-General. As of June 4, 2022, Ahmed Aboul Gheit holds that post. He assumed it in 2016.




Does the Arab League Still Exist?
Yes, the Arab League still exists. But members are skipping League summits and declining positions, possibly a sign of waning enthusiasm for the organization.Some scholars and statesmen feel that the League is unable to overcome a fundamental paralysis, due to internal divisions among its member nations, leading to "resolutions [that] are prefabricated, out of date, out of touch, and reflexively anti-Israeli," as states a 2020 article posted by the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies. The conclusion of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies is that "the time has come to close it down.""The League’s paralysis reflects its irrelevance since the 2000s," Sean Yom, associate professor at Temple University, Philadelphia, and author of From Resilience to Revolution: How Foreign Interventions Destabilize the Middle East, said in a 2018 interview. "If we are going to see the League simply dissolve away, it will probably take another decade or two."




Why Is Turkey Not in the Arab League?
Turkey has expressed interest in having an observer status in the League but has been refused for several reasons, most noticeably opposition from Iraq (whose Kurdish citizens Turkey has frequently battled with) and Syria (the latter still claims Turkey's Hatay Province). The League also condemned Turkey's military interventions in Libya and other countries.




Is the Arab League a Military Alliance?
The Arab League is not a military alliance per se. But its founding members agreed to cooperate in military affairs and coordinate military defense. At the 2007 summit, the leaders of its member states decided to reactivate their joint defense and establish a peacekeeping force to deploy in South Lebanon, Darfur, Iraq, and other hot spots.At a 2015 summit in Egypt, member states agreed to form a joint voluntary military force in principle.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many different intergovernmental organizations found around the world. Some of these are global, such as the United Nations, while others are focused more on certain regions like the Arab League. This group is composed of 22 member nations that span the Middle East and Northern Africa. Like other, similar groups, the Arab League's goals are to strengthen the relationships between member states while promoting their political and economic development.
What Is Arbitrage?  

Arbitrage is the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same or similar asset in different markets in order to profit from tiny differences in the asset’s listed price. It exploits short-lived variations in the price of identical or similar financial instruments in different markets or in different forms.



Arbitrage exists as a result of market inefficiencies, and it both exploits those inefficiencies and resolves them.





Key Takeaways

Arbitrage is the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset in different markets to exploit tiny differences in their prices.Arbitrage trades are made in stocks, commodities, and currencies.Arbitrage takes advantage of the inevitable inefficiencies in markets.By exploiting market inefficiencies, however, the act of arbitraging brings markets closer to efficiency.


   Understanding Arbitrage  

Arbitrage can be used whenever any stock, commodity, or currency may be purchased in one market at a given price and simultaneously sold in another market at a higher price. The situation creates an opportunity for a risk-free profit for the trader.



Arbitrage provides a mechanism to ensure that prices do not deviate substantially from fair value for long periods of time. With advancements in technology, it has become extremely difficult to profit from pricing errors in the market. Many traders have computerized trading systems set to monitor fluctuations in similar financial instruments. Any inefficient pricing setups are usually acted upon quickly, and the opportunity is eliminated, often in a matter of seconds.


   Examples of Arbitrage  

As a straightforward example of arbitrage, consider the following: The stock of Company X is trading at $20 on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), while, at the same moment, it is trading for $20.05 on the London Stock Exchange (LSE).



A trader can buy the stock on the NYSE and immediately sell the same shares on the LSE, earning a profit of 5 cents per share.



The trader can continue to exploit this arbitrage until the specialists on the NYSE run out of inventory of Company X’s stock, or until the specialists on the NYSE or the LSE adjust their prices to wipe out the opportunity.






Types of arbitrage include risk, retail, convertible, negative, statistical, and triangular, among others.


  A More Complicated Arbitrage Example  

A trickier example can be found in Forex or currency markets using triangular arbitrage. In this case, the trader converts one currency to another, converts that second currency to a third bank, and finally converts the third currency back to the original currency.



Suppose you have $1 million and you are provided with the following exchange rates: USD/EUR = 1.1586, EUR/GBP = 1.4600, and USD/GBP = 1.6939.



With these exchange rates, there is an arbitrage opportunity:



Sell dollars to buy euros: $1 million ÷ 1.1586 = €863,110Sell euros for pounds: €863,100 ÷ 1.4600 = £591,171Sell pounds for dollars: £591,171 × 1.6939 = $1,001,384Subtract the initial investment from the final amount: $1,001,384 – $1,000,000 = $1,384



From these transactions, you would receive an arbitrage profit of $1,384 (assuming no transaction costs or taxes).




How Does Arbitrage Work?
Arbitrage is trading that exploits the tiny differences in price between identical or similar assets in two or more markets. The arbitrage trader buys the asset in one market and sells it in the other market at the same time to pocket the difference between the two prices. There are more complicated variations in this scenario, but all depend on identifying market “inefficiencies.”Arbitrageurs, as arbitrage traders are called, usually work on behalf of large financial institutions. It usually involves trading a substantial amount of money, and the split-second opportunities it offers can be identified and acted upon only with highly sophisticated software.




What Are Some Examples of Arbitrage?
The standard definition of arbitrage involves buying and selling shares of stock, commodities, or currencies on multiple markets to profit from inevitable differences in their prices from minute to minute.However, the term “arbitrage” is also sometimes used to describe other trading activities. Merger arbitrage, which involves buying shares in companies prior to an announced or expected merger, is one strategy that is popular among hedge fund investors.




Why Is Arbitrage Important?
In the course of making a profit, arbitrage traders enhance the efficiency of the financial markets. As they buy and sell, the price differences between identical or similar assets narrow. The lower-priced assets are bid up, while the higher-priced assets are sold off. In this manner, arbitrage resolves inefficiencies in the market’s pricing and adds liquidity to the market.


   The Bottom Line  

Arbitrage is a condition where you can simultaneously buy and sell the same or similar product or asset at different prices, resulting in a risk-free profit.



Economic theory states that arbitrage should not be able to occur because if markets are efficient, there would be no such opportunities to profit. However, in reality, markets can be inefficient and arbitrage can happen. When arbitrageurs identify and then correct such mispricings (by buying them low and selling them high), though, they work to move prices back in line with market efficiency. This means that any arbitrage opportunities that do occur are short-lived.



There are many different arbitrage strategies that exist, some involving complex interrelationships between different assets or securities.







Correction—April 9, 2022: A previous version of this article had miscalculated the complicated arbitrage example.
What Is the Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT)?  

Arbitrage pricing theory (APT) is a multi-factor asset pricing model based on the idea that an asset's returns can be predicted using the linear relationship between the asset’s expected return and a number of macroeconomic variables that capture systematic risk. It is a useful tool for analyzing portfolios from a value investing perspective, in order to identify securities that may be temporarily mispriced.


   The Formula for the Arbitrage Pricing Theory Model Is  

﻿
















E(R)


i



=


E


(


R



)


z



+


(


E


(


I


)


−


E


(


R



)


z



)


×



β


n

















where:

















E(R)


i



=


Expected return on the asset

















R


z



=


Risk-free rate of return

















β


n



=


Sensitivity of the asset price to macroeconomic
















factor


 n
















E


i


=


Risk premium associated with factor


 i








\begin{aligned} &\text{E(R)}_\text{i} = E(R)_z + (E(I) - E(R)_z) \times \beta_n\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{E(R)}_\text{i} = \text{Expected return on the asset}\\ &R_z = \text{Risk-free rate of return}\\ &\beta_n = \text{Sensitivity of the asset price to macroeconomic} \\ &\text{factor}\textit{ n}\\ &Ei = \text{Risk premium associated with factor}\textit{ i}\\ \end{aligned}


​E(R)i​=E(R)z​+(E(I)−E(R)z​)×βn​where:E(R)i​=Expected return on the assetRz​=Risk-free rate of returnβn​=Sensitivity of the asset price to macroeconomicfactor nEi=Risk premium associated with factor i​﻿



The beta coefficients in the APT model are estimated by using linear regression. In general, historical securities returns are regressed on the factor to estimate its beta.


   How the Arbitrage Pricing Theory Works  

The arbitrage pricing theory was developed by the economist Stephen Ross in 1976, as an alternative to the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Unlike the CAPM, which assume markets are perfectly efficient, APT assumes markets sometimes misprice securities, before the market eventually corrects and securities move back to fair value. Using APT, arbitrageurs hope to take advantage of any deviations from fair market value.



However, this is not a risk-free operation in the classic sense of arbitrage, because investors are assuming that the model is correct and making directional trades—rather than locking in risk-free profits.


   Mathematical Model for the APT  

While APT is more flexible than the CAPM, it is more complex. The CAPM only takes into account one factor—market risk—while the APT formula has multiple factors. And it takes a considerable amount of research to determine how sensitive a security is to various macroeconomic risks.



The factors as well as how many of them are used are subjective choices, which means investors will have varying results depending on their choice. However, four or five factors will usually explain most of a security's return. (For more on the differences between the CAPM and APT, read more about how CAPM and arbitrage pricing theory differ.)



APT factors are the systematic risk that cannot be reduced by the diversification of an investment portfolio. The macroeconomic factors that have proven most reliable as price predictors include unexpected changes in inflation, gross national product (GNP), corporate bond spreads and shifts in the yield curve. Other commonly used factors are gross domestic product (GDP), commodities prices, market indices, and exchange rates.





Key Takeaways

Arbitrage pricing theory (APT) is a multi-factor asset pricing model based on the idea that an asset's returns can be predicted using the linear relationship between the asset’s expected return and a number of macroeconomic variables that capture systematic risk.Unlike the CAPM, which assume markets are perfectly efficient, APT assumes markets sometimes misprice securities, before the market eventually corrects and securities move back to fair value.Using APT, arbitrageurs hope to take advantage of any deviations from fair market value.


   Example of How Arbitrage Pricing Theory Is Used  

For example, the following four factors have been identified as explaining a stock's return and its sensitivity to each factor and the risk premium associated with each factor have been calculated:



Gross domestic product (GDP) growth: ß = 0.6, RP = 4%Inflation rate: ß = 0.8, RP = 2%Gold prices: ß = -0.7, RP = 5%Standard and Poor's 500 index return: ß = 1.3, RP = 9%The risk-free rate is 3%



Using the APT formula, the expected return is calculated as:



Expected return = 3% + (0.6 x 4%) + (0.8 x 2%) + (-0.7 x 5%) + (1.3 x 9%) = 15.2%
What Is an Arbitrageur?  

An arbitrageur is a type of investor who attempts to profit from market inefficiencies. These inefficiencies can relate to any aspect of the markets, whether it is price, dividends, or regulation. The most common form of arbitrage is price.



Arbitrageurs exploit price inefficiencies by making simultaneous trades that offset each other to capture risk-free profits. An arbitrageur would, for example, seek out price discrepancies between stocks listed on more than one exchange by buying the undervalued shares on one exchange while short selling the same number of overvalued shares on another exchange, thus capturing risk-free profits as the prices on the two exchanges converge.



In some instances, they also seek to profit by arbitraging private information into profits. For example, a takeover arbitrageur may use information about an impending takeover to buy up a company's stock and profit from the subsequent price appreciation.





Key Takeaways

Arbitrageurs are investors who exploit market inefficiencies of any kind. They are necessary to ensure that inefficiencies between markets are ironed out or remain at a minimum.Arbitrageurs tend to be experienced investors, and need to be detail-oriented and comfortable with risk.Arbitrageurs most commonly benefit from price discrepancies between stocks or other assets listed on multiple exchanges.In such a scenario, the arbitrageur might buy the issue on one exchange and short sell it on the second exchange, where the price is higher.


   Understanding an Arbitrageur  

Arbitrageurs are typically very experienced investors since arbitrage opportunities are difficult to find and require relatively fast trading. They also need to be detail-oriented and comfortable with risk. This is because most arbitrage plays involve a significant amount of risk. They are also bets with regards to the future direction of markets.



Arbitrageurs play an important role in the operation of capital markets, as their efforts in exploiting price inefficiencies keep prices more accurate than they otherwise would be.


   Examples of Arbitrageur Plays  

As a simple example of what an arbitrageur would do, consider the following.



The stock of Company X is trading at $20 on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) while, at the same moment, it is trading for the equivalent of $20.05 on the London Stock Exchange (LSE). A trader can buy the stock on the NYSE and immediately sell the same shares on the LSE, earning a total profit of 5 cents per share, less any trading costs. The trader exploits the arbitrage opportunity until the specialists on the NYSE run out of inventory of Company X's stock, or until the specialists on the NYSE or LSE adjust their prices to wipe out the opportunity.



An example of an information arbitrageur was Ivan F. Boesky. He was considered a master arbitrageur of takeovers during the 1980s. For example, he minted profits by buying stocks of Gulf oil and Getty oil before their purchases by California Standard and Texaco respectively during that period. He is reported to have made between $50 million to $100 million in each transaction.



The rise of cryptocurrencies offered another opportunity for arbitrageurs. As the price of Bitcoin reached new records, several opportunities to exploit price discrepancies between multiple exchanges operating around the world presented themselves. For example, Bitcoin traded at a premium at cryptocurrency exchanges situated in South Korea as compared to the ones located in the United States. The difference in prices, also known as the Kimchi Premium, was mainly because of the high demand for crypto in these regions. Crypto traders profited by arbitraging the price difference between the two locations in real-time.
What Is Arbitration?  

Arbitration is a mechanism for resolving disputes between investors and brokers, or between brokers. It is overseen by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and the decisions are final and binding. Arbitration is distinct from mediation, in which parties negotiate to reach a voluntary settlement, and decisions are not binding unless all parties agree to them.



Arbitration is not the same as filing an investor complaint, in which an investor alleges wrongdoing on the part of a broker, but has no specific dispute with that broker, for which the investor seeks damages.


   How Arbitration Works  

In practical terms, arbitration is similar to a lawsuit but may be preferable for all parties due to the lower costs and time commitments involved.





Key Takeaways

Arbitration is not the same as filing an investor complaint. Arbitration could be preferable than a lawsuit due to the lower costs and time commitments for all parties involved. Disputes involving less than $50,000 do not require in-person hearings.For disputes ranging from $50,000 to $100,000, require an in-person hearing with a single arbitrator.



When an investor or broker has a specific dispute with a broker that is registered with FINRA, they may file a claim with FINRA that states the alleged misconduct and the amount of money they are seeking in damages.



FINRA will appoint a panel of three financial industry professionals who, unless the injured party requests otherwise, will not be employed in the securities industry. This is intended to eliminate bias, but if one of the parties suspects that a member of the panel is biased, they may request a change.


   Arbitration Hearings  

For disputes involving less than $50,000, in-person hearings are not considered necessary; rather, both parties submit written materials to a single arbitrator who decides the case. For disputes ranging from $50,000 to $100,000, in-person hearings with a single arbitrator are the most common.



For disputes over $100,000, in-person hearings with three arbitrators are standard. A majority of the three-arbitrator panel (that is, two people) is necessary for a decision. Arbitrators are not required to explain their decision.



Parties filing for arbitration may represent themselves, or they may hire an attorney. In general, arbitration panels are less formalistic than the court system, so investors have a reasonable chance of being successful even when representing themselves.






There are fees associated with filing for arbitration, not to mention the time and travel expenses involved, which investors should consider when pursuing this option.


   Special Considerations  

Arbitration panels do not necessarily award the full amount sought in a dispute. For example, if an investor files a claim against his or her broker for $38,000, the panel may decide in the investor’s favor, but only award $10,000.



Arbitration decisions are binding and not subject to appeal, except under very limited circumstances. FINRA’s mediation process, on the other hand, is not binding unless both parties agree to the settlement.



The Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association has criticized FINRA for lack of diversity on its arbitration panels and lax safeguards against bias and conflicts of interest. The regulator has argued that these criticisms are misplaced, particularly the focus on arbitrators' age.



In their terms of service, most brokers require investors to agree to mandatory arbitration to settle potential disputes, rather than going to court. Since FINRA has a near-monopoly on arbitration, the organization’s panels are many investors’ only recourse.
What Is Arc Elasticity?  

Arc elasticity is the elasticity of one variable with respect to another between two given points. It is used when there is no general way to define the relationship between the two variables. Arc elasticity is also defined as the elasticity between two points on a curve.



The concept is used in both economics and mathematics. In economics, is it commonly used to measure the changes between the quantity of goods demanded and their prices.





Key Takeaways

In the concept of arc elasticity, the elasticity of one variable is measured with respect to another between two given points.The concept is used in both economics and mathematics.It is commonly used to measure the changes between the quantity of goods demanded and their prices.Price (or point) elasticity of demand and arc elasticity of demand are two ways to calculate elasticity.


   Understanding Arc Elasticity  

In economics, arc elasticity is commonly used in relation to the law of demand to measure percentage changes between the quantity of goods demanded and prices.



There are two possible ways of calculating elasticity—price (or point) elasticity of demand and arc elasticity of demand. Price elasticity of demand measures the responsiveness of quantity demanded to a price. It takes the elasticity of demand at a particular point on the demand curve, or between two points on the curve. Arc elasticity of demand uses a midpoint between the two points.


   Formula for Price (Point) Elasticity of Demand  

﻿﻿




P



E


d



=




% Change in Qty




% Change in Price





PE_d = \dfrac{\text{\% Change in Qty}}{\text{\% Change in Price}}


PEd​=% Change in Price% Change in Qty​﻿﻿


   How to Calculate the Price Elasticity of Demand  

If the price of a product decreases from $10 to $8, leading to an increase in quantity demanded from 40 to 60 units, then the price elasticity of demand can be calculated as:



% change in quantity demanded = (Qd2 – Qd1) / Qd1 = (60 – 40) / 40 = 0.5% change in price = (P2 – P1) / P1 = (8 – 10) / 10 = -0.2Thus, PEd = 0.5 / -0.2 = 2.5



Since we’re concerned with the absolute values in price elasticity, the negative sign is ignored. You can conclude that the price elasticity of this good, when the price decreases from $10 to $8, is 2.5.


   Arc Elasticity of Demand  

One of the problems with the price elasticity of demand formula is that it gives different values depending on whether price rises or falls. If you were to use different start and end points in our example above—that is, if you assume the price increased from $8 to $10—and the quantity demanded decreased from 60 to 40, the Ped will be:



% change in quantity demanded = (40 – 60) / 60 = -0.33% change in price = (10 – 8) / 8 = 0.25PEd = -0.33 / 0.25 = 1.32, which is much different from 2.5


   How to Calculate the Arc Elasticity of Demand  

To eliminate this problem, the arc elasticity of demand can be used. Arc elasticity of demand measures elasticity at the midpoint between two selected points on the demand curve by using a midpoint between the two points. The arc elasticity of demand can be calculated as:



Arc Ed = [(Qd2 – Qd1) / midpoint Qd] ÷ [(P2 – P1) / midpoint P]



Let’s calculate the arc elasticity following the example presented above:



Midpoint Qd = (Qd1 + Qd2) / 2 = (40 + 60) / 2 = 50Midpoint Price = (P1 + P2) / 2 = (10 + 8) / 2 = 9% change in qty demanded = (60 – 40) / 50 = 0.4% change in price = (8 – 10) / 9 = -0.22Arc Ed = 0.4 / -0.22 = 1.82



When you use arc elasticity of demand you do not need to worry about which point is the starting point and which point is the ending point since the arc elasticity gives the same value for elasticity whether prices rise or fall.






Arc elasticity of demand is more useful than price elasticity of demand when there is a considerable change in price.




What Is Elasticity in Economics?
In the context of economics, elasticity is used to measure the change in the quantity demanded for a product in relation to its price movements. A product is considered to be elastic if the demand for it changes substantially when its price changes.




What Is the Law of Demand?
The law of demand is a fundamental economic concept. It states that when prices rise, the demand for a good or service will decrease. 




What Are the Benefits of Arc Elasticity of Demand?
The formula for arc elasticity of demand measures elasticity between two selected points by using a midpoint between the two points. As a result, it is particularly useful when there is a substantial change in price.


   The Bottom Line  

Arc elasticity is commonly used in economics to determine the percentage of change between the demand for goods and their price. Elasticity can be calculated in two ways—price elasticity of demand and arc elasticity of demand. The latter is more useful when there is a significant change in price.
What Is the Arithmetic Mean?  

The arithmetic mean is the simplest and most widely used measure of a mean, or average. It simply involves taking the sum of a group of numbers, then dividing that sum by the count of the numbers used in the series. For example, take the numbers 34, 44, 56, and 78. The sum is 212. The arithmetic mean is 212 divided by four, or 53.



People also use several other types of means, such as the geometric mean and harmonic mean, which comes into play in certain situations in finance and investing. Another example is the trimmed mean, used when calculating economic data such as the consumer price index (CPI) and personal consumption expenditures (PCE).





Key Takeaways

The arithmetic mean is the simple average, or sum of a series of numbers divided by the count of that series of numbers.In the world of finance, the arithmetic mean is not usually an appropriate method for calculating an average, especially when a single outlier can skew the mean by a large amount.Other averages used more commonly in finance include the geometric and harmonic mean.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   How the Arithmetic Mean Works  

The arithmetic mean maintains its place in finance, as well. For example, mean earnings estimates typically are an arithmetic mean. Say you want to know the average earnings expectation of the 16 analysts covering a particular stock. Simply add up all the estimates and divide by 16 to get the arithmetic mean.



The same is true if you want to calculate a stock’s average closing price during a particular month. Say there are 23 trading days in the month. Simply take all the prices, add them up, and divide by 23 to get the arithmetic mean.



The arithmetic mean is simple, and most people with even a little bit of finance and math skill can calculate it. It’s also a useful measure of central tendency, as it tends to provide useful results, even with large groupings of numbers.






   Limitations of the Arithmetic Mean  

The arithmetic mean isn't always ideal, especially when a single outlier can skew the mean by a large amount. Let’s say you want to estimate the allowance of a group of 10 kids. Nine of them get an allowance between $10 and $12 a week. The tenth kid gets an allowance of $60. That one outlier is going to result in an arithmetic mean of $16. This is not very representative of the group.



In this particular case, the median allowance of 10 might be a better measure.



The arithmetic mean also isn’t great when calculating the performance of investment portfolios, especially when it involves compounding, or the reinvestment of dividends and earnings. It is also generally not used to calculate present and future cash flows, which analysts use in making their estimates. Doing so is almost sure to lead to misleading numbers.





Important

The arithmetic mean can be misleading when there are outliers or when looking at historical returns. The geometric mean is most appropriate for series that exhibit serial correlation. This is especially true for investment portfolios.


   Arithmetic vs. Geometric Mean  

For these applications, analysts tend to use the geometric mean, which is calculated differently. The geometric mean is most appropriate for series that exhibit serial correlation. This is especially true for investment portfolios.



Most returns in finance are correlated, including yields on bonds, stock returns, and market risk premiums. The longer the time horizon, the more critical compounding and the use of the geometric mean becomes. For volatile numbers, the geometric average provides a far more accurate measurement of the true return by taking into account year-over-year compounding.



The geometric mean takes the product of all numbers in the series and raises it to the inverse of the length of the series. It’s more laborious by hand, but easy to calculate in Microsoft Excel using the GEOMEAN function.



The geometric mean differs from the arithmetic average, or arithmetic mean, in how it's calculated because it takes into account the compounding that occurs from period to period. Because of this, investors usually consider the geometric mean a more accurate measure of returns than the arithmetic mean.


   Example of the Arithmetic vs. Geometric Mean  

Let's say that a stock's returns over the last five years are 20%, 6%, -10%, -1%, and 6%. The arithmetic mean would simply add those up and divide by five, giving a 4.2% per year average return.



The geometric mean would instead be calculated as (1.2 x 1.06 x 0.9 x 0.99 x 1.06)1/5 -1 = 3.74% per year average return. Note that the geometric mean, a more accurate calculation in this case, will always be smaller than the arithmetic mean.
What Is an Arm's Length Transaction?  

An arm's length transaction refers to a business deal in which buyers and sellers act independently without one party influencing the other. Arm's length transactions assert that both parties act in their own self-interest and are not subject to pressure from the other party. They also assure others that there is no collusion between the buyer and seller. In the interest of fairness, both parties usually have equal access to information related to the deal.





Key Takeaways

An arm's length transaction is a business deal that involves parties who act independently of one another.Both parties involved in an arm's length sale usually have no relationship with each other.These types of deals in real estate help ensure that properties are priced at their fair market value.Arm's length transactions can have an effect on financing and taxes.Deals between family members or companies with related shareholders are not considered arm's length transactions.


   Understanding Arm's Length Transactions  

Arm's length transactions are commonly used in real estate deals because the sale affects not only those who are directly involved in the deal but other parties as well, including lenders.



If two strangers are involved in the sale and purchase of a house, the final agreed-upon price is likely close to the fair market value (FMV), assuming that both parties have equal bargaining power and the same information about the property. The seller would want a price that's as high as possible, and the buyer would want a price that is as low as possible. Otherwise, the agreed-upon price is not likely to differ from the property's actual FMV.



As noted above, the buyer and seller aren't the only ones involved in an arm's length transaction. This type of transaction also has a direct impact on the financing needed from a bank as well as municipal and local taxes. The transaction can also influence comparable prices in the market.


   Arm's Length vs. Non-Arm's Length Transactions  

Family members and companies with related shareholders generally don't engage in arm's length sales. Instead, the deals between them are non-arm's length transactions. This type of transaction, which is also known as an arm-in-arm transaction, refers to a business deal in which buyers and sellers have an identity of interest. Put simply, buyers and sellers have an existing relationship that is either business-related or personal.



An existing relationship tends to influence the terms of a non-arm's length transaction. For instance, it's unlikely that a transaction involving a father and his son would yield the same result as a deal between strangers because the father may choose to give his son a discount.



If the sale of a house between father and son is taxable, tax authorities may require the seller to pay taxes on the gain he would have realized had he been selling to a neutral third party. They would disregard the actual price paid by the son.



In the same way, international sales between non-arm's-length companies, such as two subsidiaries of the same parent company, must be made using arm's length prices. This practice, known as transfer pricing, assures that each country collects the appropriate taxes on the transactions.






Tax laws throughout the world are designed to treat the results of a transaction differently when parties are dealing at arm's length and when they are not.


   Arm's Length Transactions and Fair Market Value (FMV)  

As noted above, one of the main benefits of arm's length transactions is that the transaction is fair and equitable. This is especially true when it comes to real estate deals. When the buyer and seller have no previous relationship, the terms of the deal—notably, the sale price—accurately reflect market conditions rather than being influenced by other factors. This value is referred to as the fair market value.



FMV is the best possible price that a neutral and impartial seller and buyer are willing to accept and pay to close the deal. The following are just some of the factors that are used to determine the FMV of a home:



Location (city, neighborhood)Comparable home pricesCondition and age of homeSize and amenitiesRenovations and upgrades made to the property



Of course, other factors also work into the FMV of a home, including interest rates and the condition of the overall economy.


   Example of an Arm's Length Transaction  

Let's use a hypothetical example to show how arm's length transactions work. We can start by expanding on the example above using the father and son and the real estate transaction. For clarity's sake, let's say the father's name is John and the son's name is Henry.



Assume that John is selling his home and puts the house up for sale for $350,000. He gets an offer for that amount based on the FMV. The potential buyer looked at some of the factors affecting the value, including the location, amenities, and comparable homes. If the sale goes through, it's considered an arm's length transaction.



But Henry throws John a loop saying he needs a new place and would like to buy the home for himself. He offers a lower price of $275,000 since it's his father who's selling the house. If John decides to accept, he would be conducting a non-arm's length transaction.




What Is the Difference Between an Arm’s Length Transaction and Other Sales?
The term “arm’s length transaction” refers to transactions that are conducted between parties who are acting independently from one another and are not associated with one another outside of the transaction in question.By contrast, a transaction would not be “arm’s length” if the buyer and seller are personally related—such as family members or personal friends. Transactions between related businesses, such as those made between a parent company and its subsidiary, would also not be arm’s length.




Why Are Arm’s Length Transactions Important?
The question of whether or not a transaction is arm’s length matters because it can have legal and tax implications. For example, when a multinational corporation engages in transactions with its affiliated companies throughout the world, it must ensure that those transactions are made at fair market values to ensure that the correct taxes are paid in each jurisdiction.Similarly, conglomerates and holding companies can potentially run into legal and regulatory challenges if the companies within their organization do not transact with one another at arm’s length. Ultimately, Arm’s Length Transactions are intended to encourage fair and reasonable business practices and to protect the public at large.




What Are Some Examples of Non-Arm’s Length Transactions?
To illustrate, consider the case of a mother who wishes to sell her car to her son. She might choose to give her son a discount on the car, even though she could obtain a higher price if she sold it to an arms-length buyer. In this scenario, the transaction is not arm’s length, because the buyer and seller are already associated as family members.Although this example is benign, other examples could be more harmful. For instance, if the founder of a publicly traded company engages in nepotism by appointing one of their family members to an important position within the company, even though other more qualified candidates were available. This decision could harm the company’s shareholders.


   The Bottom Line  

Every buyer and seller wants to get the best price possible for their financial transactions. One of the best ways to do so is to conduct an arm's length transaction. Being at arm's length means there are no personal factors that influence the price and the decision to either accept or reject an offer. Those who execute non-arm's length transactions may not get the best price, which can also affect the overall market and lending decisions.
What Is the Arms Index (TRIN)?  

The Arms Index, also called the Short-Term Trading Index (TRIN) is a technical analysis indicator that compares the number of advancing and declining stocks (AD Ratio) to advancing and declining volume (AD volume). It is used to gauge overall market sentiment.



Richard W. Arms, Jr. invented the TRIN in 1967, and it measures the relationship between market supply and demand. It serves as a predictor of future price movements in the market, primarily on an intraday basis. It does this by generating overbought and oversold levels, which indicate when the index (and the majority of stocks in it) will change direction.





Key Takeaways

If AD Volume creates a higher ratio than the AD Ratio, TRIN will be below one.If AD Volume has a lower ratio than AD Ratio, TRIN will be above one.A TRIN reading below one typically accompanies a strong price advance, since the strong volume in the rising stocks helps fuel the rally.A TRIN reading above one typically accompanies a strong price decline, since the strong volume in the decliners helps fuel the selloff.The Arms Index moves opposite the price trajectory of the Index. As discussed above, a strong price rally will see TRIN move to lower levels. A falling index will see TRIN push higher.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Formula for Arms Index (TRIN)  

﻿















TRIN


 


=


 




Advancing Stocks/Declining Stocks




Advancing Volume/Declining Volume


















where:





















Advancing Stocks


 


=


 









Number of stocks that are higher


























Declining Stocks


 


=


 









Number of stocks that are lower


























Advancing Volume


 


=


 









Total volume of all advancing













\begin{aligned} &\text{TRIN}\ =\ \frac{\text{Advancing Stocks/Declining Stocks}}{\text{Advancing Volume/Declining Volume}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ & \begin{aligned} \text{Advancing Stocks}\ =\ &\text{Number of stocks that are higher}\\ &\text{on the day}\end{aligned}\\ &\begin{aligned} \text{Declining Stocks}\ =\ &\text{Number of stocks that are lower}\\ &\text{on the day}\end{aligned}\\ &\begin{aligned} \text{Advancing Volume}\ =\ &\text{Total volume of all advancing}\\ &\text{stocks}\end{aligned}\\ &\begin{aligned}\text{Declining Volume}\ =\ &\text{Total volume of all declining}\\ &\text{stocks}\end{aligned} \end{aligned}


​TRIN = Advancing Volume/Declining VolumeAdvancing Stocks/Declining Stocks​where:Advancing Stocks = ​Number of stocks that are higher​Declining Stocks = ​Number of stocks that are lower​Advancing Volume = ​Total volume of all advancing​​﻿


   How to Calculate the Arms Index (TRIN)  

TRIN is provided in many charting applications. To calculate by hand, use the following steps.



At set intervals, such as every five minutes or daily (or whatever interval is chosen), find the AD Ratio by dividing the number of advancing stocks by the number of declining stocks.Divide total advancing volume by total declining volume to get AD Volume.Divide the AD Ratio by AD Volume.Record the result and plot on a graph.Repeat the calculation at the next chosen time interval.Connect multiple data points to form a graph and see how the TRIN moves over time.


   What Does the Arms Index (TRIN) Tell You?  

The Arms index seeks to provide a more dynamic explanation of overall movements in the composite value of stock exchanges, such as the NYSE or NASDAQ, by analyzing the strength and breadth of these movements.



An index value of 1.0 indicates that the ratio of AD Volume is equal to the AD Ratio. The market is said to be in a neutral state when the index equals 1.0, since the up volume is evenly distributed over the advancing issues and the down volume is evenly distributed over the declining issues.



Many analysts believe that the Arms Index provides a bullish signal when it's less than 1.0, since there's more volume in the average up stock than the average down stock. In fact, some analysts have found that the long-term equilibrium for the index is below 1.0, potentially confirming that there is a bullish bias to the stock market.



On the other hand, a reading of greater than 1.0 is typically seen as a bearish signal, since there's more volume in the average down stock than the average up stock.



The farther away from 1.00 the Arms Index value is, the greater the contrast between buying and selling on that day. A value that exceeds 3.00 indicates an oversold market and that bearish sentiment is too dramatic. This could mean an upward reversal in prices/index is coming.



Conversely, a TRIN value that dips below 0.50 may indicate an overbought market and that bullish sentiment is overheating.



Traders look not only at the value of the indicator but also at how it changes throughout the day. They look for extremes in the index value for signs that the market may soon change directions.


   The Difference Between the Arms Index (TRIN) and the Tick Index (TICK)  

TRIN compares the number of advancing and declining stocks to the volume of both advancing and declining stocks. The Tick index compares the number of stocks making an uptick to the number of stocks making a downtick. The Tick Index is used to gauge intraday sentiment. The Tick Index does not factor in volume, but extreme readings still signal potentially overbought or oversold conditions.






Don't confuse the TRIN index for the share price of Trinity Capital (TRIN).


   Limitations of Using the Arms Index (TRIN)  

The Arms Index has a few mathematical peculiarities that traders and investors should be aware of when using it. Since the index emphasizes volume, inaccuracies arise when there isn't as much advancing volume in advancing issues as expected. This may not be a typical situation, but it's a situation that can arise and could potentially make the indicator unreliable.



Here are two examples of instances where problems may occur:



Suppose that a very bullish day occurs where there are twice as many advancing issues as declining issues and twice as much advancing volume as declining volume. Despite the very bullish trading, the Arms Index would yield only a neutral value of (2/1)/(2/1) = 1.0, suggesting that the index's reading may not be entirely accurate.Suppose that another bullish scenario occurs where there are three times as many advancing issues as declining issues and twice as much advancing volume than declining volume. In this case, the Arms Index would actually yield a bearish (3/1)/(2/1) = 1.5 reading, again suggesting an inaccuracy.



One way to solve this problem would be to separate the two components of the indicator into issues and volume instead of using them in the same equation. For instance, advancing issues divided by declining issues could show one trend, while advancing volume over declining volume could show a separate trend. These ratios are called the advance/decline ratio and upside/downside ratio, respectively. Both of these could be compared to tell the market's true story.




How Do You Use the TRIN Indicator?
Investors use the TRIN indicator to gauge the overall sentiment of the market. A high TRIN indicates that falling stocks are trading at a greater value than rising stocks, suggesting that the market is overall headed downwards. A low TRIN indicates that rising stocks have a greater volume than falling stocks. This index can be used to predict future price movements.




What Is the Tick Index?
The Tick index measures relative market movements, similar to the TRIN. The Tick index measures the number of stocks trading on an uptick, compared to the number of stocks on a downtick. Unlike TRIN, it does not account for the trading volume.




What Is a Good TRIN Ratio?
A TRIN index below 1.0 is usually a bullish sign, indicating that the market is advancing. However, it is important to understand the peculiarities of the TRIN formula because there are some circumstances where it can generate false signals.


   The Bottom Line  

The Arms Index, also known as the TRIN, is part of the galaxy of technical indicators used to measure and predict the movements of the stock market. This indicator reflects the market as a whole, and is used to predict when the overall sentiment of market participants is becoming bullish or bearish. As with other technical indicators, it is most effective when combined with other analytical tools.
What Is the Aroon Indicator?  

The Aroon indicator is a technical indicator that is used to identify trend changes in the price of an asset, as well as the strength of that trend. In essence, the indicator measures the time between highs and the time between lows over a time period. The idea is that strong uptrends will regularly see new highs, and strong downtrends will regularly see new lows. The indicator signals when this is happening, and when it isn't.



The indicator consists of the "Aroon up" line, which measures the strength of the uptrend, and the "Aroon down" line, which measures the strength of the downtrend.



The Aroon indicator was developed by Tushar Chande in 1995.





Key Takeaways


The Aroon indicator is composed of two lines. An up line which measures the number of periods since a High, and a down line which measures the number of periods since a Low.
The indicator is typically applied to 25 periods of data, so the indicator is showing how many periods it has been since a 25-period high or low.
When the Aroon Up is above the Aroon Down, it indicates bullish price behavior.
When the Aroon Down is above the Aroon Up, it signals bearish price behavior.
Crossovers of the two lines can signal trend changes. For example, when Aroon Up crosses above Aroon Down it may mean a new uptrend is starting.
The indicator moves between zero and 100. A reading above 50 means that a high/low (whichever line is above 50) was seen within the last 12 periods.
A reading below 50 means that the high/low was seen within the 13 periods.
















TradingView.


   Formulas for the Aroon Indicator  

﻿









Aroon Up









=




2


5


−


Periods Since 25 period High




2


5




∗


1


0


0










Aroon Down









=




2


5


−


Periods Since 25 period Low




2


5




∗


1


0


0








\begin{aligned} \text{Aroon Up}&= \frac{25-\text{Periods Since 25 period High}}{25} \ast100\\ \text{Aroon Down}&=\frac{25-\text{Periods Since 25 period Low}}{25}\ast100 \end{aligned}


Aroon UpAroon Down​=2525−Periods Since 25 period High​∗100=2525−Periods Since 25 period Low​∗100​﻿


   How to Calculate the Aroon Indicator  

The Aroon calculation requires the tracking of the high and low prices, typically over 25 periods.



Track the highs and lows for the last 25 periods on an asset.Note the number of periods since the last high and low.Plug these numbers into the Up and Down Aroon formulas.


   What Does the Aroon Indicator Tell You?  

The Aroon Up and the Aroon Down lines fluctuate between zero and 100, with values close to 100 indicating a strong trend and values near zero indicating a weak trend. The lower the Aroon Up, the weaker the uptrend and the stronger the downtrend, and vice versa. The main assumption underlying this indicator is that a stock's price will close regularly at new highs during an uptrend, and regularly make new lows in a downtrend.



The indicator focuses on the last 25 periods, but is scaled to zero and 100. Therefore, an Aroon Up reading above 50 means the price made a new high within the last 12.5 periods. A reading near 100 means a high was seen very recently. The same concepts apply to the Down Aroon. When it is above 50, a low was witnessed within the 12.5 periods. A Down reading near 100 means a low was seen very recently.



Crossovers can signal entry or exit points. Up crossing above Down can be a signal to buy. Down crossing below Up may be a signal to sell.



When both indicators are below 50 it can signal that the price is consolidating. New highs or lows are not being created. Traders can watch for breakouts as well as the next Aroon crossover to signal which direction price is going.


   Example of How to Use the Aroon Indicator  

The following chart shows an example of the Aroon indicator and how it can be interpreted.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In the chart above, there is both the Aroon indicator and an oscillator that combines both lines into a single reading of between 100 and -100. The crossover of the Aroon Up and Aroon Down indicated a reversal in the trend. While the index was trending, prior to the reversal, the Aroon Down remained very low, suggesting that the index had a bullish bias. Despite the rally on the far right, the Aroon indicator hasn't shown a bullish bias yet. This is because the price rebounded so quickly that it hasn't made a new high in the last 25 periods (at the time of the screenshot), despite the rally.


   The Difference Between the Aroon Indicator and the Directional Movement Index (DMI)  

The Aroon indicator is similar to the Directional Movement Index (DMI) developed by Welles Wilder. It too uses up and down lines to show the direction of a trend. The main difference is that the Aroon indicator formulas are primarily focused on the amount of time between highs and lows. The DMI measures the price difference between current highs/lows and prior highs/lows. Therefore, the main factor in the DMI is price, and not time.


   Limitations of Using the Aroon Indicator  

The Aroon indicator may at times signal a good entry or exit, but other times it will provide poor or false signals. The buy or sell signal may occur too late, after a substantial price move has already occurred. This happens because the indicator is looking backwards, and isn't predictive in nature.



A crossover may look good on the indicator, but that doesn't mean the price will necessarily make a big move. The indicator isn't factoring the size of moves, it only cares about the number of days since a high or low. Even if the price is relatively flat, crossovers will occur as eventually a new high or low will be made within the last 25 periods. Traders still need to use price analysis, and potentially other indicators, to make informed trading decisions. Relying solely on one indicator isn't advised.
What Is the Aroon Oscillator?  

The Aroon Oscillator is a trend-following indicator that uses aspects of the Aroon Indicator (Aroon Up and Aroon Down) to gauge the strength of a current trend and the likelihood that it will continue.





Key Takeaways


The Aroon Oscillator uses Aroon Up and Aroon Down to create the oscillator. 
Aroon Up and Aroon Down measure the number of periods since the last 25-period high and low.
The Aroon Oscillator crosses above the zero line when Aroon Up moves above Aroon Down. The oscillator drops below the zero line when the Aroon Down moves below the Aroon Up.
















TradingView.


   Understanding the Aroon Oscillator  

Aroon oscillator readings above zero indicate that an uptrend is present, while readings below zero indicate that a downtrend is present. Traders watch for zero line crossovers to signal potential trend changes. They also watch for big moves, above 50 or below -50 to signal strong price moves.



The Aroon Oscillator was developed by Tushar Chande in 1995 as part of the Aroon Indicator system. Chande’s intention for the system was to highlight short-term trend changes. The name Aroon is derived from the Sanskrit language and roughly translates to “dawn’s early light.”



The Aroon Indicator system includes Aroon Up, Aroon Down, and Aroon Oscillator. The Aroon Up and Aroon Down lines must be calculated first before drawing the Aroon Oscillator. This indicator typically uses a timeframe of 25 periods, however, the timeframe is subjective. Using more periods garners fewer waves and a smoother-looking indicator. Using fewer periods generates more waves and a quicker turnaround in the indicator. The oscillator moves between -100 and 100. A high oscillator value is an indication of an uptrend while a low oscillator value is an indication of a downtrend.



Aroon Up and Aroon Down move between zero and 100. On a scale of zero to 100, the higher the indicator’s value, the stronger the trend. For example, a price reaching new highs one day ago would have an Aroon Up value of 96 ((25-1)/25)x100). Similarly, a price reaching new lows one day ago would have an Aroon Down value of 96 ((25-1)x100).



The highs and lows used in the Aroon Up and Aroon Down calculations help to create an inverse relationship between the two indicators. When the Aroon Up value increases, the Aroon Down value will typically see a decrease and vice versa.



When Aroon Up remains high from consecutive new highs, the oscillator value will be high, following the uptrend. When a security’s price is on a downtrend with many new lows, the Aroon Down value will be higher resulting in a lower oscillator value.



The Aroon Oscillator line can be included with or without the Aroon Up and Aroon Down when viewing a chart. Significant changes in the direction of the Aroon Oscillator can help to identify a new trend.


   Aroon Oscillator Formula and Calculation  

The formula for the Aroon oscillator is:


















Aroon Oscillator


=


Aroon Up


−


Aroon Down
















Aroon Up


=


100


∗




(


25


−


Periods Since 25-Period High


)



25

















Aroon Down


=


100


∗




(


25


−


Periods Since 25-Period Low


)



25








\begin{aligned} &\text{Aroon Oscillator}=\text{Aroon Up}-\text{Aroon Down}\\ &\text{Aroon Up}=100*\frac{\left(25 - \text{Periods Since 25-Period High}\right)}{25}\\ &\text{Aroon Down}=100*\frac{\left(25 - \text{Periods Since 25-Period Low}\right)}{25}\\ \end{aligned}


​Aroon Oscillator=Aroon Up−Aroon DownAroon Up=100∗25(25−Periods Since 25-Period High)​Aroon Down=100∗25(25−Periods Since 25-Period Low)​​



To calculate the Aroon oscillator:



Calculate Aroon Up by finding how many periods it has been since the last 25-period high. Subtract this from 25, then divide the result by 25. Multiply by 100.
Calculate Aroon Down by finding how many periods it has been since the last 25-period low. Subtract this from 25, then divide the result by 25. Multiply by 100.
Subtract Aroon Down from Aroon Up to get the Aroon Oscillator value.
Repeat the steps as each time period ends.



Aroon oscillator differs from the rate of change (ROC) indicator in that the former is tracking whether a 25-period high or low occurred more recently while the latter tracks the momentum by looking at highs and lows and how far the current price has moved relative to a price in the past.


   Aroon Oscillator Trade Signals  

The Aroon Oscillator can generate trade signals or provide insight into the current trend direction of an asset.



When the oscillator moves above the zero line, the Aroon Up is crossing above the Aroon Down and the price has made a high more recently than a low, a sign that an uptrend is beginning.



When the oscillator moves below zero, the Aroon Down is crossing below the Aroon Up. A low occurred more recently than a high, which could signal that a downtrend is starting.


   Limitations of Using the Aroon Oscillator  

The Aroon Oscillator keeps a trader in a trade when a long-term trend develops. During an uptrend, for example, the price tends to keep achieving new highs which keep the oscillator above zero.



During choppy market conditions, the indicator will provide poor trade signals, as the price and the oscillator whipsaw back and forth.



The indicator may provide trade signals too late to be useful. The price may have already run a significant course before a trade signal develops. The price may be due for a retracement when the trade signal is appearing.



The number of periods is also arbitrary and there is no validity that a more recent high or low within the last 25-periods will guarantee a new and sustained uptrend or downtrend.



The indicator is best used in conjunction with price action analysis fundamentals of long-term trading, and other technical indicators.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What is Arrow's Impossibility Theorem?  

Arrow's impossibility theorem is a social-choice paradox illustrating the flaws of ranked voting systems. It states that a clear order of preferences cannot be determined while adhering to mandatory principles of fair voting procedures. Arrow's impossibility theorem, named after economist Kenneth J. Arrow, is also known as the general impossibility theorem.





Key Takeaways

Arrow's impossibility theorem is a social-choice paradox illustrating the impossibility of having an ideal voting structure.It states that a clear order of preferences cannot be determined while adhering to mandatory principles of fair voting procedures.Kenneth J. Arrow won a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his findings.


   Understanding Arrow's Impossibility Theorem  

Democracy depends on people's voices being heard. For example, when it is time for a new government to be formed, an election is called, and people head to the polls to vote. Millions of voting slips are then counted to determine who is the most popular candidate and the next elected official.



According to Arrow's impossibility theorem, in all cases where preferences are ranked, it is impossible to formulate a social ordering without violating one of the following conditions:



Nondictatorship: The wishes of multiple voters should be taken into consideration.
Pareto Efficiency: Unanimous individual preferences must be respected: If every voter prefers candidate A over candidate B, candidate A should win.
Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives: If a choice is removed, then the others' order should not change: If candidate A ranks ahead of candidate B, candidate A should still be ahead of candidate B, even if a third candidate, candidate C, is removed from participation. 
Unrestricted Domain: Voting must account for all individual preferences.
Social Ordering: Each individual should be able to order the choices in any way and indicate ties.



Arrow's impossibility theorem, part of social choice theory, an economic theory that considers whether a society can be ordered in a way that reflects individual preferences, was lauded as a major breakthrough. It went on to be widely used for analyzing problems in welfare economics. 


   Example of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem  

Let’s look at an example illustrating the type of problems highlighted by Arrow's impossibility theorem. Consider the following example, where voters are asked to rank their preference of three projects that the country's annual tax dollars could be used for: A; B; and C. This country has 99 voters who are each asked to rank the order, from best to worst, for which of the three projects should receive the annual funding.



33 votes A > B > C (1/3 prefer A over B and prefer B over C)33 votes B > C > A (1/3 prefer B over C and prefer C over A)33 votes C > A > B (1/3 prefer C over A and prefer A over B)



Therefore,



66 voters prefer A over B66 voters prefer B over C66 voters prefer C over A



So a two-thirds majority of voters prefer A over B and B over C and C over A---a paradoxical result based on the requirement to rank order the preferences of the  three alternatives.



Arrow’s theorem indicates that if the conditions cited above in this article i.e. Non-dictatorship, Pareto efficiency, independence of irrelevant alternatives, unrestricted domain, and social ordering are to be part of the decision making criteria then it is impossible to formulate a social ordering on a problem such as indicated above without violating one of the following conditions.






Arrow’s impossibility theorem is also applicable when voters are asked to rank political candidates. However, there are other popular voting methods, such as approval voting or plurality voting, that do not use this framework.


   History of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem  

The theorem is named after economist Kenneth J. Arrow. Arrow, who had a long teaching career at Harvard University and Stanford University, introduced the theorem in his doctoral thesis and later popularized it in his 1951 book Social Choice and Individual Values. The original paper, titled A Difficulty in the Concept of Social Welfare, earned him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1972.



Arrow's research has also explored the social choice theory, endogenous growth theory, collective decision making, the economics of information, and the economics of racial discrimination, among other topics.
What Is Article 50?  

Article 50 is a clause in the European Union's (EU) Lisbon Treaty that outlines the steps to be taken by a country seeking to leave the bloc voluntarily. Invoking Article 50 kick-starts the formal exit process and allows countries to officially declare their intention to leave the EU. The United Kingdom was the first country to invoke Article 50 after a majority of British voters elected to leave the union in 2016.





Key Takeaways

Article 50 is a clause in the European Union's Lisbon Treaty that outlines how a country can leave the bloc voluntarily.The article states: “Any member state may decide to withdraw from the union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements.”The article became a subject of serious discussion during the European sovereign debt crisis of 2010 to 2014 when Greece's economy appeared to be in trouble.The United Kingdom became the first country to invoke Article 50 after a majority of voters elected to leave the bloc.


   How Article 50 Works  

Article 50 is part of the Lisbon Treaty, which was signed and ratified by all 27 member states of the European Union in 2007 and came into effect in 2009. The article outlines how a member nation may leave the EU voluntarily. As noted above, the article states: “Any member state may decide to withdraw from the union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements.”



According to the article's text:



Any Member State may decide to withdraw from the Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements.
A Member State which decides to withdraw shall notify the European Council of its intention. In the light of the guidelines provided by the European Council, the Union shall negotiate and conclude an agreement with that State, setting out the arrangements for its withdrawal, taking account of the framework for its future relationship with the Union. That agreement shall be negotiated in accordance with Article 218(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It shall be concluded on behalf of the Union by the Council, acting by a qualified majority, after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament.
The Treaties shall cease to apply to the State in question from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or, failing that, two years after the notification referred to in paragraph 2, unless the European Council, in agreement with the Member State concerned, unanimously decides to extend this period.
For the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3, the member of the European Council or of the Council representing the withdrawing Member State shall not participate in the discussions of the European Council or Council or in decisions concerning it.A qualified majority shall be defined in accordance with Article 238(3)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
If a State which has withdrawn from the Union asks to rejoin, its request shall be subject to the procedure referred to in Article 49.






Algeria left the European Economic Community after gaining independence from France in 1962, while Greenland left through a special treaty in 1985.


   Special Considerations  

Article 50 became a subject of serious discussion during the European sovereign debt crisis of 2010 to 2014 when Greece's economy appeared to be spiraling out of control. In an attempt to save the euro and perhaps the EU from collapsing, leaders considered expelling Greece from the eurozone.



The problem they encountered with Article 50 was that there was no clear guidance for pushing a member state out against its will. Nor was it necessary to remove Greece from the EU—just from the eurozone. Greece was eventually able to reach agreements with its EU creditors.


   Origins of Article 50  

The European Union began in 1957 as the European Economic Community, which was created to foster economic interdependence among its members in the aftermath of World War II. The original bloc comprised six European countries: the Netherlands, France, Belgium, West Germany, Luxembourg, and Italy. They were joined by the U.K., Denmark, and Ireland in 1973. The EU was formally created by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, and by 1995 the bloc expanded to 15 members covering the whole of Western Europe. From 2004 to 2007, the EU experienced its largest-ever expansion, taking on 12 new members that included former Communist states.



The Lisbon Treaty was drafted with a view to enhancing the efficiency and democratic legitimacy of the Union and to improving the coherence of its action. The treaty was signed and ratified by all 27 member states in 2007 and came into effect in 2009. The treaty is divided into two parts—the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). It has 358 articles in total including Article 50.



The author of the provision did not originally see it as being necessary. "If you stopped paying the bills and you stopped turning up at the meetings, in due course your friends would notice that you seemed to have left," the Scottish peer Lord Kerr of Kinlochard told the BBC in November 2016. He saw Article 50 as being potentially useful in the event of a coup, which would lead the EU to suspend the affected country's membership: "I thought that at that point the dictator in question might be so cross that he'd say 'right, I'm off' and it would be good to have a procedure under which he could leave."


   Example of Article 50  

The first country to invoke Article 50 was the United Kingdom, which left the EU on Jan. 31, 2020. It came after a majority of British citizens voted to leave the union and pursue Brexit in a referendum on June 23, 2016, leading British Prime Minister Theresa May to invoke the article on March 29, 2017.



The process was mired by missed deadlines, extensions, negotiations, and stumbling blocks put forth by both British and EU leaders. May's attempts for an agreement were rejected by parliament. Negotiations were renewed by Boris Johnson, who became prime minister after May resigned.







The country began an 11-month transition period immediately after its departure from the bloc. After leaving the Union, there were no British officials in the European Parliament, and the U.K. lost its veto right within the EU. But the two parties still had to work out a new trade agreement. There were still many issues to resolve during the transition period, including:



Issues related to pensions
How both parties would handle law enforcement and security cooperation
Access to shared fisheries
Customs and border controls between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland
Tariffs and other trade barriers



One big cause for concern was the issue of EU nationals migrating to the U.K. or vice versa. Prior to Brexit, an estimated three million EU nationals lived, worked, or studied in the U.K., while one million U.K. nationals did the same in the rest of the EU. Nationals were allowed to cross borders during the transition period but were afterward subject to visa requirements.



Negotiations continued during the transition period, despite many halts and roadblocks. On Dec. 24, 2020, the two sides finally announced a trade deal that would replace the EU's single market and its customs union with respect to the United Kingdom. The EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement was signed on Dec. 30 and provisionally entered force on Jan. 1. However, it was not fully ratified until the following April. The new trade agreement fully entered force on May 1, 2021.
What Are Articles of Association?  

Articles of association form a document that specifies the regulations for a company's operations and defines the company's purpose. The document lays out how tasks are to be accomplished within the organization, including the process for appointing directors and the handling of financial records.





Key Takeaways

Articles of association can be thought of as a user's manual for a company, defining its purpose and outlining the methodology for accomplishing necessary day-to-day tasks.The content and terms of the "articles" may vary by jurisdiction, but typically include provisions on the company name, its purpose, the share structure, the company's organization, and provisions concerning shareholder meetings.In the the U.S. and Canada, articles of association are often referred to as "articles" for short.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Articles of Association  

Articles of association often identify the manner in which a company will issue shares, pay dividends, audit financial records, and provide voting rights. This set of rules can be considered a user's manual for the company because it outlines the methodology for accomplishing the day-to-day tasks that must be completed.



While the content of the articles of association and the exact terms used vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, the document is quite similar throughout the world and generally contains provisions on the company name, the company's purpose, the share capital, the company's organization, and provisions regarding shareholder meetings.



In the the U.S. and Canada, articles of association are often referred to as "articles" for short.


  Company Name  

As a legal entity, the company must have a name that can be found in the articles of association. All jurisdictions will have rules concerning company names. Usually, a suffix such as "Inc." or "Ltd." must be used to show that the entity is a company. Also, some words that could confuse the public, such as "government" or "church," cannot be used or must be used only for specific types of entities. Words that are offensive or heinous are also usually prohibited.


  Purpose of the Company  

The reason for the creation of the company must also be stated in the articles of association. Some jurisdictions accept very broad purposes—"management"—while others require greater detail—"the operation of a wholesale bakery," for example.


  Share Capital  

The number and type of shares that comprise a company's capital are listed in the articles of association. There will always be at least one form of common share that makes up a company's capital. In addition, there may be several types of preferred shares. The company may or may not issue the shares, but if they are found in the articles of association, they can be issued if and when the need presents itself.






A company may or may not issue shares, but if they are listed in the articles of association, shares can be issued if and when needed.


  Organization of the Company  

The legal organization of the company, including its address, the number of directors and officers, and the identity of the founders and original shareholders, are found in this section. Depending on the jurisdiction and type of business, the auditors and legal advisors of the company may also be in this section.


  Shareholder Meetings  

The provisions for the first general meeting of shareholders and the rules that will govern subsequent annual shareholder meetings—such as notices, resolutions, and votes—are laid out in detail in this section.


   Small Business Example of Articles of Association  

A person, or group of people, starting a business will typically refer to a lawyer, accountant, or both for advice when setting up a company.



The company will choose a name and define its purpose. The company is then registered at the state/province or federal level. Note that trademarking a name is a different process.



A company may issue shares to divide up the company if it wishes, but it doesn't need to. The articles will lay out how this can be done. The lawyer or accountant will typically work with the directors of the company, asking them questions to help figure out how they wish to grow and how the company may end up being structured in the future.



Company directors are listed, along with their personal information. A business address is also provided.



Changes can be made to the articles of association with director(s) approval.
What Are Articles of Incorporation?  

Articles of incorporation are a set of formal documents filed with a government body to legally document the creation of a corporation. Articles of incorporation generally contain pertinent information such as the firm’s name, street address, agent for service of process, and the amount and type of stock to be issued. The articles of incorporation are used to legally form the corporation.





Key Takeaways

Articles of incorporation is the documents filed with a government body (usually the state) that signifies the creation of a corporation.In the U.S., articles of incorporation are filed with the Office of the Secretary of State where the business chooses to incorporate.Broadly speaking, articles of incorporation include the company's name, type of corporate structure, and number and type of authorized shares.While the articles of incorporation are used almost exclusively outside of the company, other documents such as bylaws, operating agreements, or business plans are more useful internally.By filing articles of incorporation, corporations may gain favorable tax advantages, the ability to issue stock and raise capital, or shield owners from liability.


   Understanding Articles of Incorporation  

Many businesses in the U.S. and Canada are formed as a corporation, which is a type of business operation that is formed in the state where the company carries out its operations. To be recognized legally as a corporation, a business must incorporate by taking certain steps and making certain decisions required under corporate law. One such step is filing a document known as articles of incorporation.



Articles of incorporation are in the document necessary to register a corporation with a state and acts as a charter to recognize the establishment of a corporation. The document outlines the basic information needed to form a corporation, the governance of a corporation, and the corporate statutes in the state where the articles of incorporation are filed.






Articles of incorporation are also referred to as the "corporate charter," "articles of association," or "certificate of incorporation."


   Where to File Articles of Incorporation  

In the U.S., articles of incorporation are filed with the Office of the Secretary of State in the state where the business chooses to incorporate. Some states offer more favorable regulatory and tax environments and, as a result, attract a greater proportion of firms seeking incorporation.



For example, Delaware and Nevada attract about half of the public corporations in the U.S., in part because of the state laws that protect their corporations. Once established, the articles become a public record and provide important information about the corporation.



Many states charge filing fees for a business that incorporates in the state, whether the business operates there or not. A business that is incorporated in one state and is physically located or doing business in another state must register in the other state as well, which involves paying that state's filing fees and taxes.



Depending on the state of incorporation, a company may pay filing fees ranging from $50 (as in Iowa, Arkansas, and Michigan) to $275 (as in Massachusetts) as of 2020. The fees can vary depending on whether the articles of incorporation were filed online or by mail.


   Articles of Incorporation Document Requirements  

The articles in the document vary by state, but the following items (i.e. "articles" are typically included:



Name of corporation
Name and address of the registered agent
Type of corporate structure (e.g., profit corporation, nonprofit corporation, non-stock corporation, professional corporation, etc.)
Names and addresses of the initial board of directors
Number and type of authorized shares
Duration of the corporation, if it wasn't established to exist perpetually
Name, signature, and address of the incorporator, who is the person in charge of setting up a corporation



Most states also require the articles to state the firm’s purpose, though the corporation may define its purpose very broadly to maintain flexibility in its operations. Amazon’s certificate of incorporation, for example, states that the corporation’s purpose is “to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.”



Other provisions outlined in a company’s articles of incorporation may include the limitation of the directors’ liability, actions by stockholders without a meeting, and the authority to call special meetings of stockholders. Each state has certain mandatory provisions that must be contained in the articles of incorporation and other optional provisions that the company can decide whether to include.






While domestic companies will submit an article of incorporation, foreign corporate entities must file a certificate of registration to operate in a given state.


   Articles of Incorporation vs. Other Documents  
  Articles of Incorporation vs. Bylaws  

While the articles of incorporation are externally-filed formation documents, bylaws are more of use to a company when used internally. Bylaws set the internal processes and organization of how the company should be run. Bylaws outline the rules and procedures for the management of a company. Not all states require a company to maintain bylaws, though many require a company to formally memorialize the bylaws.


  Articles of Incorporation vs. LLC Operating Agreement  

Articles of incorporation are required state filings to form a corporation, while LLC operating agreements are used exclusively for LLCs. In addition, the articles of incorporation outline the information structure of the company. Meanwhile, operating agreements often outline how internal disputes will be resolved between members or owners. An LLC operating agreement acts more of a personal protection document than the articles of incorporation.


  Articles of Incorporation vs. Business License  

A business license often permits a company to operate within a specific jurisdiction or industry. It gives the holder the right to start and run a business in the designed geographical location that issues the license. The rights granted by a business license are often more specific and niche than the articles of incorporation; though similar information may be required for both, the articles of incorporation simply legally form an organization and is the highest governing document for a corporation.


  Articles of Incorporation vs. Business Plan  

A business plan is an internal document that may be shared with major customers, investors, or lending institutions that communicates the formal operating plan of a company. Often a strategic document, a business plan is mainly used by internal management as a roadmap for decision-making. This is in stark contrast of the articles of incorporation which are information-only, non-strategic requirements for legal reasons.






A company should internally maintain a copy of its articles of incorporation request.


   Importance of Articles of Incorporation  

A corporation should take care when filings its articles of incorporation as these formation documents carry great significance. For starters, they are legally required to structure a new business or company. The corporation can not form and be recognized by the state as a legal business entity until the forms are registered.



Once a business is incorporated, it often has a greater ability to raise capital via stock issuances. A corporation cannot sell stock until is incorporated via the filing of its articles of incorporation. Corporations may also receive more favorable tax treatment compared to individual or personal tax rates.



In addition, there are personal liability considerations for companies being formed. Individuals are often held liable for a company's obligations until it is incorporated. By forming a legal corporation, business owners may be shielded from some personal liability for the company's debts. This liability protection cannot occur until the articles of incorporation have been filed.


   Example of Articles of Incorporation  

The image below captures the first few requirements from the Secretary of State form required by the state of Washington. This form is to be completed and returned to the government agency for review.















Articles of Incorporation, Sample (WA State).



Some sections simply require a check mark for applicability or a 'yes/no' mutually exclusive selection. Other areas (such as the purpose of the corporation) require written response. As designated by the top of the form, this specific article of incorporation document template is for specific use for the formation of non-profit corporations.



The Washington State Articles of Incorporation form ends with the certification section in which an incorporator must certify the information given is correct to the best of their knowledge. The incorporator is also required to provide some personal information along with their signature.















Articles of Incorporation, Certification Section (WA State).



The form above had been filed by Parrot Foundation, a Washington nonprofit organization. A snipped of Parrot Foundation's articles of incorporation has been provided below as an example of the dates, structure, and business purpose a company may request when filing its articles of incorporation.















Parrot Foundation, Articles of Incorporation.




What Is the Purpose of the Articles of Incorporation?
The purpose of the articles of incorporation is to legally form a corporation. The filing submits information to a state agency, and the state agency officially determines whether the corporation can be recognized as a formal company. Once incorporated, the business may receive a number of different benefits (mentioned below) via its status as a corporation.




What Are the Benefits of Filing Articles of Incorporation?
By filing articles of incorporation, a company can officially become incorporated. Once incorporated, the company may receive favorable tax benefits and have the ability to raise capital by issuing stock. In addition, the owners of the corporation have different liability over company debts once a corporation is formed.




How Do You Write Articles of Incorporation?
Articles of incorporation are filed with your state's Secretary of State office. That department provides a form that requests a variety of information about your newly forming corporation. Upon completing the required fields, the form is submit back to the Secretary of State for review. The state agency that reviews the form will contact you should they have any clarifying questions regarding your information.




Can One Person Submit Articles of Incorporation?
Yes, it is possible to incorporate a business with just one employee. That single owner will be responsible for all aspects of the company. In addition, that sole individual will be the only shareholder. However, they may be listed as the only member on the articles of incorporation.


   The Bottom Line  

If a company wants to become a corporation, it must file articles of incorporation with its appropriate state agency. This formation document is required as part of the incorporation process, and the articles provide the state a variety of information about the company and its incorporators. Different from other legal documents that outline how a company will operate internally, the article of incorporation is intended to help external parties evaluate and form a corporation.
What Is Artificial Intelligence (AI)?  

Artificial intelligence (AI) refers to the simulation of human intelligence by software-coded heuristics. Nowadays this code is prevalent in everything from cloud-based, enterprise applications to consumer apps and even embedded firmware.



The year 2022 brought AI into the mainstream through widespread familiarity with applications of Generative Pre-Training Transformer. The most popular application is OpenAI's ChatGPT. The widespread fascination with ChatGPT made it synonymous with AI in the minds of most consumers. However, it represents only a small portion of the ways that AI technology is being used today.



The ideal characteristic of artificial intelligence is its ability to rationalize and take actions that have the best chance of achieving a specific goal. A subset of artificial intelligence is machine learning (ML), which refers to the concept that computer programs can automatically learn from and adapt to new data without being assisted by humans. Deep learning techniques enable this automatic learning through the absorption of huge amounts of unstructured data such as text, images, or video.





Key Takeaways

Artificial intelligence (AI) refers to the simulation or approximation of human intelligence in machines.The goals of artificial intelligence include computer-enhanced learning, reasoning, and perception.AI is being used today across different industries from finance to healthcare.Weak AI tends to be simple and single-task oriented, while strong AI carries on tasks that are more complex and human-like.Some critics fear that the extensive use of advanced AI can have a negative effect on society.


   Understanding Artificial Intelligence (AI)  

When most people hear the term artificial intelligence, the first thing they usually think of is robots. That's because big-budget films and novels weave stories about human-like machines that wreak havoc on Earth. But nothing could be further from the truth.



Artificial intelligence is based on the principle that human intelligence can be defined in a way that a machine can easily mimic it and execute tasks, from the most simple to those that are even more complex. The goals of artificial intelligence include mimicking human cognitive activity. Researchers and developers in the field are making surprisingly rapid strides in mimicking activities such as learning, reasoning, and perception, to the extent that these can be concretely defined. Some believe that innovators may soon be able to develop systems that exceed the capacity of humans to learn or reason out any subject. But others remain skeptical because all cognitive activity is laced with value judgments that are subject to human experience.



As technology advances, previous benchmarks that defined artificial intelligence become outdated. For example, machines that calculate basic functions or recognize text through optical character recognition are no longer considered to embody artificial intelligence, since this function is now taken for granted as an inherent computer function.



AI is continuously evolving to benefit many different industries. Machines are wired using a cross-disciplinary approach based on mathematics, computer science, linguistics, psychology, and more.






Algorithms often play a very important part in the structure of artificial intelligence, where simple algorithms are used in simple applications, while more complex ones help frame strong artificial intelligence.


   Applications of Artificial Intelligence  

The applications for artificial intelligence are endless. The technology can be applied to many different sectors and industries. AI is being tested and used in the healthcare industry for suggesting drug dosages, identifying treatments, and for aiding in surgical procedures in the operating room.



Other examples of machines with artificial intelligence include computers that play chess and self-driving cars. Each of these machines must weigh the consequences of any action they take, as each action will impact the end result. In chess, the end result is winning the game. For self-driving cars, the computer system must account for all external data and compute it to act in a way that prevents a collision.



Artificial intelligence also has applications in the financial industry, where it is used to detect and flag activity in banking and finance such as unusual debit card usage and large account deposits—all of which help a bank's fraud department. Applications for AI are also being used to help streamline and make trading easier. This is done by making supply, demand, and pricing of securities easier to estimate.


   Types of Artificial Intelligence  

Artificial intelligence can be divided into two different categories: weak and strong. Weak artificial intelligence embodies a system designed to carry out one particular job. Weak AI systems include video games such as the chess example from above and personal assistants such as Amazon's Alexa and Apple's Siri. You ask the assistant a question, and it answers it for you.



Strong artificial intelligence systems are systems that carry on the tasks considered to be human-like. These tend to be more complex and complicated systems. They are programmed to handle situations in which they may be required to problem solve without having a person intervene. These kinds of systems can be found in applications like self-driving cars or in hospital operating rooms.


   Special Considerations  

Since its beginning, artificial intelligence has come under scrutiny from scientists and the public alike. One common theme is the idea that machines will become so highly developed that humans will not be able to keep up and they will take off on their own, redesigning themselves at an exponential rate.



Another is that machines can hack into people's privacy and even be weaponized. Other arguments debate the ethics of artificial intelligence and whether intelligent systems such as robots should be treated with the same rights as humans.



Self-driving cars have been fairly controversial as their machines tend to be designed for the lowest possible risk and the least casualties. If presented with a scenario of colliding with one person or another at the same time, these cars would calculate the option that would cause the least amount of damage.



Another contentious issue many people have with artificial intelligence is how it may affect human employment. With many industries looking to automate certain jobs through the use of intelligent machinery, there is a concern that people would be pushed out of the workforce. Self-driving cars may remove the need for taxis and car-share programs, while manufacturers may easily replace human labor with machines, making people's skills obsolete.






The first artificial intelligence is thought to be a checkers-playing computer built by Oxford University (UK) computer scientists in 1951.




What Are the 4 Types of AI?
Artificial intelligence can be categorized into one of four types.Reactive AI uses algorithms to optimize outputs based on a set of inputs. Chess-playing AIs, for example, are reactive systems that optimize the best strategy to win the game. Reactive AI tends to be fairly static, unable to learn or adapt to novel situations. Thus, it will produce the same output given identical inputs.Limited memory AI can adapt to past experience or update itself based on new observations or data. Often, the amount of updating is limited (hence the name), and the length of memory is relatively short. Autonomous vehicles, for example, can "read the road" and adapt to novel situations, even "learning" from past experience.Theory-of-mind AI are fully-adaptive and have an extensive ability to learn and retain past experiences. These types of AI include advanced chat-bots that could pass the Turing Test, fooling a person into believing the AI was a human being. While advanced and impressive, these AI are not self-aware.Self-aware AI, as the name suggests, become sentient and aware of their own existence. Still in the realm of science fiction, some experts believe that an AI will never become conscious or "alive".




How Is AI Used Today?
AI is used extensively across a range of applications today, with varying levels of sophistication. Recommendation algorithms that suggest what you might like next are popular AI implementations, as are chatbots that appear on websites or in the form of smart speakers (e.g., Alexa or Siri). AI is used to make predictions in terms of weather and financial forecasting, to streamline production processes, and to cut down on various forms of redundant cognitive labor (e.g., tax accounting or editing). AI is also used to play games, operate autonomous vehicles, process language, and more.OpenAI released its ChatGPT tool late in 2022. It rapidly gained in popularity with millions of users being added each month in 2023. ChatGPT is considered a Weak AI, but it's not strictly reactive and can respond creatively to a wide variety of topics.




How Is AI Used in Healthcare?
In healthcare settings, AI is used to assist in diagnostics. AI is very good at identifying small anomalies in scans and can better triangulate diagnoses from a patient's symptoms and vitals. AI is also used to classify patients, maintain and track medical records, and deal with health insurance claims. Future innovations are thought to include AI-assisted robotic surgery, virtual nurses or doctors, and collaborative clinical judgment.
What Is an Ascending Channel?  

An ascending channel is the price action contained between upward sloping parallel lines. Higher highs and higher lows characterize this price pattern. Technical analysts construct an ascending channel by drawing a lower trend line that connects the swing lows, and an upper channel line that joins the swing highs.



The pattern’s opposite counterpart is the descending channel.





Key Takeaways

An ascending channel is used in technical analysis to show an uptrend in a security’s price.It is formed from two positive sloping trend lines drawn above and below a price series depicting resistance and support levels, respectively.Channels are used commonly in technical analysis to confirm trends and identify breakouts and reversals.


   Understanding Ascending Channels  

Within an ascending channel, price does not always remain entirely contained within the pattern’s parallel lines but instead shows areas of support and resistance that traders can use to set stop-loss orders and profit targets. A breakout above an ascending channel can signal a continuation of the move higher, while a breakdown below an ascending channel can indicate a possible trend change.



Ascending channels show a clearly defined uptrend. Traders can swing trade between the pattern’s support and resistance levels or trade in the direction of a breakout or breakdown.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Trading the Ascending Channel  

Support and Resistance: Traders could open a long position when a stock's price reaches the ascending channel’s lower trend line and exit the trade when the price nears the upper channel line. A stop-loss order should be placed slightly below the lower trend line to prevent losses if the security’s price abruptly reverses. Traders who use this strategy should ensure there is enough distance between the pattern’s parallel lines to set an adequate risk/reward ratio. For example, if a trader places a $5 stop, the width of the ascending channel should be a minimum of $10 to allow for a 1:2 risk/reward ratio.
Breakouts: Traders could buy a stock when its price breaks above the upper channel line of an ascending channel. It is prudent to use other technical indicators to confirm the breakout. For example, traders could require that a significant increase in volume accompanies the breakout and that there is no overhead resistance on higher time frame charts.
Breakdowns: Before traders take a short position when price breaks below the lower channel line of an ascending channel, they should look for other signs that show weakness in the pattern. Price failing to reach the upper trend line frequently is one such warning sign. Traders should also look for negative divergence between a popular indicator, such as the relative strength index (RSI), and price. For instance, if a stock’s price is making higher highs within the ascending channel, but the indicator is making lower highs, this suggests upward momentum is waning.


   Ascending Channel vs. Envelope Channels  

Envelope channels are another popular channel formation that can incorporate both descending and ascending channel patterns.



Envelope channels are typically used to chart and analyze a security’s price movement over a longer period of time, whereas ascending and descending channels can be beneficial for charting a security’s price immediately after a reversal. Trend lines can be based on moving averages or highs and lows over specified intervals.



Two of the most common envelope channels include Bollinger Bands and Donchian Channels.
What Is an Ascending Triangle?  

An ascending triangle is a chart pattern used in technical analysis. It is created by price moves that allow for a horizontal line to be drawn along the swing highs and a rising trendline to be drawn along the swing lows. The two lines form a triangle. Traders often watch for breakouts from triangle patterns. The breakout can occur to the upside or downside.



Ascending triangles are often called continuation patterns since price will typically break out in the same direction as the trend that was in place just prior to the triangle forming.



An ascending triangle is tradable in that it provides a clear entry point, profit target, and stop-loss level. It may be contrasted with a descending triangle.





Key Takeaways


The trendlines of a triangle need to run along at least two swing highs and two swing lows.
Ascending triangles are considered a continuation pattern, as the price will typically break out of the triangle in the price direction prevailing before the triangle, although this won't always occur. A breakout in any direction is noteworthy.
A long trade is taken if the price breaks above the top of the pattern.
A short trade is taken if the price breaks below the lower trendline.
A stop loss is typically placed just outside the pattern on the opposite side from the breakout.
A profit target is calculated by taking the height of the triangle, at its thickest point, and adding or subtracting that to/from the breakout point.







   What Does the Ascending Triangle Tell You?  

An ascending triangle is generally considered to be a continuation pattern, meaning that the pattern is significant if it occurs within an uptrend or downtrend. Once the breakout from the triangle occurs, traders tend to aggressively buy or sell the asset depending on which direction the price broke out.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Increasing volume helps to confirm the breakout, as it shows rising interest as the price moves out of the pattern.



A minimum of two swing highs and two swing lows are required to form the ascending triangle's trendlines. But a greater number of trendline touches tends to produce more reliable trading results. Since the trendlines are converging on one another, if the price continues to move within a triangle for multiple swings, the price action becomes more coiled, likely leading to a stronger eventual breakout.



Volume tends to be stronger during trending periods than during consolidation periods. A triangle is a type of consolidation, and therefore volume tends to contract during an ascending triangle. As mentioned, traders look for volume to increase on a breakout, as this helps confirm the price is likely to keep heading in the breakout direction. If the price breaks out on low volume, that is a warning sign that the breakout lacks strength. This could mean the price will move back into the pattern. This is called a false breakout.



For trading purposes, an entry is typically taken when the price breaks out. Buy if the breakout occurs to the upside, or short/sell if a breakout occurs to the downside. A stop loss is placed just outside the opposite side of the pattern. For example, if a long trade is taken on an upside breakout, a stop loss is placed just below the lower trendline.



A profit target can be estimated based on the height of the triangle added or subtracted from the breakout price. The thickest part of the triangle is used. If the triangle is $5 high, add $5 to the upside breakout point to get the price target. If the price breaks lower, the profit target is the breakout point less $5.


   Example of How to Interpret the Ascending Triangle  










Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



Here an ascending triangle forms during a downtrend, and the price continues lower following the breakout. Once the breakout occurred, the profit target was attained. The short entry or sell signal occurred when the price broke below the lower trendline. A stop loss could be placed just above the upper trendline.



Wide patterns like this present a higher risk/reward than patterns that get substantially narrower as time goes on. As a pattern narrows, the stop loss becomes smaller since the distance to the breakout point is smaller, yet the profit target is still based on the largest part of the pattern.


   The Difference Between an Ascending Triangle and a Descending Triangle  

These two types of triangles are both continuation patterns, except they have a different look. The descending triangle has a horizontal lower line, while the upper trendline is descending. This is the opposite of the ascending triangle, which has a rising lower trendline and a horizontal upper trendline.


   Limitations of Trading the Ascending Triangle  

The main problem with triangles, and chart patterns in general, is the potential for false breakouts. The price may move out of the pattern only to move back into it, or the price may even proceed to break out the other side. A pattern may need to be redrawn several times as the price edges past the trendlines but fails to generate any momentum in the breakout direction.



While ascending triangles provide a profit target, that target is just an estimate. The price may far exceed that target, or fail to reach it.


   Psychology of the Ascending Triangle  

Like other chart patterns, ascending triangles indicate the psychology of the market participants underlying the price action. In this case, buyers repeatedly drive the price higher until it reaches the horizontal line at the top of the ascending triangle. The horizontal line represents a level of resistance—the point where sellers step in to return the price to lower levels.



As the price drops downward from the horizontal resistance level, buyers begin to show their resolve, and the price fails to reach the recent low, with the trend turning upward once again at a higher swing low. In other words, the upward-sloping trendline that forms the lower boundary of the ascending triangle is acting as support—the level where buyers jump in and prevent the price from falling any lower.



In a well-defined ascending triangle pattern, the price bounces between the horizontal resistance line and the lower trendline. The lines of the triangle eventually converge, setting the stage for a showdown between upward and downward pressure that could determine which direction the price will move out of the pattern. As it approaches the vertex of the triangle, the price will either break out above the resistance level, suggesting additional gains ahead, or it will fall below the support level, increasing the likelihood that the price will decline.




What Is a Continuation Pattern?
When you identify a continuation pattern on a chart, it suggests that the price of the asset has a greater likelihood of emerging from the pattern in the same direction that it was moving previously. There are several continuation patterns, including the ascending triangle, that technical analysts use as signals that the existing price trend will likely continue. Other examples of continuation patterns include flags, pennants, and rectangles.




What Are Support and Resistance Levels?
Support and resistance levels represent points on a price chart where there is a likelihood of a letup or a reversal of the prevailing trend. Support occurs where a downtrend is expected to pause due to a concentration of demand, while resistance occurs where an uptrend is expected to pause due to a concentration of supply. In an ascending triangle pattern, the upward-sloping lower trendline indicates support, while the horizontal upper bound of the triangle represents resistance.




How Do You Trade the Ascending Triangle Chart Pattern?
Traders generally enter a position on a security when its price breaks above or below the boundaries of an ascending triangle. If the price jumps above the horizontal resistance level, it may be a good time to buy, while a move below the lower trendline suggests that selling or shorting the asset could be a profitable move. Traders often protect their positions by placing a stop loss outside the opposite side of the pattern. To determine a profit target, it can be useful to start at the breakout point and then add or subtract the height of the triangle at its thickest point.


   The Bottom Line  

An ascending triangle is a technical analysis chart pattern that occurs when the price of an asset fluctuates between a horizontal upper trendline and an upward-sloping lower trendline. Since the price has a tendency to break out in the same direction as the trend in place before the formation of the triangle, ascending triangles are often called continuation patterns. Traders often wait for the price to break above or below the pattern before entering a position. The ascending triangle pattern is particularly useful for traders because it suggests a clear entry point, profit target, and stop-loss level.
What Is the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)?  

The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is an economic group of 21 members, formed in 1989, with the primary goal of promoting free trade and sustainable development in the Pacific Rim economies.





Key Takeaways

The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is a 21-member economic forum that was established in 1989.APEC is made up of countries, including the U.S., that promote free trade and sustainable development in Pacific Rim economies.APEC engages in multiple micro causes, such as intellectual property rights and emergency preparedness, and has many sub-groups that aim to advance policy and awareness.APEC has been fundamental in reducing tariffs, improving customs efficiency, and closing the gap between developing and developed economies. 


   Understanding the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)  

APEC's principal goal is to ensure that goods, services, capital, and labor can move easily across borders. This includes increasing custom efficiency at borders, encouraging favorable business climates within member economies, and harmonizing regulations and policies across the region.



The creation of APEC was primarily in response to the increasing interdependence of Asia-Pacific economies. The formation of APEC was part of the proliferation of regional economic blocs in the late 20th century, such as the European Union (EU) and the (now-defunct) North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).


  Nations Comprising APEC  

The founding members of APEC were Australia, Brunei, Canada, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and the U.S. Since its launch, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Mexico, Papua New Guinea, Chile, Peru, Russia, and Vietnam have joined its ranks.



APEC refers to its members as economies rather than as states due to the focus on trade and economic issues rather than the sometimes delicate diplomatic issues of the region, including the status of Taiwan and Hong Kong. The People's Republic of China (PRC) refuses to recognize Taiwan because it claims the island as a province under its constitution. Hong Kong, meanwhile, functions as semi-autonomous regions of China and not a sovereign state.



Official observers of APEC include the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (PECC), and the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF).


   The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation's (APEC) Actions and Goals  

At a landmark summit meeting in 1994, APEC announced a lofty goal of establishing free trade and investment regimes in the Asia-Pacific region by 2010 for members with developed economies. The group hoped to achieve those same goals for its developing economy members by 2020.






APEC provides funding for approximately 100 projects annually, with around USD 15.4 million made available in 2018.



In 1995, APEC adopted the Osaka Action Agenda, a program designed to facilitate business activities, liberalize trade and investment and promote economic and technical cooperation. However, progress on these efforts has somewhat slowed, due to APEC’s culture of making all decisions by consensus. While some decisions are unanimous, they are not legally binding on the member governments.


   Sub-Groups of APEC  

APEC maintains a policy support unit to provide research and analysis to support the organization's goals for the region, as well as special working groups to explore and promote various issues and components of economic development. These groups engage in multiple micro causes that aim to advance policy and awareness. Examples of these sub-groups include:



Gender Issues: APEC sponsors a policy partnership on women and the economy to advance the economic integration of women. An estimated 600 million women are currently in the region’s labor force.
Intellectual Property Rights: APEC's Intellectual Property Rights Experts' Group (IPEG) studies and exchanges information regarding the enforcement of intellectual property rights protections in the region. It promotes and facilitates cooperation to implement the World Trade Organization's (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS).
Emergency Preparedness: APEC's Emergency Preparedness Working Group (EPWG) promotes business resilience, public-private partnerships, and information sharing among members to help build the region's capacity to deal with emergencies and natural disasters. Economies along the geologically and climatologically active Pacific Rim are subject to events such as tsunamis, typhoons, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions.
What Is the Asian Development Bank?  

The Asian Development Bank's primary mission is to "foster economic growth and cooperation" among countries in the Asia-Pacific Region. Founded in 1966 and based in Manila, Philippines, the ADB assists members and partners by providing loans, technical assistance, grants, and equity investments to promote social and economic development.



The ADB has been responsible for major projects in the region and raises capital regularly through the international bond markets. The ADB also relies on member contributions, retained earnings from lending, and the repayment of loans for the funding of the organization.





Key Takeaways

The Asian Development Bank's (ADB) primary mission is to promote economic growth and cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region. The majority of the ADB’s members are in the Asia-Pacific region.The ADB provides assistance to its developing member countries in the region.It also provides financing to certain private sector projects as well as public-private partnerships through grants, loans, technical assistance, and equity investments to promote development.The ADB is controlled by member countries, with the U.S. and Japan having the largest stake.


   How the Asian Development Bank Works  

The Asian Development Bank provides assistance to its developing member countries, the private sector, and public-private partnerships through grants, loans, technical assistance, and equity investments to promote development. The ADB regularly facilitates policy dialogues and provides advisory services. They also use co-financing operations that tap official, commercial, and export credit sources while providing assistance.



Membership in the ADB is open to members and associate members of the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. It's also open to other regional countries and non-regional developed countries that are members of the U.N. or of any of its specialized agencies. 






The ADB is one of two Asian regional development banks, the other being the Chinese-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB).


   Financing Provided by the Asian Development bank  

The ADB provides both private financing and sovereign (public) financing. Private sector efforts focus on projects that help promote private investments in the region that will have significant development impact and will lead to accelerated, sustainable, and inclusive growth. Public-sector financing provides funding for member countries with flexibility in determining how they can achieve development goals.



In 2021, the ADB committed nearly US$13.5 billion to help its developing member countries address the impacts of the COVID-19 crisis and address vaccination needs, and has mobilized a further $12.9 billion in co-financing from partners. Through a $9 billion Asia Pacific Vaccine Access Facility, or APVAX, announced in December 2020, the ADB provided funding for vaccine procurement, logistics, and distribution.



The total private financing portfolio consisted of $14.2 billion at the end of 2021. In terms of sovereign financing, ADB's portfolio stood at $104 billion by the end of 2021, consisting of 713 loans, 392 grants, 915 TA projects, one guarantee, and 1 equity investment.


   Structure of the Asian Development Bank  

According to ADB's website, "the Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank, known as the ADB Charter, vests all the powers of the institution in the Board of Governors, which in turn delegates some of these powers to the Board of Directors. The Board of Governors meets formally once a year during ADB's Annual Meeting." The ADB's highest policy-making body is its Board of Governors, which comprises one representative from each member.



The two largest shareholders of the Asian Development Bank are the United States and Japan. Although the majority of the Bank's members are from the Asia-Pacific region, the industrialized nations are also well-represented. Regional development banks usually work in harmony with both the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank in their activities.


   Asian Development Bank Country Relationships  

When ADB was founded in 1966, it consisted of 31 members. Since then, membership has grown to 68 members, which is made up of 48 regional and 19 non-regional members. Membership as of 2022 includes:









ADB Regional Members


Member
Year of membership




Afghanistan
1966


Armenia
2005


Australia
1966


Azerbaijan
1999


Bangladesh
1973


Bhutan
1982


Brunei Darussalam
2006


Cambodia
1966






Cook Islands
1976


Federated States of Micronesia
1990


Fiji
1970


Georgia
2007


Hong Kong, China
1969


India
1966


Indonesia
1966


Japan
1966


Kazakhstan
1994


Kiribati
1974


Kyrgyz Republic
1994


Lao People's Democratic Republic
1966


Malaysia
1966


Maldives
1978


Marshall Islands
1990


Mongolia
1991


Myanmar
1973


Nauru
1991


Nepal
1966


New Zealand
1966


Niue
2019


Pakistan
1966


Palau
2003


Papua New Guinea
1971


People's Republic of China
1986


Philippines
1966


Republic of Korea
1966


Samoa
1966


Singapore
1966


Solomon Islands
1973


Sri Lanka
1966


Taipei,China
1966


Tajikistan
1998


Thailand
1966


Timor-Leste
2002


Tonga
1972


Turkmenistan
2000


Tuvalu
1993


Uzbekistan
1995


Vanuatu
1981


Viet Nam
1966



Source: Asian Development Bank









ADB Non-Regional Members


Member
Year of membership




Austria
1966


Belgium
1966


Canada
1966


Denmark
1966


Finland
1966


France
1970


Germany
1966


Ireland
2006


Italy
1966


Luxembourg
2003


Netherlands
1966


Norway
1966


Portugal
2002


Spain
1986


Sweden
1966


Switzerland
1967


Türkiye
1991


United Kingdom
1966


United States
1966



Source: Asian Development Bank






The two largest shareholders of the Asian Development Bank are the United States and Japan. Both countries have a majority ownership of the bank with 15.6% each.




Who Controls the Asian Development Bank?
The ADB is run by a board of governors, which represent the member countries of the ADB. As of 2022, ADB's five largest shareholders are Japan and the United States (each with 15.6% of total shares), the People's Republic of China (6.4%), India (6.3%), and Australia (5.8%).




Where Is the Asian Development Bank Headquartered?
The Asian Development Bank has its headquarters in Manila, Philippines.




Is India a Member of the Asian Development Bank?
Yes, India is a regional member country of the ADB.
What Was the Asian Financial Crisis?  

The Asian financial crisis, also called the “Asian Contagion,” was a sequence of currency devaluations and other events that began in July 1997 and spread across Asia. The crisis started in Thailand when the government ended the local currency’s de facto peg to the U.S. dollar after depleting much of the country’s foreign exchange reserves trying to defend it against months of speculative pressure.



Just weeks after Thailand stopped defending its currency, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Indonesia were also compelled to let their currencies fall as speculative market pressure built. By October, the crisis spread to South Korea, where a balance-of-payments crisis brought the government to the brink of default.



Other economies also came under pressure, but those with solid economic fundamentals and hefty foreign exchange reserves fared much better. Hong Kong fended off several major but unsuccessful speculative attacks on its currency, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar via a currency board system and backed by massive U.S. dollar reserves. 





Key Takeaways


The Asian financial crisis started in July 1997, when Thailand stopped defending the baht after months of downward market pressure, causing the currency to fall quickly.
The contagion spread quickly, with currencies across the region falling—some quite catastrophically.
The crisis was rooted in economic growth policies that encouraged investment but also created high levels of debt (and risk) to finance it.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailed out many countries but imposed strict spending restrictions in exchange for the help.
Affected countries have since put in place mechanisms to avoid creating the same scenario in the future.



   Impact of the Asian Financial Crisis  

As the Thai baht fell, other Asian currencies fell—some precipitously. Across Asia, inflows of capital slowed or reversed.



The Thai baht had been trading at about 26 to the U.S. dollar before the crisis but lost half its value by the end of 1997, falling to 53 to the dollar by January 1998. The South Korean won fell from about 900 to the dollar to 1,695 by the end of 1997. The Indonesian rupiah, which had been trading at around 2,400 to the dollar in June 1997, plummeted to 14,900 by June 1998, less than one-sixth its precrisis level.



Some of the more heavily affected countries fell into severe recession. Indonesia’s gross domestic product (GDP) growth fell from 4.7% in 1997 to -13.1% in 1998. In the Philippines, it slid from 5.2% to -0.5% over the same period. Malaysia’s GDP growth similarly slid from 7.3% in 1997 to -7.4% in 1998, while South Korea’s contracted from 6.2% to -5.1%.



In Indonesia, the ensuing economic crisis led to the collapse of the three-decade-old dictatorship of President Suharto.



The crisis was alleviated by intervention from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and The World Bank, among others, which poured some $118 billion into Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea to bail out their economies.













As a result of the the crisis, affected countries restructured their economies, generally because the IMF required reform as a condition of help. The specific policy changes were different in each country but generally involved strengthening weak financial systems, lowering debt levels, raising interest rates to stabilize currencies, and cutting government spending.



The crisis also serves as a valuable case study for economists to understand how interwoven markets affect one another, especially as it relates to currency trading and national accounts management.


   Causes of the Asian Financial Crisis  

The crisis was rooted in several threads of industrial, financial, and monetary government policies and the investment trends that they created. Once the crisis began, markets reacted strongly, and one currency after another came under pressure. Some of the macroeconomic problems included current account deficits, high levels of foreign debt, climbing budget deficits, excessive bank lending, poor debt-service ratios, and imbalanced capital inflows and outflows.



Many of these problems were the result of policies to promote export-led economic growth in the years leading up to the crisis. Governments worked closely with manufacturers to support exports, including providing subsidies to favored businesses, more favorable financing, and a currency peg to the U.S. dollar to ensure an exchange rate favorable to exporters.



While this did support exports, it also created risk. Explicit and implicit government guarantees to bail out domestic industries and banks meant investors often did not assess the profitability of an investment but instead looked to its political support. Investment policies also created cozy relationships among local conglomerates, financial institutions, and the regulators who oversaw their industries. Large volumes of foreign money flowed in, often with little attention to potential risks. These factors all contributed to a massive moral hazard in Asian economies, encouraging major investment in marginal and potentially unsound projects.



As the crisis spread, it became clear that the impressive economic growth rates in these countries were concealing serious vulnerabilities. In particular, domestic credit had expanded rapidly for years, often poorly supervised, creating significant leverage along with loans extended to dubious projects. Rapidly rising real estate values (often fueled by easy access to credit) contributed to the problem, along with rising current account deficits and a buildup in external debt. Heavy foreign borrowing, often at short maturities, also exposed corporations and banks to significant exchange rate and funding risks—risks that had been masked by long-standing currency pegs. When the pegs fell apart, companies that owed money in foreign currencies suddenly owed a lot more in local currency terms, forcing many into insolvency.



Many Asian economies had also slid into current account deficits. If a country has a current account surplus, that means it is essentially a net lender to the rest of the world. If the current account balance is negative, then the country is a net borrower from the rest of the world. Current account deficits had grown on the back of heavy government spending (much of it directed to supporting continued export growth).


   Response to the Asian Financial Crisis  

The IMF intervened to stem the crisis with loans to stabilize the affected economies. The IMF and others lent roughly $118 billion in short-term loans to Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea. The bailouts came with conditions, though: Governments had to raise taxes, cut spending, and eliminate many subsidies. By 1999, many of the affected countries began to show signs of recovery.



Other financial institutions also intervened. For example, in December 1997, the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank brokered a deal under which U.S. banks owed money by South Korean companies on short-term loans voluntarily agreed to roll them over into medium-term loans.


   Lessons from the Asian Financial Crisis  

Many of the lessons of the Asian financial crisis remain relevant today. First, beware of asset bubbles, as they have a habit of bursting. Another is that governments need to control spending and pursue prudent economic development policies.




How do government spending and monetary policy affect a currency’s value?
When governments spend, implement policies that keep taxes low, subsidize the price of staple goods, or use other methods that effectively put more money in people’s pockets, consumers have more money to spend. As most economies rely at least partly on imports for many goods and services, this increased spending creates demand for foreign currency (usually U.S. dollars), as importers have to sell local currency and buy foreign currency to pay for imports.Demand for foreign currency (and selling of local currency to buy it) increases exponentially when those policies also promote heavy investment in infrastructure, new businesses, and other economic projects. As more local currency is offered for sale on foreign exchange markets, its value goes down, unless there is a corresponding demand to buy it (say, by exporters selling foreign currency that they earn from exports).




Why do governments keep exchange rates high?
Governments, especially in developing economies, seek to manage exchange rates to balance their ability to pay debts denominated in foreign currencies. Because investors generally prefer instruments denominated in more stable currencies, governments in developing economies often raise funds by issuing bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, or euros.However, if the value of the domestic currency falls vs. the currency in which its debt is denominated, that effectively increases the debt, as more local currency is needed to pay it. So, when the Thai baht lost half of its value in 1997, that meant local borrowers needed twice as many baht to pay debts denominated in U.S. dollars. As many developing countries also rely on imports, a higher-valued local currency also makes those imports cheaper in local currency terms.




Why do governments keep exchange rates low?
Conversely, governments may seek to keep their exchange rates low to increase the competitiveness of exports.In the 1980s, following years of complaints from U.S. companies about competition from cheap Japanese imports, the U.S. government convinced Japan to allow its currency to appreciate as part of the Plaza Accord. The currency’s value climbed from 250 yen to one U.S. dollar in early 1985 to less than 130 yen by 1990. The U.S. trade deficit with Japan fell from $55 billion in 1986 to $41 billion in 1990.


   The Bottom Line  

In 1997, decades of economic policy planning that featured close relationships among government policy planners, regulators, the industries they regulated, and financial institutions came to a head when markets began putting downward pressure on Asian currencies. The most vulnerable were those countries with high levels of debt and insufficient financing to pay it.



The IMF stepped in to bail out the most affected economies, but it imposed strict conditions in exchange for the help. Some measures included requiring governments to cut spending, raise taxes, eliminate subsidies, and restructure their financial systems.



The crisis also serves as a case study in asset bubbles and how quickly panic selling can trigger contagion that central bankers cannot control.
What Is the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB)?  

The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is a new international development bank that provides financing for infrastructure projects in Asia. It began operations in January 2016.


   How the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) Works  

The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is a multilateral development bank headquartered in Beijing. Like other development banks, its mission is to improve social and economic outcomes in its region, Asia, and beyond. The bank opened in January 2016 and now has 105 approved members worldwide, as of Jul. 30, 2022.


   The History of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank  

China's leader Xi Jinping first proposed an Asian infrastructure bank at an APEC summit in Bali in 2013. Many observers have interpreted the bank as a challenge to international lending bodies, which some consider too reflective of American foreign policy interests such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.



In this bank's case, China controls half of the bank's voting shares, which gives the perception that the AIIB will function in the interests of the Chinese government. The U.S. has questioned the bank's governing standards and its social and environmental safeguards, perhaps pressuring allies not to apply for membership. However, despite American objections, approximately half of NATO has signed on, as has nearly every large Asian country, with the exception of Japan. The result is widely considered in an indicator of China's growing international influence at the expense of the United States.


   The Structure of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank  

The bank is headed by a Board of Governors composed of one Governor and one Alternate Governor appointed by each of the 86 member countries. A non-resident Board of Directors is responsible for the direction and management of the Bank such as the Bank’s strategy, annual plan and budget and establishing policies and oversight procedures.



The bank staff is headed by a President who is elected by AIIB shareholders for a five-year term and is eligible for re-election once. The President is supported by Senior Management including five Vice Presidents for policy and strategy, investment operations, finance, administration, and the corporate secretariat and the General Counsel and Chief Risk Officer. Mr. Jin Liqun is the current President.


   Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Priorities  

The bank's priorities are projects that promote sustainable Infrastructure and to support countries that are striving to meet environmental and development goals. The bank funds projects linking countries in the region and cross-border infrastructure projects for roads, rail, ports, energy pipelines and telecoms across Central Asia and maritime routes in South East and South Asia and the Middle East. The bank's priorities also include private capital mobilization and encouraging partnerships that stimulate private capital investment such as those with other multilateral development banks, governments, and private financiers.



An example of an AIIB project is a rural road connectivity initiative that will benefit approximately 1.5 million rural residents in Madhya Pradesh, India. In April 2018, the AIIB announced the project, which is also expected to improve the livelihoods, education, and mobility of the residents of 5,640 villages. The project is a U.S. $140-million jointly financed by the AIIB and the World Bank.
What Is Ask?  

The ask is the price a seller is willing to accept for a security, which is often referred to as the offer price. Along with the price, the ask quote might also stipulate the amount of the security available to be sold at the stated price. The bid is the price a buyer is willing to pay for a security, and the ask will always be higher than the bid.


   Understanding Ask  

The terms "bid" and "ask" are used in nearly every financial market in the world, including stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, and derivatives.



An example of an ask in the stock market is $5.24 x 1,000, which means that someone is offering to sell 1,000 shares for $5.24 per share.





Key Takeaways


An offer price is another term for ask price.
A bid price is always lower than the ask price.
The difference between a bid price and ask price is called the spread.
Different markets have different spread conventions, which reflect transaction costs, the value of a single point, and liquidity.




The ask is always higher than the bid; the difference between the two numbers is called the spread. A wider spread makes it harder to make a profit because the security is always being bought at the high end of the spread and sold at the low end.






Spreads can widen sharply with unusually volatile trading or when there is a great deal of uncertainty over the direction of the price.


   Stock Market Spreads  

In 2001, stock prices changed from being quoted in sixteenths to decimals. That brought the smallest possible spread from 1/16 of a dollar, or $.0625, to one penny. The width of a spread in nominal terms will depend in part on the price of the stock. A spread of two cents on a price of $10 is 0.02%, while a spread of two cents on a price of $100 is 0.002%.


   Foreign Exchange Spreads  

Spreads in the wholesale market, in which financial institutions deal, are tight. The spreads vary by currency because the value of a point varies. A typical spread when trading the euro versus the dollar is between 1 and 2 points. This means that the bid might be 1.3300, which is the number of dollars needed to buy one euro with an offer of 1.3301. A single point on a transaction of $10,000,000 and a EUR/USD rate of 1.3300 is worth $751. At 110 Japanese yen to the dollar, the value of one point on a $10,000,000 transaction is $909.



The bid/ask spread for cross-currency transactions such as the euro versus the Japanese yen or the British pound is usually two to three times as wide as spreads versus the dollar. This reflects both lower trading volume and higher volatility.



Spreads in the retail market have tightened considerably with the increased popularity of electronic dealing systems. These allow small traders to view competitive prices in ways that only large financial institutions could do in the past. This has pushed spreads down as low as 3 to 10 points at times.


   Bank Note Spreads  

Buying and selling banknotes in foreign currencies is a separate market from either wholesale or retail foreign exchange. Spreads are likely to be 75 pips or more.
What Is Assemble-to-Order (ATO)?  

Assemble-to-order (ATO) is a business production strategy where products that are ordered by customers are produced quickly and are customizable to a certain extent. It typically requires that the basic parts of the product are already manufactured but not yet assembled. Once an order is received, the parts are assembled quickly and the final product is sent to the customer.





Key Takeaways

Assemble-to-order (ATO) is a business strategy where products are quickly produced from component parts once the order is confirmed.Assemble-to-order is a combination of make-to-order and make-to-stock.In a typical ATO approach, the costs of assembling the product from its components are negligible, but the costs of making the different components can be substantial.A PC-maker that receives orders and then assembles customizable computers using components like keyboards, monitors, and motherboards is using an assemble-to-order strategy.


   Understanding Assemble-to-Order (ATO)  

The assemble-to-order strategy is a hybrid between the make-to-stock strategy (MTS) and the make-to-order strategy (MTO). A make-to-stock strategy is one where products are fully produced in advance. The idea is to build an inventory that matches expected or anticipated consumer demand. This method would consist of setting a production level, building up inventory, and then attempting to sell as much assembled product as possible. It's used mostly for high-volume goods, consumables, and items that can be bought in bulk or as a single unit.



A make-to-order strategy is one where products are manufactured once the order has been received. Production is driven by demand and items are only produced when orders are confirmed. In other words, the supply chain operation does not begin until there is evidence of sufficient customer demand. This strategy is often employed for high-end goods or items made individually or in small batches.



The ATO strategy attempts to combine the benefits of both make-to-order and make-to-stock—getting products into customers' hands quickly while allowing for the product to be adapted or altered in certain ways, as per customer request. In most cases, the time and costs associated with building the product from its components are minimal. However, the time and costs to build the components, which are usually ordered from a supplier, can be considerable.



Enabled by technology, advancements in production processes and inventory management systems have played a big part in making assemble-to-order strategies a reality. Add cheaper methods of shipping products, and the strategy has been a boon for product customization opportunities.


   Pros and Cons Assemble-to-Order (ATO)  

Like many methods that chart a middle course, assemble-to-order has both advantages and disadvantages.





Pros

No need to invest in materials and supplies, and storage for them
Orders made to customer specifics
Less risk of having unsold units on hand



Cons

Risk of lost sales due to low supply
Potentially longer lead times to produce goods





   Example of Assemble-to-Order (ATO)  

Consider a manufacturer of personal computers. It might have all of the essential parts of a computer—motherboards, graphic cards, processors, monitors, keyboards—in stock and already manufactured. The company depends on various suppliers for these components.



When orders for new PCs arrive, it is easy for the company to assemble and customize the computers using the various components. The process is driven by customer demand, however, and until the order arrives, the components sit on shelves.
What Is Assessed Value?  

Assessed value is the dollar value assigned to a home or other piece of real estate for property tax purposes. It takes into account the value of comparable properties in the area, among other factors. In many cases, the assessed value is calculated as a percentage of the fair market value of the property.





Key Takeaways

Assessed value is the dollar value assigned to a home or other property for tax purposes.It takes into consideration comparable home sales, location, and other factors.Assessed value is not the same as fair market value (what the property could sell for) but is often calculated as a percentage of it.Some states also tax personal property, such as cars and boats, and assign an assessed value to those as well.


   Understanding Assessed Value  

The assessed value of a home or other property is used only to determine the applicable property tax (also known as an ad valorem tax).



Assessed value takes into account the overall quality and condition of the property, local property values, square footage, home features, and market conditions. Many of these factors are derived from computerized real estate data for the property's neighborhood and the surrounding area.


  Local Government Assessors  

A government assessor is responsible for assigning a property's assessed value and for updating it periodically.



Government assessors are usually designated by specified tax districts. Each district may have a different procedure for calculating assessed value. However, the basic process is largely the same.



Depending on the state and locality, assessors may be required to personally visit properties periodically for assessment purposes. Owners who want to dispute the assessed value placed on their property can request a reassessment, which is a second evaluation of the property.



The assessed value may be lower for a property if you are an owner-occupant as opposed to a landlord (this is sometimes called a homestead exemption). That doesn’t affect the market value of the property but can reduce your property tax bill.






The assessed value is considered an accepted dollar value for your home and a reliable indicator of the home's worth.


   How Assessed Value Is Calculated  

In most states and municipalities, assessed value is calculated as a percentage of the property’s fair market value. The percentage rate used can vary considerably from one place to another.



For example, at 10%, Mississippi uses one of the lowest percentage rates in the nation for owner-occupied, single-family homes to establish assessed value. By contrast, Massachusetts uses a very high percentage rate of 100%.



Once the assessed value is known, property taxes can then be determined.


   Assessed Value and Property Taxes  

The assessed value of your home is only one factor used to calculate your property taxes. Many tax authorities use an equation such as the following, which typically includes a millage rate, or tax rate:



Fair Market Value × Assessment Rate × Millage Rate = Effective Property Tax



The millage rate is the tax rate applied to the assessed value of the property. Millage rates are typically expressed per $1,000, with one mill representing $1 in tax for every $1,000 of assessed value. So, for calculation purposes, if the mill rate in your jurisdiction is 20, divide that by 1000 to get .02. Then apply that figure to the calculation.


  Example  

Say that a house in your area has a fair market value of $300,000. The area's assessment rate is 50%. And the mill rate is 20. Using the formula shown above, the property tax would be $3,000:



$300,000 × 0.50 × 0.02 = $3,000


   Personal Property Taxes  

In addition to a real estate tax, many states impose a tax on certain personal property. Similarly, this tax usually is based on the personal property’s assessed value. Types of personal property that are taxed can include mobile homes, cars, motorcycles, and boats. Rates can vary widely as well, depending on where you live.




What's the Difference Between the Assessed Value and the Appraised Value?
To begin with, they're both values associated with your home. However, the assessed value is determined by your local tax authority and used to determine your property tax. The appraised value is determined by an industry professional and normally used in the mortgage application process to verify that the home is worth the amount sought by the borrower. In addition, homebuyers (or sellers) may seek an appraisal of a property that they wish to buy (or sell).




Why Is Assessed Value Important?
It's important to know because it plays a role in how your property tax bill is determined. Plus, if you're looking for a home, knowing the assessed value may give you a bargaining chip if the sale price of a home is set much higher.




How Often Does Assessed Value Change?
That depends on the state or jurisdiction where the property is located. Some areas update assessments annually. Others may do so every few years. Check with the tax department of your town for details.


   The Bottom Line  

Assessed value refers to the value assigned a property, such as a home, by the local government. It is used by the tax authority to determine the property taxes that a homeowner owes. Often, it's calculated as a percentage of the fair market value of the property.
What Is an Asset?  

An asset is a resource with economic value that an individual, corporation, or country owns or controls with the expectation that it will provide a future benefit.



Assets are reported on a company's balance sheet. They're classified as current, fixed, financial, and intangible. They are bought or created to increase a firm's value or benefit the firm's operations.



An asset can be thought of as something that, in the future, can generate cash flow, reduce expenses, or improve sales, regardless of whether it's manufacturing equipment or a patent. 





Key Takeaways

An asset is a resource with economic value that an individual, corporation, or country owns or controls with the expectation that it will provide a future benefit.Assets are reported on a company's balance sheet.They are bought or created to increase a firm's value or benefit the firm's operations.An asset is something that may generate cash flow, reduce expenses or improve sales, regardless of whether it's manufacturing equipment or a patent.Assets can be classified as current, fixed, financial, or intangible.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Assets  

An asset represents an economic resource owned or controlled by, for example, a company. An economic resource is something that may be scarce and has the ability to produce economic benefit by generating cash inflows or decreasing cash outflows.



An asset can also represent access that other individuals or firms do not have. Furthermore, a right or other type of access can be legally enforceable, which means economic resources can be used at a company's discretion. Their use can be precluded or limited by an owner.



For something to be considered an asset, a company must possess a right to it as of the date of the company's financial statements.



Assets can be broadly categorized into current (or short-term) assets, fixed assets, financial investments, and intangible assets.


   Types of Assets  
  Current Assets  

In accounting, some assets are referred to as current. Current assets are short-term economic resources that are expected to be converted into cash or consumed within one year. Current assets include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, inventory, and various prepaid expenses.



While cash is easy to value, accountants periodically reassess the recoverability of inventory and accounts receivable. If there is evidence that a receivable might be uncollectible, it'll be classified as impaired. Or if inventory becomes obsolete, companies may write off these assets.






Some assets are recorded on companies' balance sheets using the concept of historical cost. Historical cost represents the original cost of the asset when purchased by a company. Historical cost can also include costs (such as delivery and set up) incurred to incorporate an asset into the company's operations.


  Fixed Assets  

Fixed assets are resources with an expected life of greater than a year, such as plants, equipment, and buildings. An accounting adjustment called depreciation is made for fixed assets as they age. It allocates the cost of the asset over time. Depreciation may or may not reflect the fixed asset's loss of earning power.



Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) allow depreciation under several methods. The straight-line method assumes that a fixed asset loses its value in proportion to its useful life, while the accelerated method assumes that the asset loses its value faster in its first years of use.


  Financial Assets  

Financial assets represent investments in the assets and securities of other institutions. Financial assets include stocks, sovereign and corporate bonds, preferred equity, and other, hybrid securities. Financial assets are valued according to the underlying security and market supply and demand.


  Intangible Assets  

Intangible assets are economic resources that have no physical presence. They include patents, trademarks, copyrights, and goodwill. Accounting for intangible assets differs depending on the type of asset. They can be either amortized or tested for impairment each year.






While an asset is something with economic value that's owned or controlled by a person or company, a liability is something that is owed by a person or company. A liability could be a loan, taxes payable, or accounts payable.




What Is Considered an Asset?
When looking at an asset definition, you'll typically find that it is something that provides a current, future, or potential economic benefit for an individual or company. An asset is, therefore, something that is owned by you or something that is owed to you. A $10 bill, a desktop computer, a chair, and a car are all assets. If you loaned money to someone, that loan is also an asset because you are owed that amount. For the person who owes it, the loan is a liability.




What Are Examples of Assets?
Personal assets can include a home, land, financial securities, jewelry, artwork, gold and silver, or your checking account. Business assets can include such things as motor vehicles, buildings, machinery, equipment, cash, and accounts receivable.




What Are Non-Physical Assets?
Non-physical or intangible assets provide an economic benefit even though you cannot physically touch them. They are an important class of assets that include things like intellectual property (e.g., patents or trademarks), contractual obligations, royalties, and goodwill. Brand equity and reputation are also examples of non-physical or intangible assets that can be quite valuable.




Is Labor an Asset?
No. Labor is the work carried out by human beings, for which they are paid in wages or a salary. Labor is distinct from assets, which are considered to be capital.




How Are Current Assets Different From Fixed (Noncurrent) Assets?
In accounting, assets are categorized by their time horizon of use. Current assets are expected to be sold or used within one year. Fixed assets, also known as noncurrent assets, are expected to be in use for longer than one year. Fixed assets are not easily liquidated. As a result, unlike current assets, fixed assets undergo depreciation.
What Is Asset Allocation?  

Asset allocation is an investment strategy that aims to balance risk and reward by apportioning a portfolio's assets according to an individual's goals, risk tolerance, and investment horizon. The three main asset classes—equities, fixed-income, and cash and equivalents—have different levels of risk and return, so each will behave differently over time.





Key Takeaways


Asset allocation is an investment strategy that aims to balance risk and reward by apportioning a portfolio's assets according to an individual's goals, risk tolerance, and investment horizon.
The three main asset classes—equities, fixed-income, and cash and equivalents—have different levels of risk and return, so each will behave differently over time.
There is no simple formula that can find the right asset allocation for every individual.



   Why Asset Allocation Is Important  

There is no simple formula that can find the right asset allocation for every individual. However, the consensus among most financial professionals is that asset allocation is one of the most important decisions that investors make. In other words, the selection of individual securities is secondary to the way that assets are allocated in stocks, bonds, and cash and equivalents, which will be the principal determinants of your investment results.



Investors may use different asset allocations for different objectives. Someone who is saving for a new car in the next year, for example, might invest their car savings fund in a very conservative mix of cash, certificates of deposit (CDs), and short-term bonds. An individual who is saving for retirement that may be decades away typically invests the majority of their individual retirement account (IRA) in stocks, since they have a lot of time to ride out the market's short-term fluctuations. Risk tolerance plays a key factor as well. Someone who is uncomfortable investing in stocks may put their money in a more conservative allocation despite a long-term investment horizon.


   Age-Based Asset Allocation  

In general, stocks are recommended for holding periods of five years or longer. Cash and money market accounts are appropriate for objectives less than a year away. Bonds fall somewhere in between. In the past, financial advisors have recommended subtracting an investor's age from 100 to determine what percentage should be invested in stocks. For example, a 40-year-old would be 60% invested in stocks. Variations of the rule recommend subtracting age from 110 or 120, given that the average life expectancy continues to grow. As individuals approach retirement age, portfolios should generally move to a more conservative asset allocation to help protect assets.


   Achieving Asset Allocation Through Life-Cycle Funds  

Asset-allocation mutual funds, also known as life-cycle, or target-date, funds, are an attempt to provide investors with portfolio structures that address an investor's age, risk appetite, and investment objectives with an appropriate apportionment of asset classes. However, critics of this approach point out that arriving at a standardized solution for allocating portfolio assets is problematic because individual investors require individual solutions.



The Vanguard Target Retirement 2030 Fund would be an example of a target-date fund. These funds gradually reduce the risk in their portfolios as they near the target date, cutting riskier stocks and adding safer bonds in order to preserve the nest egg. The Vanguard 2030 fund, set up for people expecting to retire between 2028 and 2032, had a 65% stock/35% bond allocation as of Jan. 31, 2022. As 2030 approaches, the fund will gradually shift to a more conservative mix, reflecting the individual's need for more capital preservation and less risk.




In a Nutshell, What Is Asset Allocation?
Asset allocation is the process of deciding where to put money to work in the market. It aims to balance risk and reward by apportioning a portfolio's assets according to an individual's goals, risk tolerance, and investment horizon. The three main asset classes—equities, fixed-income, and cash and equivalents—have different levels of risk and return, so each will behave differently over time.




Why Is Asset Allocation Important?
Asset allocation is a very important part of creating and balancing your investment portfolio. After all, it is one of the main factors that leads to your overall returns—even more than choosing individual stocks. Establishing an appropriate asset mix of stocks, bonds, cash, and real estate in your portfolio is a dynamic process. As such, the asset mix should reflect your goals at any point in time.




What Is an Asset Allocation Fund?
An asset allocation fund is a fund that provides investors with a diversified portfolio of investments across various asset classes. The asset allocation of the fund can be fixed or variable among a mix of asset classes, meaning that it may be held to fixed percentages of asset classes or allowed to go overweight on some depending on market conditions.


   Bottom Line  

Most financial professionals will tell you that asset allocation is one of the most important decisions that investors make. In other words, the selection of individual securities is secondary to the way that assets are allocated in stocks, bonds, and cash and equivalents, which will be the principal determinants of your investment results.
What Is an Asset-Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP)?  

An asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) is a short-term investment vehicle with a maturity date that is typically between 90 and 270 days. A bank or other financial institution typically issues the security itself. The notes are backed by the company's physical assets such as trade receivables. Companies will use an asset-backed commercial paper to fund short-term financing needs.





Key Takeaways

An asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) is a type of short-term investment with a maturity date of no more than 270 days.A bank, financial institution, or large corporation typically issues ABCPs, which are notes backed by collateral.The collateral often consists of the corporation's expected future payments or receivables.These receivables might include payments the corporation expects to collect from loans it has made, such as auto loans, credit card debt, student loans, or residential mortgages.


   Understanding Asset-Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP)  

Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) is a short-term money-market security that is issued by a special purpose vehicle (SPV) or conduit, which is set up by a sponsoring financial institution. The maturity date of an ABCP is set at no more than 270 days and issued either on an interest-bearing or discount basis.



The note is backed by the corporation's collateral, which might include future payments to be made on credit cards, auto loans, student loans, and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs). These expected payments are collectively known as accounts receivables. The proceeds of an ABCP issue is used primarily to obtain interests in various types of assets, either through asset purchase or secured lending transactions.






A company can create an ABCP from any type of asset-backed security, including subprime mortgages, which are high-risk mortgages that were one of the main catalysts of the 2008 financial crisis.


   Commercial Paper (CP) vs. Asset-Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP)  

The primary difference between commercial paper (CP) and asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) is that commercial paper is not backed by assets. Commercial paper (CP) is a money market security issued by large corporations to raise money to meet short-term obligations. With a fixed maturity of less than one year, the commercial paper acts as a promissory note that is backed only by the high credit rating of the issuing company.



Investors purchase the commercial paper at a discount to face value and are repaid the full face value of the security at maturity. Since standard commercial papers are not backed by collateral, only firms with excellent credit ratings from a recognized credit rating agency will be able to sell commercial papers at a reasonable price. A type of commercial paper that is backed by other financial assets is called an asset-backed commercial paper.



A company or bank looking to enhance liquidity may sell receivables to an SPV or other conduits, which, in turn, will issue them to its investors as asset-backed commercial paper. The ABCP is backed by the expected cash inflows from the receivables. As the receivables are collected, the originators are expected to pass the funds to the conduit, which is responsible for disbursing the funds generated by the receivables to the ABCP noteholders.


   ABCP Interest Payments  

During the life of the investment, the sponsoring financial institution that set up the conduit is responsible for monitoring developments that could affect the performance and credit quality of the assets in the SPV. The sponsor ensures that ABCP investors receive their interest payments and principal repayments when the security matures.



The interest payments made to ABCP investors originate from the pool of assets backing the security, e.g., monthly car loan payments. When the collateralized paper matures, the investor receives a principal payment that is funded either from the collection of the credit’s assets, from the issuance of new ABCP, or by accessing the credit’s liquidity facility.


   Special Considerations  

While most ABCP programs issue commercial paper as their primary liability, funding sources have been extensively diversified lately to include other types of debt. This includes medium-term notes (MTNs), extendible commercial paper, and subordinated debt to provide credit enhancement.



One significant concern about ABCPs and related investments stems from the possibility of liquidity risk. If the market value of the underlying assets decreases, then the safety and value of the ABCP might also suffer.



It's important for ABCP investors to understand the composition of the underlying assets and how the value of those assets might be impacted by market stresses, such as a downturn in the economy. The inability in some circumstances for investors to sell their investments quickly to minimize losses is just one of the risks associated with asset-backed commercial paper.
What Is an Asset-Backed Security (ABS)?  

An asset-backed security (ABS) is a type of financial investment that is collateralized by an underlying pool of assets—usually ones that generate a cash flow from debt, such as loans, leases, credit card balances, or receivables. It takes the form of a bond or note, paying income at a fixed rate for a set amount of time, until maturity.



For income-oriented investors, asset-backed securities can be an alternative to other debt instruments, like corporate bonds or bond funds.





Key Takeaways

Asset-backed securities (ABSs) are financial securities backed by income-generating assets such as credit card receivables, home equity loans, student loans, and auto loans.ABSs are created when a company sells its loans or other debts to an issuer, a financial institution that then packages them into a portfolio to sell to investors.Pooling assets into an ABS is a process called securitization.ABSs appeal to income-oriented investors, as they pay a steady stream of interest, like bonds.Mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) can be considered types of ABS.






   Understanding Asset-Backed Securities (ABSs)  

Asset-backed securities allow their issuers to raise cash, which can be used for lending or other investment purposes. The underlying assets of an ABS are often illiquid and can’t be sold on their own. So, pooling assets together and creating a financial instrument out of them—a process called securitization—allows the issuer to make illiquid assets marketable to investors. It also allows them to get shakier assets off their books, thus alleviating their credit risk.



The underlying assets of these pools may be home equity loans, automobile loans, credit card receivables, student loans, or other expected cash flows. ABS issuers can be as creative as they desire. For example, asset-backed securities have been built based on cash flows from movie revenues, royalty payments, aircraft landing slots, toll roads, and solar photovoltaics. Just about any cash-producing vehicle or situation can be securitized into an ABS.



For investors, buying an ABS affords the opportunity of a revenue stream. The ABS allows them to participate in a wide variety of income-generating assets, sometimes (as noted above) exotic ones that aren’t available in any other investment.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   How an Asset-Backed Security Works  

Assume that Company X is in the business of making automobile loans. If a person wants to borrow money to buy a car, Company X gives that person the cash, and the person is obligated to repay the loan with a certain amount of interest. Perhaps Company X makes so many loans that it starts to run out of cash. Company X can then package its current loans and sell them to Investment Firm X, thus receiving the cash, which it can then use to make more loans.



Investment Firm X will then sort the purchased loans into different groups called tranches. These tranches contain loans with similar characteristics, such as maturity, interest rate, and expected delinquency rate. Next, Investment Firm X will issue securities based on each tranche it creates. Similar to bonds, each ABS has a rating indicating its degree of riskiness—that is, the likelihood that the underlying loans will go into default.



Individual investors then purchase these securities and receive the cash flows from the underlying pool of auto loans, minus an administrative fee that Investment Firm X keeps for itself.


   Special Considerations  

An ABS will usually have three tranch classes: A, B, and C. The senior tranche, A, is almost always the largest tranche and is structured to have an investment-grade rating to make it attractive to investors.



The B tranche has lower credit quality and thus has a higher yield than the senior tranche. The C tranche has a lower credit rating than the B tranche and might have such poor credit quality that it can’t be sold to investors. In this case, the issuer would keep the C tranche and absorb the losses.


   Types of Asset-Backed Securities  

Theoretically, an asset-based security can be created out of almost anything that generates an income stream, from mobile home loans to utility bills. But certain types are more common. Among the most typical ABS types are:


  Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO)  

A CDO is an ABS issued by a special purpose vehicle (SPV). The SPV is a business entity or trust formed specifically to issue that ABS. There are a variety of subsets of CDOs, including:



Collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) are CDOs made up of bank loans.
Collateralized bond obligations (CBOs) are composed of bonds or other CDOs.
Structured finance-backed CDOs have underlying assets of ABS, residential or commercial mortgages, or real estate investment trust (REIT) debt. 
Cash CDOs are backed by cash-market debt instruments, while other credit derivatives support synthetic CDOs.
Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) are composed of mortgages—or, more precisely, mortgage-backed securities (MBSs), which hold portfolios of mortgages (see below).



Though a CDO is essentially structured the same as an ABS, some consider it a separate type of investment vehicle. In general, CDOs own a wider and more diverse range of assets—including other asset-based securities or CDOs.


  Home Equity ABS  

Home equity loans are one of the largest ABS categories. Though similar to mortgages, home equity loans are often taken out by borrowers who have less-than-stellar credit scores or few assets—the reason why they didn’t qualify for a mortgage. These are amortizing loans—that is, payment goes toward satisfying a specific sum and consists of three categories: interest, principal, and prepayments.






A mortgage-backed security (MBS) is sometimes considered a type of ABS but is more often classified as a separate variety of investment, especially in the United States. Both operate in essentially the same way; the difference lies in the underlying assets in the portfolio.
Mortgage-backed securities are formed by pooling together mortgages exclusively, while asset-backed securities consist of any other type of loan or debt instrument (including, rather confusingly, home equity loans). MBSs actually predate ABSs.


  Auto Loan ABS  

Car financing is another large category of ABS. The cash flows of an auto loan ABS include monthly interest payments, principal payments, and prepayments (though the last is rarer, for an auto loan ABS is much lower than a home equity loan ABS). This is another amortizing loan.


  Credit Card Receivables ABS  

Credit card receivables—the amount due on credit card balances—are a type of non-amortizing ABS: They go to a revolving line of credit, rather than toward the same set sum. Thus, they don’t have fixed payment amounts, while new loans and changes can be added to the composition of the pool. The cash flows of credit card receivables include interest, principal payments, and annual fees.



There is usually a lockup period for credit card receivables where no principal will be paid. If the principal is paid within the lockup period, then new loans will be added to the ABS with the principal payment that makes the pool of credit card receivables staying unchanged. After the lockup period, the principal payment is passed on to ABS investors.


  Student Loan ABS  

ABSs can be collateralized by either government student loans, guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education, or private student loans. The former have had a better repayment record and a lower risk of default.




What is an example of an asset-backed security (ABS)?
A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is an example of an asset-based security (ABS). It is like a loan or bond, one backed by a portfolio of debt instruments—bank loans, mortgages, credit card receivables, aircraft leases, smaller bonds, and sometimes even other ABSs or CDOs. This portfolio acts as collateral for the interest generated by the CDO, which is reaped by the institutional investors who purchase it.




What is asset backing?
Asset backing refers to the total value of a company’s shares in relation to its assets. Specifically, it refers to the total value of all the assets that a company has, divided by the number of outstanding shares that the company has issued.In terms of investments, asset backing refers to a security with value deriving from a single asset or a pool of assets; these holdings act as collateral for the security—“backing” it, in effect.




What does ABS stand for in accounting?
In the business world, ABS stands for accounting and billing system.




What is the difference between MBS and ABS?
An asset-based security (ABS) is similar to a mortgage-backed security (MBS). Both are securities that, like bonds, pay a fixed rate of interest derived from an underlying pool of income-generating assets—usually debts or loans. The main difference is that an MBS, as its name implies, consists of a package of mortgages (real estate loans). In contrast, an ABS is usually backed by other sorts of financing—student loans, auto loans, or credit card debt.Some financial sources use ABS as a generic term, encompassing any sort of securitized investment based on underlying asset pools—in which case, an MBS is a kind of ABS. Others consider ABSs and MBSs to be separate investment vehicles.




How does asset securitization work?
Asset securitization begins when a lender (or any company with loans) or a firm with income-producing assets earmarks a bunch of these assets, then arranges to sell the lot to an investment bank or other financial institution. This institution often pools these assets with comparable ones from other sellers, then establishes a special purpose vehicle (SPV)—an entity set up specifically to acquire the assets, package them, and issue them as a single security.The issuer then sells these securities to investors, usually institutional investors (hedge funds, mutual funds, pension plans, etc.). The investors receive fixed- or floating-rate payments from a trustee account funded by the cash flows generated by the portfolio of assets.Sometimes the issuer divides the original asset portfolio into slices, called tranches. Each tranche is sold separately and bears a different degree of risk, indicated by a different credit rating.


   The Bottom Line  

Asset-backed securities (ABSs) are pools of loans that are packaged together into an investable security, which can in turn be bought by investors—predominantly large institutions like hedge funds, insurance companies, and pension funds. ABSs provide a method of diversification from typical bond mutual funds or individual bonds themselves. Most importantly, they are income-generating assets, typically with a higher return than a normal corporate bond, all depending on the credit rating assigned to the ABS.



The underlying assets of an ABS could consist of auto loans, credit card receivables, and even more exotic investments, such as utility bills and toll roads. Such categories of ABS are referred to by different names such as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which are broken down into further subcategories, such as collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). However, by far, the most popular and therefore liquid ABS are mortgage-backed securities (MBSs), which provide an income stream from mortgage payments.



For the investor, ABSs provide an income stream in line with the credit rating of the security, and they offer an alternative to standard bond mutual funds.
What Is an Asset-Based Approach?  

An asset-based approach is a type of business valuation that focuses on a company's net asset value. The net asset value is identified by subtracting total liabilities from total assets. There is some room for interpretation in terms of deciding which of the company's assets and liabilities to include in the valuation and how to measure the worth of each.





Key Takeaways

There are several methods available for calculating the value of a company.An asset-based approach identifies a company’s net assets by subtracting liabilities from assets.The asset-based valuation is often adjusted to calculate a company's net asset value based on the market value of its assets and liabilities.


   Understanding an Asset-Based Approach  

Identifying and maintaining awareness of the value of a company is an important responsibility for financial executives. Overall, stakeholder and investor returns increase when a company’s value increases, and vice versa.



There are a few different ways to identify a company’s value. Two of the most common are the equity value and enterprise value. The asset-based approach can also be used in conjunction with these two methods or as a standalone valuation. Both equity value and enterprise value require the use of equity in the calculation. If a company does not have equity, analysts may use the asset-based valuation as an alternative.



Many stakeholders will also calculate the asset-based value and use it comprehensively in valuation comparisons. The asset-based value may also be required for private companies in certain types of analysis as added due diligence. Furthermore, the asset-based value can also be an important consideration when a company is planning a sale or liquidation.






The asset-based approach uses the value of assets to calculate a business entity's valuation.


   Calculating Asset-Based Value  

In its most basic form, the asset-based value is equivalent to the company’s book value or shareholders’ equity. The calculation is generated by subtracting liabilities from assets.



Often, the value of assets minus liabilities differs from the value reported on the balance sheet due to timing and other factors. Asset-based valuations can provide latitude for using market values rather than balance sheet values. Analysts may also include certain intangible assets in asset-based valuations that may or may not be on the balance sheet.


   Adjusting Net Assets  

One of the biggest challenges in arriving at an asset-based valuation is adjusting net assets. An adjusted asset-based valuation seeks to identify the market value of assets in the current environment. Balance sheet valuations use depreciation to decrease the value of assets over time. Thus, the book value of an asset is not necessarily equivalent to the fair market value.



Other considerations for net asset adjustments may include certain intangibles that are not fully valued on the balance sheet or included on the balance sheet at all. Companies might not find it necessary to value certain trade secrets. However, since an adjusted asset-based approach looks at what a company could potentially sell for in the current market, these intangibles are important to consider.



In an adjusted net asset calculation, adjustments can also be made for liabilities. Market value adjustments can potentially increase or decrease the value of liabilities, which directly affects the calculation of adjusted net assets.
What Is Asset-Based Lending?  

Asset-based lending is the business of loaning money in an agreement that is secured by collateral. An asset-based loan or line of credit may be secured by inventory, accounts receivable, equipment, or other property owned by the borrower.



The asset-based lending industry serves business, not consumers. It is also known as asset-based financing.





Key Takeaways

Asset-based lending involves loaning money using the borrower's assets as collateral.Liquid collateral is preferred as opposed to illiquid or physical assets such as equipment.Asset-based lending is often used by small to mid-sized businesses in order to cover short-term cash flow demands.


   How Asset-Based Lending Works  

Many businesses need to take out loans or obtain lines of credit to meet routine cash flow demands. For example, a business might obtain a line of credit to make sure it can cover its payroll expenses even if there's a brief delay in payments it expects to receive.



If the company seeking the loan cannot show enough cash flow or cash assets to cover a loan, the lender may offer to approve the loan with its physical assets as collateral. For example, a new restaurant might be able to obtain a loan only by using its equipment as collateral.



The terms and conditions of an asset-based loan depend on the type and value of the assets offered as security. Lenders prefer highly liquid collateral such as securities that can readily be converted to cash if the borrower defaults on the payments. Loans using physical assets are considered riskier, so the maximum loan will be considerably less than the book value of the assets. Interest rates charged vary widely, depending on the applicant's credit history, cash flow, and length of time doing business.






Interest rates on asset-based loans are lower than rates on unsecured loans since the lender can recoup most or all of its losses in the event that the borrower defaults.


   Example  

For example, say a company seeks a $200,000 loan to expand its operations. If the company pledges the highly liquid marketable securities on its balance sheet as collateral, the lender may grant a loan equalling 85% of the face value of the securities. If the firm’s securities are valued at $200,000, the lender will be willing to loan $170,000. If the company chooses to pledge less liquid assets, such as real estate or equipment, it may only be offered 50% of its required financing, or $100,000.



In both cases, the discount represents the costs of converting the collateral to cash and its potential loss in market value.


   Special Considerations  

Small and mid-sized companies that are stable and that have physical assets of value are the most common asset-based borrowers.



However, even large corporations may occasionally seek asset-based loans to cover short-term needs. The cost and long lead time of issuing additional shares or bonds in the capital markets may be too high. The cash demand may be extremely time-sensitive, such as in the case of a major acquisition or an unexpected equipment purchase.
What Is an Asset Class?  

An asset class is a grouping of investments that exhibit similar characteristics and are subject to the same laws and regulations. Asset classes are thus made up of instruments that often behave similarly to one another in the marketplace.



Examples of common asset classes include equities, fixed income, commodities, and real estate.





Key Takeaways


An asset class is a grouping of investments that exhibit similar characteristics and are subject to the same laws and regulations.
Equities (e.g., stocks), fixed income (e.g., bonds), cash and cash equivalents, real estate, commodities, and currencies are common examples of asset classes.
There is usually very little correlation and sometimes a negative correlation among different asset classes.
Financial advisors focus on asset class as a way to help investors diversify their portfolios.













NoNo Flores / Investopedia


   Understanding Asset Classes  

Simply put, an asset class is a grouping of comparable financial securities. For example, IBM, MSFT, and AAPL are a grouping of stocks. Asset classes and asset class categories are often mixed together. There is usually very little correlation and sometimes a negative correlation among different asset classes. This characteristic is important in the field of investing.



Historically, the three main asset classes have been equities (stocks), fixed income (bonds), and cash equivalent or money market instruments. Currently, most investment professionals include real estate, commodities, futures, other financial derivatives, and even cryptocurrencies in the asset class mix. Investment assets include both tangible and intangible instruments that investors buy and sell for the purposes of generating additional income, on either a short- or long-term basis.



Financial advisors view investment vehicles as asset-class categories that are used for diversification purposes. Each asset class is expected to reflect different risk and return investment characteristics and perform differently in any given market environment. Investors interested in maximizing return often do so by reducing portfolio risk through asset class diversification.



Financial advisors will help investors diversify their portfolios by combining assets from different asset classes that have different cash flow streams and varying degrees of risk. Investing in several different asset classes ensures a certain amount of diversity in investment selections. Diversification reduces risk and increases your probability of making a positive return.










The main asset classes are equities, fixed income, cash or marketable securities, and commodities.


   Types of Asset Classes  

The most common asset classes are:


  Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents represent actual cash on hand and securities that are similar to cash. This type of investment is considered very low risk since there is little to no chance of losing your money. That peace of mind means the returns are also lower than other asset classes.



Examples of cash and cash equivalents include cash parked in a savings account as well as U.S. government Treasury bills (T-bills), guaranteed investment certificates (GICs), and money market funds. Generally, the greater the risk of losing money, the greater the prospective return.


  Fixed Income  

Fixed income is an investment that pays a fixed income. Basically, you lend money to an entity and, in return, they pay you a fixed amount until the maturity date, which is the date when the money you initially invested (the loan) is paid back to you.



Government and corporate bonds are the most common types of fixed-income products. The government or company will pay you interest for the life of the loan, with rates varying depending on inflation and the perceived risk that they won’t make good on the loan. The risk of certain governments defaulting on their bonds is very unlikely, so they pay out less. Conversely, some companies risk going bust and need to pay investors more to convince them to part with their money.


  Equities   

When people talk about equities, they are usually speaking about owning shares in a company. For companies to expand and meet their objectives, they often resort to selling slices of ownership in exchange for cash to the general public. Buying these shares represents a great way to profit from the success of a company.



There are two ways to make money from investing in companies:



If the company pays a dividend
If you sell the shares for more than you paid for them



The market can be volatile, though. Share prices are known to fluctuate, and some companies may even go bust.


  Commodities  

Commodities are basic goods that can be transformed into other goods and services. Examples include metals, energy resources, and agricultural goods.



Commodities are crucial to the economy and, in some cases, are viewed as a good hedge against inflation. Their return is based on supply and demand dynamics rather than profitability. Many investors invest indirectly in commodities by buying shares in companies that produce them. However, there is also a huge market for investing directly, whether that is actually buying a physical commodity with the view of eventually selling it for a profit or investing in futures.






Each asset class carries a different level of risk and return and tends to perform differently in a given environment.


   Alternative Asset Classes  

Equities (stocks), bonds (fixed-income securities), cash or marketable securities, and commodities are the most liquid asset classes and, therefore, the most quoted asset classes.



There are also alternative asset classes, such as real estate, and valuable inventory, such as artwork, stamps, and other tradable collectibles. Some analysts also refer to an investment in hedge funds, venture capital, crowdsourcing, or cryptocurrencies as examples of alternative investments. That said, an asset’s illiquidity does not speak to its return potential; it only means that it may take more time to find a buyer to convert the asset to cash.


   Asset Class and Investing Strategy  

Investors looking for alpha employ investment strategies focused on achieving alpha returns. Investment strategies can be tied to growth, value, income, or a variety of other factors that help to identify and categorize investment options according to a specific set of criteria.



Some analysts link criteria to performance and/or valuation metrics such as earnings-per-share (EPS) growth or the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Other analysts are less concerned with performance and more concerned with the asset type or class.






Investors are often advised not to put all their eggs into one basket and invest in different asset classes to spread their bets and reduce risk.




What are the most popular asset classes?
Historically, the three main asset classes have been equities (stocks), fixed income (bonds), and cash equivalent or money market instruments. Currently, most investment professionals include real estate, commodities, futures, other financial derivatives, and even cryptocurrencies in the asset class mix.




Which asset class has the best historical returns?
The stock market has proven to produce the highest returns over extended periods of time. Since the late 1920s, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the S&P 500 is about 6.6%, assuming that all dividends were reinvested and adjusted for inflation.In other words, $100 invested in the S&P 500 on Jan. 1, 1928, would have been worth about $42,500 (in 1928 dollars) by Dec. 31, 2022, without adjusting for inflation. The total would have grown to $727,560 in 2022 dollars. By comparison, the same $100 invested in five-year Treasuries would have been worth only a little more than $7,000 in today’s dollars.




Why are asset classes useful?
Financial advisors focus on asset class as a way to help investors diversify their portfolios to maximize returns. Investing in several different asset classes ensures a certain amount of diversity in investment selections. Each asset class is expected to reflect different risk and return investment characteristics and perform differently in any given market environment.


   The Bottom Line  

An asset class is a grouping of investments that exhibit similar characteristics and that may be subject to the same rules and regulations. Equities, fixed income, commodities, and real estate are common examples of asset classes.



Asset classes can be used to diversify portfolios and reduce risk, as they are expected to reflect different risk and return characteristics. For instance, if stocks are falling, bond prices may be rising, and vice versa. Building a portfolio with asset classes that are not highly correlated with one another is an important concept for diversification.
What Is the Asset Coverage Ratio?  

The asset coverage ratio is a financial metric that measures how well a company can repay its debts by selling or liquidating its assets. The asset coverage ratio is important because it helps lenders, investors, and analysts measure the financial solvency of a company. Banks and creditors often look for a minimum asset coverage ratio before lending money.





Key Takeaways

The asset coverage ratio is a financial metric that measures how well a company can repay its debts by selling or liquidating its assets.The higher the asset coverage ratio, the more times a company can cover its debt.Therefore, a company with a high asset coverage ratio is considered to be less risky than a company with a low asset coverage ratio.


   Understanding the Asset Coverage Ratio  

The asset coverage ratio provides creditors and investors with the ability to gauge the level of risk associated with investing in a company. Once the coverage ratio is calculated, it can be compared to the ratios of companies within the same industry or sector.



It's important to note that the ratio is less reliable when comparing it to companies of different industries. Companies within certain industries may typically carry more debt on their balance sheet than others.



For example, a software company might not have much debt while an oil producer is usually more capital intensive, meaning it carries more debt to finance the expensive equipment, such as oil rigs but then again has assets on its balance sheet to back the loans.


   Asset Coverage Ratio Calculation  

The asset coverage ratio is calculated with the following equation:



((Assets – Intangible Assets) – (Current Liabilities – Short-term Debt)) / Total Debt



In this equation, "assets" refers to total assets, and "intangible assets" are assets that can't be physically touched, such as goodwill or patents. "Current liabilities" are liabilities due within one year, and "short-term debt" is debt that is also due within one year. "Total debt" includes both short-term and long-term debt. All of these line items can be found in the annual report.


   How the Asset Coverage Ratio is Used  

Companies that issue shares of stock or equity to raise funds don't have a financial obligation to pay those funds back to investors. However, companies that issue debt via a bond offering or borrow capital from banks or other financial companies have an obligation to make timely payments and, ultimately, pay back the principal amount borrowed.



As a result, banks and investors holding a company's debt want to know that a company's earnings or profits are sufficient to cover future debt obligations, but they also want to know what happens if earnings falter.



In other words, the asset coverage ratio is a solvency ratio. It measures how well a company can cover its short-term debt obligations with its assets. A company that has more assets than it does short-term debt and liability obligations indicates to the lender that the company has a better chance of paying back the funds it lends in the event company earnings can not cover the debt.



The higher the asset coverage ratio, the more times a company can cover its debt. Therefore, a company with a high asset coverage ratio is considered to be less risky than a company with a low asset coverage ratio.



If earnings are not enough to cover the company's financial obligations, the company might be required to sell assets to generate cash. The asset coverage ratio tells creditors and investors how many times the company's assets can cover its debts in the event earnings are not enough to cover debt payments. 



Compared to debt service ratio, asset coverage ratio is an extreme or last recourse ratio because the assets coverage is an extreme use of the assets' value under a liquidation scenario, which is not an extraordinary event.


   Special Considerations  

There is one caveat to consider when interpreting the asset coverage ratio. Assets found on the balance sheet are held at their book value, which is often higher than the liquidation or selling value in the event a company would need to sell assets to repay debts. The coverage ratio may be slightly inflated. This concern can be partially eliminated by comparing the ratio against other companies in the same industry.


   Example of the Asset Coverage Ratio  

For example, let's say Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM) has an asset coverage ratio of 1.5, meaning that there are 1.5x's more assets than debts. Let's say Chevron Corporation (CVX)–which is within the same industry as Exxon–has a comparable ratio of 1.4, and even though the ratios are similar, they don't tell the whole story.



If Chevron's ratio for the prior two periods was .8 and 1.1, the 1.4 ratio in the current period shows the company has improved its balance sheet by increasing assets or deleveraging–paying down debt. Conversely, let's say Exxon's asset coverage ratio was 2.2 and 1.8 for the prior two periods, the 1.5 ratio in the current period could be the start of a worrisome trend of decreasing assets or increasing debt.



In other words, it's not enough to merely analyze one period's asset coverage ratio. Instead, it's important to determine what the trend has been over multiple periods and compare that trend with like companies.
What is Asset Financing?  

Asset financing refers to the use of a company’s balance sheet assets, including short-term investments, inventory and accounts receivable, to borrow money or get a loan. The company borrowing the funds must provide the lender with a security interest in the assets.


   Understanding Asset Financing  

Asset financing differs considerably from traditional financing, as the borrowing company offers some of its assets to quickly get a cash loan. A traditional financing arrangement, such as a project-based loan would involve a longer process including business planning, projections, and so on. Asset financing is most often used when a borrower needs a short-term cash loan or working capital. In most cases, the borrowing company using asset financing pledges its accounts receivable; however, the use of inventory assets in the borrowing process—known as warehouse financing—is not uncommon.





Key Takeaways

Asset financing allows a company to get a loan by pledging balance sheet assets.Asset financing is usually used to cover a short-term need for working capital.Some companies prefer to use asset financing in place of traditional financing as the financing is based on the assets themselves rather than the bank's perception of the company's creditworthiness and future business prospects.


   The Difference Between Asset Financing and Asset-Based Lending  

At a basic level, asset financing and asset-based lending are terms that essentially refer to the same thing, with a slight difference. With asset-based lending, when an individual borrows money to buy a home or a car, the house or the vehicle serves as collateral for the loan.If the loan is not then repaid in the specified time period, it falls into default, and the lender may then seize the car or the house and sell it in order to pay off the amount of the loan. The same concept applies to businesses buying assets. With asset financing, if other assets are used to help the individual qualify for the loan, they are generally not considered direct collateral on the amount of the loan.



Asset financing is typically used by businesses, which tend to borrow against assets they currently own. Accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and even buildings and warehouses may be offered as collateral on a loan. These loans are almost always used for short-term funding needs, such as cash to pay employee wages or to purchase the raw materials that are needed to produce the goods that are sold. So the company is not purchasing a new asset, but using its owned assets to make up a working cash flow shortfall. If, however, the company goes on to default, the lender can still seize assets and attempt to sell them to recoup the loan amount.


   Secured and Unsecured Loans in Asset Financing  

Asset financing, in the past, was generally considered a last-resort type of financing; however, the stigma around this source of funding has lessened over time. This is primarily true for small companies, startups and other companies that lack the track record or credit rating to qualify for alternative funding sources.



There are two basic types of loans that may be given. The most traditional type is a secured loan, wherein a company borrows, pledging an asset against the debt. The lender considers the value of the asset pledged instead of looking at the creditworthiness of the company overall. If the loan is not repaid, the lender may seize the asset that was pledged against the debt. Unsecured loans do not involve collateral specifically; however, the lender may have a general claim on the company’s assets if repayment is not made. If the company goes bankrupt, secured creditors typically receive a greater proportion of their claims. As a result, secured loans usually have a lower interest rate, making them more attractive to companies in need of asset financing.
What Is an Asset-Liability Committee?  

An asset-liability committee (ALCO), also known as surplus management, is a supervisory group that coordinates the management of assets and liabilities with a goal of earning adequate returns. By managing a company's assets and liabilities, executives are able to influence net earnings, which may translate into increased stock prices.





Key Takeaways

Asset-liability committees (ALCOs) are responsible for overseeing the management of a company or bank's assets and liabilities.An ALCO at the board or management level provides important management information systems (MIS) and oversight for effectively evaluating on- and off-balance-sheet risk for an institution.An ALCO's strategies, policies, and procedures should relate to the board’s goals, objectives, and risk tolerances for operating standards. One of the ALCO’s goals is ensuring adequate liquidity while managing the bank’s spread between the interest income and interest expense.


   Understanding Asset-Liability Committees (ALCO)  

An ALCO at the board or management level provides important management information systems (MIS) and oversight for effectively evaluating on- and off-balance-sheet risk for an institution. Members incorporate interest rate risk and liquidity consideration into a bank’s operating model.



One of the ALCO’s goals is to ensure adequate liquidity while managing the bank’s spread between the interest income and interest expense. Members also consider investments and operational risk.



ALCO meetings should be conducted at least quarterly. Member responsibilities typically include managing market risk tolerances, establishing appropriate MIS, and reviewing and approving the bank’s liquidity and funds management policy at least annually.



Members also develop and maintain a contingency funding plan, review immediate funding needs and sources, and determine liquidity risk exposures to adverse scenarios with varying probability and severity.


   Special Considerations  

An ALCO's strategies, policies, and procedures should relate to the board’s goals, objectives, and risk tolerances for operating standards. Strategies should articulate liquidity risk tolerances and address the extent to which central elements of funds management are centralized or delegated in the institution.



Strategies should also communicate how much emphasis is placed on using asset liquidity, liabilities, and operating cash flows for meeting daily and contingent funding needs.


   Example of an Asset-Liability Committee  

Alfa Bank’s ALCO is appointed by a resolution of the bank’s executive board and includes seven or more members with the right to vote for a one-year period. The ALCO is headed by the ALCO chair appointed by the bank’s executive board. ALCO members without the right to vote are appointed upon presentation to the ALCO chair by order of the bank executive board from among bank specialists and managers for a one-year period.



The bank's ALCO meetings are typically held every two weeks. Additional meetings may be scheduled as needed. The ALCO has the authority to resolve matters submitted for consideration if more than half of the members with the right to vote are present at the committee meeting. A resolution is passed when more than half the members with the right to vote are present and vote in favor of the resolution. ALCO’s resolutions are binding on all bank employees.
What Is Asset/Liability Management?  

Asset/liability management is the process of managing the use of assets and cash flows to reduce the firm’s risk of loss from not paying a liability on time. Well-managed assets and liabilities increase business profits. The asset/liability management process is typically applied to bank loan portfolios and pension plans. It also involves the economic value of equity.


   Understanding Asset/Liability Management  

The concept of asset/liability management focuses on the timing of cash flows because company managers must plan for the payment of liabilities. The process must ensure that assets are available to pay debts as they come due and that assets or earnings can be converted into cash. The asset/liability management process applies to different categories of assets on the balance sheet.



[Important: A company can face a mismatch between assets and liabilities because of illiquidity or changes in interest rates; asset/liability management reduces the likelihood of a mismatch.]


  Factoring in Defined Benefit Pension Plans  

A defined benefit pension plan provides a fixed, pre-established pension benefit for employees upon retirement, and the employer carries the risk that assets invested in the pension plan may not be sufficient to pay all benefits. Companies must forecast the dollar amount of assets available to pay benefits required by a defined benefit plan.



Assume, for example, that a group of employees must receive a total of $1.5 million in pension payments starting in 10 years. The company must estimate a rate of return on the dollars invested in the pension plan and determine how much the firm must contribute each year before the first payments begin in 10 years.


   Examples of Interest Rate Risk  

Asset/liability management is also used in banking. A bank must pay interest on deposits and also charge a rate of interest on loans. To manage these two variables, bankers track the net interest margin or the difference between the interest paid on deposits and interest earned on loans.



Assume, for example, that a bank earns an average rate of 6% on three-year loans and pays a 4% rate on three-year certificates of deposit. The interest rate margin the bank generates is 6% - 4% = 2%. Since banks are subject to interest rate risk, or the risk that interest rates increase, clients demand higher interest rates on their deposits to keep assets at the bank.


  The Asset Coverage Ratio  

An important ratio used in managing assets and liabilities is the asset coverage ratio which computes the value of assets available to pay a firm’s debts. The ratio is calculated as follows:



﻿















Asset Coverage Ratio


=




(


BVTA


−


IA


)


−


(


CL


−


STDO


)




Total Debt Outstanding


















where:
















BVTA


=


book value of total assets
















IA


=


intangible assets
















CL


=


current liabilities
















STDO


=


short term debt obligations








\begin{aligned} &\text{Asset Coverage Ratio} = \frac{ ( \text{BVTA} - \text{IA} ) - ( \text{CL} - \text{STDO}) }{ \text{Total Debt Outstanding} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{BVTA} = \text{book value of total assets} \\ &\text{IA} = \text{intangible assets} \\ &\text{CL} = \text{current liabilities} \\ &\text{STDO} = \text{short term debt obligations} \\ \end{aligned}


​Asset Coverage Ratio=Total Debt Outstanding(BVTA−IA)−(CL−STDO)​where:BVTA=book value of total assetsIA=intangible assetsCL=current liabilitiesSTDO=short term debt obligations​﻿



Tangible assets, such as equipment and machinery, are stated at their book value, which is the cost of the asset less accumulated depreciation. Intangible assets, such as patents, are subtracted from the formula because these assets are more difficult to value and sell. Debts payable in less than 12 months are considered short-term debt, and those liabilities are also subtracted from the formula.



The coverage ratio computes the assets available to pay debt obligations, although the liquidation value of some assets, such as real estate, may be difficult to calculate. There is no rule of thumb as to what constitutes a good or poor ratio since calculations vary by industry.


   Key Takeaways  

Asset/liability management reduces the risk that a company may not meet its obligations in the future.The success of bank loan portfolios and pension plans depend on asset/liability management processes.Banks track the difference between the interest paid on deposits and interest earned on loans to ensure that they can pay interest on deposits and to determine what a rate of interest to charge on loans.



[Fast Fact: Asset/liability management is a long-term strategy to manage risks. For example, a home-owner must ensure that they have enough money to pay their mortgage each month by managing their income and expenses for the duration of the loan.]
What Is Asset Management?  

Asset management is the practice of increasing total wealth over time by acquiring, maintaining, and trading investments that have the potential to grow in value.



Asset management professionals perform this service for others. They may also be called portfolio managers or financial advisors. Many work independently while others work for an investment bank or other financial institution.





Key Takeaways

The goal of asset management is to maximize the value of an investment portfolio over time while maintaining an acceptable level of risk.Asset management as a service is offered by financial institutions catering to high-net-worth individuals, government entities, corporations, and institutional investors like colleges and pension funds.Asset managers have fiduciary responsibilities. They make decisions on behalf of their clients and are required to do so in good faith.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Asset Management  

Asset management has a double-barreled goal: increasing value while mitigating risk. That is, the client's tolerance for risk is the first question to be posed. A retiree living on the income from a portfolio, or a pension fund administrator overseeing retirement funds, is (or should be) risk-averse. A young person, or any adventurous person, might want to dabble in high-risk investments.



Most of us are somewhere in the middle, and asset managers try to identify just where that is for a client.



The asset manager's role is to determine what investments to make or avoid, and to realize the client's financial goals within the limits of the client's risk tolerance. The investments may include stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities, alternative investments, and mutual funds, among the better-known choices.



The asset manager is expected to conduct rigorous research using both macro and microanalytical tools. This includes statistical analysis of prevailing market trends, reviews of corporate financial documents, and anything else that would aid in achieving the stated goal of client asset appreciation.


   Types of Asset Managers  

There are several different types of asset managers, distinguished by the type of asset and level of service that they provide. Each type of asset manager has a different level of responsibility to the client, so it is important to understand a manager's obligations before deciding to invest.


  Registered Investment Advisers  

A registered investment adviser (RIA) is a firm that advises clients on securities trades or even manages their portfolios. RIAs are closely regulated and are required to register with the SEC if they manage more than $100 million in assets.


  Investment Broker  

A broker is an individual or firm that acts as an intermediary for their clients, buying stocks and securities and providing custody over customer assets. Brokers generally do not have a fiduciary duty to their clients, so it is always important to thoroughly research before buying.


  Financial Advisor  

A financial advisor is a professional who can recommend investments to their clients, or buy and sell securities on their behalf. Financial advisors may or may not have a fiduciary duty to their clients, so it is always important to ask first. Many financial advisors specialize in a specific area, such as tax or estate planning.


  Robo-Advisor  

The most affordable type of investment manager isn't a person at all. A robo-advisor is a computer algorithm that automatically monitors and rebalances an investor's portfolio accordingly, selling and buying investments in line with programmed goals and risk tolerances. Because there is no person involved, robo-advisors cost much less than a personalized investment service.


   How Much Does Asset Management Cost?  

Asset managers have a variety of fee structures. The most common model charges a percentage of the assets under management, with the industry average at about 1% for up to $1 million, and lower for larger portfolios. Others may charge a fee for each trade they execute. Some may even receive a commission to upsell securities to their clients.



Because these incentives can work against the client's interests, it is important to know if your management firm has a fiduciary duty to serve the client's interests. Otherwise, they may recommend investments or trades that do not serve the client's interests.


   How Asset Management Companies Work  

Asset management companies compete to serve the investment needs of high-net-worth individuals and institutions. Accounts held by financial institutions often include check-writing privileges, credit cards, debit cards, margin loans, and brokerage services.



When individuals deposit money into their accounts, it is typically placed into a money market fund that offers a greater return than a regular savings account. Account-holders can choose between Federal Deposit Insurance Company-backed (FDIC) funds and non-FDIC funds.



The added benefit to account holders is all of their banking and investing needs can be met by the same institution.



These types of accounts have only been possible since the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999, which replaced the Glass-Steagall Act. The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, passed during the Great Depression, forced a separation between banking and investing services. Now, they have only to maintain a "Chinese wall" between divisions.


   Example of an Asset Management Institution  

Merrill Lynch offers a Cash Management Account (CMA) to fulfill the needs of clients who wish to pursue banking and investment options with one vehicle, under one roof.



The account gives investors access to a personal financial advisor. This advisor offers advice and a range of investment options that include initial public offerings (IPO) in which Merrill Lynch may participate, as well as foreign currency transactions.



Interest rates for cash deposits are tiered. Deposit accounts can be linked together so that all eligible funds aggregate to receive the appropriate rate. Securities held in the account fall under the protective umbrella of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). SIPC does not shield investor assets from inherent risk but rather protects those assets from the financial failure of the brokerage firm itself.



Along with typical check writing services, the account offers worldwide access to Bank of America automated teller machines (ATM) without transaction fees. Bill payment services, fund transfers, and wire transfers are available. The MyMerrill app allows users to access the account and perform a number of basic functions via a mobile device.



Accounts with more than $250,000 in eligible assets sidestep both the annual $125 fee and the $25 assessment applied to each sub-account held.




How Does an Asset Management Company Differ From a Brokerage?
Asset management institutions are fiduciary firms, generally used by people with significant assets. They usually have discretionary trading authority over accounts, and they are legally bound to act in good faith on the client's behalf. Brokers execute and facilitate trades but do not manage clients' portfolios.




What Does an Asset Manager Do?
An asset manager initially meets with a client to determine what the client's long-term financial objectives are and how much risk the client is willing to accept to get there.From there, the manager will propose a mix of investments that matches the objectives.The manager is responsible for creating the client's portfolio, overseeing it from day to day, making changes to it as needed, and communicating regularly with the client about those changes.




What Are the Top Asset Management Institutions?
As of July 2023, the five largest asset management institutions, based on global assets under management (AUM), were BlackRock ($9.09 trillion), Vanguard Group ($8.1 trillion), Fidelity Investments ($3.8 trillion), The Capital Group ($2.2 trillion), and Amundi ($2.01 trillion).




What Is Digital Asset Management?
Digital asset management, or DAM, is a process of storing media assets in a central repository where they can be accessed as necessary by all members of an organization. This is usually used for large audio or video files that need to be worked on by many teams of employees at once.


   The Bottom Line  

Asset management firms provide the service of buying and selling assets on behalf of their clients. There are many types of asset managers, with some working for family offices and wealthy individuals and others working on behalf of major banks and institutional investors.
What Is an Asset Management Company (AMC)?  

An asset management company (AMC) is a firm that invests pooled funds from clients, putting the capital to work through different investments including stocks, bonds, real estate, master limited partnerships, and more. Along with high-net-worth individual (HNWI) portfolios, AMCs manage hedge funds and pension plans, and—to better serve smaller investors—create pooled structures such as mutual funds, index funds, or exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which they can manage in a single centralized portfolio.



AMCs are colloquially referred to as money managers or money management firms. Those that offer public mutual funds or ETFs are also known as investment companies or mutual fund companies. Such businesses include Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price, and many others.



AMCs are generally distinguished by their assets under management (AUM)—the amount of assets that they manage.





Key Takeaways

An asset management company (AMC) invests pooled funds from clients into a variety of securities and assets.AMCs vary in terms of their size and operations, from personal money managers that handle high-net-worth (HNW) individual accounts and have a few hundred million dollars in AUM, to giant investment companies that offer ETFs and mutual funds and have trillions in AUM.AMC managers are compensated via fees, usually a percentage of a client's assets under management.Most AMCs are held to a fiduciary standard.


   Understanding Asset Management Companies (AMCs)  

Because they have a larger pool of resources than the individual investor could access on their own, AMCs provide investors with more diversification and investing options. Buying for so many clients allows AMCs to practice economies of scale, often getting a price discount on their purchases.



Pooling assets and paying out proportional returns also allows investors to avoid the minimum investment requirements often required when purchasing securities on their own, as well as the ability to invest in a larger assortment of securities with a smaller amount of investment funds.


  AMC Fees  

In most cases, AMCs charge a fee that is calculated as a percentage of the client's total AUM. This asset management fee is a defined annual percentage that is calculated and paid monthly. For example, if an AMC charges a 1% annual fee, it would charge $100,000 in annual fees to manage a portfolio worth $10 million. However, since portfolio values fluctuate on a daily and monthly basis, the management fee calculated and paid every month will fluctuate monthly as well.



Continuing with the above example, if the $10 million portfolio increases to $12 million in the next year, the AMC will stand to make an additional $20,000 in management fees. Conversely, if the $10 million portfolio declines to $8 million due to a market correction, the AMC's fee would be reduced by $20,000. Thus, charging fees as a percentage of AUM serves to align the AMC's interests with that of the client; if the AMC's clients prosper, so does the AMC, but if the clients' portfolios make losses, the AMC's revenues will decline as well.



Most AMCs set a minimum annual fee such as $5,000 or $10,000 in order to focus on clients that have a portfolio size of at least $500,000 or $1 million. In addition, some specialized AMCs such as hedge funds may charge performance fees for generating returns above a set level or that beat a benchmark. The "two and twenty" fee model is standard in the hedge fund industry.


  Buy Side  

Typically, AMCs are considered buy-side firms. This status means they help their clients make investment decisions based on proprietary in-house research and data analytics, while also using security recommendations from sell-side firms.



Sell-side firms such as investment banks and stockbrokers, in contrast, sell investment services to AMCs and other investors. They perform a great deal of market analysis, looking at trends and creating projections. Their objective is to generate trade orders on which they can charge transaction fees or commissions.


   Asset Management Companies (AMCs) vs. Brokerage Houses  

Brokerage houses and AMCs overlap in many ways. Along with trading securities and doing analysis, many brokers advise and manage client portfolios, often through a special "private investment" or "wealth management" division or subsidiary. Many also offer proprietary mutual funds. Their brokers may also act as advisors to clients, discussing financial goals, recommending products, and assisting clients in other ways.



In general, though, brokerage houses accept nearly any client, regardless of the amount they have to invest, and these companies have a legal standard to provide "suitable" services. Suitable essentially means that as long as they make their best effort to manage the funds wisely, and in line with their clients' stated goals, they are not responsible if their clients lose money.



In contrast, most asset management firms are fiduciary firms, held to a higher legal standard. Essentially, fiduciaries must act in the best interest of their clients, avoiding conflicts of interest at all times. If they fail to do so, they face criminal liability. They're held to this higher standard in large part because money managers usually have discretionary trading powers over accounts. That is, they can buy, sell, and make investment decisions on their authority, without consulting the client first. In contrast, brokers must ask permission before executing trades.



AMCs usually execute their trades through a designated broker. That brokerage also acts as the designated custodian that holds or houses an investor's account. AMCs also tend to have higher minimum investment thresholds than brokerages do, and they charge fees rather than commissions.





Pros

Professional, legally liable management
Portfolio diversification
Greater investment options
Economies of scale



Cons

Sizeable management fees
High account minimums
Risk of underperforming the market





   Example of an Asset Management Company (AMC)  

As mentioned earlier, purveyors of popular mutual fund families are technically AMCs. Also, many high-profile banks and brokerages have asset management divisions, usually for HNWI or institutions.



There are also private AMCs that are not household names but are quite established in the investment field. One such example is RMB Capital, an independent investment and advisory firm with approximately $10 billion in AUM. Headquartered in Chicago, with 10 other offices around the U.S., and roughly 142 employees, RMB has different divisions, including:



RMB Wealth Management for wealthy retail investorsRMB Asset Management for institutional investorsRMB Retirement Solutions, which handles retirement plans for employers



The firm also has a subsidiary, RMB Funds, that manages six mutual funds.
What Is Asset Protection?  

Asset protection is the adoption of strategies to guard one's wealth. Asset protection is a component of financial planning intended to protect one's assets from creditor claims. Individuals and business entities use asset protection techniques to limit creditors' access to certain valuable assets while operating within the bounds of debtor-creditor law.





Key Takeaways

Asset protection refers to strategies used to guard one's wealth from taxation, seizure, or other losses.Asset protection helps insulate assets in a legal manner without engaging in the illegal practices of concealment (hiding of the assets), contempt, fraudulent transfer (as defined in the 1984 Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act), tax evasion, or bankruptcy fraud.Jointly-held property under the coverage of tenants by entirety can work as a form of asset protection.


   Understanding Asset Protection  

Asset protection helps insulate assets in a legal manner without engaging in the illegal practices of concealment (hiding of the assets), contempt, fraudulent transfer (as defined in the 1984 Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act), tax evasion, or bankruptcy fraud.



Experts advise that effective asset protection begins before a claim or liability occurs since it is usually too late to initiate any worthwhile protection after the fact. Some common methods for asset protection include asset protection trusts, accounts-receivable financing, and family limited partnerships (FLP).



If a debtor has few assets, bankruptcy may be considered the more favorable route compared to establishing a plan for asset protection. If significant assets are involved, however, proactive asset protection is typically advised.



Certain assets, such as retirement plans, are exempt from creditors under United States federal bankruptcy and ERISA (the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) laws. In addition, many states allow exemptions for a specified amount of home equity in a primary residence (homestead) and other personal property such as clothing.






Each state in the United States has laws to protect owners of corporations, limited partnerships (LPs), and limited liability corporations (LLCs) from the entity's liabilities.


   Asset Protection and Real Estate  

Jointly-held property under the coverage of tenants by entirety can work as a form of asset protection. Married couples who hold mutual interest in property under tenants by entirety share a claim to a whole piece of property and not subdivisions of it.



The combined ownership of the property means that creditors who have liens and other claims against one spouse cannot attach the property for their debt reclamation efforts. If a creditor has claims against both spouses, the tenants by entirety stipulations would not protect the asset from being pursued by that creditor.



Some attempts at asset protection include putting the property or financial resource in the name of a family member or other trusted associate. For example, an heir might be gifted ownership of real estate or other property while the actual owner continues to reside in the property or make use of it. This could complicate efforts to seize property as actual ownership must be determined. Financial accounts may also be domiciled in offshore banks in order to legally avoid paying taxes against those funds.
In accounting, an asset retirement obligation (ARO) describes a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible, long-lived asset, where a company will be responsible for removing equipment or cleaning up hazardous materials at some future date. AROs should be included in a company's financial statement to present a more accurate and holistic snapshot of the enterprise's overall value.





Key Takeaways

Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible, long-lived assets, where a company must ultimately remove equipment or clean up hazardous materials from a leased site.Companies are required to detail their AROs on their financial statements to accurately portray their overall values.ARO rules are governed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), outlined in Rule No. 143: Accounting for Asset Retirement.


   Understanding Asset Retirement Obligations  

Asset retirement obligation accounting often applies to companies that create physical infrastructure which must be dismantled before a land lease expires, such as underground fuel storage tanks at gas stations. AROs also apply to the removal of hazardous elements and/or waste materials from the land, such as nuclear power plant decontamination. The asset is considered to be retired once the clean up/removal activity is complete, and the property is restored back to its original condition.


   An Example of an Asset Retirement Obligation  

Consider an oil-drilling company that acquires a 40-year lease on a parcel of land. Five years into the lease, the company finishes constructing a drilling rig. This item must be removed, and the land must be cleaned up once the lease expires in 35 years. Although the current cost for doing so is $15,000, an estimate for inflation for the removal and remediation work over the next 35 years is 2.5% per year. Consequently, for this ARO, the assumed future cost after inflation would be calculated as follows: 15,000 * (1 + 0.025) ^ 35 = 35,598.08.


   Asset Retirement Obligations Oversight  

Because calculating asset retirement obligations can be complex, businesses should seek guidance from Certified Public Accountants to ensure compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Rule No. 143: Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Under this mandate, public companies must recognize the fair value of their AROs on their balance sheets in an effort to render them more accurate. This represents somewhat of a departure from the income-statement approach many businesses previously used.


   Asset Retirement Obligation: Calculating Expected Present Value  

To calculate the expected present value of an ARO, companies should observe the following iterative steps:



Estimate the timing and cash flows of retirement activities.Calculate the credit-adjusted risk-free rate.Note any increase in the carrying amount of the ARO liability as an accretion expense by multiplying the beginning liability by the credit-adjusted risk-free rate for when the liability was first measured.Note whether liability revisions are trending upward, then discount them at the current credit-adjusted risk-free rate.Note whether liability revisions are trending downward, then discount the reduction at the rate used for the initial recognition of the related liability year.






Asset Retirement Obligations do not apply to unplanned cleanup costs resulting from unplanned events, such as chemical spills and other accidents.
What Is an Asset Swap?  

An asset swap is similar in structure to a plain vanilla swap with the key difference being the underlying of the swap contract. Rather than regular fixed and floating loan interest rates being swapped, fixed and floating assets are being exchanged.



All swaps are derivative contracts through which two parties exchange financial instruments. These instruments can be almost anything, but most swaps involve cash flows based on a notional principal amount agreed upon by both parties. As the name suggests, asset swaps involve an actual asset exchange instead of just cash flows.



Swaps do not trade on exchanges, and retail investors do not generally engage in swaps. Rather, swaps are over-the-counter (OTC) contracts between businesses or financial institutions.





Key Takeaways

An asset swap is used to transform cash flow characteristics to hedge risks from one financial instrument with undesirable cash flow characteristics into another with favorable cash flow.There are two parties in an asset swap transaction: a protection seller, which receives cash flows from the bond, and a swap buyer, which hedges risk associated with the bond by selling it to a protection seller.The seller pays an asset swap spread, which is equal to the overnight rate plus (or minus) a pre-calculated spread.


   Understanding an Asset Swap  

Asset swaps can be used to overlay the fixed interest rates of bond coupons with floating rates. In that sense, they are used to transform cash flow characteristics of underlying assets and transforming them to hedge the asset's risks, whether related to currency, credit, and/or interest rates.



Typically, an asset swap involves transactions in which the investor acquires a bond position and then enters into an interest rate swap with the bank that sold them the bond. The investor pays fixed and receives floating. This transforms the fixed coupon of the bond into a LIBOR-based floating coupon.



It is widely used by banks to convert their long-term fixed rate assets to a floating rate in order to match their short-term liabilities (depositor accounts).



Another use is to insure against loss due to credit risk, such as default or bankruptcy, of the bond's issuer. Here, the swap buyer is also buying protection.


   The Process of an Asset Swap   

Whether the swap is to hedge interest rate risk or default risk, there are two separate trades that occur.



First, the swap buyer purchases a bond from the swap seller in return for a full price of par plus accrued interest (called the dirty price).



Next, the two parties create a contract where the buyer agrees to pay fixed coupons to the swap seller equal to the fixed rate coupons received from the bond. In return, the swap buyer receives variable rate payments of LIBOR plus (or minus) an agreed-upon fixed spread. The maturity of this swap is the same as the maturity of the asset.



The mechanics are the same for the swap buyer wishing to hedge default or some other event risk. Here, the swap buyer is essentially buying protection and the swap seller is also selling that protection.



As before, the swap seller (protection seller) will agree to pay the swap buyer (protection buyer) LIBOR plus (or minus) a spread in return for the cash flows of the risky bond (the bond itself does not change hands). In the event of default, the swap buyer will continue to receive LIBOR plus (or minus) the spread from the swap seller. In this way, the swap buyer has transformed its original risk profile by changing both its interest rate and credit risk exposure.






Due to recent scandals and questions around its validity as a benchmark rate, LIBOR is being phased out. According to the Federal Reserve and regulators in the U.K., LIBOR will be phased out by June 30, 2023, and will be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). As part of this phase-out, LIBOR one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates will no longer be published after Dec. 31, 2021. 


   How Is the Spread of an Asset Swap Calculated?  

There are two components used in calculating the spread for an asset swap. The first one is the value of coupons of underlying assets minus par swap rates. The second component is a comparison between bond prices and par values to determine the price that the investor has to pay over the lifetime of the swap. The difference between these two components is the asset swap spread paid by the protection seller to the swap buyer.


   Example of an Asset Swap  

Suppose an investor buys a bond at a dirty price of 110% and wants to hedge the risk of a default by the bond issuer. She contacts a bank for an asset swap. The bond's fixed coupons are 6% of par value. The swap rate is 5%. Assume that the investor has to pay 0.5% price premium during the swap's lifetime. Then the asset swap spread is 0.5% (6 - 5 - 0.5). Hence the bank pays the investor LIBOR rates plus 0.5% during the swap's lifetime.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Asset Swapped Convertible Option Transaction (ASCOT)?  

An asset swapped convertible option transaction (ASCOT) is a structured investment strategy in which an option on a convertible bond is used to separate a convertible bond into its two components: a fixed income piece and an equity piece. More specifically, the components being separated are the corporate bond with its regular coupon payments and the equity option that functions as a call option.



The ASCOT structure allows an investor to gain exposure to the option within the convertible without taking on the credit risk represented by the bond part of the asset. It is also used by convertible arbitrage traders seeking to profit from apparent mis-pricings between these two components.





Key Takeaways

An asset swapped convertible option transaction, or ASCOT, is a way to separate the fixed-income and equity components from a convertible bond.An ASCOT is constructed by selling an American call option on the stock of the convertible bond issuer at a strike price that accounts for the cost of unwinding the strategy.ASCOTs let investors remove the credit risk from convertibles and provides opportunities for convertible arbitrage strategies.


   Understanding Asset Swapped Convertible Option Transactions  

ASCOTs are complex instruments that allow parties to take the role of equity investor and credit risk buyer/bond investor in what was initially sold as a combined instrument — the convertible bond itself.



An asset swapped convertible option transaction is done by writing (selling) an American option on the convertible bond. This essentially creates a compound option, as the convertible bond already comes with an embedded equity call option itself due to the conversion feature. The American option can be exercised by the holder at any time, but the strike price paid must include all the costs of unwinding the asset swap.


   How an ASCOT Works  

Convertible bond traders are exposed to two types of risk. One is the credit risk inherent in the bond portion of the investment. The other is the market volatility on the share price of the underlying, as it impacts whether or not the conversion option has any value.



For our purposes, let's assume the convertible bond trader wants to focus on the equity angle of their convertible bond portfolio. To do this, the trader sells the convertible bond to an investment bank, which will be the intermediary in the transaction.



The investment bank structures the ASCOT by writing a call option on the convertible portion of the bond and selling it back to the convertible bond trader. The bond portion of the convertible bond with its payments is then sold to a different party who is prepared to take on the credit risk in return for the fixed returns. The bond component may be broken down into smaller denomination bonds and sold to multiple investors.


   ACOTS and Convertible Arbitrage  

When a convertible bond is stripped of its credit risk through an asset swap, the option holder is left with a volatile — but potentially very valuable — option. ASCOTs, specifically the equity portion, are bought and sold by hedge funds employing convertible arbitrage strategies. Hedge funds are able to easily increase their portfolios' leverage because of the nature of the compound option within an ASCOT, leaving the less lucrative bond side and its credit risk out of the equation.
What Is the Asset Turnover Ratio?  

The asset turnover ratio measures the value of a company's sales or revenues relative to the value of its assets. The asset turnover ratio can be used as an indicator of the efficiency with which a company is using its assets to generate revenue.



The higher the asset turnover ratio, the more efficient a company is at generating revenue from its assets. Conversely, if a company has a low asset turnover ratio, it indicates it is not efficiently using its assets to generate sales.





Key Takeaways

Asset turnover is the ratio of total sales or revenue to average assets.This metric helps investors understand how effectively companies are using their assets to generate sales.Investors use the asset turnover ratio to compare similar companies in the same sector or group.A company's asset turnover ratio can be impacted by large asset sales as well as significant asset purchases in a given year.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Formula and Calculation of the Asset Turnover Ratio  

Below are the steps as well as the formula for calculating the asset turnover ratio.



﻿















Asset Turnover


=




Total Sales






Beginning Assets


 


+


 


Ending Assets




2




















where:
















Total Sales


=


Annual sales total
















Beginning Assets


=


Assets at start of year
















Ending Assets


=


Assets at end of year








\begin{aligned} &\text{Asset Turnover} = \frac{ \text{Total Sales} }{ \frac { \text{Beginning Assets}\ +\ \text{Ending Assets} }{ 2 } } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Total Sales} = \text{Annual sales total} \\ &\text{Beginning Assets} = \text{Assets at start of year} \\ &\text{Ending Assets} = \text{Assets at end of year} \\ \end{aligned}


​Asset Turnover=2Beginning Assets + Ending Assets​Total Sales​where:Total Sales=Annual sales totalBeginning Assets=Assets at start of yearEnding Assets=Assets at end of year​﻿



The asset turnover ratio uses the value of a company's assets in the denominator of the formula. To determine the value of a company's assets, the average value of the assets for the year needs to first be calculated.



Locate the value of the company's assets on the balance sheet as of the start of the year.Locate the ending balance or value of the company's assets at the end of the year.Add the beginning asset value to the ending value and divide the sum by two, which will provide an average value of the assets for the year.Locate total sales—it could be listed as revenue—on the income statement.Divide total sales or revenue by the average value of the assets for the year.


   What the Asset Turnover Ratio Can Tell You  

Typically, the asset turnover ratio is calculated on an annual basis. The higher the asset turnover ratio, the better the company is performing, since higher ratios imply that the company is generating more revenue per dollar of assets.



The asset turnover ratio tends to be higher for companies in certain sectors than in others. Retail and consumer staples, for example, have relatively small asset bases but have high sales volume—thus, they have the highest average asset turnover ratio. Conversely, firms in sectors such as utilities and real estate have large asset bases and low asset turnover.



Since this ratio can vary widely from one industry to the next, comparing the asset turnover ratios of a retail company and a telecommunications company would not be very productive. Comparisons are only meaningful when they are made for different companies within the same sector.


   Example of How to Use the Asset Turnover Ratio  

Let's calculate the asset turnover ratio for four companies in the retail and telecommunication-utilities sectors for FY 2020—Walmart Inc. (WMT), Target Corporation (TGT), AT&T Inc. (T), and Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ).












Asset Turnover Examples


($ Millions) 
 Walmart
Target
AT&T
Verizon




Beginning Assets
219,295
 42,779
551,669
291,727


Ending Assets
236,495
 51,248
525,761
316,481


Avg. Total Assets
227,895
47,014
538,715
304,104


Revenue
524,000
93,561
171,760
128,292


Asset Turnover
2.3x
2.0x
0.32x
0.42x



Asset Turnover Examples



AT&T and Verizon have asset turnover ratios of less than one, which is typical for firms in the telecommunications-utilities sector. Since these companies have large asset bases, it is expected that they would slowly turn over their assets through sales.



Clearly, it would not make sense to compare the asset turnover ratios for Walmart and AT&T, since they operate in very different industries. But comparing the relative asset turnover ratios for AT&T compared with Verizon may provide a better estimate of which company is using assets more efficiently in that industry. From the table, Verizon turns over its assets at a faster rate than AT&T.



For every dollar in assets, Walmart generated $2.30 in sales, while Target generated $2.00. Target's turnover could indicate that the retail company was experiencing sluggish sales or holding obsolete inventory.



Furthermore, its low turnover may also mean that the company has lax collection methods. The firm's collection period may be too long, leading to higher accounts receivable. Target, Inc. could also not be using its assets efficiently: fixed assets such as property or equipment could be sitting idle or not being utilized to their full capacity.


   Using the Asset Turnover Ratio With DuPont Analysis  

The asset turnover ratio is a key component of DuPont analysis, a system that the DuPont Corporation began using during the 1920s to evaluate performance across corporate divisions. The first step of DuPont analysis breaks down return on equity (ROE) into three components, one of which is asset turnover, the other two being profit margin, and financial leverage. The first step of DuPont analysis can be illustrated as follows:



﻿















ROE


=






(




Net Income




Revenue




)




⎵



Profit Margin



×






(




Revenue




AA




)




⎵



Asset Turnover



×






(




AA




AE




)




⎵



Financial Leverage

















where:
















AA


=


Average assets
















AE


=


Average equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{ROE} = \underbrace{ \left ( \frac{ \text{Net Income} }{ \text{Revenue} } \right ) }_\text{Profit Margin} \times \underbrace{ \left ( \frac{ \text{Revenue} }{ \text{AA} } \right ) }_\text{Asset Turnover} \times \underbrace{ \left ( \frac{ \text{AA} }{ \text{AE} } \right ) }_\text{Financial Leverage} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{AA} = \text{Average assets} \\ &\text{AE} = \text{Average equity} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROE=Profit Margin(RevenueNet Income​)​​×Asset Turnover(AARevenue​)​​×Financial Leverage(AEAA​)​​where:AA=Average assetsAE=Average equity​﻿



Sometimes, investors and analysts are more interested in measuring how quickly a company turns its fixed assets or current assets into sales. In these cases, the analyst can use specific ratios, such as the fixed-asset turnover ratio or the working capital ratio to calculate the efficiency of these asset classes. The working capital ratio measures how well a company uses its financing from working capital to generate sales or revenue.


   The Difference Between Asset Turnover and Fixed Asset Turnover  

While the asset turnover ratio considers average total assets in the denominator, the fixed asset turnover ratio looks at only fixed assets. The fixed asset turnover ratio (FAT) is, in general, used by analysts to measure operating performance. This efficiency ratio compares net sales (income statement) to fixed assets (balance sheet) and measures a company's ability to generate net sales from its fixed-asset investments, namely property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).



The fixed asset balance is a used net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is the allocation of the cost of a fixed asset, which is spread out—or expensed—each year throughout the asset's useful life. Typically, a higher fixed asset turnover ratio indicates that a company has more effectively utilized its investment in fixed assets to generate revenue.


   Limitations of Using the Asset Turnover Ratio  

While the asset turnover ratio should be used to compare stocks that are similar, the metric does not provide all of the detail that would be helpful for stock analysis. It is possible that a company's asset turnover ratio in any single year differs substantially from previous or subsequent years. Investors should review the trend in the asset turnover ratio over time to determine whether asset usage is improving or deteriorating.



The asset turnover ratio may be artificially deflated when a company makes large asset purchases in anticipation of higher growth. Likewise, selling off assets to prepare for declining growth will artificially inflate the ratio. Also, many other factors (such as seasonality) can affect a company's asset turnover ratio during periods shorter than a year.




What Is Asset Turnover Measuring?
The asset turnover ratio measures the efficiency of a company's assets in generating revenue or sales. It compares the dollar amount of sales (revenues) to its total assets as an annualized percentage. Thus, to calculate the asset turnover ratio, divide net sales or revenue by the average total assets. One variation on this metric considers only a company's fixed assets (the FAT ratio) instead of total assets.




Is It Better to Have a High or Low Asset Turnover?
Generally, a higher ratio is favored because it implies that the company is efficient in generating sales or revenues from its asset base. A lower ratio indicates that a company is not using its assets efficiently and may have internal problems.




What Is a Good Asset Turnover Value?
Asset turnover ratios vary across different industry sectors, so only the ratios of companies that are in the same sector should be compared. For example, retail or service sector companies have relatively small asset bases combined with high sales volume. This leads to a high average asset turnover ratio. Meanwhile, firms in sectors like utilities or manufacturing tend to have large asset bases, which translates to lower asset turnover.




How Can a Company Improve Its Asset Turnover Ratio?
A company may attempt to raise a low asset turnover ratio by stocking its shelves with highly salable items, replenishing inventory only when necessary, and augmenting its hours of operation to increase customer foot traffic and spike sales. Just-in-time (JIT) inventory management, for instance, is a system whereby a firm receives inputs as close as possible to when they are actually needed. So, if a car assembly plant needs to install airbags, it does not keep a stock of airbags on its shelves, but receives them as those cars come onto the assembly line.




Can Asset Turnover Be Gamed by a Company?
Like many other accounting figures, a company's management can attempt to make its efficiency seem better on paper than it actually is. Selling off assets to prepare for declining growth, for instance, has the effect of artificially inflating the ratio. Changing depreciation methods for fixed assets can have a similar effect as it will change the accounting value of the firm's assets.


   The Bottom Line  

The asset turnover ratio is a metric that compares revenues to assets. A high asset turnover ratio indicates a company that is exceptionally effective at extracting a high level of revenue from a relatively low number of assets. As with other business metrics, the asset turnover ratio is most effective when used to compare different companies in the same industry.
What is Asset Valuation?  

Asset valuation is the process of determining the fair market or present value of assets, using book values, absolute valuation models like discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models or comparables. Such assets include investments in marketable securities such as stocks, bonds and options; tangible assets like buildings and equipment; or intangible assets such as brands, patents and trademarks.


   Understanding Asset Valuation  

Asset valuation plays a key role in finance and often consists of both subjective and objective measurements. The value of a company's fixed assets – which are also known as capital assets or property plant and equipment – are straightforward to value, based on their book values and replacement costs. However, there's no number on the financial statements that tell investors exactly how much a company's brand and intellectual property are worth. Companies can overvalue goodwill in an acquisition as the valuation of intangible assets is subjective and can be difficult to measure.





Key Takeaways

Asset valuation is the process of determining the fair market value of an asset.Asset valuation often consists of both subjective and objective measurements.Net asset value is the book value of tangible assets, less intangible assets and liabilities.Absolute value models value assets based only on the characteristics of that asset, such as discounted dividend, discounted free cash flow, residential income and discounted asset models.Relative valuation ratios, such as the P/E ratio, help investors determine asset valuation by comparing similar assets.


   Net Asset Value  

The net asset value – also known as net tangible assets – is the book value of tangible assets on the balance sheet (their historical cost minus the accumulated depreciation) less intangible assets and liabilities – or the money that would be left over if the company was liquidated. This is the minimum a company is worth and can provide a useful floor for a company's asset value because it excludes intangible assets. A stock would be considered undervalued if its market value were below book value, which means the stock is trading at a deep discount to book value per share.



However, the market value for an asset is likely to differ significantly from book value – or shareholders’ equity – which is based on historical cost. And some companies’ greatest value is in their intangible assets, like the findings of a biomedical research company.


   Absolute Valuation Methods  

Absolute value models value assets based only on the characteristics of that asset. These models are known as discounted cash flow (DCF) models, and value assets like stocks, bonds and real estate, based on their future cash flows and the opportunity cost of capital. They include:



Discounted dividend models, which value a stock's price by discounting predicted dividends to the present value. If the value obtained from the DDM is higher than the current trading price of shares, then the stock is undervalued.
Discounted free cash flow models calculate the present value of future free cash flow projections, discounted by the weighted average cost of capital.
Residual income valuation models consider all the cash flows that accrue to the firm post the payment to suppliers and other outside parties. The value of the company is the sum of book value and the present value of expected future residual income. Residual income is calculated as net income less a charge for the cost of capital. The charge is known as the equity charge and is calculated as the value of equity capital multiplied by the cost of equity or the required rate of return on equity. Given the opportunity cost of equity, a company can have positive net income but negative residual income.
Discounted asset models value a company by calculating the present market value of the assets it owns. As this method does not take into account any synergies, it's only useful for valuing commodity businesses like mining companies.


   Relative Valuation & Comparable Transactions  

Relative valuation models determine the value based on the observation of market prices of similar assets. For example, one way of determining the value of a property is to compare it with similar properties in the same area. Likewise, investors use the price multiples comparable public companies trade at to get an idea of relative market valuations. Stocks are often valued based on comparable valuation metrics such as the price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio), price-to-book ratio or the price-to-cash flow ratio.



This method is also used to value illiquid assets like private companies with no market price. Venture capitalists refer to valuing a company's stock before it goes public as pre-money valuation. By looking at the amounts paid for similar companies in past transactions, investors get an indication of an unlisted company's potential value. This is called precedent transaction analysis.


   Real World Example of Asset Valuation  

Let’s work out net asset value for Alphabet Inc. (GOOG), the parent company of search engine and advertising giant Google.



All figures are for the period ending Dec. 31, 2018.



Total assets: $232.8 billionTotal intangible assets: $2.2 billionTotal liabilities: $55.2 billion



Total net asset value: $175.4 billion (total assets $232.8 billion – total intangible assets $2.2 billion – total liabilities $55.2 billion)
What Are Assets Under Management (AUM)?  

Assets under management (AUM) is the market value of the investments managed by a person or entity on behalf of clients. AUM is used in conjunction with management performance and management experience when evaluating a company.



When calculating AUM, some financial institutions include bank deposits, mutual funds, and cash, while others limit it to funds under discretionary management from individual investors.





Key Takeaways

Assets under management (AUM) is the total market value of the investments managed by a person or entity on behalf of investors.AUM fluctuates to reflect the flow of money in and out of a fund and the price performance of the assets.A fund's management fees and expenses are often calculated as a percentage of AUM.






   Understanding Assets Under Management (AUM)  

AUM is the sum of the market value for all of the investments managed by a fund or family of funds, a venture capital firm, a brokerage company, or an individual registered as an investment advisor or portfolio manager. When an investor has $50,000 in a mutual fund, those funds are part of the total AUM of the pool of funds. The fund manager can buy and sell shares according to the investment objective using all invested funds without obtaining special permissions.



AUM includes the capital the manager can use to make transactions for one or all clients. An investor may need a minimum amount of personal AUM to qualify for a type of investment, such as a hedge fund, to ensure the client can withstand adverse markets. An investor’s AUM may coincide with their net worth and may determine the type of services received from a financial advisor or brokerage company.






Investors often consider higher investment inflows and higher AUM of a financial institution as positive indicators of quality and management experience.


   Calculating AUM  

Calculating assets under management varies among companies and depends on the flow of investor money in and out of a fund. Asset performance, capital appreciation, and reinvested dividends increase the AUM of a fund. Assets under management also increase when new customers and their assets are acquired. A decrease in AUM occurs following losses in the market value or performance of assets, fund closures, and decreased investor in-flows.



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires firms to register with the SEC with AUM ranging between $25 million to $110 million, depending on several factors, including the size and location of the firm. The SEC regulates the financial markets to ensure that it functions properly.


   AUM and Fees  

AUM is a consideration when calculating fees. Many investment products charge management fees as a fixed percentage of AUM. Financial advisors and personal money managers charge clients a fee as a percentage of personal assets under management. Fees commonly decrease as AUM increases, and financial professionals can attract high-wealth investors.


   AUM Examples  
  SPY  

The SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) is an exchange-traded fund. An ETF is a fund that contains several stocks or securities that match or mirror an index, such as the S&P 500. The SPY has all 500 of the stocks in the S&P 500 index. As of June 14, 2023, the SPY had assets under management of $412.25 billion.


  EDOW  

The First Trust Dow 30 Equal Weight ETF (EDOW) tracks the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). As of June 14, 2023, the EDOW had assets under management of $189.58 million.




How Is AUM Used as a Tool by Investment Companies?
Investment companies use assets under management as a marketing tool to attract new investors. AUM helps investors determine the size of a company's operations relative to its competitors.




What Does AUM Tell Potential Investors?
When evaluating a specific fund, investors often look at its AUM as an indication of the size of the fund. Typically, investment products with high AUMs have higher market trading volumes making them more liquid, meaning investors can buy and sell the fund easily.




What Is the Benefit of a Fund With a Large AUM?
Funds with large AUMs have sufficient holdings to meet any redemption pressure. If a few large investors leave the fund, it would not likely impact it.


   The Bottom Line  

Assets under management (AUM) is the market value of the investments managed by a person or entity on behalf of clients. AUM can reveal the management performance and experience when investors evaluate a company or investment. The SEC regulates firms with large AUMs to protect investors.
What Is an Assignment?  

Assignment most often refers to one of two definitions in the financial world:



The transfer of an individual's rights or property to another person or business. This concept exists in a variety of business transactions and is often spelled out contractually.
In trading, assignment occurs when an option contract is exercised. The owner of the contract exercises the contract and assigns the option writer to an obligation to complete the requirements of the contract.





Key Takeaways

Assignment is a transfer of rights or property from one party to another.Options assignments occur when option buyers exercise their rights to a position in a security.Other examples of assignments can be found in wages, mortgages, and leases.


   Property Rights Assignment  

Assignment refers to the transfer of some or all property rights and obligations associated with an asset, property, contract, etc. to another entity through a written agreement. For example, a payee assigns rights for collecting note payments to a bank. A trademark owner transfers, sells, or gives another person interest in the trademark. A homeowner who sells their house assigns the deed to the new buyer.



To be effective, an assignment must involve parties with legal capacity, consideration, consent, and legality of object.


  Examples  

A wage assignment is a forced payment of an obligation by automatic withholding from an employee’s pay. Courts issue wage assignments for people late with child or spousal support, taxes, loans, or other obligations. Money is automatically subtracted from a worker's paycheck without consent if they have a history of nonpayment. For example, a person delinquent on $100 monthly loan payments has a wage assignment deducting the money from their paycheck and sent to the lender. Wage assignments are helpful in paying back long-term debts.



Another instance can be found in a mortgage assignment. This is where a mortgage deed gives a lender interest in a mortgaged property in return for payments received. Lenders often sell mortgages to third parties, such as other lenders. A mortgage assignment document clarifies the assignment of contract and instructs the borrower in making future mortgage payments, and potentially modifies the mortgage terms.



A final example involves a lease assignment. This benefits a relocating tenant wanting to end a lease early or a landlord looking for rent payments to pay creditors. Once the new tenant signs the lease, taking over responsibility for rent payments and other obligations, the previous tenant is released from those responsibilities. In a separate lease assignment, a landlord agrees to pay a creditor through an assignment of rent due under rental property leases. The agreement is used to pay a mortgage lender if the landlord defaults on the loan or files for bankruptcy. Any rental income would then be paid directly to the lender.


   Options Assignment  

Options can be assigned when a buyer decides to exercise their right to buy (or sell) stock at a particular strike price. The corresponding seller of the option is not determined when a buyer opens an option trade, but only at the time that an option holder decides to exercise their right to buy stock. So an option seller with open positions is matched with the exercising buyer via automated lottery. The randomly selected seller is then assigned to fulfill the buyer's rights. This is known as an option assignment.



Once assigned, the writer (seller) of the option will have the obligation to sell (if a call option) or buy (if a put option) the designated number of shares of stock at the agreed-upon price (the strike price). For instance, if the writer sold calls they would be obligated to sell the stock, and the process is often referred to as having the stock called away. For puts, the buyer of the option sells stock (puts stock shares) to the writer in the form of a short-sold position.


  Example  

Suppose a trader owns 100 call options on company ABC's stock with a strike price of $10 per share. The stock is now trading at $30 and ABC is due to pay a dividend shortly. As a result, the trader exercises the options early and receives 10,000 shares of ABC paid at $10. At the same time, the other side of the long call (the short call) is assigned the contract and must deliver the shares to the long.
What Is an Assortment Strategy?  

An assortment strategy in retailing involves the number and type of products that stores display for purchase by consumers. Also called a "product assortment strategy," it is a strategic tool that retailers use to manage and increase sales. The strategy is made up of two major components:



The depth of products offered, or how many variations of a particular product a store carries (e.g. how many sizes or flavors of the same product).The width (breadth) of the product variety, or how many different types of products a store carries.





Key Takeaways

An assortment strategy is a strategic retail industry sales tool that optimizes the variety of goods offered for sale.This strategy is centered around the concepts of "a deep assortment" and "a wide variety."Product assortment strategies got their start in the context of brick-and-mortar stores, but have since been carried over successfully to e-commerce platforms.


   How Assortment Strategies Work  

Essentially, a product assortment strategy is a retail industry sales tool with the concepts of depth and breadth at its core. However, not all retailers will be able to use both components of this strategy at the same time.



An assortment strategy can have many layers of sub- and related strategies, as each store will need to tailor the strategy to address its own particular needs and goals.



A deep assortment—the opposite of a narrow assortment—of products means that a retailer carries a number of variations of a single product. A wide variety—the opposite of a narrow variety—of products means that a retailer carries a large number of different kinds of products.






An assortment strategy is not one-size-fits-all; it needs to be customized to respond to a business's parameters.


  A Challenge for Small Stores  

Retailers face a trade-off when determining an assortment strategy. Choosing both a wide variety and a deep assortment of products simultaneously requires a large amount of space, and is typically reserved for big-box retailers.



Stores with smaller spaces may choose to specialize in a certain type of product and offer customers a variety of colors and styles; other stores may offer a deep assortment of products but a narrow variety—one reason why a 7-Eleven (private since 2005) might carry just one brand of canned cat food, for example, while a Kroger (NYSE: KR) likely would have the space to stock 12 brands of canned cat food, if it chose to.


  A Brick-and-Mortar Term  

Originally, assortment strategy referred only to brick-and-mortar stores because the strategy's components of depth and breadth had a lot to do with physical space and the visual and tactile interaction between consumer and product. Recently, though, all sales venues—brick-and-mortar, click and mortar, and e-tailing—have used varieties of the strategy to gain competitive advantage.


  Adjusting for Demographics  

By grouping together items that they believe will appeal to certain types of customers, retailers may fine-tune their assortment strategies to target consumers' demographic profiles. If a retailer wants to attract customers who are new parents, for example, it might fill the shelves with infant apparel from trendy brands, along with toys, bedding, and other products new parents need.


   A Strategic Selling Tool  

A strategically arranged product assortment can upsell customers on supplemental items as they search for the item that brought them to the store.



Grouping related items together strategically, whether or not they are necessities, is a common way to stimulate impulse buying:



By placing garden hoses near sprinklers and other lawn-care products, a retailer might drive more into a customer’s basket. Likewise, installing a luxurious patio dining set—complete with attractive outdoor dishware and bar accessories—in the middle of the more prosaic yard-care products could even send some customers scurrying to the housewares section of the store.A presentation of flashlights—or any battery-driven product—could include a nearby display of the batteries needed to use the product. Or a manager could locate the batteries near the check-out counter to remind customers before they leave the store that the flashlight won't work without batteries.


   Potential Disadvantages of Assortment Strategies  

Although the depth of product assortment may help attract customers, there are certain caveats to relying only on an assortment strategy. If items in an assortment are placed incorrectly, the demand for these products may vary drastically.



If less-popular items are mixed in with popular items, for example, they could detract from the more-popular items' appeal. Or, if the assortment is too vast, customers may have difficulty finding the item they are seeking. Overwhelming shoppers with too many buying options can be counterproductive and discourage customer engagement.
What Is an Assumable Mortgage?  

An assumable mortgage is a type of financing arrangement whereby an outstanding mortgage and its terms are transferred from the current owner to a buyer. By assuming the previous owner's remaining debt, the buyer can avoid obtaining their own mortgage. Different types of loans can qualify as assumable mortgages, though there are some special considerations to keep in mind.





Key Takeaways

An assumable mortgage is an arrangement in which an outstanding mortgage and its terms can be transferred from the current owner to a buyer.When interest rates rise, an assumable mortgage is attractive to a buyer who takes on an existing loan with a lower rate.USDA, FHA, and VA loans are assumable when certain criteria are met.The buyer need not be a military member to assume a VA loan.Buyers must still qualify for the mortgage to assume it.


   Understanding Assumable Mortgages  

Many homebuyers typically take out a mortgage from a lending institution to finance the purchase of a home or property. The contractual agreement for repaying the loan includes the interest that the borrower must pay, as well as the principal repayments to the lender.



If the homeowner decides to sell their home later, they may be able to transfer their mortgage to the homebuyer. In this case, the original mortgage taken out is assumable.



An assumable mortgage allows a homebuyer to assume the current principal balance, interest rate, repayment period, and any other contractual terms of the seller's mortgage. Rather than going through the rigorous process of obtaining a home loan from the bank, a buyer can take over an existing mortgage.



There could be a cost-saving advantage if current interest rates are higher than the interest rate on the assumable loan. In a period of rising interest rates, the cost of borrowing also increases. When this happens, borrowers will face high interest rates on any loans approved. Therefore, an assumable mortgage is likely to have a lower interest rate, an attractive feature to buyers. If the assumable mortgage has a locked-in interest rate, it will not be impacted by rising interest rates. A mortgage calculator can be a good resource to budget for the monthly cost of your payment.










An assumable mortgage is attractive to buyers when the existing mortgage rate is lower than current market rates.


   What Types of Loans Are Assumable?  

Some of the most popular types of mortgages are assumable: Federal Housing Authority (FHA), Veterans Affairs (VA), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Buyers who wish to assume a mortgage from a seller must meet specific requirements and receive approval from the agency sponsoring the mortgage.


  FHA Loans  

FHA loans are assumable when both transacting parties meet the requirements for the assumption. For instance, the property must be used by the seller as their primary residence. Buyers must first verify that the FHA loan is assumable and then apply as they would for an individual FHA loan. The seller's lender will verify that the buyer meets the qualifications, including being creditworthy. If approved, the mortgage will be assumed by the buyer. However, unless the seller is released from the loan, they are still responsible for it.


  VA Loans  

The Department of Veterans Affairs offers mortgages to qualified military members and spouses of military members. However, to assume a VA loan, the buyer need not be a member of the military to qualify. Although, the lender and the regional VA loan office will need to approve the buyer for the loan assumption, and most often, buyers who assume VA loans are military members.



For loans initiated before March 1, 1988, buyers may freely assume the VA loan. In other words, the buyer does not need the approval of the VA or the lender to assume the mortgage.


  USDA Loans  

USDA loans are offered to buyers of rural properties. They require no down payment and often have low interest rates. To assume a USDA loan, the buyer must meet the standard qualifications, such as meeting credit and income requirements, and receive approval from the USDA to transfer title. The buyer may assume the existing rate of interest and loan terms or new rates and terms. Even if the buyer meets all requirements and received approval, the mortgage cannot be assumed if the seller is delinquent on payments.





Important

Conventional loans backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are generally not assumable, though exceptions may be allowed for adjustable-rate mortgages. Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Assumable Mortgages  

The advantages of acquiring an assumable mortgage in a high-interest rate environment are limited to the amount of existing mortgage balance on the loan or the home equity. For example, if a buyer is purchasing a home for $250,000 and the seller's assumable mortgage only has a balance of $110,000, the buyer will need to make a down payment of $140,000 to cover the difference. Or the buyer will need a separate mortgage to secure the additional funds.



A disadvantage is when the home's purchase price exceeds the mortgage balance by a significant amount, requiring the buyer to obtain a new mortgage. Depending on the buyer's credit profile and current rates, the interest rate may be considerably higher than the assumed loan.



Usually, a buyer will take out a second mortgage on the existing mortgage balance if the seller’s home equity is high. The buyer may have to take out the second loan with a different lender from the seller’s lender, which could pose a problem if both lenders do not cooperate with each other. Also, having two loans increases the risk of default, especially when one has a higher interest rate.



If the seller’s home equity is low, however, the assumable mortgage may be an attractive acquisition for the buyer. If the value of the home is $250,000 and the assumable mortgage balance is $210,000, the buyer need only put up $40,000. If the buyer has this amount in cash, they can pay the seller directly without having to secure another credit line.





Pros

Buyers may get rates lower than current market rates
Buyers may not have to secure new lines of credit
Buyers do not have large out-of-pocket costs when the equity is low



Cons

Buyers may need substantial down payments when the equity is high
Lenders may not cooperate when a second mortgage is needed
With two mortgages, the risk of default increases





   Assumable Mortgage Transfer Approval  

The final decision over whether an assumable mortgage can be transferred is not left to the buyer and seller. The lender of the original mortgage must approve the mortgage assumption before the deal can be signed off on by either party. The homebuyer must apply for the assumable loan and meet the lender’s requirements, such as having sufficient assets and being creditworthy.






A seller is still responsible for any debt payments if the mortgage is assumed by a third party unless the lender approves a release request releasing the seller of all liabilities from the loan.



If approved, the title of the property is transferred to the buyer who makes the required monthly repayments to the bank. If the transfer is not approved by the lender, the seller must find another buyer that is willing to assume his mortgage and has good credit.



A mortgage that has been assumed by a third party does not mean that the seller is relieved of the debt payment. The seller may be held liable for any defaults which, in turn, could affect their credit rating. To avoid this, the seller must release their liability in writing at the time of assumption, and the lender must approve the release request releasing the seller of all liabilities from the loan.




What Does Assumable Mean?
Assumable refers to when one party takes over the obligation of another. In terms of an assumable mortgage, the buyer assumes the existing mortgage of the seller. When the mortgage is assumed, the seller is often no longer responsible for the debt.




What Does Not Assumable Mean?
Not assumable means that the buyer cannot assume the existing mortgage from the seller. Conventional loans are non-assumable. Some mortgages have non-assumable clauses, preventing buyers from assuming mortgages from the seller.




How Does An Assumable Loan Work?
To assume a loan, the buyer must qualify with the lender. If the price of the house exceeds the remaining mortgage, the buyer must remit a down payment that is the difference between the sale price and the mortgage. If the difference is substantial, the buyer may need to secure a second mortgage.




How Do I Know If My Mortgage Is Assumable?
There are certain types of loans that are assumable. For example, USDA, VA, and FHA loans are assumable. Each agency has specific requirements that both parties must fulfill for the loan to be assumed by the buyer. The USDA requires that the house is in a USDA-approved area, the seller must not be delinquent on payments, and the buyer must meet certain income and credit limits. The buyer should first confirm with the seller and the seller's lender if the loan is assumable.




Is an Assumable Mortgage Good?
When current interest rates are higher than an existing mortgage's rates, assuming a loan may be the favorable option. Also, there are not as many costs due at closing. On the other side, if the seller has a considerable amount of equity in the home, the buyer will either have to pay a large down payment or secure a second mortgage for the balance not covered by the existing mortgage.


   The Bottom Line  

An assumable mortgage may be attractive to buyers when current mortgage rates are high and because closing costs are considerably lower than those associated with traditional mortgages. However, if the owner has a lot of equity in the home, the buyer may need to pay a substantial down payment or secure a new loan for the difference in the sale price and the existing mortgage. Also, not all loans are assumable, and if so, the buyer must still qualify with the agency and lender. If the benefits outweigh the risks, an assumable mortgage might be the best option for homeownership.
What Is Assurance?  

Assurance refers to financial coverage that provides remuneration for an event that is certain to happen. Assurance is similar to insurance, with the terms often used interchangeably. However, insurance refers to coverage over a limited time, whereas assurance applies to persistent coverage for extended periods or until death. Assurance may also apply to validation services provided by accountants and other professionals.





Key Takeaways

Assurance refers to financial coverage that provides remuneration for an event that is certain to happen.Unlike insurance, which covers hazards over a specific policy term, assurance is permanent coverage over extended periods, often up to the insured's death such as with whole life insurance.Assurance can also refer to professional services provided by accountants, lawyers, and other professionals, known collectively as assurance services.Assurance services can help companies mitigate risks and identify problematic areas.Negative assurance assumes accuracy in the absence of negative findings.


   How Assurance Works  

One of the best examples of assurance is whole life insurance as opposed to term life insurance. In the U.K., "life assurance" is another name for life insurance. The adverse event that both whole life and term life insurance deal with is the death of the person the policy covers. Since the death of the covered person is certain, a life assurance policy (whole life insurance) results in payment to the beneficiary when the policyholder dies. 



A term life insurance policy, however, covers a fixed period—such as 10, 20, or 30 years—from the policy's purchase date. If the policyholder dies during that time, the beneficiary receives money, but if the policyholder dies after the term, no benefit is received. The assurance policy covers an event that will happen no matter what, while the insurance policy covers a covered incident that might occur (the policyholder might die within the next 30 years).


   Types of Assurance  

Assurance can also refer to professional services provided by accountants, lawyers, and other professionals. These professionals assure the integrity and usability of documents and information produced by businesses and other organizations. Assurance in this context helps companies and other institutions manage risk and evaluate potential pitfalls. Audits are one example of assurance provided by such firms for businesses to assure that information provided to shareholders is accurate and impartial.



Assurance services are a type of independent professional service usually provided by certified or chartered accountants, such as certified public accountants (CPAs). Assurance services can include a review of any financial document or transaction, such as a loan, contract, or financial website. This review certifies the correctness and validity of the item being reviewed by the CPA.


   Example of Assurance  

As an example of assurance services, say investors of a publicly-traded company grow suspicious that the company is recognizing revenue too early. Early realization of revenue might lead to positive financial results in upcoming quarters, but it can also lead to worse results in the future.



Under pressure from shareholders, company management agrees to hire an assurance firm to review its accounting procedures and systems to provide a report to shareholders. The summary will assure shareholders and investors that the company's financial statements are accurate and revenue recognition policies are in line with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



The assurance firm reviews the financial statements, interviews accounting department personnel, and speaks with customers and clients. The assurance firm makes sure that the company in question has followed GAAP and assures stakeholders that the company's results are sound.


   Assurance vs. Negative Assurance  

Assurance refers to the high degree of certainty that something is accurate, complete, and usable. Professionals affirm these positive assurances after careful review of the documents and information subject to the audit or review.



Negative assurance refers to the level of certainty that something is accurate because no proof to the contrary is present. In other words, since there is no proof that the information is inaccurate or that deceptive practices (e.g., fraud) occurred, it is presumed to be accurate.






Negative assurance does not mean that there is no wrongdoing in the company or organization; it only means that nothing suspecting or proving wrongdoing was found.



Negative assurance usually follows assurance of the same set of facts and is done to ensure that the first review was appropriate and without falsifications or gross errors. Therefore, the amount of scrutiny is not as intense as the first review because the negative assurance auditor purposefully looks for misstatements, violations, and deception.


   Assurance FAQs  
  What Does Life Assurance Mean?  

Assurance has dual meanings in business. It refers to the coverage that pays a benefit for a covered event that will eventually happen. Assurance also refers to the assurance given by auditing professionals regarding the validity and accuracy of reviewed documents and information. These auditors exercise great care to make these positive assurances.


  What Is an Example of Assurance?  

Whole life insurance is perhaps one of the best-understood examples of assurance. As long as the policy remains in force, this type of insurance guarantees to pay a death benefit at the death of the insured, despite how long that event takes to occur.


  What Is Meant by Assurance in Auditing?  

Assurance in auditing refers to the opinions issued by a professional regarding the accuracy and completeness of what's analyzed. For example, an accountant assuring that financial statements are accurate and valid asserts that they have reviewed the documents using acceptable accounting standards and principles.


  What Is the Difference Between Life Insurance and Assurance?  

Life insurance and life assurance are often used interchangeably and sometimes refer to the same type of contract. However, life insurance is coverage that pays a benefit for the death of the insured if the death occurs during the limited, contractual term. Assurance or life assurance is coverage that pays a benefit upon the death of the insured despite how long it takes for that death to occur.


  What Kind of Company Is an Assurance Company?  

An assurance company could be a life insurance/assurance company providing benefits upon the certain death of the insured, but commonly refers to an accounting or auditing firm providing assurance services to businesses and organizations. These services include complete and intense reviews of documents, transactions, or information. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm and assure the accuracy of what was reviewed.


   The Bottom Line  

Assurance is coverage that pays a benefit upon the eventual occurrence of a certain event. It also refers to a service rendered by a professional to confirm the validity and accuracy of reviewed documents and information. Assurances in auditing can help companies address risks and potential problems affecting the accuracy of their reporting. On the contrary, negative assurance is a less intense review that also provides a form of assurance. Negative assurance asserts that what was reviewed is accurate because nothing contradicting this claim exists.
What Are Assurance Services?  

Assurance services are a type of independent professional service usually provided by certified or chartered accountants such as certified public accountants (CPAs). Assurance services can include a review of any financial document or transaction, such as a loan, contract, or financial website. This review certifies the correctness and validity of the item being reviewed by the CPA.





Key Takeaways

Assurance services are a type of independent professional service usually provided by certified or chartered accountants such as CPAs.Assurance Services are defined as independent professional services that improve the quality or context of information for decision-makers.Information risk is reduced by assurance services, allowing for better decision making.Businesses use assurance services to increase the transparency, relevance, and value of the information they disclose to the market and their investors.Assurance services can be applied to risk assessments, business performance, information systems reliability, e-commerce, and healthcare performance.


   Understanding Assurance Services  

Assurance services are aimed at improving the quality of information for the individuals making decisions. Providing independent assurance is a way to bring comfort that the information on which one makes decisions is reliable, and therefore reduces risks, in this case, information risk.



Providers of assurance services will help clients navigate the complexities, risks, and opportunities in their partner networks by proactively managing and monitoring risks presented by third-party relationships. Businesses use assurance services to increase the transparency, relevance, and value of the information they disclose to the market and their investors. Many find by sharing business performance better, it becomes a sustainable growth and competitive differentiation strategy.



Technical guidance for certified accountants who wish to engage in assurance services can be found in the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and in The Assurance Sourcebook published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) that also includes practical advice for firms choosing among different assurance services.



Certain regulations over the past years have increased the demand for assurance services, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, with the goal of protecting investors from false financial information.


   Types of Assurance Services  

Assurance services can come in a variety of forms and are meant to provide the firm contracting the CPA with pertinent information to ease decision making. For example, the client could request that the CPA carefully go over all of the numbers and math that are on the client's mortgage website to ensure that all of the calculations and equations are correct. Below is a list of the most common assurance services.


  Risk Assessment  

Entities are subjected to greater risks and more precipitous changes in fortune than ever before. Managers and investors are concerned about whether entities have identified the full scope of these risks and taken precautions to mitigate them. This service assures that an entity's profile of business risks is comprehensive and evaluates whether the entity has appropriate systems in place to effectively manage those risks.


  Business Performance Measurement  

Investors and managers demand a more comprehensive information base than just financial statements; they need a "balanced scorecard." This service evaluates whether an entity's performance measurement system contains relevant and reliable measures for assessing the degree to which the entity's goals and objectives are achieved or how its performance compares to its competitors.


  Information Systems Reliability  

Managers and other employees are more dependent on good information than ever and are increasingly demanding it online. It must be right in real-time. The focus must be on systems that are reliable by design, not correcting the data after the fact. This service assesses whether an entity's internal information systems (financial and non-financial) provide reliable information for operating and financial decisions.


  Electronic Commerce  

The growth of electronic commerce has been hindered by a lack of confidence in the systems. This service assesses whether systems and tools used in electronic commerce provide appropriate data integrity, security, privacy, and reliability.


  Healthcare Performance Measurement  

The motivations in the $1 trillion healthcare industry have flipped 180 degrees in the last few years. The old system (fee for service) rewarded those who delivered the most services. The new system (managed care) rewards those who deliver the fewest services.



As a result, healthcare recipients and their employers are increasingly concerned about the quality and availability of healthcare services. This service provides assurance about the effectiveness of healthcare services provided by HMOs, hospitals, doctors, and other providers.
What Is Asymmetric Information?  

Asymmetric information, also known as "information failure," occurs when one party to an economic transaction possesses greater material knowledge than the other party. This typically manifests when the seller of a good or service possesses greater knowledge than the buyer; however, the reverse dynamic is also possible. Almost all economic transactions involve information asymmetries.





Key Takeaways

"Asymmetric information" is a term that refers to when one party in a transaction is in possession of more information than the other.In certain transactions, sellers can take advantage of buyers because asymmetric information exists whereby the seller has more knowledge of the good being sold than the buyer. The reverse can also be true.Asymmetric information is seen as a desired outcome of a healthy market economy in terms of skilled labor, where workers specialize in a trade, becoming more productive, and providing greater value to workers in other trades.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Asymmetric Information  

Asymmetric information exists in certain deals with a seller and a buyer whereby one party is able to take advantage of another. This is usually the case in the sale of an item. For example, if a homeowner wanted to sell their house, they would have more information about the house than the buyer. They might know some floorboards are creaky, the home gets too cold in winter, or that the neighbors are too loud; information that the buyer would not know until after they purchased the house. The buyer, then, might feel they paid too much for the house or would not have purchased it at all if they had this information beforehand.



Asymmetric information can also be viewed as the specialization and division of knowledge, as applied to any economic trade. For example, doctors typically know more about medical practices than their patients. After all, physicians have extensive medical school educational backgrounds that their patients generally don't have. This principle equally applies to architects, teachers, police officers, attorneys, engineers, fitness instructors, and other trained professionals. Asymmetric information, therefore, is most often beneficial to an economy and a society in increasing efficiency.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Asymmetric Information  
  Advantages  

Asymmetric information isn't necessarily a bad thing. In fact, growing asymmetrical information is the desired outcome of a healthy market economy. As workers strive to become increasingly specialized in their chosen fields, they become more productive, and can consequently provide greater value to workers in other fields.



For example, a stockbroker's knowledge is more valuable to a non-investment professional, such as a farmer, who may be interested in confidently trading stocks to prepare for retirement. On the flip side, the stockbroker does not need to know how to grow crops or tend to livestock to feed themself, but rather can purchase the items from a grocery store that are provided by the farmer.



In each of their respective trades, both the farmer and the stockbroker hold superior knowledge over the other, but both benefit from the trade and the division of labor.



One alternative to ever-expanding asymmetric information is for workers to study all fields, rather than specialize in fields where they can provide the most value. However, this is an impractical solution, with high opportunity costs and potentially lower aggregate outputs, which would lower standards of living.


  Disadvantages  

In some circumstances, asymmetric information may have near fraudulent consequences, such as adverse selection, which describes a phenomenon where an insurance company encounters the probability of extreme loss due to a risk that was not divulged at the time of a policy's sale.






In certain asymmetric information models, one party can retaliate for contract breaches, while the other party cannot.



For example, if the insured hides the fact that they're a heavy smoker and frequently engage in dangerous recreational activities, this asymmetrical flow of information constitutes adverse selection and could raise insurance premiums for all customers, forcing the healthy to withdraw. The solution is for life insurance providers to perform thorough actuarial work and conduct detailed health screenings, and then charge different premiums to customers based on their honestly disclosed risk profiles.


   Special Considerations  

To prevent abuse of customers or clients by finance specialists, financial markets often rely on reputation mechanisms. Financial advisors and fund companies that prove to be the most honest and effective stewards of their client's assets tend to gain clients, while dishonest or ineffective agents tend to lose clients, face legal damages, or both.
What Is at Par?  

The term "at par" means at face value. A bond, preferred stock, or other debt instrument may trade at par, below par, or above par.



Par value is static, unlike market value, which fluctuates with credit ratings, time to maturity, and interest rate fluctuations. The par value is assigned at the time the security is issued. When securities were issued in paper form, the par value was printed on the face of the security, hence the term "face value."





Key Takeaways

Par value is the price at which a bond was issued, also known as its face value.A bond's price will then fluctuate based on prevailing interest rates, time to maturity, and credit ratings, causing the bond to trade either at above par or below par."At par" will always refer to the original price that a bond was issued at.The owner of a bond will receive its par value at its maturity date.


   Understanding at Par  

Due to the constant fluctuations of interest rates, bonds and other financial instruments almost never trade exactly at par. A bond will not trade at par if current interest rates are above or below the bond's coupon rate, which is the interest rate that it yields.



A bond that was trading at par would be quoted at 100, meaning that it traded at 100% of its par value. A quote of 99 would mean that it is trading at 99% of its face value.



Par value for common stock exists in an anachronistic form. In its charter, the company promises not to sell its stock at lower than par value. The shares are then issued with a par value of one penny. This has no effect on the stock's actual value in the markets.


   A New Bond  

If, when a company issues a new bond, it receives the face value of the security, the bond is said to have been issued at par. If the issuer receives less than the face value for the security, it is issued at a discount. If the issuer receives more than the face value for the security, it is issued at a premium.



The yield for bonds and the dividend rate for preferred stocks have a material effect on whether new issues of these securities are issued at par, at a discount, or at a premium.



A bond that trades at par has a yield equal to its coupon. Investors expect a return equal to the coupon for the risk of lending to the bond issuer.


   Example of at Par  

If a company issues a bond with a 5% coupon, but prevailing yields for similar bonds are 10%, investors will pay less than par for the bond to compensate for the difference in rates. The bond's value at its maturity plus its yield up to that time must be at least 10% to attract a buyer.



If prevailing yields are lower, say 3%, an investor is willing to pay more than par for that 5% bond. The investor will receive the coupon but have to pay more for it due to the lower prevailing yields.




What Is a Bond's Par Value?
A bond's par value is its face value, the price that it was issued at. Most bonds are issued with a par value of $1,000 or $100. Over time, the bond's price will change, due to changes in interest rates, credit ratings, and time to maturity. When this happens, a bond's price will either be above its par value (above par) or below its par value (below par).




Are Bonds Always Issued at Par Value?
No, bonds are not always issued at par value. They can be issued at a premium (price is higher than the par value) or at a discount (price is below the par value). The reason for a bond being issued at a price that is different than its par value has to do with current market interest rates. For example, if a bond's yield is higher than market rates, then a bond will trade at a premium. Conversely, if a bond's yield is below market rates, then it will trade at a discount to make it more attractive.




What Is a Bond's Coupon Rate?
The coupon rate of a bond is the stated amount of interest that the bond will pay an investor at the time of its issue. A bond's coupon rate is different from a bond's yield. A bond's yield is its effective rate of return when the bond's price changes. A bond's yield is calculated as coupon rate / current bond price.
What Is an Atomic Swap?  

An atomic swap is an exchange of cryptocurrencies from separate blockchains. The swap is conducted between two entities without a third party's involvement. The idea is to remove centralized intermediaries like regulated exchanges and give token owners total control.



The term atomic derives from the term "atomic state" in which a state has no substates; it either happens or it doesn't—there is no other alternative. This refers to the state of the cryptocurrency transaction; it happens or it doesn't.



Most atomic swap-enabled wallets and blockchains use smart contracts. Smart contracts are programs within blockchains that execute when certain conditions are met. In this case, the conditions are that each party agrees to the transaction before a timer runs out. Using a smart contract in the trade prevents either party from stealing a cryptocurrency from the other.



Atomic swaps are also called cross-chain atomic swaps.





Key Takeaways

An atomic swap is a cryptocurrency exchange between two parties that wish to exchange tokens from different blockchains.Atomic swaps are helpful if you only have one cryptocurrency but need to use another in a transaction.Special wallets or exchange services are needed to conduct an atomic swap because the technique is still being developed and refined.


   Understanding Atomic Swaps  

Each cryptocurrency is supported by a blockchain, designed only to accept transactions in specific tokens. For example, Bitcoin (BTC) has a blockchain, and ETH (ether) has another. You cannot easily exchange BTC and ETH without first converting to fiat currency then buying the other; another technique is to convert between cryptocurrencies and exchanges multiple times to get the one you want. Atomic swaps allow you to exchange tokens from different blockchains in one trade.



Decentralized exchanges can conduct atomic swaps for you. A decentralized exchange (DEX) has no central authority regulating it; it is a platform you can trade on without third parties. You can also choose from cross-chain swap providers, where you transfer your digital assets into another wallet, conduct the swap, and transfer them back out.






Atomic swaps rely on each party to provide proof through key encryption and acceptance of both parties through the encrypted key.


  History of Atomic Swaps  

The concept was conceived shortly after altcoins—cryptocurrencies other than Bitcoin—materialized. The creation of altcoins meant some cryptocurrency owners became interested in moving capital between coins. This type of token swap first appeared in September 2017, when an atomic swap between Decred and Litecoin was conducted.



Since then, startups and decentralized exchanges have implemented swaps and allowed users the same facility. For example, Lightning Labs, a startup that uses Bitcoin’s lightning network for transactions, has conducted off-chain swaps utilizing the technology.



Special cryptocurrency wallets have also been developed that are capable of cross-chain atomic swaps—Liquality has developed a wallet that will swap Bitcoin, ETH, and more.


   Atomic Swap Process  

In an atomic swap, two token owners agree to exchange their tokens for any amount they agree on. The smart contract program sees that they both agreed to it, so it executes the trade for them. The transaction is recorded in the blockchain and validated by the network nodes, and then a new block is opened for another transaction.



The transaction cannot be reversed. Both parties must agree to another transaction to exchange the tokens again if they would like them back.



Atomic swaps use Hash Timelock Contracts (HTLC) to automate the exchange of tokens. As its name denotes, HTLC is a time-bound smart contract between parties that involves generating one cryptographic hash on each end.






A cryptographic hash function is an algorithm that converts data of variable length, such as a person's wallet address and transaction information. It converts it to a hexadecimal number with a fixed length. In general, the number that is generated is called the hash.



HTLC requires both parties to acknowledge receipt of funds within a specified timeframe. If one party fails to confirm the transaction within the timeframe, then the entire transaction is voided, and funds are returned. This eliminates counterparty risk, or the risk that one party will accept the offered coins and decline the transfer of their coins.



For instance, suppose Jane wants to convert 1 BTC to an equivalent number of Litecoins with John. She submits the transaction through an atomic swap-capable wallet. A cryptographic hash function generates a hex number to encrypt the transaction during this process. The process is repeated at John's end.



Both Jane and John unlock their respective funds using their encrypted numbers. They have to do this within a specified timeframe, or the transfer will not occur. The HTLC within the blockchains then executes the trade.




Is an Atomic Swap Expensive?
The mainstream's ability to do atomic swaps is new, but they don't yet generate fees unless there are blockchain fees involved.




How Do You Do an Atomic Swap?
It is done using cryptocurrency wallets and Hash Timelock Contracts (HTLC), which enforce the exchange when both parties agree to it. In reality, there are only a few atomic swap wallet providers and decentralized exchanges that can be used in a swap.




What Are Cross-chain Atomic Swaps?
Cross-chain atomic swaps are cryptocurrency exchanges or trades between cryptocurrencies that use separate blockchains.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is At The Money (ATM)?  

At the money (ATM) is a situation where an option's strike price is identical to the current market price of the underlying security. An ATM option has a delta of ±0.50, positive if it is a call, negative for a put.



Both call and put options can be simultaneously ATM. For example, if XYZ stock is trading at $75, then the XYZ 75 call option is ATM and so is the XYZ 75 put option. ATM options have no intrinsic value, but will still have extrinsic or time value prior to expiration, and may be contrasted with either in the money (ITM) or out of the money (OTM) options.





Key Takeaways

At the money (ATM) are calls and puts whose strike price is at or very near to the current market price of the underlying security.ATM options are most sensitive to changes in various risk factors, including time decay and changes to implied volatility or interest rates.ATM options are most attractive when a trader expects a large movement in a stock.


   Understanding At The Money (ATM)  

At the money (ATM), sometimes referred to as "on the money", is one of three terms used to describe the relationship between an option's strike price and the underlying security's price, also called the option's moneyness.



Options can be in the money (ITM), out of the money (OTM), or ATM. ITM means the option has intrinsic value and OTM means it doesn't. Simply put, ATM options are not in a position to profit if exercised, but still have value—there is still time before they expire so they may yet end up ITM.



The intrinsic value for a call option is calculated by subtracting the strike price from the underlying security's current price. The intrinsic value for a put option, on the other hand, is calculated by subtracting the underlying asset's current price from its strike price.



A call option is ITM when the option's strike price is less than the underlying security's current price. Conversely, a put option is ITM when the option's strike price is greater than the underlying security's stock price. Meanwhile, a call option is OTM when its strike price is greater than the current underlying security's price and a put option is OTM when its strike price is less than the underlying asset's current price.


   Special Considerations  

Options that are ATM are often used by traders to construct spreads and combinations. Straddles, for instance, will typically involve buying (or selling) both an ATM call and put.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



ATM options are the most sensitive to various risk factors, known as an option's "Greeks". ATM options have a ±0.50 delta, but have the greatest amount of gamma, meaning that as the underlying moves its delta will move away from ±0.50 rapidly, and most rapidly as time to expiration nears.






Options trading activity tends to be high when options are ATM. 



ATM options are the most sensitive to time decay, as represented by an option's theta. Moreover, their prices are most responsive to changes in volatility, especially for farther maturities, and is expressed by an option's vega. Finally, ATM options are also most sensitive to changes in interest rates, as measured by the rho.


   At The Money (ATM) and Near The Money  

The term "near the money" is sometimes used to describe an option that is within 50 cents of being ATM. For example, assume an investor purchases a call option with a strike price of $50.50 and the underlying stock price is trading at $50. In this case, the call option is said to be near the money.



In the above example, the option would be near the money if the underlying stock price was trading between about $49.50 and $50.50. Near the money and ATM options are attractive when traders expect a big movement. Options that are even further OTM may also see a jump when a swing is anticipated.


   Options Pricing for At The Money (ATM) Options  

An option's price is made up of intrinsic and extrinsic value. Extrinsic value is sometimes called time value, but time is not the only factor to consider when trading options. Implied volatility also plays a significant role in options pricing. 



Similar to OTM options, ATM options only have extrinsic value because they possess no intrinsic value. For example, assume an investor purchases an ATM call option with a strike price of $25 for a price of 50 cents. The extrinsic value is equivalent to 50 cents and is largely affected by the passage of time and changes in implied volatility.



Assuming volatility and the price stay steady, the closer the option gets to expiry the less extrinsic value it has. If the price of the underlying moves above the strike price to $27, the option now has $2 of intrinsic value, plus whatever extrinsic value remains.
What Is an Attorney-in-Fact?  

An attorney-in-fact, also called an “agent,” is a person who is authorized to act on behalf of another person, known as the “principal,” typically to perform business or other official transactions. The principal usually designates someone as their attorney-in-fact by assigning them power of attorney, although a court may choose to assign it if the person being represented is incapacitated. The rules regulating power of attorney vary from state to state.



An attorney-in-fact is not necessarily a lawyer. Indeed, attorneys-in-fact don’t require any special qualifications at all. They can be a family member or close friend. Power of attorney may also be granted to more than one person. In such a case it should be stated whether a simple majority or unanimity is required for an action to be taken.





Key Takeaways

An attorney-in-fact is someone who is designated to act on behalf of another person, whether in business, financial, or personal matters.An attorney-in-fact is designated through the granting of power of attorney, usually by the person who will be represented.An attorney-in-fact need not be an attorney-at-law, which is another name for “lawyer.” The former makes decisions for a principal, while the latter advises and represents a client but is not involved in decision-making.The person appointing the attorney-in-fact is called the "principal," and the attorney-in-fact is sometimes referred to as the "agent."Sometimes the courts can assign an individual power of attorney for another person if they have become incapacitated.


   Attorney-in-Fact and Power of Attorney  

An attorney-in-fact is a person who has been legally appointed to act on behalf of another person in a legal or business matter. The person appointing the attorney-in-fact is called the "principal," and the attorney-in-fact is sometimes referred to as the "agent."



An attorney-in-fact is usually appointed through a legal document called a power of attorney (POA). This document gives the attorney-in-fact the authority to make decisions and take actions on behalf of the principal in a variety of legal and financial matters. For example, an attorney-in-fact might be given the power to sign documents, manage a bank account, or sell property on behalf of the principal.



The attorney-in-fact is not required to be an actual lawyer, but they must act in the best interests of the principal and follow any instructions or guidelines set forth in the power of attorney. The attorney-in-fact is also required to keep the principal's affairs confidential and to keep records of all actions taken on behalf of the principal.



It's important to note that an attorney-in-fact is not the same as a lawyer or an attorney. A lawyer is a professional who is licensed to practice law, while an attorney-in-fact is simply a person who has been given the authority to act on behalf of another person.






Attorneys are trained in the legal system and are responsible for representing clients in legal matters, such as in court or in negotiations with other parties. Attorneys are also responsible for giving legal advice and guidance to their clients.An attorney-in-fact, on the other hand, is any person who has been appointed to act on behalf of another person in a legal or business matter.


   Types of Power of Attorney  

There are two basic types of power of attorney (POA) granted to attorneys-in-fact.



General – General power of attorney grants the attorney-in-fact not only the right to conduct any business and sign any documents on behalf of the principal, but to make decisions, including financial decisions, on their behalf.
Limited – Under a limited power of attorney assignment, also sometimes known as “special power of attorney,” the attorney-in-fact can be authorized to conduct certain transactions and make some decisions but not others. They are limited to the topics specified in the assigning document.






Anyone assigning power of attorney should take care to choose someone they trust.


   The Powers and Duties of an Attorney-in-Fact  

If the attorney-in-fact is designated as a general power of attorney, they are allowed to conduct any actions that the principal would reasonably take. This means an attorney-in-fact would be able to open and close bank accounts, withdraw funds, trade stocks, pay bills, and cash checks—all on behalf of the principal.



With a limited power of attorney, the attorney-in-fact is granted broad powers in one or more areas but not others. For example, the attorney-in-fact could be authorized to carry out transactions at the direction of the principal but not to make business or financial decisions. It could also be narrower, such as only granting the right to sign documents related to the pending sale of a specific piece of property.


   Attorney-in-Fact vs. Attorney-at-Law  

As noted above, an attorney-in-fact need not be a lawyer. And another term for “lawyer” is “attorney-at-law.” If you have passed a state bar exam and are thus legally qualified in that state to prosecute and defend actions in a court on behalf of a client who has retained you, then you are an attorney-at-law.



Their functions are also different. An attorney-in-fact must make decisions for their principal, while an attorney-at-law makes no decisions for their client. Instead, they offer advice to their client and can represent them in the courtroom.






When a power of attorney is deemed “durable,” it continues even after the principal becomes incapacitated, an event that would normally terminate it.


   Durable Power of Attorney  

A power of attorney generally terminates when a person dies, becomes incapacitated, or consciously chooses to revoke it via a notice filed in court. It can also end if it has a set date or its purpose has been accomplished. However, if it has been designated as a “durable” power of attorney, the attorney-in-fact retains the power of attorney should a principal become incapacitated. In such a situation the attorney-in-fact can continue to make decisions for the principal, including in matters of finance and healthcare.



Durable power of attorney can be granted ahead of time on condition that it only takes effect due to a triggering event, such as when the principal becomes incapacitated. This is also called a “springing” power of attorney. In this case it is a good idea to name one or more successors, as the original designee may be unavailable or, due to changed circumstances, be unwilling to assume the responsibility of becoming an attorney-in-fact.




Why Do You Need an Attorney-in-Fact?
There can be a variety of reasons to designate an attorney-in-fact. It can simply be for convenience, if, for example, you are buying or selling an asset and it is a burden for you to appear in person to close the deal. It can also be for cases in which you cannot act for yourself, whether due to physical or mental incapacity or something less serious, such as travel, illness, or accident.




Does an Attorney-in-Fact Need to Be a Lawyer?
No. An attorney-in-fact can be anyone you wish to designate as such. Often they are a family member or close friend. That said, there is nothing to prevent you from choosing a lawyer, also known as an “attorney-at-law,” as your attorney-in-fact.




What's the Difference Between an Attorney and Attorney-in-Fact?
It's important to note that an attorney-in-fact is not the same as a lawyer or an attorney. A lawyer is a professional who is licensed to practice law, while an attorney-in-fact is simply a person who has been given the authority to act on behalf of another person.




Are Power of Attorney and Attorney-in-Fact the Same Thing?
Absolutely not. An attorney-in-fact is someone to whom you consent to give your power of attorney. When making decisions on your behalf, the attorney-in-fact is usually required to show the written document providing power of attorney as proof of their authority.




What Are the Liabilities of Being an Attorney-in-Fact?
As an attorney-in-fact, you are legally responsible for carrying out the duties and responsibilities assigned to you by the principal. This means that you have a legal obligation to act in the best interests of the principal and to follow the instructions and guidelines set forth in the power of attorney. If you fail to fulfill your duties as an attorney-in-fact, you may be held liable for any damages or losses that result from your actions or inactions. For example, if you make a financial decision on behalf of the principal that results in a loss of money, you may be held financially responsible for that loss.Additionally, you may be held liable for any actions you take on behalf of the principal that are outside the scope of the power of attorney. For example, if the power of attorney specifically states that you are not authorized to sell the principal's property, but you go ahead and sell it anyway, you could be held liable for any losses that the principal incurs as a result of the sale. To avoid potential liability, it's important to carefully review the power of attorney and make sure you fully understand your responsibilities as an attorney-in-fact. You should also seek legal guidance if you have any questions or concerns about your duties as an attorney-in-fact.


   The Bottom Line  

An attorney-in-fact is someone who is granted authority to make decisions on behalf of another person, known as the “principal.” Such authority is granted via a written document providing power of attorney to the attorney-in-fact. Power of attorney can be either general or limited to certain specified transactions and topics. Typically, it only lapses if the principal dies, becomes incapacitated, or consciously revokes it through a notice filed in court. However, if it is a durable power of attorney, the attorney-in-fact will continue to serve if the principal becomes incapacitated.



Making a decision to appoint an attorney-in-fact should not be done lightly, and the person so designated should be a person or persons (you can appoint more than one) whom you trust. Family members and close friends are popular choices. If you appoint more than one, be sure to specify if decisions can be made by majority vote or must be unanimous.
What Is Attribution Analysis?  

Attribution analysis is a sophisticated method for evaluating the performance of a portfolio or fund manager. Also known as “return attribution” or “performance attribution,” it attempts to quantitatively analyze aspects of an active fund manager’s investment selections and decisions—and to identify sources of excess returns, especially as compared to an index or other benchmark.



For portfolio managers and investment firms, attribution analysis can be an effective tool to assess strategies. For investors, attribution analysis works as a way to assess the performance of fund or money managers.






Attribution analysis is an evaluation tool used to explain and analyze a portfolio’s (or portfolio manager's) performance, especially against a particular benchmark.Attribution analysis focuses on three factors: the manager’s investment picks and asset allocation, their investment style, and the market timing of their decisions and trades.Asset class and weighting of assets within a portfolio figure in analysis of the investment choices.Investment style reflects the nature of the holdings: low-risk, growth-oriented, etc.The impact of market timing is hard to quantify, and many analysts rate it as less important in attribution analysis than asset selection and investment style.


   How Attribution Analysis Works  

Attribution analysis focuses on three factors: the manager’s investment picks and asset allocation, their investment style, and the market timing of their decisions and trades.



The method begins by identifying the asset class in which a fund manager chooses to invest. An asset class generally describes the type of investments that a manager chooses; within that, it can also get more specific, describing a geographical marketplace in which they originate and/or an industry sector. European fixed income debt or U.S. technology equities could both be examples.



Then, there is the allocation of the different assets—that is, what percentage of the portfolio is weighted to specific segments, sectors, or industries. 



Specifying the type of assets will help identify a general benchmark for the comparison of performance. Often, this benchmark will take the form of a market index, a basket of comparable assets.






Market indexes can be very broad, such as the S&P 500 Index or the Nasdaq Composite Index, which cover a range of stocks; or they can be fairly specific, focusing on, say, real estate investment trusts or corporate high yield bonds.


  Analyzing Investment Style  

The next step in attribution analysis is to determine the manager’s investment style. Like the class identification discussed above, a style will provide a benchmark against which to gauge the manager’s performance.



The first method of style analysis concentrates on the nature of the manager’s holdings. If they are equities, for example, are they the stocks of large-cap or small-cap companies? Value- or growth-oriented?



American economist Bill Sharpe introduced the second type of style analysis in 1988. Returns-based style analysis (RBSA) charts a fund’s returns and seeks an index with comparable performance history. Sharpe refined this method with a technique that he called quadratic optimization, which allowed him to assign a blend of indices that correlated most closely to a manager’s returns.


  Explaining Alpha  

Once an attribution analyst identifies that blend, they can formulate a customized benchmark of returns against which they can evaluate the manager’s performance. Such an analysis should shine a light on the excess returns, or alpha, that the manager enjoys over those benchmarks.



The next step in attribution analysis attempts to explain that alpha. Is it due to the manager’s stock picks, selection of sectors, or market timing? To determine the alpha generated by their stock picks, an analyst must identify and subtract the portion of the alpha attributable to sector and timing. Again, this can be done by developing customize benchmarks based on the manager’s selected blend of sectors and the timing of their trades. If the alpha of the fund is 13%, it is possible to assign a certain slice of that 13% to sector selection and timing of entry and exit from those sectors. The remainder will be stock selection alpha.


   Market Timing and Attribution Analysis  

Though some managers employ a buy-and-hold strategy, most are constantly trading, making buy and sell decisions throughout a given period. Segmenting returns by activity can be useful, telling you if a manager’s decisions to add or subtract positions from the portfolio helped or hurt the final return—vis-à-vis a more passive buy-and-hold approach.



Enter market timing, the third big factor that goes into attribution analysis. A fair amount of debate exists on its importance, though.



Certainly, this is the most difficult part of attribute analysis to put into quantitative terms. To the extent that market timing can be measured, scholars point out the importance of gauging a manager’s returns against benchmarks reflective of upturns and downturns. Ideally, the fund will go up in bullish times and will decline less than the market in bearish periods.



Even so, some scholars note that a significant portion of a manager’s performance with respect to timing is random, or luck. As a result, in general, most analysts attribute less significance to market timing than asset selection and investment style.
What Is Attrition in Business?  

The term attrition refers to a gradual but deliberate reduction in staff numbers that occurs as employees leave a company and are not replaced.



It is commonly used to describe the downsizing of a firm's employee pool by human resources (HR) professionals. In this case, downsizing is voluntary, where employees either resign or retire and aren't replaced by the company.





Key Takeaways

Attrition occurs when the workforce dwindles at a company as people leave and are not replaced.Attrition is often called a hiring freeze and is seen as a less disruptive way to trim the workforce and reduce payroll than layoffs.Attrition can also refer to the reduction of a customer base, often as a result of customers moving on and fewer new customers opting in.Attrition due to voluntary employee departures is different from layoffs, which occur when a company lets people go without replacing them.Turnover occurs when people leave their jobs voluntarily or involuntarily within a short span of time and are replaced with new talent.


   Understanding Attrition  

Employee attrition refers to the deliberate downsizing of a company's workforce. Downsizing happens when employees resign or retire. This type of reduction in staff is called a hiring freeze. It is one way a company can decrease labor costs without the disruption of layoffs.



There are a number of reasons why employee attrition takes place. They include:



Unsatisfactory pay and/or benefits
Lack of opportunity
Poor workplace conditions
Poor work-life balance
Illness and death
Retirement
Relocation






Companies may want to consider increasing training, opening dialogue with employees, and increasing benefits and other perks to help decrease attrition.


   Types of Attrition  
  Voluntary Attrition  

Voluntary attrition occurs when employees leave a company of their own volition. Employees leaving voluntarily may indicate that there are problems at the company. Or, it may mean that people have personal reasons for departing that are unrelated to the business.



For example, some employees voluntarily leave when they get a new job elsewhere. They may be moving to a new area which makes the commute impossible. They might have decided to try a different career and therefore need a different type of job.



Voluntary attrition can also occur when employees retire. This is also referred to as natural attrition. Unless a company experiences an unusually high rate of early retirements, employees retiring shouldn't be a cause for concern for management.


  Involuntary Attrition  

Involuntary attrition occurs when the business dismisses employees. This can happen because of an employee's poor or disruptive performance. Dismissal might be tied to an employee's misconduct.



Companies may have to eliminate an employee's position. Or, they might have to lay off employees due to worrisome economic conditions.


  Internal Attrition  

Internal attrition refers to movement out of one department or division and into another. The employee isn't leaving the company. They're simply making a move within it.



For instance, internal attrition can occur when an employee gets promoted to a different management level. Or, they move laterally to a different section because a job there was more suitable.



Internal attrition can signal that a company offers good opportunities for career growth. On the other hand, if one department has a high internal attrition rate, it may be experiencing problems. The company should investigate and address them, if need be.


  Demographic-Related Attrition  

Demographic-related attrition results when people identified with certain demographic groups depart a company unexpectedly and quickly. These could be women, ethnic minorities, veterans, older employees, or those with disabilities.



Such an exodus could mean that employees have encountered some form of harassment or discrimination. That should be of concern to all companies because such behavior can undermine a positive workplace environment and successful business operations.



Action should be taken quickly to understand what caused such departures. Rectifying demographic-related attrition is a must because inclusion should be a top goal of every company. Plus, a company can put a halt to the loss of employees of great value and promise. Diversity training can help.


  Customer Attrition  

While not related to employee attrition, it's important that a business also be aware of customer attrition.



Customer attrition happens when a company's customer base begins to shrink. The rate of customer attrition is sometimes referred to as the churn rate. Customer attrition can mean that a company is in trouble and could suffer a loss of revenue.



Customer attrition can take place for a variety of reasons:



Loyal customers switch their preference to products of another company
Aging customers aren't being replaced by younger ones
Bad customer service
Changes in product lines
Failure to update product lines
Poor product quality






In June 2022, 4.2 million U.S. employees voluntarily left their jobs.


   Benefits of Attrition  

Attrition has its positive aspects. By its simplest definition, it's a natural diminishing of the workforce. This can be welcome when the economy is in bad shape or a recession looms and, if not for attrition, a company would face the prospect of having to lay off employees (when it doesn't want to lose them).



Here are other times when attrition might help:



If one company acquires another and must deal with redundancies.If a company redirects its vision toward a new goal and must restructure or reduce the workforce.When new employees are needed to refresh a workplace environment with new ideas and new energy.When a company seeks natural opportunities to better diversify a department or division.When employees with poor attitudes or performance should be removed to improve workplace culture, reduce costs, or make room for new hires who are a great fit.


   The Attrition Rate  

The attrition rate is the rate at which people leave a company during a particular period of time. It's useful for a business to track attrition rates over time so it can see whether departures are increasing or decreasing. A change in the attrition rate can alert management to potential problems within the company that may be causing employee departures.



The formula for the attrition rate is:



Attrition rate = number of departures/average number of employees1 x 100



Say that 25 employees left ABC Company last year. In addition, the company had an average of 250 employees for the year ((200 + 300)/2).



With those figures, you can now calculate the attrition rate:



Attrition rate = 25/250 x 100



Attrition rate = 0.1 x 100



Attrition rate = 10%



1 To calculate the average number of employees, add the number that existed at the beginning of the time period to the number that existed at the end of the time period. Then, divide by two.


  Why It's Important to Measure Attrition  

By measuring attrition rates, a company may pinpoint problems that are causing voluntary attrition. That's important because the costs associated with losing valuable employees whom you'd like to retain can be staggering.



For example, the cost to hire and train a new employee when one employee voluntarily departs can be one-half to two times that employee’s annual salary.



Company profits can be affected negatively when knowledgeable, experienced employees leave and productivity suffers.



Loss of customers can go hand in hand with loss of valued employees. That can mean another hit to profits tied to former employees who understood company products and services, and how to sell them.


   Attrition vs. Layoffs  

Sometimes, employees choose to leave an existing job to take a new one or because they're retiring. An attrition policy takes advantage of such voluntary departures to reduce overall staff.



Laying off employees doesn't involve a voluntary action on the part of the employee. However, layoffs do result in attrition when a company doesn't immediately hire as many new employees as it laid off.



Layoffs occur when a company is faced with a financial crisis and must cut its workforce to stay afloat.



Sometimes, due to changes in company structure or a merger, certain departments are trimmed or eliminated. Rather than relying on natural attrition associated with voluntary employee departures, this usually requires layoffs.


   Attrition vs. Turnover  

Turnover takes place in a company's workforce when people leave their job and are replaced by new employees. In such instances, there is no attrition.



Employee turnover is generally counted within a one-year period. This loss of talent occurs in a company for many reasons. As with voluntary attrition, employees may retire, relocate, find a better job, or change their career.



Companies can study turnover to make needed changes. For instance, many employees leaving within a short period of time probably signals issues within a company that must be dealt with.



Just as with voluntary attrition, management can use turnover information to initiate changes that will make the company a more amenable place for new and existing employees.




How Does Employee Attrition Differ From Customer Attrition?
Employee attrition refers to a decrease in the number of employees working for a company that occurs when employees leave and aren't replaced. Customer attrition, on the other hand, refers to a shrinking customer base.




Is Employee Attrition Good or Bad?
The loss of employees can be a problem for corporations because it can mean the reduction of valued talent in the workforce. However, it can also be a good thing. Attrition can force a firm to identify the issues that may be causing it. It also allows companies to cut down labor costs as employees leave by choice and they're not replaced. Eventually, it can lead to the hiring of new employees with fresh ideas and energy.




How Can I Stop Customer Attrition?
You can prevent customer attrition by making sure that your company offers the products and services that your customers want, provides them with excellent customer service, stays current with market trends, and addresses any problems that arise as a result of customer complaints.


   The Bottom Line  

Attrition refers to the gradual but deliberate reduction in staff that occurs as employees leave a company and aren't replaced.



Employees may leave voluntarily or involuntarily. Or, they may simply move from one department to another. In that case, attrition occurs when the former department doesn't replace the employee. Employees may also leave for reasons of discrimination.



Calculating and tracking attrition rates can be useful to companies. High attrition rates indicate more people are leaving. They can signal that some problem is causing these departures and must be dealt with to improve the working environment.



Of course, a certain level of attrition can be helpful because it can avoid the need for layoffs in difficult economic times.
What Is an Auction Market?  

In an auction market, buyers enter competitive bids and sellers submit competitive offers at the same time. The price at which a stock trades represents the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept. Matching bids and offers are then paired together, and the orders are executed. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is an example of an auction market.


   Auction Market Process  

The process involved in an auction market differs from the process in an over-the-counter (OTC) market. On the NYSE, for example, there are no direct negotiations between individual buyers and sellers, while negotiations occur in OTC trades. Most traditional auctions involve multiple potential buyers or bidders, but only a single seller, whereas auction markets for securities have multiple buyers and multiple sellers, all looking to make deals simultaneously.





Key Takeaways

An auction market is one where buyers and sellers enter competitive bids simultaneously.The price at which a stock trades represents the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept.A double auction market is when a buyer’s price and a seller’s asking price match, and the trade proceeds at that price.Auction markets do not involve direct negotiations between individual buyers and sellers, while negotiations occur for OTC trades.The U.S. Treasury holds auctions, which are open to the public and large investment entities, to finance certain government financial activities.


   Double Auction Markets  

An auction market also known as a double auction market, allows buyers and sellers to submit prices they deem acceptable to a list. When a match between a buyer’s price and a seller’s asking price is found, the trade proceeds at that price. Trades without matches will not be executed.


   Examples of the Auction Market Process  

Imagine that four buyers want to buy a share of company XYZ and make the following bids: $10.00, $10.02, $10.03 and $10.06, respectively. Conversely, four sellers wish to sell shares of company XYZ, and these sellers submitted offers to sell their shares at the following prices: $10.06, $10.09, $10.12 and $10.13, respectively.



In this scenario, the individuals that made bids/offers for company XYZ at $10.06 will have their orders executed. All remaining orders will not immediately be executed, and the current price of company XYZ will be $10.06.


   Treasury Auctions  

The U.S. Treasury holds auctions to finance certain government financial activities. The Treasury auction is open to the public and various larger investment entities. These bids are submitted electronically and are divided into competing and noncompeting bids depending on the person or entity who places the recorded bid.



Noncompeting bids are addressed first because noncompetitive bidders are guaranteed to receive a predetermined amount of securities as a minimum and up to a maximum of $5 million. These are most commonly entered by individual investors or those representing small entities.



In competitive bidding, once the auction period closes, all of the incoming bids are reviewed to determine the winning price. Securities are sold to the competing bidders based on the amount listed within the bid. Once all of the securities have been sold, the remaining competing bidders will not receive any securities.
What Is an Audit?  

The term audit usually refers to a financial statement audit. A financial audit is an objective examination and evaluation of the financial statements of an organization to make sure that the financial records are a fair and accurate representation of the transactions they claim to represent. The audit can be conducted internally by employees of the organization or externally by an outside Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firm.





Key Takeaways

There are three main types of audits: external audits, internal audits, and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audits.External audits are commonly performed by Certified Public Accounting (CPA) firms and result in an auditor's opinion which is included in the audit report.An unqualified, or clean, audit opinion means that the auditor has not identified any material misstatement as a result of his or her review of the financial statements.External audits can include a review of both financial statements and a company's internal controls.Internal audits serve as a managerial tool to make improvements to processes and internal controls.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Audits  

Almost all companies receive a yearly audit of their financial statements, such as the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement. Lenders often require the results of an external audit annually as part of their debt covenants. For some companies, audits are a legal requirement due to the compelling incentives to intentionally misstate financial information in an attempt to commit fraud. As a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002, publicly traded companies must also receive an evaluation of the effectiveness of their internal controls.



Standards for external audits performed in the United States, called the generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS), are set out by Auditing Standards Board (ASB) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Additional rules for the audits of publicly traded companies are made by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), which was established as a result of SOX in 2002. A separate set of international standards, called the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), were set up by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB).


   Types of Audits  
  External Audits  

Unqualified audits performed by outside parties can be extremely helpful in removing any bias in reviewing the state of a company's financials. Financial audits seek to identify if there are any material misstatements in the financial statements. An unqualified, or clean, auditor's opinion provides financial statement users with confidence that the financials are both accurate and complete. External audits, therefore, allow stakeholders to make better, more informed decisions related to the company being audited.



External auditors follow a set of standards different from that of the company or organization hiring them to do the work. The biggest difference between an internal and external audit is the concept of independence of the external auditor. When audits are performed by third parties, the resulting auditor's opinion expressed on items being audited (a company's financials, internal controls, or a system) can be candid and honest without it affecting daily work relationships within the company.


  Internal Audits  

Internal auditors are employed by the company or organization for whom they are performing an audit, and the resulting audit report is given directly to management and the board of directors. Consultant auditors, while not employed internally, use the standards of the company they are auditing as opposed to a separate set of standards. These types of auditors are used when an organization doesn’t have the in-house resources to audit certain parts of its own operations.



The results of the internal audit are used to make managerial changes and improvements to internal controls. The purpose of an internal audit is to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and to help maintain accurate and timely financial reporting and data collection. Ongoing audits also provide benefits to management by identifying flaws in internal control or financial reporting prior to its review by external auditors.


  Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Audits  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) also routinely performs audits to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s return and specific transactions. When the IRS audits a person or company, it usually carries a negative connotation and is seen as evidence of some type of wrongdoing by the taxpayer. However, being selected for an audit is not necessarily indicative of any wrongdoing.



IRS audit selection is usually made by random statistical formulas that analyze a taxpayer's return and compare it to similar returns. A taxpayer may also be selected for an audit if they have any dealings with another person or company who was found to have tax errors on their audit.



There are three possible IRS audit outcomes available: no change to the tax return, a change that is accepted by the taxpayer, or a change that the taxpayer disagrees with. If the change is accepted, the taxpayer may owe additional taxes or penalties. If the taxpayer disagrees, there is a process to follow that may include mediation or an appeal.
What Is an Audit Committee?  

An audit committee is one of the major operating committees of a company's board of directors that is in charge of overseeing financial reporting and disclosure.



All U.S. publicly-traded companies must maintain a qualified audit committee in order to be listed on a stock exchange. Committee members must be made up of independent outside directors, including a minimum of one person who qualifies as a financial expert.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

An audit committee is made of members of a company's board of directors and oversees its financial statements and reporting.Per regulation, the audit committee must include outside board members as well as those well-versed in finance or accounting in order to produce honest and accurate reports.Committee members must sign off on the company's books and take responsibility for any misreporting.﻿﻿


   How an Audit Committee Works  

The audit committee works closely with auditors to ensure that company's books are correct and that no conflicts of interest exist between auditors or any outside consulting firms employed by the company. Ideally, the chair of the audit committee will be a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Often, however, a CPA is not available for the audit committee, let alone a member of the board of directors. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) requires that the audit committee include a financial expert, but this qualification is typically met by a retired banker, even though that person's ability to catch fraud may be less than expert. The audit committee should meet at least four times a year in order to review the most recent audit, either in-person or via teleconferencing. An additional meeting should be held if other issues need to be addressed.﻿﻿



Audit committees maintain communication with the company's chief financial officer (CFO) and controller. The committee has the authority to initiate special investigations in cases where it is determined that accounting practices are problematic or suspect, or when serious issues arise with employees. An internal auditor would assist the committee in such efforts.



The audit committee's role includes the oversight of financial reporting, the monitoring of accounting policies, the oversight of any external auditors, regulatory compliance and the discussion of risk management policies with management. The duties and composition of a company's audit committee can be found in SEC Form DEF 14A, or proxy statement.﻿﻿



Committee members may change from time to time, depending on the movement of personnel on or off the board or change of committee assignments. Aside from annual compensation for directors, those who serve on an audit committee (the same applies for all committees) are paid additionally for each meeting attended.


   Audit Committee Hazards  

The audit committee must take its responsibilities very seriously. Financial reporting, compliance and risk management are subject to a number of hazards, especially when the company is a large organization with thousands of personnel and reporting systems stretching across the globe. Exogenous threats such as cyber hacking are under the purview of an audit committee, making its job even more challenging. Cybersecurity should be an increasing focus for audit committees in corporate boardrooms everywhere.
What Is Audit Risk?  

Audit risk is the risk that financial statements are materially incorrect, even though the audit opinion states that the financial reports are free of any material misstatements.





Key Takeaways

Audit risk is the risk that financial statements are materially incorrect, even though the audit opinion states that the financial reports are free of any material misstatements.Audit risk may carry legal liability for a certified public accountancy (CPA) firm performing audit work.Auditing firms carry malpractice insurance to manage audit risk and the potential legal liability.The two components of audit risk are risk of material misstatement and detection risk.


   Understanding Audit Risk  

The purpose of an audit is to reduce the audit risk to an appropriately low level through adequate testing and sufficient evidence. Because creditors, investors, and other stakeholders rely on the financial statements, audit risk may carry legal liability for a certified public accountancy (CPA) firm performing audit work.



Over the course of an audit, an auditor makes inquiries and performs tests on the general ledger and supporting documentation. If any errors are caught during the testing, the auditor requests that management propose correcting journal entries.



At the conclusion of an audit, after any corrections are posted, an auditor provides a written opinion as to whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. Auditing firms carry malpractice insurance to manage audit risk and the potential legal liability.


   Types of Audit Risk  

The two components of audit risk are the risk of material misstatement and detection risk. Assume, for example, that a large sporting goods store needs an audit performed, and that a CPA firm is assessing the risk of auditing the store's inventory.


  Risk of Material Misstatement  

Material misstatement risk is the risk that the financial reports are materially incorrect before the audit is performed. In this case, the word "material" refers to a dollar amount that is large enough to change the opinion of a financial statement reader, and the percentage or dollar amount is subjective. If the sporting goods store's inventory balance of $1 million is incorrect by $100,000, a stakeholder reading the financial statements may consider that a material amount. The risk of material misstatement is even higher if there is believed to be insufficient internal controls, which is also a fraud risk.


  Detection Risk  

Detection risk is the risk that the auditor’s procedures do not detect a material misstatement. For example, an auditor needs to perform a physical count of inventory and compare the results to the accounting records. This work is performed to prove the existence of inventory. If the auditor's test sample for the inventory count is insufficient to extrapolate out to the entire inventory, the detection risk is higher.
What Is an Auditor?  

An auditor is a person authorized to review and verify the accuracy of financial records and ensure that companies comply with tax laws. They protect businesses from fraud, point out discrepancies in accounting methods and, on occasion, work on a consultancy basis, helping organizations to spot ways to boost operational efficiency. Auditors work in various capacities within different industries.





Key Takeaways

The main duty of an auditor is to determine whether financial statements follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires all public companies to conduct regular reviews by external auditors, in compliance with official auditing procedures.There are several different types of auditors, including those hired to work in-house for companies and those who work for an outside audit firm.The final judgment of an audit report can be either qualified or unqualified.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding an Auditor  

Auditors assess financial operations and ensure that organizations are run efficiently. They are tasked with tracking cash flow from beginning to end and verifying that an organization’s funds are properly accounted for.



In the case of public companies, the main duty of an auditor is to determine whether financial statements follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To meet this requirement, auditors inspect accounting data, financial records, and operational aspects of a business and take detailed notes on each step of the process, known as an audit trail.



Once complete, the auditor’s findings are presented in a report that appears as a preface in financial statements. Separate, private reports may also be issued to company management and regulatory authorities as well.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) demands that the books of all public companies are regularly examined by external, independent auditors, in compliance with official auditing procedures. Official procedures are established by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), a committee of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).


   Unqualified Opinion vs. Qualified Opinion  

Auditor reports are usually accompanied by an unqualified opinion. These statements confirm that the company's financial statements conform to GAAP, without providing judgment or an interpretation.



When an auditor is unable to give an unqualified opinion, they will issue a qualified opinion, a statement suggesting that the information provided is limited in scope and/or the company being audited has not maintained GAAP accounting principles.



Auditors assure potential investors that a company’s finances are in order and accurate, as well as provide a clear picture of a company’s worth to help investors make informed decisions.


   Types of Auditors  

Internal auditors are hired by organizations to provide in-house, independent, and objective evaluations of financial and operational business activities, including corporate governance. They report their findings, including tips on how to better run the business, back to senior management.
External auditors usually work in conjunction with government agencies. They are tasked with providing objective and public opinions about the organization's financial statements and whether they fairly and accurately represent the organization's financial position. 
Government auditors maintain and examine records of government agencies and of private businesses or individuals performing activities subject to government regulations or taxation. Auditors employed through the government ensure revenues are received and spent according to laws and regulations. They detect embezzlement and fraud, analyze agency accounting controls, and evaluate risk management.
Forensic auditors specialize in crime and are used by law enforcement organizations.


   Auditor Qualifications  

External auditors working for public accounting firms require a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license, a professional certification awarded by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. In addition to this certification, these auditors also need to obtain state CPA certification. Requirements vary, although most states do demand a CPA designation and two years of professional work experience in public accounting.



Qualifications for internal auditors are less rigorous. Internal auditors are encouraged to get CPA accreditation, although it is not always mandatory. Instead, a bachelor's degree in subjects such as finance and other business disciplines, together with appropriate experience and skills, is often acceptable.


   Special Considerations  

Auditors are not responsible for transactions that occur after the date of their reports. Moreover, they are not necessarily required to detect all instances of fraud or financial misrepresentation; that responsibility primarily lies with an organization's management team.



Audits are mainly designed to determine whether a company’s financial statements are “reasonably stated.” In other words, this means that audits do not always cover enough ground to identify cases of fraud. In short, a clean audit offers no guarantee that an organization’s accounting is completely above board.
What Is an Auditor's Opinion?  

An auditor's opinion is a certification that accompanies financial statements. It is based on an audit of the procedures and records used to produce the statements and delivers an opinion as to whether material misstatements exist in the financial statements. An auditor's opinion may also be called an accountant's opinion.


   Understanding Auditor's Opinions  

An auditor's opinion is presented in an auditor’s report. The audit report begins with an introductory section outlining the responsibility of management and the responsibility of the audit firm. The second section identifies the financial statements on which the auditor's opinion is given. A third section outlines the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements. Although it is not found in all audit reports, a fourth section may be presented as a further explanation regarding a qualified opinion or an adverse opinion.



For audits of companies in the United States, the opinion may be an unqualified opinion in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), a qualified opinion, or an adverse opinion. The audit is performed by an accountant who is independent of the company being audited.





Key Takeaways

An auditor's opinion is made based on an audit of the procedures and records used to produce financial records or statements.There are four different types of auditor's opinions.An auditor's opinion is presented in an auditor's report, which includes an introductory section, a section that identifies financial statements in question, another section that outlines the auditor’s opinion of those financial statements, and an optional fourth section that may augment information or provide additional relevant information.


   Unqualified Opinion Audit  

An unqualified opinion is also known as a clean opinion. The auditor reports an unqualified opinion if the financial statements are presumed to be free from material misstatements after an unqualified audit. In addition, an unqualified opinion is given over the internal controls of an entity if management has claimed responsibility for its establishment and maintenance, and the auditor has performed fieldwork to test its effectiveness.


   Qualified Audit  

A qualified opinion is given when a company’s financial records have not followed GAAP in all financial transactions. Although the wording of a qualified opinion is very similar to an unqualified opinion, the auditor provides an additional paragraph including deviations from GAAP in the financial statements and points out why the auditor report is not unqualified.



A qualified opinion may be given due to either a limitation in the scope of the audit or an accounting method that did not follow GAAP. However, the deviation from GAAP is not pervasive and does not misstate the financial position of the company as a whole.


   Adverse Opinion  

The most unfavorable opinion a business may receive is an adverse opinion. An adverse opinion indicates financial records are not in accordance with GAAP and contain grossly material and pervasive misstatements. An adverse opinion may be an indicator of fraud. Investors, lenders, and other financial institutions do not typically accept financial statements with adverse opinions as part of their debt covenants.


   Disclaimer of Opinion  

In the event that the auditor is unable to complete the audit report due to the absence of financial records or insufficient cooperation from management, the auditor issues a disclaimer of opinion. This is referred to as a scope limitation and is an indication that no opinion over the financial statements was able to be determined.﻿﻿ A disclaimer of opinion is not an opinion itself.
What Is an Auditor's Report?  

An auditor's report is a written letter from the auditor containing their opinion on whether a company's financial statements comply with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are free from material misstatement.



The independent and external audit report is typically published with the company's annual report. The auditor's report is important because banks and creditors require an audit of a company's financial statements before lending to them.





Key Takeaways

The auditor's report is a document containing the auditor's opinion on whether a company's financial statements comply with GAAP and are free from material misstatement.The audit report is important because banks, creditors, and regulators require an audit of a company's financial statements.A clean audit report means a company followed accounting standards while an unqualified report means there might be errors.An adverse report means that the financial statements might have had discrepancies, misrepresentations, and didn't adhere to GAAP.


   How an Auditor's Report Works  

An auditor's report is a written letter attached to a company's financial statements that expresses its opinion on a company's compliance with standard accounting practices. The auditor's report is required to be filed with a public company's financial statements when reporting earnings to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



However, an auditor's report is not an evaluation of whether a company is a good investment. Also, the audit report is not an analysis of the company's earnings performance for the period. Instead, the report is merely a measure of the reliability of the financial statements.


   The Components of an Auditor's Report  

The auditor's letter follows a standard format, as established by generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS). A report usually consists of three paragraphs.



The first paragraph states the responsibilities of the auditor and directors.
The second paragraph contains the scope, stating that a set of standard accounting practices was the guide.
The third paragraph contains the auditor's opinion.



An additional paragraph may inform the investor of the results of a separate audit on another function of the entity. The investor will key in on the third paragraph, where the opinion is stated.



The type of report issued will be dependent on the findings by the auditor. Below are the most common types of reports issued for companies.


  Clean or Unqualified Report  

A clean report means that the company's financial records are free from material misstatement and conform to the guidelines set by GAAP. A majority of audits end in unqualified, or clean, opinions.


  Qualified Opinion  

A qualified opinion may be issued in one of two situations: first, if the financial statements contain material misstatements that are not pervasive; or second, if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base an opinion, but the possible effects of any material misstatements are not pervasive. For example, a mistake might have been made in calculating operating expenses or profit. Auditors typically state the specific reasons and areas where the issues are present so that the company can fix them.


  Adverse Opinion  

An adverse opinion means that the auditor has obtained sufficient audit evidence and concludes that misstatements in the financial statements are both material and pervasive. An adverse opinion is the worst possible outcome for a company and can have a lasting impact and legal ramifications if not corrected.






Regulators and investors will reject a company's financial statements following an adverse opinion from an auditor. Also, if illegal activity exists, corporate officers might face criminal charges.


  Disclaimer of Opinion  

A disclaimer of opinion means that, for some reason, the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient audit evidence on which to base the opinion, and the possible effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, if any, could be both material and pervasive. Examples can include when an auditor can't be impartial or wasn't allowed access to certain financial information.


   Example of an Auditor's Report  

Excerpts from the audit report by Deloitte & Touche LLP for Starbucks Corporation, dated Nov. 15, 2019, follow.


  Paragraph 1: Opinion on the Financial Statements  

"We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the 'Company') as of September 29, 2019, and September 30, 2018, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the 'financial statements').



In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of September 29, 2019, and September 30, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America."


  Paragraph 2: Basis for Opinion  

"We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.



Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion."
What Is an Augmented Product?  

An augmented product has been enhanced by its seller with added features or services to distinguish it from the same product offered by its competitors. Augmenting a product involves including intangible benefits or add-ons that go beyond the product itself.



Examples of the features used to create augmented products might include free delivery or in-home installation of a service. Cosmetics companies tend to offer free makeovers and travel-size samples to augment their products.





Key Takeaways

Every product comes in at least three versions: the core, the actual, and the augmented.The augmented product adds features and services that distinguish it from the same or similar products offered by other sellers.Product augmentation doesn't change the actual product, but instead, adds value to the purchase.An augmented product may have a perceived value that gives the consumer a reason to buy it and may allow the seller to command a premium price.


   How an Augmented Product Works  

To marketing professionals, every product comes in at least three versions: The core, the actual, and the augmented.


  Core Product  

The core product is not a physical object. It is the product's benefit to the consumer. For example, a lipstick will make its buyer attractive; a pair of sneakers will make her healthier; a new phone will help you communicate more efficiently.


  Actual Product  

The actual product is the item for sale, including the unique branding, design, and packaging that is attached to it. The actual product and its features must deliver on the core-product expectations that consumers want from the product. A car, for example, should function seamlessly with all of its features to deliver the core product and create customer value.


  Augmented Product  

The augmented product adds on features and services that distinguish it from similar products offered by the competition. The add ons don't change the actual product and may have a minimal impact on the cost of producing the product. However, an augmented product may have a perceived value that gives the consumer a reason to buy it. The added value may also allow the seller to command a premium price.






Augmentation doesn't change the product being sold. However, augmentation adds value to the experience for the consumer and can lead to brand loyalty.


   Examples of Augmented Products  

It's no secret that companies that can effectively create augmented products create a positive buying experience and have the best chance of developing a loyal base of repeat customers.


  Apple TV  

Apple Inc. (AAPL) launched its video and TV streaming service in 2019. To boost awareness of the new product and increase sagging iPhone sales, the company created an add-on or augmentation for anyone purchasing a device as stated below from the company's website.



"Starting today, customers who purchase any iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, iPod touch or Mac can enjoy one year of Apple TV+ for free."


  Discounts and Freebies  

A discount coupon for a future purchase is a product augmentation, as is an offer of a refund if the customer is dissatisfied. A free recipe book offered with the purchase of a kitchen appliance such as a crockpot creates an augmented product.



More expensive purchases often come with enhanced augmentation. In-store financing for furniture purchases, a free trial, or free delivery all augment the product being offered. A cable company competing for new business might offer a more convenient home installation schedule to attract customers.


  Service Sells  

Good customer service and store ambiance are augmentations that brick-and-mortar retailers add to their entire range of products. A generous return policy and in-store demonstrations are others. A retail store that sells cooking supplies might offer free cooking classes with each purchase. Apple, for example, offers teaching and guidance for how to use their products through their retail locations. An engaging website to help customers learn about a product or service, as well as an online support team, are product augmentations.



In considering almost any purchase, consumers have a wealth of options. An augmented product has been made to stand out from other products, or the same product offered by other sellers.
What Is Austerity?  

The term austerity refers to a set of economic policies that a government implements in order to control public sector debt. Governments put austerity measures in place when their public debt is so large that the risk of default or the inability to service the required payments on its obligations becomes a real possibility.



The goal of austerity is to improve a government's financial health. Default risk can spiral out of control quickly and, as an individual, company, or country slips further into debt, lenders will charge a higher rate of return for future loans, making it more difficult for the borrower to raise capital.





Key Takeaways

Austerity refers to strict economic policies that a government imposes to control growing public debt, defined by increased frugality.There are three primary types of austerity measures: revenue generation (higher taxes) to fund spending, raising taxes while cutting nonessential government functions, and lower taxes and lower government spending.Austerity is controversial, and national outcomes from austerity measures can be more damaging than if they hadn't been used.Many countries, including the United States and Greece, have introduced austerity measures during times of economic uncertainty.


   How Austerity Works  

Governments experience financial instability when their debt outweighs the amount of revenue they receive, resulting in large budget deficits. Debt levels generally increase when government spending increases. As mentioned above, this means that there is a greater chance that federal governments can default on their debts. Creditors, in turn, demand higher interest to avoid the risk of default on these debts. In order to satisfy their creditors and control their debt levels, they may have to take certain measures.



Austerity only takes place when this gap—between government receipts and government expenditures—shrinks. This situation occurs when governments spend too much or when they take on too much debt. As such, a government may need to consider austerity measures when it owes more money to its creditors than it receives in revenues. Implementing these measures helps put confidence back into the economy while helping restore some semblance of balance to government budgets.



Austerity measures indicate that governments are willing to take steps to bring some degree of financial health back to their budgets. As a result, creditors may be willing to lower interest rates on debt when austerity measures are in place. But there may be certain conditions on these moves.



For instance, interest rates on Greek debt fell following its first bailout. However, the gains were limited to the government having decreased interest rate expenses. Although the private sector was unable to benefit, the major beneficiaries of lower rates are large corporations. Consumers benefited only marginally from lower rates, but the lack of sustainable economic growth kept borrowing at depressed levels despite the lower rates.


   Special Considerations  

A reduction in government spending doesn't simply equate to austerity. In fact, governments may need to implement these measures during certain cycles of the economy.



For example, the global economic downturn that began in 2008 left many governments with reduced tax revenues and exposed what some believed were unsustainable spending levels. Several European countries, including the United Kingdom, Greece, and Spain, turned to austerity as a way to alleviate budget concerns.



Austerity became almost imperative during the global recession in Europe, where eurozone members didn't have the ability to address mounting debts by printing their own currency. Thus, as their default risk increased, creditors put pressure on certain European countries to aggressively tackle spending.


   Types of Austerity  

Broadly speaking, there are three primary types of austerity measures:



Generating revenue generation through higher taxes: This method often supports more government spending. The goal is to stimulate growth with spending and capturing benefits through taxation.
The Angela Merkel model: Named after the German chancellor, this measure focuses on raising taxes while cutting nonessential government functions.
Lower taxes and lower government spending: This is the preferred method of free-market advocates.


  Taxes  

There is some disagreement among economists about the effect of tax policy on the government budget. Former Ronald Reagan adviser Arthur Laffer famously argued that strategically cutting taxes would spur economic activity, paradoxically leading to more revenue.



Still, most economists and policy analysts agree that raising taxes will raise revenues. This was the tactic that many European countries took. For example, Greece increased value-added tax (VAT) rates to 23% in 2010. The government raised income tax rates on upper-income scales, along with adding new property taxes.


  Reducing Government Spending  

The opposite austerity measure is reducing government spending. Most consider this to be a more efficient means of reducing the deficit. New taxes mean new revenue for politicians, who are inclined to spend it on constituents.



Spending takes many forms, including grants, subsidies, wealth redistribution, entitlement programs, paying for government services, providing for the national defense, benefits to government employees, and foreign aid. Any reduction in spending is a de facto austerity measure.



At its simplest, an austerity program that is usually enacted by legislation may include one or more of the following measures:



A cut or a freeze—without raises—of government salaries and benefits
A freeze on government hiring and layoffs of government workers
A reduction or elimination of government services, temporarily or permanently
Government pension cuts and pension reform
Interest on newly issued government securities may be cut, making these investments less attractive to investors, but reducing government interest obligations
Cuts to previously planned government spending programs such as infrastructure construction and repair, health care, and veterans' benefits
An increase in taxes, including income, corporate, property, sales, and capital gains taxes
A reduction or increase in the money supply and interest rates by the Federal Reserve as circumstances dictate to resolve the crisis.
Rationing of critical commodities, travel restrictions, price freezes, and other economic controls, particularly in times of war


   Criticism of Austerity  

The effectiveness of austerity remains a matter of sharp debate. While supporters argue that massive deficits can suffocate the broader economy, thereby limiting tax revenue, opponents believe that government programs are the only way to make up for reduced personal consumption during a recession. Cutting government spending, many believe, leads to large-scale unemployment. Robust public sector spending, they suggest, reduces unemployment and therefore increases the number of income-tax payers. 






Although austerity measures may help restore financial health to a nation's economy, reduced government spending may lead to higher unemployment.



Economists such as John Maynard Keynes, a British thinker who fathered the school of Keynesian economics, believe that it is the role of governments to increase spending during a recession to replace falling private demand. The logic is that if demand is not propped up and stabilized by the government, unemployment will continue to rise and the economic recession will be prolonged.



But austerity runs contradictory to certain schools of economic thought that have been prominent since the Great Depression. In an economic downturn, falling private income reduces the amount of tax revenue that a government generates. Likewise, government coffers fill up with tax revenue during an economic boom. The irony is that public expenditures, such as unemployment benefits, are needed more during a recession than a boom.


   Examples of Austerity  
  United States  

A model of austerity in response to a recession, occurred in the United States between 1920 and 1921. The unemployment rate in the U.S. economy jumped from 4% to almost 12%. Real gross national product (GNP) declined almost 20% over that time—greater than any single year during the Great Depression or Great Recession except for 1931-1932, when it declined just over 25%.



In a speech in 1920, presidential candidate Warren Harding declared that his administration "will attempt intelligent and courageous deflation, and strike at government borrowing...[and] will attack high cost of government with every energy and facility." After he became president, Harding implemented federal spending decreases and tax cuts to fight the recession, following austerity measures already implemented under President Woodrow Wilson. However, economists and historians argue over whether the austerity measures were necessary, as the economy had already begun to improve by the time Harding took office. Some economists also question whether Harding's measures can be considered austerity measures, as they actually ended up increasing federal tax revenues.


  Greece  

In exchange for bailouts after the Great Recession, the EU and European Central Bank (ECB) embarked on an austerity program that sought to bring Greece's finances under control. The program cut public spending and increased taxes often at the expense of Greece's public workers and was very unpopular. Since then, Greece's deficit has dramatically decreased. The austerity program that the country enacted in 2010, however, provided only mixed benefits to its economy.



Mainly, austerity measures failed to improve the financial situation in Greece because the country struggled in the past with a lack of aggregate demand. Aggregate demand declines with austerity. Structurally, Greece is a country of small businesses rather than large corporations, so it benefits less from the principles of austerity, such as lower interest rates. These small companies do not benefit from a weakened currency, as they are unable to become exporters.



While most of the world followed the financial crisis in 2008 with years of lackluster growth and rising asset prices, Greece remained mired in its own depression. Greece's gross domestic product (GDP) in 2010 was $299.36 billion. In 2014, its GDP was $235.57 billion according to the United Nations. This is staggering destruction in the country's economic fortunes, akin to the Great Depression in the United States in the 1930s.



Greece's problems began following the Great Recession, as the country was spending too much money relative to tax collection. As the country's finances spiraled out of control and interest rates on sovereign debt exploded higher, the country was forced to seek bailouts or default on its debt.




What Is a Budget Deficit?
A budget deficit happens when spending is higher than revenue. For a country, this means that its spending is higher than the money is takes in, usually from taxes. When this happens, governments must borrow money, usually by issuing bonds. This increases the country's national debt.




What Happens When a Country Defaults?
Sovereign default happens when a country cannot pay its debts. Unlike when an individual defaults, a country cannot be forced to pay its debts. But default can cause other economic problems. It may trigger a recession or cause the country's currency to lose value. A country that defaults may also struggle to borrow money in the future because it is seen as a bad economic risk.




Do Austerity Measures Work?
Economists disagree on whether austerity measures work as they are intended to. Supporters of austerity measures argue that large deficits are damaging to the broader economy, which can limit tax revenue. Austerity, under this argument, is effective because it lowers government spending and decreases deficits. Opponents argue that during a recession, austerity is harmful because more people are in need of assistance. Government spending, according to this argument, lowers unemployment, which increases tax revenue and reduces deficits.


   The Bottom Line  

Austerity measures are strict, frugal economic policies used by governments to manage public debt. There are three main types: higher taxes (revenue generation) to fund government spending, revenue generation plus lower government spending, and lower taxes plus lower government spending.



Austerity has been used in many countries, such as the United States and Greece. But it is a controversial policy. Depending on the overall economic situation and its causes, austerity may improve an economy or cause further damage.
What Is the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX)?  

The Australian Securities Exchange is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. The Exchange in its current form was created through the merger of the Australian Stock Exchange and Sydney Futures Exchange in 2006. The ASX acts as a market operator, clearing house, and payments facilitator. It also provides educational materials to retail investors.


   Understanding the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX)  

ASX is consistently ranked among the top exchanges globally. Other major exchanges include the Tokyo Stock Exchange or TSE, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Nasdaq, and the London Stock Exchange (LSE). Each exchange has specific listing requirements that include regular financial reports and minimum capital requirements. For example, in 2021, the NYSE has a key listing requirement that stipulated aggregate shareholders equity for last three fiscal years of greater than or equal to $10 million, a global market capitalization of $200 million, and a minimum share price of $4. In addition, for initial public offerings and secondary issuers must have 400 shareholders.


   Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and Electronic Trading  

As with the majority of international exchanges, ASX’s relies on a hefty data center to help connect it to leading financial hubs and facilitate electronic trading. Electronic trading gained strong traction with NYSE’s 2005 acquisition of rival market the Archipelago Exchange—a fully electronic exchange that listed new and fast-growing companies. NYSE Arca was the new name following the acquisition. Cybersecurity is an increasing concern as exchanges become more interconnected via the internet.


   ASX and Education  

The Australian Securities Exchange has a strong emphasis on educating visitors to its website, the investing public, and current and potential listers. For example, for first-time investors, ASX offers free resources for understanding the public markets, exploring different asset classes, and developing a personal investment strategy. Visitors can download a series of tutorials and guidebooks. In addition, ASX offers a game-version of trading where players do not have to risk real money; instead, they can learn the basics in a risk-free environment.
What is Autarky?  

Autarky refers to a nation that operates in a state of self-reliance. Nations that follow a policy of autarky are characterized by self-sufficiency and limited trade with global partners. The definition of autarky comes from the Greek—autos, meaning "self" and arkein, meaning "to ward off" and "to be strong enough, to suffice." A fully autarkic nation would be a closed economy and lacking any sources of external support, trade or aid. In practice, however, no modern nation has achieved this level of autarky, even when subjected to punishing sanctions. This is because the global supply chain has made true economic isolation difficult, so any policy of autarky is a matter of degrees rather than a complete isolation.


   Understanding Autarky  

Autarky can be thought of as an extreme form of economic nationalism and protectionism. The motivation behind a policy of autarky is usually a combination of securing the supply of important goods and a desire to reduce the dependence on other nations in general. Depending on the type of political structure in a nation, the goal of reducing dependence on outside nations may be related to reducing the influence of competing political and economic systems. At various points in history, however, autarky has been proposed by groups all across the political spectrum. When framed in terms of keeping domestic spending at home or stopping the transfer of wealth to bad political actors, autarky touches populist themes and appears to make practical sense.





Key Takeaways

Autarky refers to the state of self-sufficiency and is typically used to describe nations or economies that have the goal of reducing their dependence on international trade.There are no fully-autarkic nations in the modern world, as even the most isolated have some level of participation in international trade and receive outside support or aid.North Korea and Nazi Germany are two examples of nations that have pursued a policy of autarky. The justification for autarky often draws on populist arguments of keeping money at home and out of the hands of politically unfriendly nations. 



In practice, however, autarky has economic downsides that are not immediately apparent in the populist arguments. Autarky was first questioned by economist Adam Smith, and then David Ricardo.﻿﻿ Smith suggested that countries should engage in free trade and specialize in goods they have an absolute advantage in producing, in order to generate more wealth. This is one of the core arguments Smith made in favor of free trade in The Wealth of Nations. Ricardo amended this argument slightly, saying that countries should also produce goods in which they have a comparative advantage. By leveraging comparative advantages, countries are able to work together to create more wealth in the global system of trade.



Put another way, opting out of global trade in favor of doing it all domestically has a high opportunity cost for nations, just as it does for individuals. For example, a family preoccupied with sewing their own clothes, building their own furniture, and growing their own food will necessarily have less time to work outside the home for wages. This will likely result in less income for the household and less workers for nearby employers - and, ultimately, a smaller economy due to the high degree of self-sufficiency being practiced. This is true on a global scale as well.


   Real World Examples of Autarky  

Historically, autarkic policies have been deployed to different extents. Western European countries deployed them under mercantilist policies from the 16th to the 18th century. This spurred economists like Smith, Ricardo, and Frederic Bastiat to refine free-market and free-trade philosophies as counter arguments.



Nazi Germany also implemented a form or autarky to ensure the strategic supply needed for its war efforts. Today, North Korea stands as the main example of a policy of autarky. North Korea's economic isolation is a mixture of intentional self-reliance to reduce international political influence and imposed self-reliance due to being cut out of international trade through sanctions.






One of the most extreme examples of contemporary autarky is North Korea, which relies on the concept of juche, often translated as "self-reliance."


   Autarky and the Autarkic Price  

A related term, autarky price or autarkic price, refers to the cost of a good in an autarkic state. The cost of producing in a closed economy must be covered by the price charged for the good. If the cost is higher relative to other nations, then the autarky price is a dead loss for that national economy. The autarkic price is sometimes used as an economic variable when roughly calculating where a nation's comparative advantages are. In practice, however, comparative advantages are discovered through market mechanisms rather than an economic model.
What is Authorized Stock?  

Authorized stock, or authorized shares, refers to the maximum number of shares that a corporation is legally permitted to issue, as specified in its articles of incorporation in the U.S., or in the company's charter in other parts of the world. It is also usually listed in the capital accounts section of the balance sheet. Authorized shares should not be confused with outstanding shares, which are the number of shares the corporation has actually issued that are held by the public.



Authorized stock is also known as authorized shares or authorized capital stock.


   Understanding Authorized Stock  

When a company is formed, it decides on the maximum number of shares it would like to offer. These shares are referred to as authorized stock. The shares that are issued to the public to trade on the open markets comprise all or a portion of a company's authorized stock. The number of shares actually available to trade is known as float. In addition, restricted shares, which are reserved for employee compensation and incentives, are also part of authorized shares. The total number of a company's outstanding shares as seen in the balance sheet is the sum of float and restricted shares. If outstanding shares are less than authorized shares, the difference (unissued stock) is what the company retains in its treasury. A company that issues all of its authorized stock will have its outstanding shares equal to authorized shares. Outstanding shares can never exceed the authorized number, since the authorized shares total is the maximum number of shares that a company can issue.





Key Takeaways

Authorized stock refers to the maximum number of shares a publicly-traded company can issue, as specified in its articles of incorporation or charter.Those shares which have already been issued to the public, known as outstanding shares, make up some portion of a company's authorized stock.The difference between a company's authorized shares and its outstanding shares is what the company retains in its treasury.


   Why a Company Might Not Issue All of Its Authorized Shares  

The number of authorized shares is typically higher than those actually issued, which allows the company to offer and sell more shares in the future if it needs to raise additional funds. For example, if a company has 1 million authorized shares, it might only sell 500,000 of the shares during its initial public offering (IPO). The company might reserve 50,000 of authorized stock as stock options to attract and retain employees. It might sell 150,000 more in a secondary offering to raise more money in the future. The unissued stock that will be retained in the company's treasury account will be 1 million - 500,000 - 50,000 - 150,000 = 300,000.



Another reason a company might not want to issue all of its authorized shares is to maintain a controlling interest in the company and prevent the possibility of a hostile takeover.


   Example of Authorized Stock  

Amazon’s corporate charter, for example, states that the company’s total authorized stock shall include 5 billion shares of common stock and 500 million shares of preferred stock. The charter permits Amazon to increase its authorized stock if there isn’t enough unissued common stock to allow for the conversion of preferred stock.﻿﻿ Corporate charters often require shareholder approval to increase the number of shares of authorized stock.



An investor might want to know how many authorized shares a company has in order to analyze the potential for stock dilution. Dilution reduces a stockholder’s share of ownership and voting power in a company and reduces a stock’s earnings per share (EPS) following the issue of new stock. The larger the difference between the number of authorized shares and the number of outstanding shares, the greater the potential for dilution.
What Is Autocorrelation?  

Autocorrelation is a mathematical representation of the degree of similarity between a given time series and a lagged version of itself over successive time intervals. It's conceptually similar to the correlation between two different time series, but autocorrelation uses the same time series twice: once in its original form and once lagged one or more time periods. 



For example, if it's rainy today, the data suggests that it's more likely to rain tomorrow than if it's clear today. When it comes to investing, a stock might have a strong positive autocorrelation of returns, suggesting that if it's "up" today, it's more likely to be up tomorrow, too.



Naturally, autocorrelation can be a useful tool for traders to utilize; particularly for technical analysts.





Key Takeaways

Autocorrelation represents the degree of similarity between a given time series and a lagged version of itself over successive time intervals.Autocorrelation measures the relationship between a variable's current value and its past values.An autocorrelation of +1 represents a perfect positive correlation, while an autocorrelation of -1 represents a perfect negative correlation.Technical analysts can use autocorrelation to measure how much influence past prices for a security have on its future price.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Autocorrelation  

Autocorrelation can also be referred to as lagged correlation or serial correlation, as it measures the relationship between a variable's current value and its past values.



As a very simple example, take a look at the five percentage values in the chart below. We are comparing them to the column on the right, which contains the same set of values, just moved up one row.










 Day
 % Gain or Loss
Next Day's % Gain or Loss


 Monday
 10%
 5%


 Tuesday
 5%
 -2%


 Wednesday
 -2%
 -8%


 Thursday
 -8%
 -5%


 Friday
 -5%
 






When calculating autocorrelation, the result can range from -1 to +1.



An autocorrelation of +1 represents a perfect positive correlation (an increase seen in one time series leads to a proportionate increase in the other time series).













On the other hand, an autocorrelation of -1 represents a perfect negative correlation (an increase seen in one time series results in a proportionate decrease in the other time series).













Autocorrelation measures linear relationships. Even if the autocorrelation is minuscule, there can still be a nonlinear relationship between a time series and a lagged version of itself.


  Autocorrelation Tests  

The most common method of test autocorrelation is the Durbin-Watson test. Without getting too technical, the Durbin-Watson is a statistic that detects autocorrelation from a regression analysis.



The Durbin-Watson always produces a test number range from 0 to 4. Values closer to 0 indicate a greater degree of positive correlation, values closer to 4 indicate a greater degree of negative autocorrelation, while values closer to the middle suggest less autocorrelation.





Correlation vs. Autocorrelation

Correlation measures the relationship between two variables, whereas autocorrelation measures the relationship of a variable with lagged values of itself.



So why is autocorrelation important in financial markets? Simple. Autocorrelation can be applied to thoroughly analyze historical price movements, which investors can then use to predict future price movements. Specifically, autocorrelation can be used to determine if a momentum trading strategy makes sense.


   Autocorrelation in Technical Analysis  

Autocorrelation can be useful for technical analysis, That's because technical analysis is most concerned with the trends of, and relationships between, security prices using charting techniques. This is in contrast with fundamental analysis, which focuses instead on a company's financial health or management.



Technical analysts can use autocorrelation to figure out how much of an impact past prices for a security have on its future price.



Autocorrelation can help determine if there is a momentum factor at play with a given stock. If a stock with a high positive autocorrelation posts two straight days of big gains, for example, it might be reasonable to expect the stock to rise over the next two days, as well.


   Example of Autocorrelation  

Let’s assume Rain is looking to determine if a stock's returns in their portfolio exhibit autocorrelation; that is, the stock's returns relate to its returns in previous trading sessions.



If the returns exhibit autocorrelation, Rain could characterize it as a momentum stock because past returns seem to influence future returns. Rain runs a regression with the prior trading session's return as the independent variable and the current return as the dependent variable. They find that returns one day prior have a positive autocorrelation of 0.8.



Since 0.8 is close to +1, past returns seem to be a very good positive predictor of future returns for this particular stock.



Therefore, Rain can adjust their portfolio to take advantage of the autocorrelation, or momentum, by continuing to hold their position or accumulating more shares.




What Is the Difference Between Autocorrelation and Multicollinearity?
Autocorrelation is the degree of correlation of a variable's values over time. Multicollinearity occurs when independent variables are correlated and one can be predicted from the other. An example of autocorrelation includes measuring the weather for a city on June 1 and the weather for the same city on June 5. Multicollinearity measures the correlation of two independent variables, such as a person's height and weight.




Why Is Autocorrelation Problematic?
Most statistical tests assume the independence of observations. In other words, the occurrence of one tells nothing about the occurrence of the other. Autocorrelation is problematic for most statistical tests because it refers to the lack of independence between values.




What Is Autocorrelation Used for?
Autocorrelation can be used in many disciplines but is often seen in technical analysis. Technical analysts evaluate securities to identify trends and make predictions about their future performance based on those trends.


   The Bottom Line  

Autocorrelation is the correlation of a time series and its lagged version over time. Although similar to correlation, autocorrelation uses the same time series twice. Financial analysts and traders use autocorrelation to examine historical price movements and predict future ones. Technical analysts use autocorrelation to determine what or how much of an impact historical prices of a security have on its future price. Although a very useful tool, it is often used with other statistical measures in financial analysis.
What Is the Automated Clearing House (ACH)?  

The Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic funds-transfer system run by Nacha. The Automated Clearing House traces its roots back to the late 1960s but was officially established in the mid-1970s. The payment system provides many types of ACH transactions, such as payroll deposits. It requires a debit or credit from the originator and a credit or debit on the recipient's end.





Key Takeaways

The Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic funds-transfer system that facilitates payments in the U.S. and internationally.The ACH is run by Nacha.Recent rule changes enable most credit and debit transactions made through the ACH to clear on the same business day.ACH transactions make transferring money quick and easy.Banks may limit the amount you can transfer and impose fees.


   How the Automated Clearing House (ACH) Works  

The ACH Network is an electronic system that serves financial institutions to facilitate financial transactions in the U.S. It represents more than 10,000 financial institutions. ACH transactions totaled more than $72.6 trillion in 2022 by enabling over 30 billion electronic financial transactions.



The network essentially acts as a financial hub and helps people and organizations move money from one bank account to another. ACH transactions consist of deposits and payments, including:



Business-to-business (B2B) transactions
Government transactions
Consumer transactions



Here's how the system works. An originator starts a direct deposit or direct payment transaction using the ACH network via debit and credit. The originator's bank, also known as the originating depository financial institution, takes the ACH transaction and batches it together with other ACH transactions to be sent out at regular times throughout the day.



An ACH operator, either the Federal Reserve or a clearinghouse, receives the batch of ACH transactions from the originating institution with the originator's transaction. The ACH operator sorts the batch and makes transactions available to the bank or financial institution of the intended recipient, also known as the receiving depository financial institution. The recipient's bank account receives the transaction, thus reconciling both accounts and ending the process.






Changes to NACHA's operating rules in March 2021 expanded access to same-day ACH transactions, which allows for same-day settlement of most (if not all) ACH transactions.


   Special Considerations  

The ACH payment system is offered by Nacha. Formerly known as the National Automated Clearing House Association, it's a self-regulating institution. The ACH network's history dates back to 1968 but wasn't officially established until 1974.



This network manages, develops, and administers the rules surrounding electronic payments. The organization's operating rules are designed to facilitate growth in the size and scope of electronic payments within the network.






Types of ACH transactions include payroll and other direct deposits, tax refunds, consumer bills, tax payments, and many more payment services in the U.S. and internationally.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the ACH  
  Advantages  

Because the ACH Network batches financial transactions together and processes them at specific intervals throughout the day, it makes online transactions extremely fast and easy. NACHA rules state that the average ACH debit transaction settles within one business day, and the average ACH credit transaction settles within one to two business days.



The use of the ACH network to facilitate electronic transfers of money has also increased the efficiency and timeliness of government and business transactions. More recently, ACH transfers have made it easier and cheaper for individuals to send money to each other directly from their bank accounts by direct deposit transfer or e-check.



ACH for individual banking services typically took two or three business days for monies to clear. Starting in 2016, NACHA rolled out in three phases for same-day ACH settlement. Phase 3, launched in March 2018, requires receiving depository financial institutions (RDFIs) to make same-day ACH credit and debit transactions available to the receiver for withdrawal no later than 5 p.m. They must be in the RDFI's local time on the settlement date of the transaction and are subject to the right of return under NACHA rules.



Originally, the ACH network only worked between U.S. accounts. This meant you couldn't conduct any transactions meant for international transfers using this payment system. In 2021, Nacha introduced International ACH Transactions (IAT), which allow banks to transact internationally.


  Disadvantages  

Certain financial institutions may restrict the amount of money you can transfer. If you want to do a large transfer, you may have to do this in multiple steps. For instance, if you're transferring money to your child who's away in college, you may be limited to transfers of $1,000. If they need more for books and rent, you will be required to send more than one transfer.



Some banks charge fees for ACH transactions. And this can be a per-transaction fee. If you're used to doing multiple transactions, this can add up and put a big dent in your bottom line.





Pros

Makes online transactions quick and easy
Increases efficiency and timeliness
Provides same-day banking transactions
Internationally available



Cons

Banks may limit transaction amounts
Fees







How Does the Automated Clearing House Work?
An Automated Clearing House or ACH transaction begins with a request from the originator. Their bank batches the transaction with others to be sent out during the day. The batch is received and sorted by a clearinghouse, which sends individual transactions out to receiving banks. Each receiving bank deposits the money into the recipient's account.




What Is an Automated Clearing House Transaction?
An Automated Clearing House or ACH transaction is an electronic transaction that requires a debit from an originating bank and a credit to a receiving bank. Transactions go through a clearinghouse that batches and sends them to the recipient's bank. Transactions usually are executed on the same day as long as they are done before 5 p.m.




Are There Any Disadvantages to Automated Clearing House Transactions?
ACH transactions may come with fees, depending on your bank. This means the more you do, the more you'll spend on fees. Certain banks limit the amount of money you can transfer through the system, so if you want to transfer large amounts of money to other people, you may have to do so through multiple transactions.


   The Bottom Line  

Sending money to someone else used to be a big hassle. But the advent of electronic technology is making things much easier. The Automated Clearing House (ACH) facilitates transfers between banks. This eliminates the need to withdraw money from one account and deposit it into another.



The network is updated to allow businesses and individuals to execute transactions on the same day. But keep in mind that there are some restrictions. You may be limited in how much you can transfer, and you may incur fees. Check with your bank about how it handles ACH transactions.
What Is the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (ACATS)?  

The Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (ACATS) is a system that facilitates the transfer of securities from one trading account to another at a different brokerage firm or bank.



The National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) developed the ACATS system, replacing the previous manual asset transfer system with this fully automated and standardized one. This greatly reduced the cost and time of moving assets between brokerage accounts as well as cut down on human error.





Key Takeaways

The Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (ACATS) can be used to transfer stocks, bonds, cash, unit trusts, mutual funds, options, and other investment products.The system may be required when an investor wants to move their account from Broker Company A to Broker Company B.Only NSCC-eligible members and Depository Trust Company member banks can use the ACATS system.Once the customer account information is properly matched and the receiving firm decides to accept the account, the delivering firm will take approximately three days to move the assets to the new firm. This is called the delivery process.Some brokerages will charge their customers an ACAT fee per transfer.


   How the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (ACATS) Works  

The ACATS system is initiated when the new receiving firm has the client sign the appropriate transfer documents. Once the document is received in good order, the receiving firm submits a request using the client's account number and sends it to the delivering firm. If the information matches between both the delivering firm and the receiving firm, the ACATS process can begin. The process takes usually takes three to six business days to complete.



The ACATS simplifies the process of moving assets from one brokerage firm to another. The delivering firm transfers the exact holdings to the receiving firm. For example, if the client had 100 shares of Stock XYZ at the delivering firm, then the receiving firm receives the same amount, with the same purchase price.



This makes it more convenient for clients, as they do not need to liquidate their positions and then repurchase them with the new firm. Another benefit is that clients do not need to let their previous brokerage firm or advisor know beforehand. If they are unhappy with their current broker, they can simply go to a new one and start the transfer process.


   Securities Eligible for ACATS  

Clients can transfer all publicly traded stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), cash, bonds, and most mutual funds through the ACATS system.



ACATS can also transfer certificates of deposit (CDs) from banking institutions through the ACATS system, as long as it is a member of the NSCC. ACATS also works on all types of accounts, such as taxable accounts, individual retirement accounts (IRAs), trusts, and brokerage 401(k)s.






Transfers involving qualified retirement accounts like IRAs may take longer, as both the sending and receiving firm must validate the tax status of the account to avoid errors that could cause a taxable event.


   Securities Ineligible for ACATS  

There are several types of securities that cannot go through the ACATS system. Annuities cannot transfer through the system, as those funds are held with an insurance company. To transfer the agent of record on an annuity, the client must fill out the correct form to make the change and initiate the process via what is known as a 1035 exchange.



Other ineligible securities depend on the regulations of the receiving brokerage firm or bank. Many institutions have proprietary investments, such as non-transferrable mutual funds and alternative investments that may need to be liquidated and which may not be available for repurchase through the new broker. Also, some firms may not transfer unlisted shares or financial products that trade over the counter (OTC).




How Does an ACATS Transfer Work?
An ACATS transfer is initiated by a brokerage customer at the receiving institution by submitting a Transfer Information (TI) record. The TI contains all of the information needed to identify the customer's existing brokerage account and where it will be delivered. The delivering firm must respond to the output within one business day, by either adding the assets that are subject to the transfer or by rejecting the transfer. Before delivery is made, a review period is opened during which the sending and receiving firm can confirm the assets to be transferred.




What Is the Difference Between an ACATS and Non-ACATS Transfer?
The main difference between an ACATS transfer and a manual (non-ACATS) transfer is primarily one of automating the process such that it cuts the delivery time down to 3-6 business days for ACATS vs. up to one month or more for a non-ACATS transfer. The other difference is that the automated system is far less prone to mistakes, typos, and other forms of human error.




What Is an ACAT Out Fee?
Some brokers charge existing customers a fee to ACAT assets out of their account to a new brokerage. This fee can be as high as $100 or more per transfer. Brokerage firms charge this fee to make it more costly to close the account and move assets elsewhere. Not all brokerages charge these fees, so check with yours before initiating a transfer.
What Is an Automated Teller Machine (ATM)?  

An automated teller machine (ATM) is an electronic banking outlet that allows customers to complete basic transactions without the aid of a branch representative or teller. Anyone with a credit card or debit card can access cash at most ATMs, either in the U.S. or other countries.



ATMs are convenient, allowing consumers to perform quick self-service transactions such as deposits, cash withdrawals, bill payments, and transfers between accounts.



Fees are commonly charged for cash withdrawals by the bank where the account is located, by the operator of the ATM, or by both. Some or all of these fees can be avoided by using an ATM operated directly by the bank network that holds the account. Using an ATM abroad can cost more than using one in the U.S. due to exchange rates or transaction fees.





Key Takeaways

ATMS, or automated teller machines, are banking outlets where you can withdraw cash without going into a branch of their bank.Some ATMs only dispense cash, while others allow transactions such as check deposits or balance transfers.The first ATMs appeared in 1960s and now number more than 2 million worldwide.Today’s ATMs are capable of accepting deposits as well as administering several other banking services.To avoid ATM fees, try to use an ATM by your own bank.


   History of ATMs  

The first ATM appeared at a branch of Barclays Bank in London in 1967, though there are reports of a cash dispenser in use in Japan in the mid-1960s. The interbank communications networks that allowed a consumer to use one bank’s card at another bank’s ATM followed in the 1970s.



Within a few years, ATMs had spread around the globe, securing a presence in every major country. They now can be found even in tiny island nations such as Kiribati and the Federated States of Micronesia.



ATMs are also known automated bank machines (ABMs), cashpoints, or cash machines.





More than 4 million

Number of ATMs in use around the world.


   Types of ATMs  

There are two main types of ATMs. Basic units only allow you to withdraw cash and receive updated account balances.



The more complex machines accept deposits, facilitate line of credit payments and transfers, and access account information. To access the advanced features of the complex units, you often must be an accountholder at the bank that operates the machine.






You can now buy and sell Bitcoin and other crypto tokens via Bitcoin ATMs, Bitcoin ATMsare internet-connected terminals that will dispense cash in return for crypto. They may also accept cash or credit card to purchase crypto. There are now more than 28,000 Bitcoin ATMs located around the world.


   ATM Design Elements  

The design of each ATM may be different, but they all contain the same basic parts:



Card reader: This part reads the chip on the front of your card or the magnetic stripe on the back.
Keypad: The keypad is used to input information, including your personal identification number (PIN), the type of transaction required, and the amount of the transaction.
Cash dispenser: Bills are dispensed through a slot in the machine, which is connected to a safe at the bottom of the machine.
Printer: If required, you can request receipts that are printed out of the ATM. The receipt records the type of transaction, the amount, and the current account balance.
Screen: The ATM issues prompts that guide you through the process of executing the transaction. Information about accounts and their balances is also transmitted on the screen.



Full-service machines often have slots for depositing paper checks or cash.


   How To Use an ATM  

To use an ATM, you typically insert your bank cards and follow the prompts to withdraw cash, which is dispensed through a slot. ATMs require you to use a plastic card—either a bank debit card or a credit card—to complete a transaction. Your identity is authenticated by a PIN before any transaction can be made.



Many cards come with a chip, which transmits data from the card to the machine. These work in the same way as a bar code that is scanned by a code reader.



Banks place ATMs inside and outside of their branches. Other ATMs are located in high-traffic areas such as shopping centers, grocery stores, convenience stores, airports, bus and railway stations, gas stations, casinos, restaurants, and other locations.






Most ATMs in banks are multifunctional, while off-site ATMs are generally only for cash withdrawals.


   ATM Fees  

Account holders can typically use their bank’s ATMs at no charge, but an ATM owned by another bank usually charges a fee. According to MoneyRates.com, the average total fees to withdraw cash from an out-of-network ATM was $4.55 in 2022. Some banks will reimburse their customers for the fee, especially if there is no corresponding ATM available in the area.



ATM fees can add up for users who make withdrawals regularly. For example, if you make weekly withdrawals at an ATM that charges $4 and is not from your bank, you would pay more than $200 a year in ATM fees.


   Using ATMs Outside the U.S.  

ATMs make it easier for you to access your checking or savings accounts from almost anywhere in the world when you travel.



Travel experts recommend using foreign ATMs as a source of cash abroad, as they generally receive a more favorable exchange rate than they would at most currency exchange offices.



However, the accountholder’s bank may charge a transaction fee or a percentage of the amount exchanged. Many ATMs don't list the exchange rate on the receipt, making it difficult to track spending.




How Much Can You Withdraw from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM)?
The amount that you can withdraw from an automated teller machine (ATM) per day, per week, or per month will vary based on your bank and account status at that bank. For instance, some banks limit daily cash withdrawals to $300. But most Citibank accounts allow up to $1,500, depending on your account. You may be able to get around these limits by calling your bank to request permission or upgrading your banking status by depositing more funds.




How Do You Make a Deposit at an ATM?
If you are a bank’s customer, you may be able to deposit cash or checks via one of their ATMs. To do this, you may simply need to insert the checks or cash directly into the machine. Other machines may require you to fill out a deposit slip and put the money into an envelope before inserting it into the machine. Be sure to endorse the back of any checks and note “For Deposit Only” to be safer.




Which Bank Installed the First ATM in the U.S.?
The first ATM in the U.S. was installed by Chemical Bank in Rockville Center (Long Island), New York, in 1969 (two years after Barclays installed the first ATM in the U.K.). By the end of 1971, more than 1,000 ATMs were installed worldwide.


   The Bottom Line  

ATM, or automated teller machine, is a machine that lets you get cash from your bank account without visiting a teller. Some ATMs are simple cash dispensers, while others allow a variety of transactions such as check deposits, balance transfers, and bill payments. Before you make a withdrawal, make sure you understand what fees you will have to pay.
What Is an Automatic Bill Payment?  

An automatic bill payment is a money transfer scheduled on a predetermined date to pay a recurring bill. Automatic bill payments are routine payments made from a banking, brokerage, or mutual fund account to vendors.



Automatic payments are usually set up with the company receiving the payment, though it’s also possible to schedule automatic payments through a checking account’s online bill pay service. Automatic bill payments occur over an electronic payment system, such as the Automated Clearing House (ACH).





Key Takeaways

An automatic bill payment occurs when money is automatically transferred on a scheduled date to pay a recurring bill, such as a mortgage, credit card, or utility bill.Individuals can set up an automatic bill payment through their online checking account, brokerage, or mutual fund to pay their monthly bills.Advantages of automatic bill payments include the ease of automated payment, the ability to avoid late payments, and the potential to maintain or improve your credit score.Disadvantages of automatic bill payments include the difficulty in canceling them, the need to keep adequate funds in your checking account, and the potential of incurring a returned payment or late fee.


   How an Automatic Bill Payment Works  

Automatic bill payments can be scheduled for all types of payment transactions. This can include installment loans, auto loans, mortgage loans, credit card bills, electric bills, cable bills, and more. These payments can be automated quite easily from a checking account.



Setting up automatic bill payment involves making arrangements with the bank holding the checking account to make the exact payment each month. The set of instructions is typically created online by the account holder. More frequently, this power is given to the vendor (the utility company, for example) to charge the checking account for whatever amount is owed that particular month. In both cases, the individual paying the bill must initiate the automatic bill payment and provide the necessary information required to make automated recurring payments.





Pros

Payments are easy to automate from a checking account.
Organizing automatic bill payments helps you avoid late payments. 
Paying automatically (and always on time) helps you improve or maintain a good credit score.
Once payments are set up, you don’t have to keep doing the task each month.



Cons

If you don't keep a cushion in your checking account, an automatic payment could bounce.
You may incur a returned payment fee or late fee.
You could miss catching mistakes or fraud because the payment is automatic.
Automatic payments can be difficult to cancel.





   Example of an Automatic Bill Payment  

Automatic payments save consumers the hassle of having to remember to make a payment month after month. They can also help consumers avoid late payments.



For example, suppose you have a $300 car payment due on the 10th of every month for the next 60 months. Instead of logging into your online account with the auto loan company to schedule the same payment each month, you could set up automatic payments one time and agree to have $300 automatically transferred from your checking account to the auto loan company on the fifth day of each month. This way, you know your payment will never be late, and you’ll avoid the trouble of doing the same task each month. You'll also improve—or maintain—a good credit score.


   Disadvantages of Automatic Bill Payments  

Automatic payments have a couple of potential downsides. If you forget about your scheduled automatic payments and do not maintain a cushion in your checking account, an automatic payment could bounce. Not only will your bill remain unpaid but you might also incur a returned payment fee from the company you were trying to pay, as well as a late fee for missing the due date. And automatic payments aren’t infallible. You still need to check regularly to make sure your scheduled payments have gone through as expected.



Another problem can occur when you authorize automatic payments that vary in amount. For example, suppose you set up automatic payments of your credit card bill from your checking account. If you don’t look at your credit card bill when it arrives, you might have an ugly surprise when it’s automatically paid in a much higher amount than you expected because of a mistake or fraud—or because you simply didn’t realize how much you had spent.



Automatic payments can also be difficult to cancel. Additionally, consumers might forget about certain automatic payments and continue to pay for services that they no longer want.
What Is an Automatic Premium Loan?  

An automatic premium loan (APL) is an insurance policy provision that allows the insurer to deduct the amount of an outstanding premium from the value of the policy when the premium is due.



Automatic premium loan provisions are most commonly associated with cash value life insurance policies, such as whole life, and allow a policy to continue to be in force rather than lapsing due to nonpayment of the premium.





Key Takeaways

Automatic premium loans allow for the cash value of a permanent life insurance policy to be applied to overdue premium payments.As the name implies, this would be done automatically once premium payments are a certain amount of time overdue.The purpose is to avoid having a policy lapse, which would terminate coverage.The payment is structured as a policy loan, and so will also require interest payments.Automatic premium loans are only viable if the policy's cash value is equal to or greater than the overdue premium amount.


   Understanding Automatic Premium Loans  

In order to take an automatic premium loan, you have to have a cash-value life insurance policy, in which every premium you pay adds to the cash value of the policy. Depending on the policy language, life insurance policyholders may be able to take out a loan against the cash value of their policy. This accrued cash value is a value over and above the face value of the policy and can be borrowed against by the policyholder at their discretion.



An automatic premium loan is essentially a loan taken out against the policy and does carry an interest rate. If the policyholder continues to use this method of paying the premium, it is possible that the cash value of the insurance policy will reach zero.



At this point, the policy will lapse because there is nothing left against which to take out a loan. If the policy is canceled with an outstanding loan, the amount of the loan plus any interest is deducted from the cash value of the policy before it is closed.






Note that the policy contract’s language may indicate that no loans may be taken out unless the premium has been paid in full.


   Special Considerations  

Since the accrued value is technically the property of the policyholder, borrowing against the cash value does not require a credit application, loan collateral, or other good faith requirements typically found in loans. The loan is taken out against the cash value of the policy, and the loan balance is deducted from the policy’s cash value if not repaid. The policyholder will owe interest on the loan, just as with a standard loan.



Automatic premium loan provisions help both the insurer and the policyholder: The insurer can continue to automatically collect periodic premiums rather than sending reminders to the policyholder, and the policyholder is able to maintain coverage even when they forget or are unable to send in a check to cover the policy premium.



The policyholder may still choose to pay the premium by the regularly scheduled due date, but if the premium is not paid within a certain number of days after the grace period, such as 60 days, the outstanding premium amount is deducted from the policy's cash value. This prevents the policy from lapsing. If the automatic premium loan provision is used, the insurer will inform the policyholder of the transaction.






An automatic premium loan taken out against an insurance policy is still a loan and, as such, does carry an interest rate.




What Kinds of Life Insurance Policies Are Eligible to Include an Automatic Premium Loan Provision?
Automatic premium loans can only be made from permanent policies that have a cash-value component. These include whole life policies and some universal life (UL) policies. Because universal life policies deduct expenses from the cash value, they do not always allow ALP.




What Is the Automatic Premium Loan Provision Designed to Do?
Automatic premium loans are designed to keep life insurance coverage in-force even after the policy owner has not paid the required premiums on time. Perhaps the policy owner is unable to pay due to financial or other difficulties, or simply forgot. Either way, the APL provision allows the death benefit to remain even in such circumstances.




Does an Automatic Premium Loan Decrease the Death Benefit of a Policy?
Potentially. Any outstanding loans along with interest due will be deducted from the death benefit amount if the insured passes away before these are paid back.
What Is an Automatic Stabilizer?  

Automatic stabilizers are a type of fiscal policy designed to offset fluctuations in a nation's economic activity through their normal operation without additional, timely authorization by the government or policymakers.



The best-known automatic stabilizers are progressively graduated corporate and personal income taxes, and transfer systems such as unemployment insurance and welfare. Automatic stabilizers are called this because they act to stabilize economic cycles and are automatically triggered without additional government action.





Key Takeaways

Automatic stabilizers are ongoing government policies that automatically adjust tax rates and transfer payments in a manner that is intended to stabilize incomes, consumption, and business spending over the business cycle.Automatic stabilizers are a type of fiscal policy, which is favored by Keynesian economics as a tool to combat economic slumps and recessions.In the event of acute or lasting economic downturns, governments often back up automatic stabilizers with one-time or temporary stimulus policies to try to jump-start the economy.


   Understanding Automatic Stabilizers  

Automatic stabilizers are primarily designed to counter negative economic shocks or recessions, though they can also be intended to “cool off” an expanding economy or to combat inflation. By their normal operation, these policies take more money out of the economy as taxes during periods of rapid growth and higher incomes. They put more money back into the economy in the form of government spending or tax refunds when economic activity slows or incomes fall. This has the intended purpose of cushioning the economy from changes in the business cycle. 



Automatic stabilizers can include the use of a progressive taxation structure under which the share of income that is taken in taxes is higher when incomes are high. The amount then falls when incomes fall due to a recession, job losses, or failing investments. For example, as an individual taxpayer earns higher wages, their additional income may be subjected to higher tax rates based on the current tiered structure. If wages fall, the individual will remain in the lower tax tiers as dictated by their earned income.



Similarly, unemployment insurance transfer payments decline when the economy is in an expansionary phase since there are fewer unemployed people filing claims. Unemployment payments rise when the economy is mired in recession and unemployment is high. When a person becomes unemployed in a manner that makes them eligible for unemployment insurance, they need only file to claim the benefit. The amount of benefit offered is governed by various state and national regulations and standards, requiring no intervention by larger government entities beyond application processing.


   Automatic Stabilizers and Fiscal Policy  

When an economy is in a recession, automatic stabilizers may by design result in higher budget deficits. This aspect of fiscal policy is a tool of Keynesian economics that uses government spending and taxes to support aggregate demand in the economy during economic downturns.



By taking less money out of private businesses and households in taxes and giving them more in the form of payments and tax refunds, fiscal policy is supposed to encourage them to increase, or at least not decrease, their consumption and investment spending. In this case, the goal of fiscal policy is to help prevent an economic setback from deepening.


   Real-World Examples of Automatic Stabilizers  

Automatic stabilizers can also be used in conjunction with other forms of fiscal policy that may require specific legislative authorization. Examples of this include one-time tax cuts or refunds, government investment spending, or direct government subsidy payments to businesses or households.



Some examples of these in the United States were the 2008 one-time tax rebates under the Economic Stimulus Act and the $831 billion in federal direct subsidies, tax breaks, and infrastructure spending under the 2009 American Reinvestment and Recovery Act.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



In 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act became the largest stimulus package in U.S. history. It provided over $2 trillion in government relief in the form of expanded unemployment benefits, direct payments to families and adults, loans and grants to small businesses, loans to corporate America, and billions of dollars to state and local governments.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Since they almost immediately respond to changes in income and unemployment, automatic stabilizers are intended to be the first line of defense to turn mild negative economic trends around. However, governments often turn to other types of larger fiscal policy programs to address more severe or lasting recessions or to target specific regions, industries, or politically favored groups in society for extra-economic relief.
What Is Autonomous Consumption?  

Autonomous consumption is defined as the expenditures that consumers must make even when they have no disposable income. Certain goods need to be purchased, regardless of how much income or money a consumer has in their possession at any given time. When a consumer is low on resources, paying for these necessities can force them to borrow or access money that they had previously been saving.





Key Takeaways

Autonomous consumption is defined as the expenditures that consumers must make even when they have no disposable income.These expenses cannot be eliminated, regardless of limited personal income, and are deemed autonomous or independent as a result.When a consumer is low on resources, paying for their necessities can force them to borrow or access money that they had previously been saving.


   Understanding Autonomous Consumption  

Even if a person has no money, they still need certain things, such as food, shelter, utilities, and healthcare. These expenses cannot be eliminated, regardless of limited personal income, and are deemed autonomous or independent as a result.



Autonomous consumption can be contrasted with discretionary consumption, a term given to goods and services that are considered non-essential by consumers, but desirable if their available income is sufficient to purchase them.



If a consumer's income were to disappear for a time, they would have to either dip into savings or increase debt to finance essential expenses.



The level of autonomous consumption can shift in response to events that limit or eliminate sources of income, or when available savings and financing options are low. This can include the downsizing of a home, changing eating habits, or limiting the use of certain utilities.


  Dissaving  

Dissaving, the opposite of saving, refers to spending money beyond one's available income. This can be achieved by tapping into a savings account, taking cash advances on a credit card, or borrowing against future income (via a payday or regular loan).



Also referred to as negative saving, dissaving can be examined on an individual level or on a larger economic scale. If the autonomous spending within a community or population exceeds the cumulative income of the included individuals, the economy has negative savings (and it is likely taking on debt to finance its expenses).



A person does not need to experience financial hardship for dissaving to take place. For example, a person may have significant savings to pay for a major life event, such as a wedding, to use the accrued funds for a discretionary expense.



Governments allocate their available funds to mandatory, autonomous expenditures or discretionary expenses. Mandatory, or autonomous, expenditure includes funds mandated for specific programs and purposes that are considered necessary for the nation to function properly, such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.



In contrast, discretionary funds can be directed to programs that provide value to society but are not considered critical. Discretionary funds typically support programs related to certain defense activities, education, and transportation programs.


   Autonomous Consumption vs. Induced Consumption  

The difference between autonomous consumption and induced consumption is that the latter should fluctuate depending on income.



Induced consumption is the portion of spending that varies depending on disposable income levels. As the value of disposable income rises, it is expected to induce a similar rise in consumption. People in this situation are likely to spend more money on living lavishly, making more purchases, and incurring greater expenses.
What is an Autonomous Expenditure?  

An autonomous expenditure describes the components of an economy's aggregate expenditure that are not impacted by that same economy's real level of income. This type of spending is considered automatic and necessary, whether occurring at the government level or the individual level. The classical economic theory states that any rise in autonomous expenditures will create at least an equivalent rise in aggregate output, such as GDP, if not a greater increase.


   Understanding Autonomous Expenditure  

An autonomous expenditure obligation must be met regardless of income. It is considered independent in nature, as the need does not vary with incomes. Often, these expenses are associated with the ability to maintain a state of autonomy. Autonomy, in regard to nations, includes the ability to be self-governing. For individuals, it refers to the ability to function within a certain level of societally acceptable independence.



To be considered an autonomous expenditure, the spending must generally be deemed necessary to maintain a base level of function or, in an individual sense, survival. Often, these expenses do not vary regardless of personal disposable income or national income. Autonomous expenditure is tied to autonomous consumption, including all of the financial obligations required to maintain a basic standard of living. All expenses beyond these are considered part of induced consumption, which is affected by changes in disposable income.



In cases in which personal income is insufficient, autonomous expenses still must be paid. These needs can be met through the use of personal savings, consumer borrowing mechanisms such as loans and credit cards, or various social services.





Key Takeaways

Autonomous expenditures are expenditures that are necessary and made by a government, regardless of the level of income in an economy.Most government spending is considered autonomous expenditure because it is necessary to run a nation. Autonomous expenditures are related to autonomous consumption because they are necessary to maintain a basic standard of living. External factors, such as interest rates and trade policies, affect autonomous expenditures.


   Autonomous Expenditures and Income Levels  

While the obligations that qualify as autonomous expenditures do not vary, the amount of income directed toward them can. For example, in an individual sense, the need for food qualifies as an autonomous expenditure, though the need can be fulfilled in a variety of manners, ranging from the use of food stamps to eating every meal at a five-star restaurant. Even though income level may affect how the need is met, the need itself does not change.


   Governments and Autonomous Expenditures  

The vast majority of government spending qualifies as autonomous expenditures. This is due to the fact that the spending often relates strongly to the efficient running of a nation, making some of the expenditures required in order to maintain minimum standards.


   Factors Affecting Autonomous Expenditures  

Technically, autonomous expenditures are not affected by external factors. In reality, however, several factors can affect autonomous expenditures. For example, interest rates have a significant effect on consumption in an economy. High interest rates can tamp down on consumption while low interest rates can spur it. In turn, this affects spending within an economy.



Trade policies between countries can also affect autonomous expenditures made by their citizens. If a producer of cheap goods imposes duties on exports, then it would have the effect of making finished products for outside geographies more expensive. Governments can also impose controls on an individual's autonomous expenditures through taxes. If a basic household good is taxed and no substitutes are available, then the autonomous expenditure pertaining to it may decrease.


   Examples of Autonomous Expenditure  

Some of the spending classes that are considered independent of income levels, which can be counted as either individual income or taxation income, are government expenditures, investments, exports, and basic living expenses such as food and shelter.
What Is an Autoregressive Model?  

A statistical model is autoregressive if it predicts future values based on past values. For example, an autoregressive model might seek to predict a stock's future prices based on its past performance.





Key Takeaways

Autoregressive models predict future values based on past values.They are widely used in technical analysis to forecast future security prices.Autoregressive models implicitly assume that the future will resemble the past.Therefore, they can prove inaccurate under certain market conditions, such as financial crises or periods of rapid technological change.


   Understanding Autoregressive Models  

Autoregressive models operate under the premise that past values have an effect on current values, which makes the statistical technique popular for analyzing nature, economics, and other processes that vary over time. Multiple regression models forecast a variable using a linear combination of predictors, whereas autoregressive models use a combination of past values of the variable.



An AR(1) autoregressive process is one in which the current value is based on the immediately preceding value, while an AR(2) process is one in which the current value is based on the previous two values. An AR(0) process is used for white noise and has no dependence between the terms. In addition to these variations, there are also many different ways to calculate the coefficients used in these calculations, such as the least squares method.



These concepts and techniques are used by technical analysts to forecast security prices. However, since autoregressive models base their predictions only on past information, they implicitly assume that the fundamental forces that influenced the past prices will not change over time. This can lead to surprising and inaccurate predictions if the underlying forces in question are in fact changing, such as if an industry is undergoing rapid and unprecedented technological transformation.



Nevertheless, traders continue to refine the use of autoregressive models for forecasting purposes. A great example is the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA), a sophisticated autoregressive model that can take into account trends, cycles, seasonality, errors, and other non-static types of data when making forecasts.





Analytical Approaches

Although autoregressive models are associated with technical analysis, they can also be combined with other approaches to investing. For example, investors can use fundamental analysis to identify a compelling opportunity and then use technical analysis to identify entry and exit points.


   Example of an Autoregressive Model  

Autoregressive models are based on the assumption that past values have an effect on current values. For example, an investor using an autoregressive model to forecast stock prices would need to assume that new buyers and sellers of that stock are influenced by recent market transactions when deciding how much to offer or accept for the security.



Although this assumption will hold under most circumstances, this is not always the case. For example, in the years prior to the 2008 Financial Crisis, most investors were not aware of the risks posed by the large portfolios of mortgage-backed securities held by many financial firms. During those times, an investor using an autoregressive model to predict the performance of U.S. financial stocks would have had good reason to predict an ongoing trend of stable or rising stock prices in that sector. 



However, once it became public knowledge that many financial institutions were at risk of imminent collapse, investors suddenly became less concerned with these stocks' recent prices and far more concerned with their underlying risk exposure. Therefore, the market rapidly revalued financial stocks to a much lower level, a move which would have utterly confounded an autoregressive model.



It is important to note that, in an autoregressive model, a one-time shock will affect the values of the calculated variables infinitely into the future. Therefore, the legacy of the financial crisis lives on in today’s autoregressive models.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA)?  

An autoregressive integrated moving average, or ARIMA, is a statistical analysis model that uses time series data to either better understand the data set or to predict future trends. 



A statistical model is autoregressive if it predicts future values based on past values. For example, an ARIMA model might seek to predict a stock's future prices based on its past performance or forecast a company's earnings based on past periods.





Key Takeaways

Autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) models predict future values based on past values.ARIMA makes use of lagged moving averages to smooth time series data.They are widely used in technical analysis to forecast future security prices.Autoregressive models implicitly assume that the future will resemble the past. Therefore, they can prove inaccurate under certain market conditions, such as financial crises or periods of rapid technological change.


   Understanding Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA)  

An autoregressive integrated moving average model is a form of regression analysis that gauges the strength of one dependent variable relative to other changing variables. The model's goal is to predict future securities or financial market moves by examining the differences between values in the series instead of through actual values.



An ARIMA model can be understood by outlining each of its components as follows:



Autoregression (AR): refers to a model that shows a changing variable that regresses on its own lagged, or prior, values.
Integrated (I): represents the differencing of raw observations to allow the time series to become stationary (i.e., data values are replaced by the difference between the data values and the previous values).
Moving average (MA):  incorporates the dependency between an observation and a residual error from a moving average model applied to lagged observations.


   ARIMA Parameters  

Each component in ARIMA functions as a parameter with a standard notation. For ARIMA models, a standard notation would be ARIMA with p, d, and q, where integer values substitute for the parameters to indicate the type of ARIMA model used. The parameters can be defined as:



p: the number of lag observations in the model, also known as the lag order.d: the number of times the raw observations are differenced; also known as the degree of differencing.q: the size of the moving average window, also known as the order of the moving average.



For example, a linear regression model includes the number and type of terms. A value of zero (0), which can be used as a parameter, would mean that particular component should not be used in the model. This way, the ARIMA model can be constructed to perform the function of an ARMA model, or even simple AR, I, or MA models.






Because ARIMA models are complicated and work best on very large data sets, computer algorithms and machine learning techniques are used to compute them.


   ARIMA and Stationary Data  

In an autoregressive integrated moving average model, the data are differenced in order to make it stationary. A model that shows stationarity is one that shows there is constancy to the data over time. Most economic and market data show trends, so the purpose of differencing is to remove any trends or seasonal structures. 



Seasonality, or when data show regular and predictable patterns that repeat over a calendar year, could negatively affect the regression model. If a trend appears and stationarity is not evident, many of the computations throughout the process cannot be made and produce the intended results.






A one-time shock will affect subsequent values of an ARIMA model infinitely into the future. Therefore, the legacy of the financial crisis lives on in today’s autoregressive models.


   How to Build an ARIMA Model  

To begin building an ARIMA model for an investment, you download as much of the price data as you can. Once you've identified the trends for the data, you identify the lowest order of differencing (d) by observing the autocorrelations. If the lag-1 autocorrelation is zero or negative, the series is already differenced. You may need to difference the series more if the lag-1 is higher than zero.



Next, determine the order of regression (p) and order of moving average (q) by comparing autocorrelations and partial autocorrelations. Once you have the information you need, you can choose the model you'll use.


   Pros and Cons of ARIMA  

ARIMA models have strong points and are good at forecasting based on past circumstances, but there are more reasons to be cautious when using ARIMA. In stark contrast to investing disclaimers that state "past performance is not an indicator of future performance...," ARIMA models assume that past values have some residual effect on current or future values and use data from the past to forecast future events.



The following table lists other ARIMA traits that demonstrate good and bad characteristics.





Pros

Good for short-term forecasting
Only needs historical data
Models non-stationary data



Cons

Not built for long-term forecasting
Poor at predicting turning points
Computationally expensive
Parameters are subjective







What Is ARIMA Used for?
ARIMA is a method for forecasting or predicting future outcomes based on a historical time series. It is based on the statistical concept of serial correlation, where past data points influence future data points.




What Are the Differences Between Autoregressive and Moving Average Models?
ARIMA combines autoregressive features with those of moving averages. An AR(1) autoregressive process, for instance, is one in which the current value is based on the immediately preceding value, while an AR(2) process is one in which the current value is based on the previous two values. A moving average is a calculation used to analyze data points by creating a series of averages of different subsets of the full data set to smooth out the influence of outliers. As a result of this combination of techniques, ARIMA models can take into account trends, cycles, seasonality, and other non-static types of data when making forecasts.




How Does ARIMA Forecasting Work?
ARIMA forecasting is achieved by plugging in time series data for the variable of interest. Statistical software will identify the appropriate number of lags or amount of differencing to be applied to the data and check for stationarity. It will then output the results, which are often interpreted similarly to that of a multiple linear regression model.


   The Bottom Line  

The ARIMA model is used as a forecasting tool to predict how something will act in the future based on past performance. It is used in technical analysis to predict an asset's future performance.



ARIMA modeling is generally inadequate for long-term forecastings, such as more than six months ahead, because it uses past data and parameters that are influenced by human thinking. For this reason, it is best used with other technical analysis tools to get a clearer picture of an asset's performance.
What Is an Available Balance?  

The available balance in a checking account or on-demand account is the total amount that the account holder is free to use immediately. The available balance is the total amount that has been cleared for deposits or transfers to the account after all deductions and withdrawals have been processed.



A credit card account's available balance is normally referred to as available credit. This is the amount that the account holder is authorized to borrow. It is the account holder's credit line minus any outstanding charges. An account's available balance will at times differ from its current balance. The current balance includes any pending transactions that haven't been cleared.





Key Takeaways

The available balance is the balance available for immediate use in a customer's account.This balance includes any withdrawals, transfers, checks, or any other activity that has already been cleared by the financial institution.The current balance accounts for all recent transactions, including those that have not yet been cleared.Customers can use any or all of the available balance.





How to Avoid Interest Charges

If you want to avoid interest charges on a credit card, pay the statement balance in full by the due date. You do not have to pay the current balance to avoid interest charges. That figure includes newer purchases that won't incur interest charges until the next monthly statement.


   Understanding Available Balance  

When you log into your online banking portal, you will normally see two balances at the top: The available balance and the current balance.



The available balance shows the amount available for immediate use in your account. This balance is updated continuously throughout the day. Any electronic activity that takes place in the account—whether it's a transaction through a teller, an automated teller machine (ATM), at a store, or online—affects this balance almost instantaneously. Any transaction involving a paper check may take several days to show up, depending on how the recipient processes it.



The available balance does not include any pending transactions that have yet to clear.



Depending on both the issuing bank and the receiving bank’s policies, check deposits may take anywhere from one to two days to clear. This process may take much longer if the check is drawn from a non-bank or foreign institution. The time between when a check is deposited and when it is available is often called the float time.



A customer's available balance becomes important when there is a delay in crediting funds to an account. If an issuing bank has not cleared a check deposit, for example, the funds will not be available to the account holder, even though they may show up in the account’s current balance.


   Using the Available Balance  

Customers can use the available balance in any way they choose, as long as they don't exceed the limit. They should also take into consideration any pending transactions that haven't been added or deducted from the balance. A customer may be able to withdraw funds, write checks, do a transfer, or even make a purchase with their debit card up to the available balance.



For example, your bank account balance can be $1,500, but your available balance may only be $1,000. That extra $500 may be due to a pending transfer to another account for $350, an online purchase you made for $100, a check you deposited for $400 that hasn't cleared yet because the bank put it on hold, and a pre-authorized payment for your car insurance for $450.



You can use any amount up to $1,000 without incurring any extra fees or charges from your bank. If you go beyond that, you may go into overdraft and incur penalty fees.


   Available Balance and Check Holds  

A bank may decide to place holds on checks under various circumstances, which affects your available balance. They include:



If the check is above $5,000, the bank can place a hold on the amount that exceeds $5,000. That amount must be made available within a reasonable time, usually two to five business days.
Banks may hold checks from accounts that are repeatedly overdrawn. This includes accounts with a negative balance on six or more banking days in the most recent six-month period and account balances that were negative by $5,000 or more at least twice in the most recent six-month period.
If a bank has reasonable cause to doubt the collectibility of a check, it can place a hold. This can occur in some instances of postdated checks, checks dated six or more months prior, and checks that the paying institution deemed it will not honor. Banks must provide notice to customers of doubtful collectibility.
A bank may hold checks deposited during emergency conditions, such as natural disasters, communications malfunctions, or acts of terrorism. A bank may hold such checks until conditions permit it to provide the available funds.
Banks may hold deposits into the accounts of new customers, who are defined as those who have held their accounts for less than 30 days. Banks may choose an availability schedule for new customers.



Banks may not hold cash or electronic payments, along with the first $5,000 of traditional checks that are not in question. In 2018, new amendments to Regulation CC—Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks—issued by the Federal Reserve took effect to address the new environment of electronic check collection and processing systems, including rules about remote deposit capture and warranties for electronic checks and electronic returned checks.


   Special Considerations  

There are cases that can affect your account balance—negatively or positively—and how you can use it. Electronic banking makes our lives easier, allowing us to schedule payments and allow for direct deposits at regular intervals.



Remember to keep track of all your pre-authorized payments—especially if they pop up at different days of the month. If your employer offers direct deposit, take advantage of it. Not only does it save you a trip to the bank every payday, but it means you can use your pay right away.




What Is Current Balance on a Credit Card?
Current balance on a credit card is the total amount that the account holder owes to the issuer of the credit card.This is not the same as the statement balance. The statement balance is the sum of all of the charges incurred and all of the payments made during the most recent monthly billing cycle as well as the total carried over from the previous billing cycle. It determines how much you owe in that billing cycle, whether you make a partial payment or pay in full.So the current balance may be larger. It's a running list that includes any new charges or payments made after the close of the last billing cycle.




What Is a Demand Account?
A demand account is a checking account. It's a place to stash your cash until you demand it, whether you do that by withdrawing money from an ATM or paying a bill online. In the financial world, money in a checking account is the equivalent of cash. It can be withdrawn by the account holder at will.By contrast, if you put your cash in a six-month certificate of deposit (CD), you can withdraw it in an emergency but you'll probably pay a penalty for breaking the agreement.You'll get zero interest on a demand account. You'll get interest on a CD.




Can I Use the Available Balance in My Checking Account?
Your available balance is the amount that your bank currently authorizes you to use or withdraw. In these days of electronic transactions, it should be up to the minute.Be careful though. If you used a paper check yesterday, it may not have passed through the bank yet. Or, if you know you'll need $200 tomorrow, and your bank doesn't know that, leave at least $200 in your available balance. Also, keep an eye on any automated payments you have scheduled. If your utility payment is going through tomorrow morning, you want to make sure your balance is adequate.


   The Bottom Line  

In a checking account, the available balance is the amount of money that the account holder can withdraw immediately. The current balance, by contrast, includes any pending transactions that have not yet been cleared.



The bank will honor any withdrawal or payment you make up to the available balance amount. Be careful, though, that you don't use money that you have earmarked elsewhere. If you have an automated payment going through from the cable company tomorrow, your account won't reflect that today.
What Is an Available-for-Sale Security?  

An available-for-sale security (AFS) is a debt or equity security purchased with the intent of selling before it reaches maturity or holding it for a long period should it not have a maturity date. Accounting standards necessitate that companies classify any investments in debt or equity securities when they are purchased as held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, or available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value; changes in value between accounting periods are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in the equity section of the balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Available-for-sale securities (AFS) are debt or equity securities purchased with the intent of selling before they reach maturity.Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value.Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income within the equity section of the balance sheet.Investments in debt or equity securities purchased must be classified as held to maturity, held for trading, or available for sale.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How an Available-for-Sale Security Works  

Available-for-sale (AFS) is an accounting term used to describe and classify financial assets. It is a debt or equity security not classified as a held-for-trading or held-to-maturity security—the two other kinds of financial assets. AFS securities are nonstrategic and can usually have a ready market price available.



The gains and losses derived from an AFS security are not reflected in net income (unlike those from trading investments), but show up in the other comprehensive income (OCI) classification until they are sold. Net income is reported on the income statement. Therefore, unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities are not reflected on the income statement.



Net income is accumulated over multiple accounting periods into retained earnings on the balance sheet. In contrast, OCI, which includes unrealized gains and losses from AFS securities, is rolled into "accumulated other comprehensive income" on the balance sheet at the end of the accounting period. Accumulated other comprehensive income is reported just below retained earnings in the equity section of the balance sheet.





Important

Unrealized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are included on the balance sheet under accumulated other comprehensive income.


   Available-for-Sale vs. Held-for-Trading vs. Held-to-Maturity Securities  

As mentioned above, there are three classifications of securities—available-for-sale, held-for-trading, and held-to-maturity securities. Held-for-trading securities are purchased and held primarily for sale in the short term. The purpose is to make a profit from the quick trade rather than the long-term investment. On the other end of the spectrum are held-to-maturity securities. These are debt instruments or equities that a firm plans on holding until its maturity date. An example would be a certificate of deposit (CD) with a set maturity date. Available for sale, or AFS, is the catch-all category that falls in the middle. It is inclusive of securities, both debt and equity, that the company plans on holding for a while but could also be sold.



From an accounting perspective, each of these categories is treated differently and affects whether gains or losses appear on the balance sheet or income statement. The accounting for AFS securities is similar to the accounting for trading securities. Due to the short-term nature of the investments, they are recorded at fair value. However, for trading securities, the unrealized gains or losses to the fair market value are recorded in operating income and appear on the income statement. 



Changes in the value of available-for-sale securities are recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in other comprehensive income (OCI). Some companies include OCI information below the income statement, while others provide a separate schedule detailing what is included in total comprehensive income.


   Recording an Available-for-Sale Security   

If a company purchases available-for-sale securities with cash for $100,000, it records a credit to cash and a debit to available-for-sale securities for $100,000. If the value of the securities declines to $50,000 by the next reporting period, the investment must be "written down" to reflect the change in the fair market value of the security. This decrease in value is recorded as a credit of $50,000 to the available-for-sale security and a debit to other comprehensive income.



Likewise, if the investment goes up in value the next month, it is recorded as an increase in other comprehensive income. The security does not need to be sold for the change in value to be recognized in OCI. It is for this reason these gains and losses are considered "unrealized" until the securities are sold.
What Is the Average Age of Inventory?  

The average age of inventory is the average number of days it takes for a firm to sell off inventory. It is a metric that analysts use to determine the efficiency of sales. The average age of inventory is also referred to as days' sales in inventory (DSI).


   Formula and Calculation of Average Age of Inventory  

The formula to calculate the average age of inventory is:



﻿















Average Age of Inventory


=




C




G




×


3


6


5
















where:
















C


=


The average cost of inventory at its present level
















G


=


The cost of goods sold (COGS)








\begin{aligned} &\text{Average Age of Inventory}= \frac{ C }{ G } \times 365 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &C = \text{The average cost of inventory at its present level} \\ &G = \text{The cost of goods sold (COGS)} \\ \end{aligned}


​Average Age of Inventory=GC​×365where:C=The average cost of inventory at its present levelG=The cost of goods sold (COGS)​﻿





Key Takeaways

The average age of inventory tells how many days on average it takes a company to sell its inventory. The average age of inventory is also known as days' sales in inventory.This metric should be confirmed with other figures, such as the gross profit margin. The faster a company can sell its inventory the more profitable it can be. A rising figure may suggest a company has inventory issues. 


   What the Average Age of Inventory Can Tell You  

The average age of inventory tells the analyst how fast inventory is turning over at one company compared to another. The faster a company can sell inventory for a profit, the more profitable it is. However, a company could employ a strategy of maintaining higher levels of inventory for discounts or long-term planning efforts. While the metric can be used as a measure of efficiency, it should be confirmed with other measures of efficiency, such as gross profit margin, before making any conclusions.



The average age of inventory is a critical figure in industries with rapid sales and product cycles, such as the technology industry. A high average age of inventory can indicate that a firm is not properly managing its inventory or that it has an inventory that is difficult to sell.



The average age of inventory helps purchasing agents make buying decisions and managers make pricing decisions, such as discounting existing inventory to move products and increase cash flow. As a firm's average age of inventory increases, its exposure to obsolescence risk also grows. Obsolescence risk is the risk that the value of inventory loses its value over time or in a soft market. If a firm is unable to move inventory, it can take an inventory write-off for some amount less than the stated value on a firm's balance sheet.


   Example of How to Use the Average Age of Inventory  

An investor decides to compare two retail companies. Company A owns inventory valued at $100,000 and the COGS is $600,000. The average age of Company A's inventory is calculated by dividing the average cost of inventory by the COGS and then multiplying the product by 365 days. The calculation is $100,000 divided by $600,000, multiplied by 365 days. The average age of inventory for Company A is 60.8 days. That means it takes the firm approximately two months to sell its inventory.



Conversely, Company B also owns inventory valued at $100,000, but the cost of inventory sold is $1 million, which reduces the average age of inventory to 36.5 days. On the surface, Company B is more efficient than Company A.
What Is Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR)?  

The average annual growth rate (AAGR) reports the mean increase in the value of an individual investment, portfolio, asset, or cash flow on an annualized basis. It doesn't take compounding into account.





Key Takeaways

Average annual growth rate (AAGR) is the average annualized return of an investment, portfolio, asset, or cash flow over time.AAGR is calculated by taking the simple arithmetic mean of a series of returns.AAGR is a linear measure that does not account for the effects of compounding—to account for compounding, compound annual growth rate (CAGR) would be used instead.


   Formula for Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR)  
















A


A


G


R


=




G



R


A



+


G



R


B



+


…


+


G



R


n




N

















where:
















G



R


A



=


Growth rate in period A
















G



R


B



=


Growth rate in period B
















G



R


n



=


Growth rate in period 


n
















N


=


Number of payments







\begin{aligned} &AAGR = \frac{GR_A + GR_B + \dotso + GR_n}{N} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &GR_A=\text{Growth rate in period A}\\ &GR_B=\text{Growth rate in period B}\\ &GR_n=\text{Growth rate in period }n\\ &N=\text{Number of payments}\\ \end{aligned}


​AAGR=NGRA​+GRB​+…+GRn​​where:GRA​=Growth rate in period AGRB​=Growth rate in period BGRn​=Growth rate in period nN=Number of payments​


   Understanding the Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR)  

The average annual growth rate helps determine long-term trends. It applies to almost any kind of financial measure including growth rates of profits, revenue, cash flow, expenses, etc. to provide the investors with an idea about the direction wherein the company is headed. The ratio tells you your average annual return.



The average annual growth rate is a calculation of the arithmetic mean of a series of growth rates. AAGR can be calculated for any investment, but it will not include any measure of the investment's overall risk, as measured by its price volatility. Furthermore, the AAGR does not account for periodic compounding.



AAGR is a standard for measuring average returns of investments over several time periods on an annualized basis. You'll find this figure on brokerage statements and in a mutual fund's prospectus. It is essentially the simple average of a series of periodic return growth rates.



One thing to keep in mind is that the periods used should all be of equal length—for instance, years, months, or weeks—and not to mix periods of different duration.


   AAGR Examples  

The AAGR measures the average rate of return or growth over a series of equally spaced time periods. Here are two examples.
Financial Investment
Assume an investment has the following values over the course of four years:

Beginning value = $100,000
End of year 1 value = $120,000
End of year 2 value = $135,000
End of year 3 value = $160,000
End of year 4 value = $200,000

The formula to determine the percentage growth for each year is:





Simple percentage growth or return


=



ending value


beginning value



−


1



\text{Simple percentage growth or return} = \frac{\text{ending value}}{\text{beginning value}} - 1


Simple percentage growth or return=beginning valueending value​−1
Thus, the growth rates for each of the years are as follows:

Year 1 growth = $120,000 / $100,000 - 1 = 20%
Year 2 growth = $135,000 / $120,000 - 1 = 12.5%
Year 3 growth = $160,000 / $135,000 - 1 = 18.5%
Year 4 growth = $200,000 / $160,000 - 1 = 25%

The AAGR is calculated as the sum of each year's growth rate divided by the number of years:





A


A


G


R


=




20


%


+


12.5


%


+


18.5


%


+


25


%



4



=


19


%



AAGR = \frac{20 \% + 12.5 \% + 18.5 \% + 25 \%}{4} = 19\%


AAGR=420%+12.5%+18.5%+25%​=19%
In financial and accounting settings, the beginning and ending prices are usually used. Some analysts may prefer to use average prices when calculating the AAGR depending on what is being analyzed.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Growth
As another example, consider the five-year real gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the United States over the last five years. The U.S. real GDP growth rates for 2018 through 2022 were 0.7%, 1.8%, 3.9%, 7.0%, and 2.6%, respectively. Thus, the AAGR of U.S. real GDP over the last five years has been 3.2%, or (0.7% + 1.8% + 3.9% + 7.0% + 2.6%) /5.


   AAGR vs. Compound Annual Growth Rate  

AAGR is a linear measure that does not account for the effects of compounding. The above financial investment example showed that growth over four years averaged 19% per year. The average annual growth rate is useful for showing trends; however, it can be misleading to analysts because it does not accurately depict changing financials. In some instances, it can overestimate the growth of an investment.



For example, consider an end-of-year value for year 5 of $100,000 for the AAGR example above. The percentage growth rate for year 5 is -50%. The resulting AAGR would be 5.2%; however, it is evident from the beginning value of year 1 and the ending value of year 5, the performance yields a 0% return. Depending on the situation, it may be more useful to calculate the compound annual growth rate (CAGR).



The CAGR smooths out an investment's returns or diminishes the effect of the volatility of periodic returns. 


  Formula for CAGR  






C


A


G


R


=




Ending Balance


Beginning Balance




1


# Years




−


1



CAGR = \frac{\text{Ending Balance}}{\text{Beginning Balance}}^{\frac{1}{\text{\# Years}}} - 1


CAGR=Beginning BalanceEnding Balance​# Years1​−1



Using the above example for years 1 through 4, the CAGR equals:








C


A


G


R


=





$


200


,


000




$


100


,


000





1


4




−


1


=


18.92


%



CAGR = \frac{\$200,000}{\$100,000}^{\frac{1}{4}}- 1 = 18.92\%


CAGR=$100,000$200,000​41​−1=18.92% 



For the first four years, the AAGR and CAGR are close to one another. However, if year 5 were to be factored into the CAGR equation (-50%), the result would end up being 0%, which sharply contrasts the result from the AAGR of 5.2%.


   Limitations of the AAGR  

Because AAGR is a simple average of periodic annual returns, the measure does not include any measure of the overall risk involved in the investment, as calculated by the volatility of its price. For instance, if a portfolio grows by a net of 15% one year and 25% in the next year, the average annual growth rate would be calculated to be 20%.



To this end, the fluctuations occurring in the investment’s return rate between the beginning of the first year and the end of the year are not counted in the calculations thus leading to some errors in the measurement.



A second issue is that as a simple average it does not care about the timing of returns. For instance, in our example above, a stark 50% decline in year 5 only has a modest impact on total average annual growth. However, timing is important, and so CAGR may be more useful in understanding how time-chained rates of growth matter.




What Does the Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR) Tell You?
The average annual growth rate (AAGR) identifies long-term trends of such financial measures as cash flows or investment returns. AAGR tells you what the annual return has been (on average), but it does not take into account compounding.




What Are the Limitations of Average Annual Growth Rate?
AAGR may overestimate the growth rate if there are both positive and negative returns. It also does not include any measure of the risk involved, such as price volatility—nor does it factor in the timing of returns.




How Does Average Annual Growth Rate Differ From Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)?
Average annual growth rate (AAGR) is the average increase. It is a linear measure and does not take into account compounding. Meanwhile, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) does and it smooths out an investment's returns, diminishing the effect of return volatility.




How Do You Calculate the Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR)?
The average annual growth rate (AAGR) is calculated by finding the arithmetic mean of a series of growth rates.
What Is the Average Annual Return (AAR)?  

The average annual return (AAR) is a percentage used when reporting the historical return, such as the three-, five-, and 10-year average returns of a mutual fund. The average annual return is stated net of a fund's operating expense ratio. Additionally, it does not include sales charges, if applicable, or portfolio transaction brokerage commissions.



In its simplest terms, the average annual return (AAR) measures the money made or lost by a mutual fund over a given period. Investors considering a mutual fund investment will often review the AAR and compare it with other similar mutual funds as part of their mutual fund investment strategy.





Key Takeaways

The average annual return (AAR) is a percentage that represents a mutual fund's historical average return, usually stated over three-, five-, and 10 years.Before making a mutual fund investment, investors frequently review a mutual fund's average annual return as a way to measure the fund's long-term performance.The three components that contribute to the average annual return of a mutual fund are share price appreciation, capital gains, and dividends.


   Understanding the Average Annual Return (AAR)  

When you are selecting a mutual fund, the average annual return is a helpful guide for measuring a fund's long-term performance. However, investors should also look at a fund's yearly performance to fully appreciate the consistency of its annual total returns.



For example, a five-year average annual return of 10% looks attractive. However, if the yearly returns (those that produced the average annual return) were +40%, +30%, -10%, +5% and -15% (50 / 5 = 10%), performance over the past three years warrants examination of the fund’s management and investment strategy.


   Components of an Average Annual Return (AAR)  

There are three components that contribute to the average annual return (AAR) of an equity mutual fund: share price appreciation, capital gains, and dividends.


  Share Price Appreciation  

Share price appreciation results from unrealized gains or losses in the underlying stocks held in a portfolio. As the share price of a stock fluctuates over a year, it proportionately contributes to or detracts from the AAR of the fund that maintains a holding in the issue.



For example, the American Funds AMCAP Fund’s top holding is Netflix (NFLX), which represents 3.7% of the portfolio's net assets as of Feb. 29, 2020. Netflix is one of 199 equities in the AMCAP fund. Fund managers can add or subtract assets from the fund or change the proportions of each holding as needed to meet the fund's performance objectives. The fund's combined assets have contributed to the portfolio’s 10-year AAR of 11.58% through Feb. 29, 2020.


  Capital Gains Distributions  

Capital gains distributions paid from a mutual fund result from the generation of income or sale of stocks from which a manager realizes a profit in a growth portfolio. Shareholders can opt to receive the distributions in cash or reinvest them in the fund. Capital gains are the realized portion of AAR. The distribution, which reduces share price by the dollar amount paid out, represents a taxable gain for shareholders.



A fund can have a negative AAR and still make taxable distributions. The Wells Fargo Discovery Fund paid a capital gain of $2.59 on Dec. 11, 2015, despite the fund having an AAR of negative 1.48%.


  Dividends  

Quarterly dividends paid from company earnings contribute to a mutual fund's AAR and also reduce the value of a portfolio's net asset value (NAV). Like capital gains, dividend income received from the portfolio can be reinvested or taken in cash.



Large-cap stock funds with positive earnings typically pay dividends to individual and institutional shareholders. These quarterly distributions comprise the dividend yield component of a mutual fund's AAR. The T. Rowe Price Dividend Growth Fund has a trailing 12-month yield of 1.36%, a contributing factor to the fund’s three-year AAR of 15.65% through Feb. 29, 2020.


   Special Considerations  

Calculating an average annual return is much simpler than the average annual rate of return, which uses a geometric average instead of a regular mean. The formula is: [(1+r1) x (1+r2) x (1+r3) x ... x (1+ri)] (1/n) - 1, where r is the annual rate of return and n is the number of years in the period.



The average annual return is sometimes considered less useful for giving a picture of the performance of a fund because returns compound rather than combine. Investors must pay attention when looking at mutual funds to compare the same types of returns for each fund.
What Is Average Inventory?  

Average inventory is a calculation that estimates the value or number of a particular good or set of goods during two or more specified time periods. Average inventory is the mean value of inventory within a certain time period, which may vary from the median value of the same data set, and is computed by averaging the starting and ending inventory values over a specified period.





Key Takeaways

Average inventory is a calculation that estimates the value or number of a particular good or set of goods during two or more specified time periods.Average inventory is the mean value of an inventory within a certain time period, which may vary from the median value of the same data set.Average inventory figures can be used as a point of comparison when looking at overall sales volume, allowing a business to track inventory losses.Moving average inventory allows a company to track inventory from the last purchase made.Inventory management is a key success factor for companies as it allows them to better manage their costs, sales, and business relationships.


   Understanding Average Inventory  

Inventory is the value of all the goods ready for sale or all of the raw materials to create those goods that are stored by a company. Successful inventory management is a key focal point for companies as it allows them to better manage their overall business in terms of sales, costs, and relationships with their suppliers.



Since two points do not always accurately represent changes in inventory over different time periods, average inventory is frequently calculated by using the number of points needed to more accurately reflect activities across a certain amount of time.



For instance, if a business was attempting to calculate the average inventory over the course of a fiscal year, it may be more accurate to use the inventory count from the end of each month, including the base month. The values associated with each point are added together and divided by the number of points, in this case, 13, to determine the average inventory.



The average inventory figures can be used as a point of comparison when looking at overall sales volume, allowing a business to track inventory losses that may have occurred due to theft or shrinkage, or due to damaged goods caused by mishandling. It also accounts for any perishable inventory that has expired.



The formula for average inventory can be expressed as follows:



Average Inventory = (Current Inventory + Previous Inventory) / Number of Periods



Average inventory is used often in ratio analysis; for instance, in calculating inventory turnover.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Moving Average Inventory  

A company may choose to use a moving average inventory when it's possible to maintain a perpetual inventory tracking system. This allows the business to adjust the values of the inventory items based on information from the last purchase.



Effectively, this helps compare inventory averages across multiple time periods by converting all pricing to the current market standard. This makes it similar to adjusting historical data based on the rate of inflation for more stable market items. It allows simpler comparisons on items that experience high levels of volatility.


   Example of Average Inventory  

A shoe company is interested in better managing its inventory. The current inventory in its warehouse is equal to $10,000. This is in line with the inventory for the three previous months, which were valued at $9,000, $8,500, and $12,000.



When calculating a three-month inventory average, the shoe company achieves the average by adding the current inventory of $10,000 to the previous three months of inventory, recorded as $9,000, $8,500 and $12,000, and dividing it by the number of data points, as follows:



Average Inventory = ($10,000 + $9,000 + $8,500 + $12,000) / 4



This results in an average inventory of $9,875 over the time period being examined.
What Is an Average Collection Period?  

Average collection period refers to the amount of time it takes for a business to receive payments owed by its clients in terms of accounts receivable (AR). Companies use the average collection period to make sure they have enough cash on hand to meet their financial obligations. The average collection period is an indicator of the effectiveness of a firm’s AR management practices and is an important metric for companies that rely heavily on receivables for their cash flows.





Key Takeaways

The average collection period refers to the length of time a business needs to collect its accounts receivables.Companies calculate the average collection period to ensure they have enough cash on hand to meet their financial obligations.The average collection period is determined by dividing the average AR balance by the total net credit sales and multiplying that figure by the number of days in the period.This period indicates the effectiveness of a company's AR management practices.A low average collection period indicates that an organization collects payments faster.


   How Average Collection Periods Work  

Accounts receivable is a business term used to describe money that entities owe to a company when they purchase goods and/or services. Companies normally make these sales to their customers on credit. AR is listed on corporations' balance sheets as current assets and measures their liquidity. As such, they indicate their ability to pay off their short-term debts without the need to rely on additional cash flows.



The average collection period is an accounting metric used to represent the average number of days between a credit sale date and the date when the purchaser remits payment. A company’s average collection period is indicative of the effectiveness of its AR management practices. Businesses must be able to manage their average collection period to operate smoothly.



A lower average collection period is generally more favorable than a higher one. A low average collection period indicates that the organization collects payments faster. However, this may mean that the company's credit terms are too strict. Customers who don't find their creditors' terms very friendly may choose to seek suppliers or service providers with more lenient payment terms.


   Formula for Average Collection Period  

Average collection period is calculated by dividing a company's average accounts receivable balance by its net credit sales for a specific period, then multiplying the quotient by 365 days.



Average Collection Period = 365 Days * (Average Accounts Receivables / Net Credit Sales)



Alternatively and more commonly, the average collection period is denoted as the number of days of a period divided by the receivables turnover ratio. The formula below is also used referred to as the days sales receivable ratio.



Average Collection Period = 365 Days / Receivables Turnover Ratio



The average receivables turnover is simply the average accounts receivable balance divided by net credit sales; the formula below is simply a more concise way of writing the formula.


  Average Accounts Receivables  

For the formulas above, average accounts receivable is calculated by taking the average of the beginning and ending balances of a given period. More sophisticated accounting reporting tools may be able to automate a company's average accounts receivable over a given period by factoring in daily ending balances.



When analyzing average collection period, be mindful of the seasonality of the accounts receivable balances. For example, analyzing a peak month to a slow month by result in a very inconsistent average accounts receivable balance that may skew the calculated amount.


  Net Credit Sales  

Average collection period also relies on net credit sales for a period. This metric should exclude cash sales (as those are not made on credit and therefore do not have a collection period).



In addition to being limited to only credit sales, net credit sales exclude residual transactions that impact and often reduce sales amounts. This includes any discounts awarded to customers, product recalls or returns, or items re-issued under warranty.






When calculating average collection period, ensure the same timeframe is being used for both net credit sales and average receivables. For example, if analyzing a company's full year income statement, the beginning and ending receivable balances pulled from the balance sheet must match the same period.


   Importance of Average Collection Period  

Average collection period boils down to a single number; however, it has many different uses and communicates a variety of important information.



It tells how efficiently debts are collected. This is important because a credit sale is not fully completed until the company has been paid. Until cash has been collected, a company is yet to reap the full benefit of the transaction. 
It tells how strict credit terms are. This is important as strict credit terms may scare clients away; on the other hand, credit terms that are too loose may attract customers looking to take advantage of lenient payment terms. 
It tells how competitors are performing. This is important because all figures needed to calculate the average collection period are available for public companies. This gives deeper insight into what other companies are doing and how a company's operations compare.
It tells early signals of bad allowances. This is important because as the average collection period increases, more clients are taking longer to pay. This metric can be used to signal to management to review its outstanding receivables at risk of being uncollected to ensure clients are being monitored and communicated with. 
It tells of a company's short-term financial health. This is important because without cash collections, a company will go insolvent and lack the liquidity to pay its short-term bills. 


   How to Use Average Collection Period  

The average collection period does not hold much value as a stand-alone figure. Instead, you can get more out of its value by using it as a comparative tool.



The best way that a company can benefit is by consistently calculating its average collection period and using it over time to search for trends within its own business. The average collection period may also be used to compare one company with its competitors, either individually or grouped together. Similar companies should produce similar financial metrics, so the average collection period can be used as a benchmark against another company’s performance.



Companies may also compare the average collection period with the credit terms extended to customers. For example, an average collection period of 25 days isn’t as concerning if invoices are issued with a net 30 due date. However, an ongoing evaluation of the outstanding collection period directly affects the organization’s cash flows.






The average collection period is often not an externally required figure to be reported. It is also generally not included as a financial covenant. The usefulness of average collection period is to inform management of its operations.


   Example of Average Collection Period  

As noted above, the average collection period is calculated by dividing the average balance of AR by total net credit sales for the period, then multiplying the quotient by the number of days in the period.



Let’s say a company has an average AR balance for the year of $10,000. The total net sales that the company recorded during this period was $100,000. We would use the following average collection period formula to calculate the period:


($10,000 ÷ $100,000) × 365 = Average Collection Period



The average collection period, therefore, would be 36.5 days. This is not a bad figure, considering most companies collect within 30 days. Collecting its receivables in a relatively short and reasonable period of time gives the company time to pay off its obligations.



If this company’s average collection period was longer—say, more than 60 days— then it would need to adopt a more aggressive collection policy to shorten that time frame. Otherwise, it may find itself falling short when it comes to paying its own debts.


  Accounts Receivable (AR) Turnover  

The average collection period is closely related to the accounts turnover ratio, which is calculated by dividing total net sales by the average AR balance.



Using the previous example, the AR turnover is 10 ($100,000 ÷ $10,000). The average collection period can also be calculated by dividing the number of days in the period by the AR turnover. In this example, the average collection period is the same as before: 36.5 days.


365 days ÷ 10 = Average Collection Period


   Collections by Industries  

Not all businesses deal with credit and cash in the same way. Although cash on hand is important to every business, some rely more on their cash flow than others.



For example, the banking sector relies heavily on receivables because of the loans and mortgages that it offers to consumers. As it relies on income generated from these products, banks must have a short turnaround time for receivables. If they have lax collection procedures and policies in place, then income would drop, causing financial harm.



Real estate and construction companies also rely on steady cash flows to pay for labor, services, and supplies. These industries don’t necessarily generate income as readily as banks, so it’s important that those working in these industries bill at appropriate intervals, as sales and construction take time and may be subject to delays.




Why Is the Average Collection Period Important?
The average collection period indicates the effectiveness of a firm’s accounts receivable management practices. It is very important for companies that heavily rely on their receivables when it comes to their cash flows. Businesses must manage their average collection period if they want to have enough cash on hand to fulfill their financial obligations.




How Is the Average Collection Period Calculated?
In order to calculate the average collection period, divide the average balance of accounts receivable by the total net credit sales for the period. Then multiply the quotient by the total number of days during that specific period.So if a company has an average accounts receivable balance for the year of $10,000 and total net sales of $100,000, then the average collection period would be (($10,000 ÷ $100,000) × 365), or 36.5 days.




Why Is a Lower Average Collection Period Better?
Companies prefer a lower average collection period over a higher one as it indicates that a business can efficiently collect its receivables.The drawback to this is that it may indicate the company's credit terms are too strict. Stricter terms may result in a loss of customers to competitors with more lenient payment terms.




How Can a Company Improve its Average Collection Period?
A company can improve its average collection period in a few ways. It can set stricter credit terms limiting the number of days an invoice is allowed to be outstanding. This may also include limiting the number of clients it offers credit to in an effort to increase cash sales. It can also offer pricing discounts for earlier payment (i.e. 2% discount if paid in 10 days).


   The Bottom Line  

The average collection period is the average number of days it takes for a credit sale to be collected. During this period, the company is awarding its customer a very short-term "loan"; the sooner the client can collect the loan, the earlier it will have the capital to use to grow its company or pay its invoices. While a shorter average collection period is often better, too strict of credit terms may scare customers away.
What Is the Average Cost Basis Method?  

The average cost basis method is a system of calculating the value of mutual fund positions held in a taxable account to determine the profit or loss for tax reporting. Cost basis represents the initial value of a security or mutual fund that an investor owns.



The average cost is then compared with the price at which the fund shares were sold to determine the gains or losses for tax reporting. The average cost basis is one of many methods that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows investors to use to arrive at the cost of their mutual fund holdings.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding the Average Cost Basis Method  

The average cost basis method is commonly used by investors for mutual fund tax reporting. A cost basis method is reported with the brokerage firm where the assets are held. The average cost is calculated by dividing the total amount in dollars invested in a mutual fund position by the number of shares owned. For example, an investor that has $10,000 in an investment and owns 500 shares would have an average cost basis of $20 ($10,000 / 500).





Key Takeaways

The average cost basis method is a way of calculating the value of mutual fund positions to determine the profit or loss for tax reporting.Cost basis represents the initial value of a security or mutual fund that an investor owns.The average cost is calculated by dividing the total amount in dollars invested in a mutual fund position by the number of shares owned.


   Types of Cost Basis Methods  

Although many brokerage firms default to the average cost basis method for mutual funds, there are other methods available.


  FIFO  

The first in, first out (FIFO) method means that when shares are sold, you must sell the first ones that you acquired first when calculating gains and losses. For example, let's say an investor owned 50 shares and purchased 20 in January while purchasing 30 shares in April. If the investor sold 30 shares, the 20 in January must be used, and the remaining ten shares sold would come from the second lot purchased in April. Since both the January and April purchases would have been executed at different prices, the tax gain or loss would be impacted by the initial purchase prices in each period.



Also, if an investor has had an investment for more than one year, it would be considered a long-term investment. The IRS applies a lower capital gains tax to long-term investments versus short-term investments, which are securities or funds acquired in less than one year. As a result, the FIFO method would result in lower taxes paid if the investor had sold positions that were more than a year old.


  LIFO  

The last in first out (LIFO) method is when an investor can sell the most recent shares acquired first followed by the previously acquired shares. The LIFO method works best if an investor wants to hold onto the initial shares purchased, which might be at a lower price relative to the current market price.


  High-Cost and Low-Cost Methods  

The high-cost method allows investors to sell the shares that have the highest initial purchase price. In other words, the shares that were the most expensive to buy get sold first. A high-cost method is designed to provide investors with the lowest capital gains tax owed. For example, an investor might have a large gain from an investment, but doesn't want to realize that gain yet, but needs money.



Having a higher cost means the difference between the initial price and the market price, when sold, will result in the smallest gain. Investors might also use the high-cost method if they want to take a capital loss, from a tax standpoint, to offset other gains or income.



Conversely, the low-cost method allows investors to sell the lowest-priced shares first. In other words, the cheapest shares you purchased get sold first. The low-cost method might be chosen if an investor wants to realize a capital gain on an investment.


  Choosing a Cost-Basis Method  

Once a cost basis method has been chosen for a specific mutual fund, it must remain in effect. Brokerage firms will provide investors with appropriate annual tax documentation on mutual fund sales based on their cost basis method elections.



Investors should consult a tax advisor or financial planner if they are uncertain about the cost basis method that will minimize their tax bill for substantial mutual fund holdings in taxable accounts. The average cost basis method may not always be the optimal method from a taxation point of view. Please note that the cost basis only becomes important if the holdings are in a taxable account, and the investor is considering a partial sale of the holdings.


  Specific Identification Method  

The specific identification method (also known as specific share identification) allows the investor to choose which shares are sold in order to optimize the tax treatment. For example, let's say an investor purchases 20 shares in January and 20 shares in February. If the investor later sells 10 shares, they can choose to sell 5 shares from the January lot and 5 shares from the February lot.


   Example of Cost Basis Comparisons  

Cost basis comparisons can be an important consideration. Let's say that an investor made the following consecutive fund purchases in a taxable account:



1,000 shares at $30 for a total of $30,0001,000 shares at $10 for a total of $10,0001,500 shares at $8 for a total of $12,000



The total amount invested equals $52,000, and the average cost basis is calculated by dividing $52,000 by 3,500 shares. The average cost is $14.86 per share.



Suppose the investor then sells 1,000 shares of the fund at $25 per share. The investor would have a capital gain of $10,140 using the average cost basis method. The gain or loss using average cost basis would be as follows:



($25 - $14.86) x 1,000 shares = $10,140.



Results can vary depending on the cost-basis method chosen for tax purposes:



First in first out: ($25 - $30) x 1,000 shares = - $5,000Last in first out: ($25 - $8) x 1,000 = $17,000High cost: ($25 - $30) x 1,000 shares = - $5,000Low cost: ($25 - $8) x 1,000 = $17,000



From strictly a tax standpoint, the investor would be better off selecting the FIFO method or the high-cost method to calculate the cost basis before selling the shares. These methods would result in no tax on the loss. However, with the average cost basis method, the investor must pay a capital gains tax on the $10,140 in earnings.



Of course, if the investor sold the 1,000 shares using the FIFO method, there's no guarantee that when the remaining shares are sold that $25 will be the selling price. The stock price could decrease, wiping out most of the capital gains and an opportunity to realize a capital gain would have been lost. As a result, investors must weigh the choice as to whether to take the gain today and pay the capital gains taxes or try to reduce their taxes and risk losing any unrealized gains on their remaining investment.
What Is Average Cost Method?  

Average cost method assigns a cost to inventory items based on the total cost of goods purchased or produced in a period divided by the total number of items purchased or produced. Average cost method is also known as weighted-average method.





Key Takeaways


Average cost method is one of three inventory valuation methods, with the other two common methods being first in, first out (FIFO) and last in, first out (LIFO).
Average cost method uses the weighted average of all inventory purchased in a period to assign value to the cost of goods sold (COGS) as well as the cost of goods still available for sale.
Once a company selects an inventory valuation method, it needs to remain consistent in its use to be compliant with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).













Eliana Rodgers / Investopedia


   Understanding the Average Cost Method  

Businesses that sell products to customers have to deal with inventory, which is either bought from a separate manufacturer or produced by the company itself. Items previously in inventory that are sold off are recorded on a company’s income statement as cost of goods sold (COGS). COGS is an important figure for businesses, investors, and analysts as it is subtracted from sales revenue to determine gross margin on the income statement. To calculate the total cost of goods sold to consumers during a period, different companies use one of three inventory cost methods:



First in, first out (FIFO)
Last in, first out (LIFO)
Average cost method



Average cost method uses a simple average of all similar items in inventory, regardless of purchase date, followed by a count of final inventory items at the end of an accounting period. Multiplying the average cost per item by the final inventory count gives the company a figure for the cost of goods available for sale at that point. The same average cost is also applied to the number of items sold in the previous accounting period to determine the COGS.


   Example of Average Cost Method  

For example, consider the following inventory ledger for Sam’s Electronics:











Purchase date
Number of items
Cost per unit
Total cost


1/1
20
$1,000
$20,000


1/18
15
$1,020
$15,300


2/10
30
$1,050
$31,500


2/20
10
$1,200
$12,000


3/5
25
$1,380
$34,500


Total
100
 
$113,300






Assume the company sold 72 units in the first quarter. The weighted-average cost is the total inventory purchased in the quarter, $113,300, divided by the total inventory count from the quarter, 100, for an average of $1,133 per unit. The cost of goods sold (COGS) will be recorded as 72 units sold × $1,133 average cost = $81,576. The cost of goods available for sale, or inventory at the end of the period, will be the 28 remaining items still in inventory × $1,133 = $31,724.


   Benefits of Average Cost Method  

Average cost method requires minimal labor to apply and is, therefore, the least expensive of all the methods. In addition to the simplicity of applying average cost method, income cannot be as easily manipulated as other inventory-costing methods. Companies that sell products that are indistinguishable from each other or that find it difficult to find the cost associated with individual units will prefer to use average cost method. This also helps when there are large volumes of similar items moving through inventory, making it time-consuming to track each individual item.


   Special Considerations  

One of the core aspects of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is consistency. The consistency principle requires a company to adopt an accounting method and follow it consistently from one accounting period to another.



For example, businesses that adopt average cost method need to continue to use this method for future accounting periods. This principle is in place for the ease of financial statement users so that figures on the financials can be compared year over year. A company that changes its inventory-costing method must highlight the change in its footnotes to the financial statements and apply the same method retroactively to prior period-comparative financial statements.




What is the average cost method formula?
The average cost method formula is calculated as:Total Cost of Goods Purchased or Produced in Period ÷ Total Number of Items Purchased or Produced in Period = Average Cost for PeriodThe result can then be applied to both the cost of goods sold (COGS) and the cost of goods still held in inventory at the end of the period.




Why should I use average cost method?
Average cost method is a simple inventory valuation method, especially for businesses with large volumes of similar inventory items. Instead of tracking each individual item throughout the period, the weighted average can be applied across all similar items at the end of the period.




What inventory cost methods are acceptable under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)?
GAAP allows for last in, first out (LIFO), first in, first out (FIFO), or average cost method of inventory valuation. On the other hand, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) do not allow LIFO because it does not typically represent the actual flow of inventory through a business.
What is the Average Daily Balance Method?  

The average daily balance is a common accounting method that calculates interest charges by considering the balance invested or owed at the end of each day of the billing period, rather than the balance invested or owed at the end of the week, month, or year.





Key Takeaways

Interest charges are calculated using the total amount due at the end of each day.The average daily balance credits a customer’s account from the day the credit card company receives a payment.Interest charges using the average daily balance method should be lower than the previous balance method and higher than the less common adjusted balance method.


   Understanding the Average Daily Balance Method  

The federal Truth-In-Lending-Act (TILA) requires lenders to disclose their method of calculating finance charges, as well as annual percentage rates (APR), fees, and other terms, in their terms and conditions statement. Providing these details makes it easier to compare different credit cards.



TILA permits the interest owed on credit card balances to be calculated in various different ways. The most common methods are:



Average daily balance method: Uses the balance on each day of the billing cycle, rather than an average balance throughout the billing cycle, to calculate finance charges.
Previous balance method: Interest charges are based on the amount owed at the beginning of the previous month's billing cycle.
Adjusted balance method: Bases finance charges on the amount(s) owed at the end of the current billing cycle after credits and payments have been posted.





Important

An investor must understand how an institution's choice of accounting methods used to calculate interest affect the amount of interest deposited into his or her account.


   How the Average Daily Balance Method Works  

The average daily balance totals each day's balance for the billing cycle and divides by the total number of days in the billing cycle. Then, the balance is multiplied by the monthly interest rate to assess the customer's finance charge—dividing the cardholder's APR by 12 calculates the monthly interest rate. However, if the lender or card issuer uses a method that compounds interest daily, the interest associated with the day's ending balance gets added to the next day's beginning balance. This will result in higher interest charges and the reader should confirm which method is being used.



The average daily balance credits a customer’s account from the day the credit card company receives a payment. To assess the balance due, the credit card issuer sums the beginning balance for each day in the billing period and subtracts any payments as they arrive and any credits made to the customer’s account that day.



Cash advances are usually included in the average daily balance. The total balance due may fluctuate daily because of payments and purchases.


   Average Daily Balance Method Example  

A credit card has a monthly interest rate of 1.5 percent, and the previous balance is $500. On the 15th day of a billing cycle, the credit card company receives and credits a customer’s payment of $300. On the 18th day, the customer makes a $100 purchase.



The average daily balance is ((14 x 500) + (3 x 200) + (13 x 300)) / 30 = (7,000 + 600 + 3,900) / 30 = 383.33. The bigger the payment a customer pays and the earlier in the billing cycle the customer makes a payment, the lower the finance charges assessed. The denominator, 30 in this example, will vary based on the number of days in the billing cycle for a given month.


   Average Daily Balance Method Vs. Adjusted Balance Method Vs. Previous Balance Method  

Interest charges using the average daily balance method should be lower than the previous balance method, which charges interest based on the amount of debt carried over from the previous billing cycle to the new billing cycle. On the other hand, the average daily balance method will likely incur higher interest charges than the adjusted balance method because the latter bases finance charges on the current billing period’s ending balance.



Card issuers use the adjusted balance method much less frequently than either the average daily balance method or the previous balance method.


   Special Considerations  

Some credit card companies previously used the double-cycle billing method, assessing a customer’s average daily balance over the last two billing cycles.



Double-cycle billing can add a significant amount of interest charges to customers whose average balance varies greatly from month to month. The Credit CARD Act of 2009 banned double-cycle billing on credit cards.
What Is the Average Daily Rate (ADR)?  

The average daily rate (ADR) is a metric widely used in the hospitality industry to indicate the average revenue earned for an occupied room on a given day. The average daily rate is one of the key performance indicators (KPI) of the industry.



Another KPI metric is the occupancy rate, which when combined with the ADR, comprises revenue per available room (RevPAR), all of which are used to measure the operating performance of a lodging unit such as a hotel or motel.





Key Takeaways

The average daily rate (ADR) measures the average rental revenue earned for an occupied room per day.The operating performance of a hotel or other lodging business can be determined by using the ADR.Multiplying the ADR by the occupancy rate equals the revenue per available room.Hotels or motels can increase the ADR through price management and promotions.


   Understanding the Average Daily Rate (ADR)  

The average daily rate (ADR) shows how much revenue is made per room on average. The higher the ADR, the better. A rising ADR suggests that a hotel is increasing the money it's making from renting out rooms. To increase the ADR, hotels should look into ways to boost price per room.



Hotel operators seek to increase ADR by focusing on pricing strategies. This includes upselling, cross-sale promotions, and complimentary offers such as free shuttle service to the local airport. The overall economy is a big factor in setting prices, with hotels and motels seeking to adjust room rates to match current demand.



To determine the operating performance of a lodging, the ADR can be measured against a hotel's historical ADR to look for trends, such as seasonal impact or how certain promotions performed. It can also be used as a measure of relative performance since the metric can be compared to other hotels that have similar characteristics, such as size, clientele, and location. This helps to accurately price room rentals.


   Calculating the Average Daily Rate (ADR)  

The average daily rate is calculated by taking the average revenue earned from rooms and dividing it by the number of rooms sold. It excludes complimentary rooms and rooms occupied by staff.



﻿




Average Daily Rate


=




Rooms Revenue Earned




Number of Rooms Sold





\text{Average Daily Rate} = \frac{\text{Rooms Revenue Earned}}{\text{Number of Rooms Sold}}


Average Daily Rate=Number of Rooms SoldRooms Revenue Earned​﻿


   Example of the Average Daily Rate (ADR)  

If a hotel has $50,000 in room revenue and 500 rooms sold, the ADR would be $100 ($50,000/500). Rooms used for in-house use, such as those set aside for hotel employees and complimentary ones, are excluded from the calculation.


   Real World Example  

Consider Marriott International (MAR), a major publicly traded hotelier that reports ADR along with occupancy rate and RevPAR. For 2019, Marriott's ADR increased by 2.1% from 2018 to $202.75 in North America. The occupancy rate was fairly static at 75.8%. Taking the ADR and multiplying it by the occupancy rate yields the RevPAR. In Marriott's case, $202.75 times 75.8% equates to a RevPAR of $153.68, which was up 2.19% from 2018.


   The Difference Between the Average Daily Rate (ADR) and Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR)  

The average daily rate (ADR) is needed to calculate the revenue per available room (RevPAR). The average daily rate tells a lodging company how much they make per room on average in a given day. Meanwhile, RevPAR measures a lodging's ability to fill its available rooms at the average rate. If the occupancy rate is not at 100% and the RevPAR is below the ADR, a hotel operator knows that it can probably reduce the average price per room to help increase occupancy.


   Limitations of Using the Average Daily Rate (ADR)  

The ADR does not tell the complete story about a hotel’s revenue. For instance, it does not include the charges a lodging company may charge if a guest does not show up. The figure also does not subtract items such as commissions and rebates offered to customers if there is a problem. A property’s ADR may increase as a result of price increases, however, this provides limited information in isolation. Occupancy could have fallen, leaving overall revenue lower.
What Is Average Daily Trading Volume (ADTV)?  

Average daily trading volume (ADTV) is the average number of shares traded within a day in a given stock. Daily volume equates to how many shares are traded each day, but this can be averaged over a number of days to find the average daily volume. Average daily trading volume is an important metric because high or low trading volume attracts different types of traders and investors.



Many traders and investors prefer higher average daily trading volume over low trading volume, because with high volume it is easier to get into and out of positions. Low-volume assets have fewer buyers and sellers, and therefore it may be harder to enter or exit at a desired price.





Key Takeaways


Daily trading volume is how many shares are traded per day. Average daily trading volume is typically calculated over six months.
You can calculate average daily trading volume by adding up trading volume over the last X number of days. Then divide the total by X. For example, add the last 20 days of trading volume and divide by 20 to get the 20-day ADTV.
Sizable volume increases signify something is changing in the stock that is attracting more interest. This sentiment could be bearish or bullish, depending on the price direction.
Decreasing volume shows interest is waning, but even declining volume is useful because when higher volume returns there is often a strong price push as well.



   How Average Daily Trading Volume Is Used in Trading  

Traders and investors alike pay close attention to ADTV because it provides valuable information about the liquidity and market interest in a particular security. The key uses of ADTV are as follows:



Liquidity Assessment: ADTV helps traders gauge the ease of buying or selling a security without causing significant price movements by actually taking an action. Higher ADTV generally indicates higher liquidity, making it easier to enter or exit positions without affecting the market price.
Volatility Analysis: ADTV can provide insights into the potential volatility of a security. If the ADTV is low, it suggests that the security may be less actively traded, and small buy or sell orders can have a larger impact on the price. On the other hand, high ADTV implies a larger number of trades, potentially leading to smoother price movements.
Trade Execution: Traders often use ADTV as a benchmark for determining appropriate trade sizes. It helps them avoid excessively large or small positions relative to the average market activity, ensuring that they can enter or exit positions efficiently without significantly changing the price.
Investment Suitability: ADTV is considered when assessing the suitability of a security for certain investment strategies. For example, day traders may prefer highly liquid securities with high ADTV to take advantage of frequent price fluctuations, while long-term investors may prioritize stability and liquidity for easier entry and exit.
Risk Management: ADTV plays a role in risk management by providing information about the potential ease of closing out positions. Higher ADTV indicates that it is generally easier to exit a position, reducing the risk of being unable to sell a security when desired.


  What Tracking ADTV Looks Like  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2023


   Illustration of ADTV Use  

In this hypothetical situation, a stock trader has analyzed General Electric (GE) and decides, based on fundamental and technical analysis, that GE is a trading opportunity. It should also be noted that this trader is working for a $1 billion hedge fund.



The trader is constrained by a limit that permits trading only up to 10% of the value of shares traded in any stock. This limit is set to avoid affecting the price of the stock. The maximum allocation for GE for this hedge fund is $5 million, while the minimum allocation for GE is $250,000.



The image shows the candlestick chart of GE from early June 2022 to the middle of March 2023. The ADTV is represented by the blue line across the volume section.















Tracking GE with ADTV, June 2022.
TradingView



On June 10, 2022, the ADTV for GE is 7.39 million shares, which is equals approximately $404.8 million in shares traded. Overall, GE is a suitable trading opportunity for the hedge fund, as the ADTV is well above the stock's maximum allocation. The trader assesses the liquidity and volume volatility of GE and decides to enter the position when the volume traded crosses above the ADTV. This is to ensure that the trades will be executed seamlessly and that the trade won't impact the stock price significantly.



This occurs at Point 1 on the chart, where 23.12 million shares were traded, at an approximate value of $1.29 billion. The closing price of GE at Point 1 is $55.80 a share. This volume crossed above the ADTV, which was 8.81 million, or about $4.92 million.



The trader takes a 0.10% of fund size position in GE, which is about $1 million. This is below the 10% trading constraint, exceeds the minimum allocation of $250,000 and is also below the $5 million maximum allocation.



Point 2 presents a second opportunity to acquire GE, where there was another ADTV crossover. The trader takes another $1 million position in GE to reduce the average acquisition price of the current GE position as well as to take advantage of the above-average liquidity in the stock. The closing price of GE at this time was $51.81.



Over the next six months, the price of GE rallies. GE stock reaches a price of about $84.71, which is 57.44% higher than the average closing prices at Points 1 and 2. The stock trader has more than 50% in unrealized gains from the initial positions.



At Point 3, the trader decides to exit the GE trade. The trade execution was based on the volume crossover on the ADTV as well as the fact that the trading amount of approximately $3.2 million was within the trading limits of the fund. This is because at Point 3, 28.59 million shares were traded, at an approximate value of $2.62 billion. Risk was also managed by using the trading limit along with the ADTV crossover, allowing the stock trader to easily exit the position.



This example was for illustrative purposes only and is not a recommendation to buy or sell GE stock. Also, the criteria for trading limits as well as ADTV are purely for illustration.


   The Difference Between Average Daily Trading Volume (ADTV) and Open Interest  

Volume is sometimes confused with open interest. Average daily trading volume is the average of how many shares (stock market) or contracts (futures and options market) change hands in a day. Open interest is a futures and options term that describes how many contracts are open, that haven't yet been closed.





Note

Volume is the raw amount of how many contracts change hands. Open interest measures how many transactions were used to open or close positions, and thus tracks the number of contracts which remain open. The two measurements are quite different.


   Limitations to Using Average Daily Trading Volume (ADTV)  

Average daily trading volume is a commonly used metric and is useful for determining if a stock meets an investor's or trader's trade parameters. ADTV is an average, though. On any given day an asset can deviate from the average, producing much higher or lower volume.



The average can also shift over time, rising, falling, or oscillating. Therefore, monitor volume and average volume regularly to make sure that the asset still falls within the volume parameters you desire for your trading.



Significant changes in volume may signal that something has changed within the asset, and these changes may be either unfavorable or favorable. Volume won't tell you which it is, but will let know that some further research or action may be required.




What Type of Indicator Is ADTV?
ADTV is considered a market activity indicator. It provides information about the volume of trading activity in a security over a specific period, typically on a daily basis. ADTV is often used alongside technical indicators to gain a more comprehensive understanding of market dynamics.




What Are the Similarities Between ADTV and Open Interest?
ADTV and open interest are similar in some ways. Both are used to measure trading activity, can be used to assess liquidity, and can be employed to identify trends. Also, ADTV and open interest can be used to identify trends as well as support and resistance levels.




What Are the Benefits of Using ADTV?
Using ADTV in trading offers several benefits, including assessing security liquidity, evaluating the overall market's activity, analyzing volatility, trade execution optimization, and managing risk.




Are There Any Other Indicators That Can Be Used Instead of ADTV?
There are several other indicators and metrics that traders use alongside or instead of ADTV. Some alternatives are On-Balance Volume (OBV), Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP), Money Flow Index (MFI), Relative Volume, Volume Price Trend (VPT), Advance/Decline Line (A/D Line), and Tick Volume.


   The Bottom Line  

Average daily trading volume (ADTV) is a metric used in trading to assess the liquidity and activity level of a security, such as a stock, bond, or commodity. It represents the average number of shares or contracts traded over a specific period, typically measured on a daily basis. ADTV is calculated by dividing the total trading volume of the security over a specific period by the number of trading days in that period.



Traders and investors alike use ADTV in various ways. They use ADTV to assess liquidity, evaluate market activity, analyze volatility, optimize trade execution, and manage risk.



To use ADTV effectively, individuals and entities should consider its limitations. ADTV is historical and may not reflect current market conditions. It may not capture intraday volume variations or account for price movements. It's essential to combine ADTV with other indicators and information to make well-informed trading decisions.
What Is the Average Directional Index (ADX)?  

The average directional index (ADX) is a technical analysis indicator used by some traders to determine the strength of a trend.



The trend can be either up or down, and this is shown by two accompanying indicators, the negative directional indicator (-DI) and the positive directional indicator (+DI). Therefore, the ADX commonly includes three separate lines. These are used to help assess whether a trade should be taken long or short, or if a trade should be taken at all.





Key Takeaways

Designed by Welles Wilder for commodity daily charts, the ADX is now used in several markets by technical traders to judge the strength of a trend.The ADX makes use of a positive (+DI) and negative (-DI) directional indicator in addition to the trendline.The trend has strength when ADX is above 25; the trend is weak or the price is trendless when ADX is below 20, according to Wilder.Non-trending doesn't mean the price isn't moving. It may not be, but the price could also be making a trend change or is too volatile for a clear direction to be present.






   Average Directional Index (ADX) Formula  

The ADX requires a sequence of calculations due to the multiple lines in the indicator.



﻿














+DI


=



(



Smoothed +DM


ATR 



)



×


100
















-DI


=



(



Smoothed -DM


ATR 



)



×


100
















DX


=



(




∣


+DI


−


-DI


∣




∣


+DI


+


-DI


∣




)



×


100
















ADX


=




(


Prior ADX


×


13


)


+


Current ADX



14

















where:
















+DM (Directional Movement)


=


Current High


−


PH
















PH


=


Previous High
















-DM


=


Previous Low


−


Current Low
















Smoothed +/-DM


=





∑



t


=


1



14



DM


−



(





∑



t


=


1



14



DM



14



)



+


CDM


















CDM


=


Current DM
















ATR


=


Average True Range







\begin{aligned} &\text{+DI} = \left ( \frac{ \text{Smoothed +DM} }{ \text{ATR } } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\text{-DI} = \left ( \frac{ \text{Smoothed -DM} }{ \text{ATR } } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\text{DX} = \left ( \frac{ \mid \text{+DI} - \text{-DI} \mid }{ \mid \text{+DI} + \text{-DI} \mid } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\text{ADX} = \frac{ ( \text{Prior ADX} \times 13 ) + \text{Current ADX} }{ 14 } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{+DM (Directional Movement)} = \text{Current High} - \text{PH} \\ &\text{PH} = \text{Previous High} \\ &\text{-DM} = \text{Previous Low} - \text{Current Low} \\ &\text{Smoothed +/-DM} = \textstyle{ \sum_{t=1}^{14} \text{DM} - \left ( \frac{ \sum_{t=1}^{14} \text{DM} }{ 14 } \right ) + \text{CDM} } \\ &\text{CDM} = \text{Current DM} \\ &\text{ATR} = \text{Average True Range} \\ \end{aligned}


​+DI=(ATR Smoothed +DM​)×100-DI=(ATR Smoothed -DM​)×100DX=(∣+DI+-DI∣∣+DI−-DI∣​)×100ADX=14(Prior ADX×13)+Current ADX​where:+DM (Directional Movement)=Current High−PHPH=Previous High-DM=Previous Low−Current LowSmoothed +/-DM=∑t=114​DM−(14∑t=114​DM​)+CDMCDM=Current DMATR=Average True Range​﻿﻿


  Calculating the ADX  

Calculate +DM, -DM, and the true range (TR) for each period. Fourteen periods are typically used.
+DM = current high - previous high.
-DM = previous low - current low.
Use +DM when current high - previous high > previous low - current low. Use -DM when previous low - current low > current high - previous high.
TR is the greater of the current high - current low, current high - previous close, or current low - previous close.
Smooth the 14-period averages of +DM, -DM, and TR—the TR formula is below. Insert the -DM and +DM values to calculate the smoothed averages of those.
First 14TR = sum of first 14 TR readings.
Next 14TR value = first 14TR - (prior 14TR/14) + current TR.
Next, divide the smoothed +DM value by the smoothed TR value to get +DI. Multiply by 100.
Divide the smoothed -DM value by the smoothed TR value to get -DI. Multiply by 100.
The directional movement index (DMI) is +DI minus -DI, divided by the sum of +DI and -DI (all absolute values). Multiply by 100.
To get the ADX, continue to calculate DX values for at least 14 periods. Then, smooth the results to get ADX.
First ADX = sum 14 periods of DX / 14.
After that, ADX = ((prior ADX * 13) + current DX) / 14.


   What Does the ADX Tell You?  

The ADX, negative directional indicator (-DI), and positive directional indicator (+DI) are momentum indicators. The ADX helps investors determine trend strength, while -DI and +DI help determine trend direction.



The ADX identifies a strong trend when the ADX is over 25 and a weak trend when the ADX is below 20. Crossovers of the -DI and +DI lines can be used to generate trade signals. For example, if the +DI line crosses above the -DI line and the ADX is above 20, or ideally above 25, then that is a potential signal to buy. On the other hand, if the -DI crosses above the +DI, and the ADX is above 20 or 25, then that is an opportunity to enter a potential short trade.



Crosses can also be used to exit current trades. For example, if long, exit when the -DI crosses above the +DI. Meanwhile, when the ADX is below 20 the indicator is signaling that the price is trendless and that it might not be an ideal time to enter a trade.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   The Average Directional Index vs. The Aroon Indicator  

The ADX indicator is composed of a total of three lines, while the Aroon indicator is composed of two.



The two indicators are similar in that they both have lines representing positive and negative movement, which helps to identify trend direction. The Aroon reading/level also helps determine trend strength, as the ADX does. The calculations are different though, so crossovers on each of the indicators will occur at different times.


   Limitations of Using the ADX  

Crossovers can occur frequently, sometimes too frequently, resulting in confusion and potentially lost money on trades that quickly go the other way. These are called false signals and are more common when ADX values are below 25. That said, sometimes the ADX reaches above 25, but is only there temporarily and then reverses along with the price.



Like any indicator, the ADX should be combined with price analysis and potentially other indicators to help filter signals and control risk.




What Is a Good Average Directional Index?
An ADX above 25 is considered strong. When the ADX is below 20, the trend is weak or the price is trendless.




Is ADX a Good Indicator?
Yes, but it provides better strategy signals when combined with price. Investors should first use ADX to determine whether prices are trending or non-trending and then choose the appropriate trading strategy for the condition.




What Is the Best Indicator to Use With ADX?
The ADX works best when combined with other technical indicators, like the relative strength index (RSI). While the ADX measures the intensity of the trend, the RSI can help with entries and exits by giving a time-based component to the trend.


   The Bottom Line  

The average directional movement index (ADX) is used by technical traders to determine trend strength as well as trend direction. Using the ADX, traders can determine if a market is trading or ranging, and then apply the adequate technical trading strategy. This can be a profitable strategy that involves minimal risk, which makes it a popular strategy among traders. There are other technical analysis indicators similar to the ADX, like the Parabolic SAR, Moving Averages, and Envelopes.
What Is Average Life?  

The average life is the length of time the principal of a debt issue is expected to be outstanding. Average life does not take into account interest payments, but only principal payments made on the loan or security. In loans, mortgages, and bonds, the average life is the average period of time before the debt is repaid through amortization or sinking fund payments.



Investors and analysts use the average life calculation to measure the risk associated with amortizing bonds, loans, and mortgage-backed securities. The calculation gives investors an idea of how quickly they can expect returns and provides a useful metric for comparing investment options. In general, most investors will choose to receive their financial returns earlier and will, therefore, choose the investment with the shorter average life.





Key Takeaways

The average life is the average length of time it will take to repay the outstanding principal on a debt issue, such as a Treasury bill, bond, loan, or mortgage-backed security. The average life calculation is useful for investors who want to compare the risk associated with various investments before making an investment decision.Most investors will choose an investment with a shorter average life as this means they will receive their investment returns sooner.Prepayment risk occurs when the loan borrower or bond issuer repays the principal earlier than scheduled, thereby shortening the investment's average life and reducing the amount of interest the investor will receive. 


   Understanding Average Life  

Also called the weighted average maturity and weighted average life, the average life is calculated to determine how long it will take to pay the outstanding principal of a debt issue, such as a Treasury Bill (T-Bill) or bond. While some bonds repay the principal in a lump sum at maturity, others repay the principal in installments over the term of the bond. In cases where the bond's principal is amortized, the average life allows investors to determine how quickly the principal will be repaid.



The payments received are based on the repayment schedule of the loans backing the particular security, such as with mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and asset-backed securities (ABS). As borrowers make payments on the associated debt obligations, investors are issued payments reflecting a portion of these cumulative interest and principal payments.


   Calculating the Average Life on a Bond  

To calculate the average life, multiply the date of each payment (expressed as a fraction of years or months) by the percentage of total principal that has been paid by that date, add the results, and divide by the total issue size.



For example, assume an annual-paying four-year bond has a face value of $200 and principal payments of $80 during the first year, $60 for the second year, $40 during the third year, and $20 for the fourth (and final) year. The average life for this bond would be calculated with the following formula:



($80 x 1) + ($60 x 2) + ($40 x 3) + ($20 x 4) = 400



Then divide the weighted total by the bond face value to get the average life. In this example, the average life equals 2 years (400 divided by 200 = 2).



This bond would have an average life of two years against its maturity of four years.


   Mortgage-Backed and Asset-Backed Securities  

In the case of an MBS or ABS, the average life represents the average length of time required for the associated borrowers to repay the loan debt. An investment in an MBS or ABS involves purchasing a small portion of the associated debt that is packaged within the security.



The risk associated with an MBS or ABS centers on whether the borrower associated with the loan will default. If the borrower fails to make a payment, the investors associated with the security will experience losses. In the financial crisis of 2008, a large number of defaults on home loans, particularly in the subprime market, led to significant losses in the MBS arena.


   Special Considerations  

While certainly not as dire as default risk, another risk bond investors face is prepayment risk. This occurs when the bond issuer (or the borrower in the case of mortgage-backed securities) pays back the principal earlier than scheduled. These prepayments will reduce the average life of the investment. Because the principal is paid back early, the investor will not receive future interest payments on that part of the principal.



This interest reduction can represent an unexpected challenge for investors of fixed-income securities dependent on a reliable stream of income. For this reason, some bonds with payment risk include prepayment penalties.
What Is Average Outstanding Balance?  

An average outstanding balance is the unpaid, interest-bearing balance of a loan or loan portfolio averaged over a period of time, usually one month. The average outstanding balance can refer to any term, installment, revolving, or credit card debt on which interest is charged. It may also be an average measure of a borrower’s total outstanding balances over a period of time.



Average outstanding balance can be contrasted with average collected balance, which is that part of the loan that has been repaid over the same period.





Key Takeaways

The average outstanding balance refers to the unpaid portion of any term, installment, revolving, or credit card debt on which interest is charged over some period of time.Interest on revolving loans may be assessed based on an average balance method.Outstanding balances are reported by credit card companies to consumer credit bureaus each month for use in credit scoring and credit underwriting.Average outstanding balances can be calculated based on daily, monthly, or some other time frame.Large outstanding balances can be an indicator of financial trouble for both lenders and borrowers.


   Understanding Average Outstanding Balance  

Average outstanding balances can be important for several reasons. Lenders often have a portfolio of many loans, which need to be assessed in aggregate in terms of risk and profitability. Banks use the average outstanding balance to determine the amount of interest they pay each month to their account holders or charge to their borrowers. If a bank has a large outstanding balance on its lending portfolio it could indicate that they are having trouble collecting on their loans and may be a signal for future financial stress.



Many credit card companies also use an average daily outstanding balance method for calculating interest applied to a revolving credit loan, particularly credit cards. Credit card users accumulate outstanding balances as they make purchases throughout the month. An average daily balance method allows a credit card company to charge slightly higher interest that takes into consideration a cardholder’s balances throughout the past days in a period and not just at the closing date.



For borrowers, credit rating agencies will review a consumer’s outstanding balances on their credit cards as part of determining a FICO credit score. Borrowers should show restraint by keeping their credit card balances well below their limits. Maxing out credit cards, paying late, and applying for new credit increases one's outstanding balances and can lower FICO scores.


   Interest on Average Outstanding Balances   

With average daily outstanding balance calculations, the creditor may take an average of the balances over the past 30 days and assess interest on a daily basis. Commonly, average daily balance interest is a product of the average daily balances over a statement cycle with interest assessed on a cumulative daily basis at the end of the period.



Regardless, the daily periodic rate is the annual percentage rate (APR) divided by 365. If interest is assessed cumulatively at the end of a cycle, it would only be assessed based on the number of days in that cycle.



Other average methodologies also exist. For example, a simple average may be used between a beginning and ending date by dividing the beginning balance plus the ending balance by two and then assessing interest based on a monthly rate.



Credit cards will provide their interest methodology in the cardholder agreement. Some companies may provide details on interest calculations and average balances in their monthly statements.






Because the outstanding balance is an average, the period of time over which the average is computed will affect the balance amount.


   Consumer Credit  

Outstanding balances are reported by credit providers to credit reporting agencies each month. Credit issuers typically report a borrower’s total outstanding balance at the time the report is provided. Some credit issuers may report outstanding balances at the time a statement is issued while others choose to report data on a specific day each month. Balances are reported on all types of revolving and non-revolving debt. With outstanding balances, credit issuers also report delinquent payments beginning at 60 days past due.



Timeliness of payments and outstanding balances are the top factors that affect a borrower’s credit score. Experts say borrowers should strive to keep their total outstanding balances below 30%. Borrowers using more than 30% of total available debt outstanding can easily improve their credit score from month to month by making larger payments that reduce their total outstanding balance.



When the total outstanding balance decreases, a borrower’s credit score improves. Timeliness, however, is not as easy to improve since delinquent payments are a factor that can remain on a credit report for seven years.






Average balances are not always a part of credit scoring methodologies. However, if a borrower’s balances are drastically changing over a short period of time due to debt repayment or debt accumulation, there will typically be a lag in total outstanding balance reporting to the credit bureau’s which can make tracking and assessing real-time outstanding balances difficult.


   Calculating Average Outstanding Balance  

Lenders typically calculate interest on revolving credit, such as credit cardsor lines of credit, using an average of daily outstanding balances. The bank adds all the daily outstanding balances in the period (usually a month) and divides this sum by the number of days in the period. The result is the average outstanding balance for the period.



For loans that are paid monthly, such as mortgages, a lender may instead take the arithmetic mean of the starting and ending balance for a statement cycle. For instance, say a home borrower has a mortgage balance of $100,000 at the start of the month and makes a payment on the 30th of the same month, reducing the outstanding principal amount to $99,000. The average outstanding balance for the loan over that period would be ($100,000-99,000)/2 = $99,500.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What is an outstanding balance?  

An outstanding balance is the total amount still owed on a loan.


  What is an outstanding principal balance?  

This is the amount of a loan's principal amount (i.e. the dollar amount initially loaned) that is still due, and does not take into account the interest or any fees that are owed on the loan.


  Where can I find my outstanding balance?  

Borrowers can find this information on their regular bank or loan statements. They can also usually be pulled up from a lender's website for viewing at any time.


  What is the difference between outstanding balance and remaining balance?  

Outstanding balance refers to the amount still owed on a loan from the perspective of a borrower or lender. Remaining balance instead refers to how much money remains in an account after spending or a withdrawal, from the perspective of a saver or savings bank.


  What percentage of an outstanding balance is a minimum payment?  

Some lenders charge a fixed percentage, such a 2.5%. Others will charge a flat fee plus a fixed percentage, such as $20 + 1.75% of the outstanding balance as the minimum payment due. Penalty fees like late fees, as well as past due amounts, will typically be added to the calculation. This would increase your minimum payment significantly.
What Is Average Propensity to Consume?  

Average propensity to consume (APC) measures the percentage of income that is spent rather than saved. This may be calculated by a single individual who wants to know where the money is going or by an economist who wants to track the spending and saving habits of an entire nation.



In either case, the propensity to consume can be determined by dividing average household consumption, or spending, by average household income, or earnings.





Key Takeaways

Income, whether individual or national, must be either spent or saved.The average propensity to consume is the percentage of income spent, while the average propensity to save is the percentage of income saved.Higher average propensity to consume signals greater economic activity as consumers are demanding goods and services.Alternatively, lower average propensity signals a slowing economy as less goods are needed and job stability is at risk.Average propensity of consumption is most informational when tracked over time or compared across nations or individuals. 


   Understanding Average Propensity to Consume  

From the broader economic view, a high average propensity to consume is generally good for the economy. When the average propensity to consume is high, consumers are saving less and spending more on goods or services. This increased demand drives economic growth, business expansion, and broad employment.



Low-income households are often seen as having a higher average propensity to consume than high-income households. Low-income households may be forced to spend their entire income on necessities with minimal disposable income remaining to save. Alternatively, high-income households with higher cash flow after their necessities are met typically have a relatively lower average propensity to consume.



Economists often gauge economy forecasts on actions by the middle-income households. The spending and savings patterns of this demographic often indicate a degree of confidence or pessimism about their own personal financial situations and the economy as a whole.






When annotated as a decimal, average propensity to consume ranges from zero to one. At zero (or 0%), all income is being saved. At one (or 100%), all income is being consumed.


   Propensity to Consume vs. Propensity to Save  

The sum of the average propensity to consume and the average propensity to save is always equivalent to one. A household or a nation must either spend or save all of its income.



The inverse of the average propensity to consume is the average propensity to save (APS). That figure is simply the total of income minus spending. The result is known as the savings ratio.



Notably, the savings ratio is normally based on its percentage of disposable income, or after-tax income. An individual determining personal propensities to consume and save should probably use the disposable income figure as well for a more realistic measure.


   Example of Average Propensity to Consume  

Assume a nation's economy has a gross domestic product (GDP) equivalent to its disposable income of $500 billion for the previous year. The total savings of the economy was $300 billion, and the rest was spent on goods and services.



The nation's APS is calculated to be 0.60, or $300 billion/$500 billion. This indicates the economy allocated 60% of its disposable income to savings. The average propensity to consume is calculated to be 0.40, or (1 - 0.60). Therefore, the nation spent 40% of its GDP on goods and services.



APS can include saving for retirement, a home purchase, and other long-term investments. As such, it can be a proxy for national financial health.






According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the average household in the United States saved 6.2% of their disposable income in March 2022. This is over 2% lower than just three months prior.


   Special Considerations  

The marginal propensity to consume (MPC) is a related concept. It measures the change in the average propensity to consume.



Assume that the nation in the previous example increased its GDP to $700 billion and its consumption of goods and services rose to $375 billion. The economy's average propensity to consume increased to 53.57%.



The nation's consumption increased from $200 billion to $375 billion. Alternatively, the nation's GDP increased from $500 billion to $700 billion. The nation's marginal propensity to consume is 87.5% ($375 billion - $200 billion) / ($700 billion - $500 billion). The marginal propensity measures the directional trend of how an entity is utilizing its money. In this case, 87.5% of new growth was further consumed.




What Is Average Propensity to Consume?
Average propensity to consume is an economic indicator of how much income is spent. A specific entity is selected such as an individual, an income class, or an entire country. Average propensity to consume measures how much money is saved compared to spent.Average propensity to consume is used by economists to forecast future economic growth. When average propensity to consume is higher, more people are spending more money. This drives economic growth through product demand and job creation.




How Is Average Propensity to Consume Measured?
Average propensity to consume may be reported as a percent (60% of income is consumed) or as a decimal (average consumption is 0.6). Average propensity to consume is also generally most useful when compared against itself over time or across entities. For example, the average propensity to consume for a United States citizen could be tracked over time or compared against Canadian citizens.




How Do I Calculate Average Propensity to Consume?
Average propensity to consume is calculated by dividing an entity's consumption by the entity's total income. It is a ratio between what is spent and what is earned.




What Does Average Propensity to Consume Mean?
Average propensity to consume is an economic measurement of how much income a specific entity spends. That entity may be an individual or a country. If an entity has a higher average propensity to consume, it means a higher proportion of their income is used to buy things as opposed to save for the future.
What Is Average Return?  

The average return is the simple mathematical average of a series of returns generated over a specified period of time. An average return is calculated the same way that a simple average is calculated for any set of numbers. The numbers are added together into a single sum, then the sum is divided by the count of the numbers in the set.





Key Takeaways

The average return is the simple mathematical average of a series of returns generated over a specified period of time.The average return can help measure the past performance of a security or portfolio.The average return is not the same as an annualized return, as it ignores compounding.The geometric average is always lower than the average return.


   Understanding Average Return  

There are several return measures and ways to calculate them. For the arithmetic average return, one takes the sum of the returns and divides it by the number of return figures.








Average Return


=




Sum of Returns


Number of Returns





\text{Average Return} = \dfrac{\text{Sum of Returns}}{\text{Number of Returns}}


Average Return=Number of ReturnsSum of Returns​



The average return tells an investor or analyst what the returns for a stock or security have been in the past, or what the returns of a portfolio of companies are. The average return is not the same as an annualized return, as it ignores compounding.


   Average Return Example  

One example of average return is the simple arithmetic mean. For instance, suppose an investment returns the following annually over a period of five full years: 10%, 15%, 10%, 0%, and 5%. To calculate the average return for the investment over this five-year period, the five annual returns are added together and then divided by 5. This produces an annual average return of 8%.



Now, let’s look at a real-life example. Shares of Walmart returned 9.1% in 2014, lost 28.6% in 2015, gained 12.8% in 2016, gained 42.9% in 2017, and lost 5.7% in 2018. The average return of Walmart over those five years is 6.1%, or 30.5% divided by 5 years.


   Calculating Returns From Growth  

The simple growth rate is a function of the beginning and ending values or balances. It is calculated by subtracting the ending value from the beginning value and then dividing by the beginning value. The formula is as follows:


















Growth Rate


=




BV


−


EV



BV

















where:
















BV


=


Beginning Value
















EV


=


Ending Value







\begin{aligned} &\text{Growth Rate} = \dfrac{\text{BV} -\text{EV}}{\text{BV}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{BV} = \text{Beginning Value}\\ &\text{EV} = \text{Ending Value}\\ \end{aligned}


​Growth Rate=BVBV−EV​where:BV=Beginning ValueEV=Ending Value​



For example, if you invest $10,000 in a company and the stock price increases from $50 to $100, then the return can be calculated by taking the difference between $100 and $50 and dividing by $50. The answer is 100%, which means you now have $20,000.






The simple average of returns is an easy calculation, but it is not very accurate. For more accurate calculations of returns, analysts and investors also frequently use the geometric mean or the money-weighted rate of return.


   Average Return Alternatives  
  Geometric Average  

When looking at average historical returns, the geometric average is a more precise calculation. The geometric mean is always lower than the average return. One benefit of using the geometric mean is that the actual amounts invested need not be known. The calculation focuses entirely on the return figures themselves and presents an apples-to-apples comparison when looking at two or more investments’ performances over more various time periods.



The geometric average return is sometimes called the time-weighted rate of return (TWR) because it eliminates the distorting effects on growth rates created by various inflows and outflows of money into an account over time.


  Money-Weighted Rate of Return (MWRR)  

Alternatively, the money-weighted rate of return (MWRR) incorporates the size and timing of cash flows, making it an effective measure for returns on a portfolio that has received deposits, dividend reinvestments, and/or interest payments, or has had withdrawals.



The MWRR is equivalent to the internal rate of return (IRR), where the net present value equals zero.
What Is Average Selling Price (ASP)?  

The term average selling price (ASP) refers to the price at which a certain class of good or service is typically sold. The average selling price is affected by the type of product and the product life cycle. The ASP is the average selling price of the product across multiple distribution channels, across a product category within a company, or even across the market as a whole.





Key Takeaways

The term average selling price refers to the price at which a certain class of good or service is typically sold.ASPs can serve as a benchmark for entities who want to set a price for their product or service.Computers, cameras, televisions, and jewelry tend to have higher ASPs, while books and DVDs have a low average selling price.Average selling price is affected by the type of product and the product life cycle.Average selling price is usually reported during quarterly financial results.


   Understanding Average Selling Price (ASP)  

The average selling price is the price for a product or service in various markets, and is normally used in the retail and technology industries. The established ASP for a particular good can act as a benchmark price, helping other manufacturers, producers, or retailers set the prices for their own products.



Marketers who try to set a price for a product must also consider where they want their product to be positioned. If they want their product image to be part of a high-quality choice, they have to set a higher ASP.



Products like computers, cameras, televisions, and jewelry tend to have higher average selling prices while products like books and DVDs will have a low average selling price. When a product is the latter part of its product life cycle, the market is most likely saturated with competitors, therefore, driving down the ASP.



In order to calculate the ASP, divide the total revenue earned from the product by the total number of units sold. This average selling price is usually reported during quarterly financial results and can be considered as accurate as possible given regulation on fraudulent reporting.


   Special Considerations  

The smartphone market is a big industry which uses average selling prices. In the smartphone market, the average selling price indicates how much money a handset manufacturer is receiving on average for the phones that it sells.






In the smartphone market, advertised selling prices can differ drastically from average selling prices.



For product-driven companies like Apple, calculations for average selling price provide pivotal information about its financial performance and, by extension, the performance of its stock price. In fact, there's a clear relationship between Apple's iPhone ASP and its stock price movements.



The iPhone's ASP matters even more when considering how each device drives overall profitability for Apple. Apple consolidates its operations under a single profit-and-loss statement (P&L), meaning investors can't tell how costs, such as marketing and research and development (R&D) are spread among the company's various products.



Since the iPhone has the highest gross margin in Apple's device family, the device generates the lion's share of Apple's profits. That makes the iPhone crucial in determining Apple's overall financial performance each quarter.


   Examples of Average Selling Price  

The term average selling price has a place in the housing market. When the average selling price of a home within a particular region rises, this may be a signal of a booming market. Conversely, when the average price drops, so does the perception of the market in that particular area.



Some industries use ASP in a slightly different way. The hospitality industry—especially hotels and other lodging companies—commonly refers to it as the average room or average daily rate. These average rates tend to be higher during peak seasons, while rates normally drop when travel seems to be low or during off-seasons.
What Is the Average True Range (ATR)?  

The average true range (ATR) is a technical analysis indicator introduced by market technician J. Welles Wilder Jr. in his book New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems that measures market volatility by decomposing the entire range of an asset price for that period.



The true range indicator is taken as the greatest of the following: current high less the current low; the absolute value of the current high less the previous close; and the absolute value of the current low less the previous close. The ATR is then a moving average, generally using 14 days, of the true ranges.



Traders can use shorter periods than 14 days to generate more trading signals, while longer periods have a higher probability to generate fewer trading signals.





Key Takeaways

The average true range (ATR) is a market volatility indicator used in technical analysis.It is typically derived from the 14-day simple moving average of a series of true range indicators.The ATR was initially developed for use in commodities markets but has since been applied to all types of securities.ATR shows investors the average range prices swing for an investment over a specified period.


   The Average True Range (ATR) Formula  

The formula to calculate ATR for an investment with a previous ATR calculation is :




















Previous ATR


(


n


−


1


)


+


TR



n

















where:
















n


=


Number of periods
















TR


=


True range







\begin{aligned}&\frac{ \text{Previous ATR} ( n - 1 ) + \text{TR} }{ n } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&n = \text{Number of periods} \\&\text{TR} = \text{True range} \\\end{aligned}


​nPrevious ATR(n−1)+TR​where:n=Number of periodsTR=True range​



If there is not a previous ATR calculated, you must use:


















(



1


n



)



∑


i


n




TR


i

















where:

















TR


i



=


Particular true range, such as first day’s TR,
















then second, then third
















n


=


Number of periods







\begin{aligned}&\Big ( \frac{ 1 }{ n } \Big ) \sum_{i}^{n} \text{TR}_i \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{TR}_i = \text{Particular true range, such as first day's TR,} \\&\text{then second, then third} \\&n = \text{Number of periods} \\\end{aligned}


​(n1​)i∑n​TRi​where:TRi​=Particular true range, such as first day’s TR,then second, then thirdn=Number of periods​






The capital sigma symbol (Σ) represents the summation of all of the terms for n periods starting at i, or the period specified. If there is no number following i, it is assumed the starting point is the first period (you may see i=1, noting to start summing at the first term). 



You must first use the following formula to calculate the true range:


















 TR 


=


 Max 


[


(


H


−


L


)


,


∣


H


−



C


p



∣


,


∣


L


−



C


p



∣


]
















where:
















H


=


Today’s high
















L


=


Today’s low

















C


p



=


Yesterday’s closing price
















Max


=


Highest value of the three terms

















so


 


that:

















(


H


−


L


)


=


Today’s high minus the low
















∣


H


−



C


p



∣


=


Absolute value of today’s high minus
















yesterday’s closing price
















∣


L


−



C


p



∣


=


Absolute value of today’s low minus
















yesterday’s closing price







\begin{aligned}&\text{ TR } = \text{ Max } [ ( \text{H} - \text{L} ), | \text{H} - \text{C}_p |, | \text{L} - \text{C}_p | ] \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{H} = \text{Today's high} \\&\text{L} = \text{Today's low} \\&\text{C}_p = \text{Yesterday's closing price} \\&\text{Max} = \text{Highest value of the three terms} \\&\textbf{so that:} \\&( \text{H} - \text{L} ) = \text{Today's high minus the low} \\&| \text{H} - \text{C}_p | = \text{Absolute value of today's high minus} \\&\text{yesterday's closing price} \\&| \text{L} - \text{C}_p | = \text{Absolute value of today's low minus} \\&\text{yesterday's closing price} \\\end{aligned}


​ TR = Max [(H−L),∣H−Cp​∣,∣L−Cp​∣]where:H=Today’s highL=Today’s lowCp​=Yesterday’s closing priceMax=Highest value of the three termsso that:(H−L)=Today’s high minus the low∣H−Cp​∣=Absolute value of today’s high minusyesterday’s closing price∣L−Cp​∣=Absolute value of today’s low minusyesterday’s closing price​


   How to Calculate the ATR  

The first step in calculating ATR is to find a series of true range values for a security. The price range of an asset for a given trading day is its high minus its low. To find an asset's true range value, you first determine the three terms from the formula.



Suppose that XYZ's stock had a trading high today of $21.95 and a low of $20.22. It closed yesterday at $21.51. Using the three terms, we use the highest result:








(


H


−


L


)


=


$


21.95


−


$


20.22


=


$


1.73



( \text{H} - \text{L}) = \$21.95 - \$20.22 = \$1.73


(H−L)=$21.95−$20.22=$1.73








∣


(


H


−



C


p



)


∣


=


∣


$


21.95


−


$


21.51


∣


=


$


0.44



| ( \text{H} - \text{C}_p ) | = | \$21.95 - \$21.51 | = \$0.44


∣(H−Cp​)∣=∣$21.95−$21.51∣=$0.44








∣


(


L


−



C


p



)


∣


=


∣


$


20.22


−


$


21.51


∣


=


$


1.29



| ( \text{L} - \text{C}_p ) | = | \$20.22 - \$21.51 | = \$1.29


∣(L−Cp​)∣=∣$20.22−$21.51∣=$1.29



The number you'd use would be $1.73 because it is the highest value.



Because you don't have a previous ATR, you need to use the ATR formula:












(



1


n



)



∑


i


n




TR


i








\begin{aligned}\Big ( \frac{ 1 }{ n } \Big ) \sum_{i}^{n} \text{TR}_i\end{aligned}


(n1​)i∑n​TRi​​



Using 14 days as the number of periods, you'd calculate the TR for each of the 14 days. Assume the following prices from the table.











Daily Values


 
 High
Low 
Yesterday's Close




Day 1
$ 21.95
$ 20.22
$ 21.51


Day 2
$ 22.25
$ 21.10
$ 21.61


Day 3
$ 21.50
$ 20.34
$ 20.83


Day 4
$ 23.25
$ 22.13
$ 22.65


Day 5
$ 23.03
$ 21.87
$ 22.41


Day 6
$ 23.34
$ 22.18
$ 22.67


Day 7
$ 23.66
$ 22.57
$ 23.05


Day 8
$ 23.97
$ 22.80
$ 23.31


Day 9
$ 24.29
$ 23.15
$ 23.68


Day 10
$ 24.60
$ 23.45
$ 23.97


Day 11
$ 24.92
$ 23.76
$ 24.31


Day 12
$ 25.23
$ 24.09
$ 24.60


Day 13
$ 25.55
$ 24.39
$ 24.89


Day 14
$ 25.86
$ 24.69
$ 25.20






You'd use these prices to calculate the TR for each day.











Trading Range





H-L
H-Cp
L-Cp


Day 1
$ 1.73
$ 0.44
$ (1.29)


Day 2
$ 1.15
$ 0.64
$ (0.51)


Day 3
$ 1.16
$ 0.67
$ (0.49)


Day 4
$ 1.12
$ 0.60
$ (0.52)


Day 5
$ 1.15
$ 0.61
$ (0.54)


Day 6
$ 1.16
$ 0.67
$ (0.49)


Day 7
$ 1.09
$ 0.61
$ (0.48)


Day 8
$ 1.17
$ 0.66
$ (0.51)


Day 9
$ 1.14
$ 0.61
$ (0.53)


Day 10
$ 1.15
$ 0.63
$ (0.52)


Day 11
$ 1.16
$ 0.61
$ (0.55)


Day 12
$ 1.14
$ 0.63
$ (0.51)


Day 13
$ 1.16
$ 0.66
$ (0.50)


Day 14
$ 1.17
$ 0.66
$ (0.51)






You find that the highest values for each day are from the (H - L) column, so you'd add up all of the results from the (H - L) column and multiply the result by 1/n, per the formula.












$


1.73









+


$


1.15


+


$


1.16


+


$


1.12


+


$


1.15


+


$


1.16


+


$


1.09
















+


$


1.17


+


$


1.14


+


$


1.15


+


$


1.16


+


$


1.14


+


$


1.16
















+


$


1.17


=


$


16.65







\begin{aligned}\$1.73 &+ \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.12 + \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.09 \\&+ \$1.17 + \$1.14 + \$1.15 + \$1.16 + \$1.14 + \$1.16 \\&+ \$1.17 = \$16.65 \\\end{aligned}


$1.73​+$1.15+$1.16+$1.12+$1.15+$1.16+$1.09+$1.17+$1.14+$1.15+$1.16+$1.14+$1.16+$1.17=$16.65​













1


n



(


$


16.65


)


=



1


14



(


$


16.65


)







\begin{aligned}\frac{ 1 }{ n } (\$16.65) = \frac{ 1 }{ 14 } (\$16.65)\end{aligned}


n1​($16.65)=141​($16.65)​












0.714


×


$


16.65


=


$


1.18







\begin{aligned}0.714 \times \$16.65 = \$1.18\end{aligned}


0.714×$16.65=$1.18​



So, the average volatility for this asset is $1.18.



Now that you have the ATR for the previous period, you can use it to determine the ATR for the current period using the following:













Previous ATR


(


n


−


1


)


+


TR



n







\begin{aligned}\frac{ \text{Previous ATR} ( n - 1 ) + \text{TR} }{ n }\end{aligned}


nPrevious ATR(n−1)+TR​​



This formula is much simpler because you only need to calculate the TR for one day. Assuming on Day 15, the asset has a high of $25.55, a low of $24.37, and closed the previous day at $24.87; its TR works out to $1.18:













$


1.18


(


14


−


1


)


+


$


1.18



14







\begin{aligned}\frac{ \$1.18 ( 14 - 1 ) + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned}


14$1.18(14−1)+$1.18​​













$


1.18


(


13


)


+


$


1.18



14







\begin{aligned}\frac{ \$1.18 ( 13 ) + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned}


14$1.18(13)+$1.18​​













$


15.34


+


$


1.18



14







\begin{aligned}\frac{ \$15.34 + \$1.18 }{ 14 }\end{aligned}


14$15.34+$1.18​​














$


16.52



14



=


$


1.18







\begin{aligned}\frac{ \$16.52 }{ 14 } = \$1.18\end{aligned}


14$16.52​=$1.18​



The stock closed the day again with an average volatility (ATR) of $1.18.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   What Does the ATR Tell You?  

Wilder originally developed the ATR for commodities, although the indicator can also be used for stocks and indices. Simply put, a stock experiencing a high level of volatility has a higher ATR, and a lower ATR indicates lower volatility for the period evaluated.



The ATR may be used by market technicians to enter and exit trades and is a useful tool to add to a trading system. It was created to allow traders to more accurately measure the daily volatility of an asset by using simple calculations. The indicator does not indicate the price direction; instead, it is used primarily to measure volatility caused by gaps and limit up or down moves. The ATR is relatively simple to calculate, and only needs historical price data.



The ATR is commonly used as an exit method that can be applied no matter how the entry decision is made. One popular technique is known as the "chandelier exit" and was developed by Chuck LeBeau. The chandelier exit places a trailing stop under the highest high the stock has reached since you entered the trade. The distance between the highest high and the stop level is defined as some multiple multiplied by the ATR.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The ATR can also give a trader an indication of what size trade to use in the derivatives markets. It is possible to use the ATR approach to position sizing that accounts for an individual trader's willingness to accept risk and the volatility of the underlying market.


   Example of How to Use the ATR  

As a hypothetical example, assume the first value of a five-day ATR is calculated at 1.41, and the sixth day has a true range of 1.09. The sequential ATR value could be estimated by multiplying the previous value of the ATR by the number of days less one and then adding the true range for the current period to the product.



Next, divide the sum by the selected timeframe. For example, the second value of the ATR is estimated to be 1.35, or (1.41 * (5 - 1) + (1.09)) / 5. The formula could then be repeated over the entire period.



While the ATR doesn't tell us in which direction the breakout will occur, it can be added to the closing price, and the trader can buy whenever the next day's price trades above that value. This idea is shown below. Trading signals occur relatively infrequently but usually indicate significant breakout points. The logic behind these signals is that whenever a price closes more than an ATR above the most recent close, a change in volatility has occurred.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 


   Limitations of the ATR  

There are two main limitations to using the ATR indicator. The first is that ATR is a subjective measure, meaning that it is open to interpretation. No single ATR value will tell you with any certainty that a trend is about to reverse or not. Instead, ATR readings should always be compared against earlier readings to get a feel of a trend's strength or weakness.



Second, ATR only measures volatility and not the direction of an asset's price. This can sometimes result in mixed signals, particularly when markets are experiencing pivots or when trends are at turning points. For instance, a sudden increase in the ATR following a large move counter to the prevailing trend may lead some traders to think the ATR is confirming the old trend; however, this may not be the case.




How Do You Use ATR Indicator in Trading?
Average true range is used to evaluate an investment's price volatility. It is used in conjunction with other indicators and tools to enter and exit trades or decide whether to purchase an asset.




How Do You Read ATR Values?
An average true range value is the average price range of an investment over a period. So if the ATR for an asset is $1.18, its price has an average range of movement of $1.18 per trading day.




What Is a Good Average True Range?
A good ATR depends on the asset. If it generally has an ATR of close to $1.18, it is performing in a way that can be interpreted as normal. If the same asset suddenly has an ATR of more than $1.18, it might indicate that further investigation is required. Likewise, if it has a much lower ATR, you should determine why it is happening before taking action.


   The Bottom Line  

The average true range is an indicator of the price volatility of an asset. It is best used to determine how much an investment's price has been moving in the period being evaluated rather than an indication of a trend. Calculating an investment's ATR is relatively straightforward, only requiring you to use price data for the period you're investigating.
What Is an Axe?  

An axe (or "axe to grind") is the interest that a trader shows in buying or selling a security that is typically already on the books. If a trader holds a long position but has short-term concerns, that trader’s axe toward short-term put options may be significant. Likewise, if a trader has risk exposure to an increase in interest rates, they may have an axe to hedge against that risk.



Many times, a trader with an axe will keep that information private. That is because if other market participants become aware of one's motivations, they can take advantage of that information by offering unfavorable prices or withholding certain trades in order to exploit the situation.





Key Takeaways

An axe (or "axe to grind") refers to a desired position that a trader wishes to take.If a trader has an axe to grind, keeping that information private can prevent others from taking advantage of it.Axe has historically been used to reference bond markets, but now includes all types of securities.In conversation, the term is often used to speculate about a trader’s plans with regard to a security held.


   Understanding an Axe  

The term "axe" is derived from the phrase “axe to grind,” which means to possess an ulterior motive or selfish aim. The phrase has historically meant to have a grievance with someone, especially where one feels the need to seek retribution. The phrase probably originates from the act of sharpening an axe with a grinding wheel, with the intent (in this definition) to get revenge on someone by maiming or killing them.



Traders often use the term "axe" to represent someone’s particular interest in buying or selling a security that is already in their inventory, or hedging against it. The term was historically used to reference bond holdings, but traders have expanded the use to include all securities. In conversation, the term is often used to speculate about a trader’s plan with regard to a security that they hold.



Axe should not be confused with "ax," which is a market maker central to the price action of a specific security.


   How an Axe is Used in Practice  

The term "axe" can be used in many different ways, which makes the context of the conversation important to consider.



Suppose that a trader has a large position in a given security. If that trader shops around for quotes with the intent of selling the stake, the trader who provides the quote may be at a disadvantage if they are unaware that the first trader has an axe with regard to the security. The second trader may ask, “Do they have an axe on this security?” which means “Do they have plans to sell this security?”



Traders may also use the term to represent securities related to the securities that they hold. For instance, a trader may hold a long position and have an axe toward put options if nervous about the stock’s short-term prospects.



Having an axe is often kept secret because knowledge of that information can be used by other market participants to exploit the situation for their own gain, and at the expense of the axe holder. That said, traders with good rapport may ask each other outright if they have a particular axe in the hopes that the other trader's axe(s) will be opposite from their own—this way they can affect a trade or trades with each other in a mutually beneficial manner.
