What Is the 1913 Federal Reserve Act?  

The 1913 Federal Reserve Act is legislation in the United States that created the Federal Reserve System. Congress passed the Federal Reserve Act to establish economic stability in the U.S. by introducing a central bank to oversee monetary policy.





Key Takeaways

The 1913 Federal Reserve Act created the Federal Reserve System, known simply as "The Fed."It was implemented to establish economic stability in the U.S. by introducing a central bank to oversee monetary policy.﻿﻿The Federal Reserve Act is one of the most influential laws shaping the U.S. financial system.


  History of the 1913 Federal Reserve Act  

The Federal Reserve is the culmination of several periods of economic tumult in American history. Earlier in its history, the United States formed centralized national banks, much to the consternation of its more rural citizens. The national banks were typically controlled by large eastern banking powers, making them untrustworthy to those outside the area. State-chartered or "free banks" took over, issuing their own currency backed by gold.



In 1863, the National Banking Act was passed, allowing for nationally chartered banks again, which offered a way of providing a standardized currency backed by United States securities. But unstable financial markets in 1893 and 1907 resulted in market crashes and depressions, alleviated only by private infusions from J.P. Morgan. Banking reform became a priority to reassure the populace of the safety of their money. In 1912, President Woodrow Wilson asked for a solution from the House Committee on Banking and Finance. A decentralized bank was the answer and was established in the 1913 Federal Reserve Act.


   Understanding the 1913 Federal Reserve Act  

The law sets out the purpose, structure, and function of the Federal Reserve System. Congress can amend the Federal Reserve Act and has done so several times.



Before 1913, financial panics were common occurrences because investors were unsure of the safety of their bank deposits. Private financiers such as J.P. Morgan, who bailed out the government in 1895, often provided lines of credit to provide stability in the financial sector. The 1913 Federal Reserve Act, signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson, gave the Fed the ability to print money and policy tools to ensure economic stability.



The Federal Reserve System created the dual mandate to maximize employment and keep prices stable.






The Federal Reserve Act is perhaps one of the most influential laws concerning the U.S. financial system.


   The Fed System  

The 12 Federal Reserve banks, each in charge of a regional district, are in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.



The seven members of the Board of Governors are nominated by the president and approved by the U.S. Senate. Each governor serves a maximum of 14 years, and each governor's appointment is staggered by two years to limit the power of the president. In addition, the law dictates that appointments be representative of all broad sectors of the U.S. economy.



Here is the current list of Federal Reserve Board members as of August 29, 2022.








Current Federal Reserve Board




Jerome H. Powell (Chair)


Lael Brainard (Vice Chair)


Michael S. Barr (Vice Chair for Supervision)


Michelle W. Bowman


Lisa D. Cook


Christopher J. Waller


Philip N. Jefferson






Here is the current list of Federal Reserve Bank Presidents:









Current Federal Reserve Bank Presidents


Name of President
Bank Location-District




Susan M. Collins
Boston-1


John C. Williams
New York-2


Patrick T. Harker
Philadelphia-3


Loretta J. Mester
Cleveland-4


Thomas I. Barkin
Richmond-5


Raphael W. Bostic
Atlanta-6


Austan Goolsbee
Chicago-7


James Bullard
St. Louis-8


Neel Kashkari
Minneapolis-9


Esther L. George
Kansas City-10


Lorie K. Logan
Dallas-11


Mary C. Daly
San Francisco-12





   Fed Powers  

In addition to printing money, the Fed received the power to adjust the discount rate and the Fed funds rate and to buy and sell U.S. Treasuries. The Federal Funds Rate—the interest rate at which depository institutions lend funds maintained at the Federal Reserve to one another overnight—has a major influence on the available credit and the interest rates in the United States and is a measure to ensure that the largest banking institutions do not find themselves short on liquidity.



Through the monetary tools at its disposal, the Federal Reserve attempts to smooth the booms and busts of the economic cycle and maintain adequate bases of money and credit for current production levels.



Central banks across the globe use a tool known as quantitative easing to expand private credit, lower interest rates, and increase investment and commercial activity. Quantitative easing is mainly used to stimulate economies during recessions when credit is scarce, such as during and following the 2008 financial crisis. 




What Did the Federal Reserve Act Do?
The Federal Reserve Act created the Federal Reserve System after it was passed by Congress in 1913. The Fed was originally created to combat banking "panics" that were causing havoc on the U.S. banking system at the time.




Does the Federal Reserve Set Interest Rates?
Not directly. The prime rate, which is used by many lenders is based on the Federal funds rate. Individual lenders use the prime rate as a base for how much to charge in interest, but they typically add more as a way to make profit.




How Many Federal Reserve Districts Are There?
There are 12 districts, with Alaska and Hawaii included in district 12.
What Are FAANG Stocks?  

In finance, “FAANG” is an acronym that refers to the stocks of five prominent American technology companies: Meta (META) (formerly known as Facebook), Amazon (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), Netflix (NFLX); and Alphabet (GOOG) (formerly known as Google). 



The term was popularized by Jim Cramer, the television host of CNBC's Mad Money, in 2013, who praised these companies for being “totally dominant in their markets." Originally, the term "FANG" was used, with Apple—the second “A” in the acronym—added in 2017.





Key Takeaways

FAANG is an acronym referring to the stocks of the five most popular and best-performing American technology companies.These are: Meta (formerly known as Facebook); Amazon; Apple; Netflix; and Alphabet (formerly known as Google). In addition to being widely known among consumers, the five FAANG stocks are among the largest companies in the world.Some have raised concerns that the FAANG stocks may be in the midst of a bubble, whereas others argue that their growth is justified by the stellar financial and operational performance they have shown in recent years.The term was coined by The Street's Bob Lang and popularized by Jim Cramer on his CNBC TV show Mad Money.


   Understanding FAANG Stocks  

In addition to being widely known among consumers, the five FAANG stocks are among the largest companies in the world, with a combined market capitalization of around $7 trillion as of Q1 2022.



Their substantial growth has been buoyed recently by high-profile purchases made by large and influential investors such as Berkshire Hathaway (BRK), Soros Fund Management, and Renaissance Technologies. These are just a few of the many large investors who have added FAANG stocks to their portfolios because of their perceived strength, growth, or momentum. 



Each of the FAANG stocks trades on the Nasdaq exchange and is included in the S&P 500 Index. Since the S&P 500 is a broad representation of the market, the movement of the market mirrors the index's movement. As of August 2021, the FAANGs make up about 19% of the S&P 500—a staggering figure considering the S&P 500 is generally viewed as a proxy for the United States economy as a whole.



This large influence over the index means that volatility in the stock price of the FAANG stocks can have a substantial effect on the performance of the S&P 500 in general. In August 2018, for example, FAANG stocks were responsible for nearly 40% of the index’s gain from the lows reached in February 2018.


   Example of FAANG Stocks  

The extraordinary size and influence of the FAANG stocks have prompted concerns about a potential bubble in FAANG stocks. These concerns started gaining prominence in 2018, when technology stocks, which had been driving consistent gains in the stock market, began losing their former strength. In November 2018, several FAANG stocks lost more than 20% of their valuations and were declared to be in bear territory. By some estimates, FAANG stocks lost more than a trillion dollars from their peak valuations as a result of the steep drop in the markets in November 2018.



Although their valuations have since recovered, the level of volatility sometimes shown by FAANG stocks—and the oversized influence these stocks can have on the market overall—is a source of concern for some investors.



On the other hand, those who believe in the fundamental strength of the FAANG stocks have abundant evidence for this claim. For example, Facebook is the world’s largest social network with approximately 2.8 billion users. In its 2021 annual report, Meta posted revenues of $118 billion and net income of $39.4 billion.



Amazon, meanwhile, has become a seemingly insurmountable force in business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce. With over 120 million products for sale, it has over 300 million active customers in the United States, of whom more than half pay for monthly Amazon Prime memberships. With 2021 TTM revenues of $470 billion and a net income of $33.4 billion, it is not hard to understand why investors believe Amazon’s vast market capitalization is justified.






Overall, it is through strong financial performance such as this that the FAANG stocks have prospered recently. Over the past five years, for instance, Meta and Amazon have seen stock-price increases of 185% and 500%, respectively. For their part, Apple and Alphabet saw price increases of about 175% over that same timeframe, whereas Netflix saw its value rise by nearly 450%.




What Makes FAANG Stocks So Popular?
The five stocks that make up the “FAANG” acronym—Meta (META), Amazon (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), Netflix (NFLX), and Alphabet (GOOG)—are all well-known brands among consumers. But they are also famous for their remarkable growth in recent years, with market capitalizations ranging from $166 billion (in the case of Netflix) to $2.7 trillion (in the case of Apple), as of Q1 2022. From an investment perspective, these five stocks are generally praised for their stellar historical track records and clear leadership positions within their industries.




Are FAANG Stocks Overvalued?
Investors disagree about whether the FAANG stocks are overvalued. Their proponents will argue that their valuations are justified based on their fundamental strength as businesses. But critics argue that, even with impressive business performance, the FAANG stocks’ prices have become so expensive that it may be difficult to realize attractive long-term profits from investing in them. Ultimately, this “debate” between investors is best captured by the buying and selling patterns in the FAANG stocks themselves.




Are FAANG Stocks Hard to Acquire?
No. The FAANG stocks are all easy to acquire, in the sense that they are publicly traded companies with substantial daily trading volumes. They are also routinely included in popular exchange-traded funds (ETFs). However, investors who believe that the FAANG stocks may be overvalued would argue that they are difficult to acquire at an economical price. These investors may be tempted to delay purchasing FAANG stocks, waiting for their valuations to decline.




Who Coined the Term FANG Stocks?
While Jim Cramer certainly popularized the term, he himself credits Bob Lang, a Real Money and The Street colleague of Cramer's, with identifying these four stocks and inventing the acronym.




Is Microsoft a FAANG Stock?
No. Microsoft is not a FAANG stock, which is why there is no "M" in the acronym. FAANG stocks were meant to describe hot, new high-growth tech companies of the 2010s. By then Microsoft was already a mature, older company.
What Is Face Value?  

Face value is a financial term used to describe the nominal or dollar value of a security, as stated by its issuer. For stocks, the face value is the original cost of the stock, as listed on the certificate. For bonds, it is the amount paid to the holder at maturity, typically in $1,000 denominations. The face value of bonds is often referred to as "par value" or simply "par."





Key Takeaways

Face value describes the nominal value or dollar value of a security; the face value is stated by the issuing party.A stock's face value is the initial cost of the stock, as indicated on the certificate of the stock in question; a bond's face value is the dollar figure due to be paid to the investor, once the bond reaches maturity.The actual market value of a stock or a bond is not reliably indicated by its face value, because there are many other influencing forces at play, such as supply and demand.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Face Value  

In bond investing, face value (par value) is the amount paid to a bondholder at the maturity date, as long as the bond issuer doesn't default. However, bonds sold on the secondary market fluctuate with interest rates. For example, if interest rates are higher than the bond's coupon rate, then the bond is sold at a discount (below par).



Conversely, if interest rates are lower than the bond's coupon rate, the bond is sold at a premium (above par). While the face value of a bond provides for a guaranteed return, the face value of a stock is generally a poor indicator of actual worth.






While the par value of bonds is generally static, there is a noted exception with inflation-linked bonds, whose par value is adjusted by inflation rates for predetermined time periods.


  Face value and bonds  

A bond's face value is the amount the issuer provides to the bondholder, once maturity is reached. A bond may either have an additional interest rate, or the profit may be based solely on the increase from a below-par original issue price and the face value at maturity.


  Face value and stock shares  

The cumulative face value of the entirety of a company’s stock shares designates the legal capital a corporation is obligated to maintain. Only the above-and-beyond capital may be released to investors, in the form of dividends. In essence, the funds that cover the face value, function as a type of default reserve.



However, there is no requirement dictating the face value businesses must list upon issue. This affords businesses the leeway to use very low values to determine the size of the reserve. For example, the par value of AT&T shares is listed as $1 per common share, while shares of Apple Inc. have a par value of $0.00001.


   Face Value vs. Market Value  

The face value of a stock or bond does not denote the actual market value. Market value is determined based on principles of supply and demand. In turn, supply and demand is governed by the dollar figure where investors are willing to buy and sell the security, at a given time. In fact, depending on market conditions, the face value and market value may have very little correlation.



In the bond market, interest rates (compared with the bond’s coupon rate) may determine if a bond sells above or below par. Zero-coupon bonds, or those where investors receive no interest, aside from that associated with purchasing the bond below face value, are generally only sold below par because that's the only feasible way an investor can receive a profit.




Is Face Value the Same As Par Value?
Yes. Face value refers to the dollar value of a financial instrument when it is issued. The face value of a bond is the price that the issuer pays at the time of maturity, also referred to as “par value.” By comparison, the face value of a stock is the price set by the issuer when the stock is first issued. 




What Is the Difference Between Face Value and Market Value?
While face value is the original price of a stock as set by its issuer, market value is influenced by external supply-and-demand forces. Market value is the price that the market will bear, and it can differ significantly from a stock’s initial price. For example, the face value of Apple shares is $0.00001, while the market value of its shares can fluctuate above $100. 




What Is the Difference Between Face Value and a Bond’s Price?
A bond’s face value is fixed, often issued in $1,000 denominations. By contrast, its price fluctuates in response to market interest rates, time to maturity, and the issuer’s credit rating. A bond may be priced above par, or below par based on these conditions. For example, if interest rates increase, bond prices will decline, trading at a discount to face value in the secondary market.


   The Bottom Line  

In finance, face value refers to the nominal or dollar value of a security stated by the issuer. This is also known as "par value" or "par," typically in reference to bonds. Face value is not the same as market value which is the current value of the security, based on supply and demand. With bonds, face value refers to the amount paid to the holder of the bond at maturity—although, as with stocks, bond market prices can fluctuate if sold on the secondary market.



Historically, face value was used to ensure that companies didn't sell stocks below a specified price. As a data point in a time of limited information, face value also provided protection to shareholders. For issuers, face value created a value expectation when shares were sold. Finally, face value serves an important role when calculating bond prices. Interest is based on face value making the connection between face value and redemption value much more important face value of a stock.
What Is a Facility?  

A facility is a formal financial assistance program offered by a lending institution to help a company that requires operating capital. Types of facilities include overdraft services, deferred payment plans, lines of credit (LOC), revolving credit, term loans, letters of credit, and swingline loans. A facility is essentially another name for a loan taken out by a company.





Key Takeaways

Facilities are financial assistance programs offered by banks and lending institutions to help companies.The main types of facilities are overdraft services, business lines of credit, term loans, and letters of credit.A facility is essentially another name for a loan taken out by a company.


   How a Facility Works  

A facility is an agreement between a company and a public or private lender that allows the business to borrow a particular amount of money for different purposes for a short period of time. The loan is for a set amount and does not require collateral. The borrower makes monthly or quarterly payments, with interest, until the debt is paid in full.



A facility is especially important for companies that want to avoid things such as laying off workers, slowing growth, or closing down during seasonal sales cycles when revenue is low.



For example, if a jewelry store is low on cash in December when sales are down, the owner can request a $2 million facility from a bank, which will be paid back in full by July as business picks up. The jeweler uses the funds to continue operations and pays back the loan in monthly installments by the agreed-upon date.


   Examples of Facilities  

There are a number of facilities available for short-term borrowers, depending on the needs of the borrowing businesses. These loans can be committed or uncommitted.


  Overdraft Services  

Overdraft services provide a loan to a company when the company's cash account is empty. The lender charges interest and fees on the borrowed money. Overdraft services cost less than loans, are quickly completed, and do not include penalties for an early payoff.


  Business Lines of Credit (LOC)  

An unsecured business line of credit gives corporations access to cash as needed at a competitive rate, with flexible payment choices. A traditional line of credit provides check-writing privileges, requires an annual review, and can be called early by the lender. A non-traditional line of credit provides businesses with quick access to cash and a high credit limit.



Revolving credit has a specific limit and no set monthly payments, yet interest accrues and is capitalized. Companies with low cash balances that need to fund their net working capital needs will usually go for a revolving credit facility, which provides access to funds any time the business needs capital.


  Term Loans  

A term loan is a commercial loan with a set interest rate and maturity date. A company typically uses the money to finance a large investment or acquisition. Intermediate-term loans are under three years and are repaid monthly, possibly with balloon payments. Long-term loans can be up to 20 years and are backed by collateral.


  Letters of Credit  

Domestic and international trade companies use letters of credit to facilitate transactions and payments. A financial institution assures payment and completion of obligations between the applicant (buyer) and the beneficiary (seller).
What Is a Factor?  

A factor is an intermediary agent that provides cash or financing to companies by purchasing their accounts receivables. A factor is essentially a funding source that agrees to pay the company the value of an invoice less a discount for commission and fees. Factoring can help companies improve their short-term cash needs by selling their receivables in return for an injection of cash from the factoring company. The practice is also known as factoring, factoring finance, and accounts receivable financing.





Key Takeaways

A factor is essentially a funding source that agrees to pay a company the value of an invoice less a discount for commission and fees.The terms and conditions set by a factor may vary depending on its internal practices.The factor is more concerned with the creditworthiness of the invoiced party than the company from which it has purchased the receivable.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding a Factor  

Factoring allows a business to obtain immediate capital or money based on the future income attributed to a particular amount due on an account receivable or a business invoice. Accounts receivables represent money owed to the company from its customers for sales made on credit. For accounting purposes, receivables are recorded on the balance sheet as current assets since the money is usually collected in less than one year.



Sometimes companies can experience cash flow shortfalls when their short-term debts or bills exceed the revenue being generated from sales. If a company has a significant portion of its sales done via accounts receivables, the money collected from the receivables might not be paid in time for the company to meet its short-term payables. As a result, companies can sell their receivables to a financial provider (called a factor) and receive cash.



There are three parties directly involved in a transaction involving a factor: the company selling its accounts receivables; the factor that purchases the receivables; and the company's customer, who must now pay the receivable amount to the factor instead of paying the company that was originally owed the money.


   Requirements for a Factor  

Although the terms and conditions set by a factor can vary depending on its internal practices, the funds are often released to the seller of the receivables within 24 hours. In return for paying the company cash for its accounts receivables, the factor earns a fee.



Typically, a percentage of the receivable amount is kept by the factor; however, that percentage can vary, depending on the creditworthiness of the customers paying the receivables.



If the financial company acting as the factor believes there's an increased risk of taking a loss due to the customers not being able to pay the receivable amounts, they'll charge a higher fee to the company selling the receivables. If there's a low risk of taking a loss from collecting the receivables, the factoring fee charged to the company will be lower.






Factoring is not considered a loan, as the parties neither issue nor acquire debt as part of the transaction. The funds provided to the company in exchange for the accounts receivable are also not subject to any restrictions regarding use.



Essentially, the company selling the receivables is transferring the risk of default (or nonpayment) by its customers to the factor. As a result, the factor must charge a fee to help compensate for that risk. Also, how long the receivables have been outstanding or uncollected can impact the factoring fee. The factoring agreement can vary between financial institutions. For example, a factor may want the company to pay additional money in the event one of the company's customers defaults on a receivable.


   Benefits of a Factor  

The company selling its receivables gets an immediate cash injection, which can help fund its business operations or improve its working capital. Working capital is vital to companies since it represents the difference between the short-term cash inflows (such as revenue) versus the short-term bills or financial obligations (such as debt payments).



Selling, all or a portion, of its accounts receivables to a factor can help prevent a company that's cash strapped from defaulting on its loan payments with a creditor, such as a bank.



Although factoring is a relatively expensive form of financing, it can help a company improve its cash flow. Factors provide a valuable service to companies that operate in industries where it takes a long time to convert receivables to cash—and to companies that are growing rapidly and need cash to take advantage of new business opportunities.



The best factoring companies also benefit since the factor can purchase uncollected receivables or assets at a discounted price in exchange for providing cash up front.


   Example of a Factor  

Assume a factor has agreed to purchase an invoice of $1 million from Clothing Manufacturers Inc., representing outstanding receivables from Behemoth Co. The factor negotiates to discount the invoice by 4% and will advance $720,000 to Clothing Manufacturers Inc.



The balance of $240,000 will be forwarded by the factor to Clothing Manufacturers Inc. upon receipt of the $1 million accounts receivable invoice for Behemoth Co. The factor’s fees and commissions from this factoring deal amount to $40,000. The factor is more concerned with the creditworthiness of the invoiced party, Behemoth Co., than the company from which it has purchased the receivables.




Is Factoring a Good Investment?
Determining whether "factoring" is a good investment for a company will depend on many factors, particularly the company specifics, such as the type of business and its financial condition. Generally, factoring is a good investment choice for a business, as it increases liquidity, increases competitiveness, improves cash flow, is efficient, removes the need for good credit, and reduces the reliance on traditional debt.




How Does Factoring Work?
A company that has accounts receivables is waiting on payment from its customers. Depending on the company's finances, it may need that cash to continue operating its business or funding growth. The longer it takes time to collect the accounts receivables, the more difficult it is for a business to run its operations. Factoring allows a company to sell off its receivables at one time rather than having to wait on collecting from customers. The receivables are sold at a discount, meaning that the factoring company may pay the company with the receivables 80% or 90%, depending on the agreement, of the value of the receivables. This may be worth it to the company in order to receive the influx of cash.




How Much Money Do You Need to Start a Factoring Company?
Depending on the type of factoring company you wish to start, your start-up costs will range from $1,135 to $23,259.
What Is Factor Investing?  

Factor investing is a strategy that chooses securities on attributes that are associated with higher returns. There are two main types of factors that have driven returns of stocks, bonds, and other factors: macroeconomic factors and style factors. The former captures broad risks across asset classes while the latter aims to explain returns and risks within asset classes.



Some common macroeconomic factors include: the rate of inflation; GDP growth; and the unemployment rate. Microeconomic factors include: a company's credit; its share liquidity; and stock price volatility. Style factors encompass growth versus value stocks; market capitalization; and industry sector.





Key Takeaways

Factor investing utilizes multiple factors, including macroeconomic as well as fundamental and statistical, are used to analyze and explain asset prices and build an investment strategy.Factors that have been identified by investors include: growth vs. value; market capitalization; credit rating; and stock price volatility - among several others.Smart beta is a common application of a factor investing strategy.


   Understanding Factor Investing  

Factor investing, from a theoretical standpoint, is designed to enhance diversification, generate above-market returns and manage risk. Portfolio diversification has long been a popular safety tactic, but the gains of diversification are lost if the chosen securities move in lockstep with the broader market. For example, an investor may choose a mixture of stocks and bonds that all decline in value when certain market conditions arise. The good news is factor investing can offset potential risks by targeting broad, persistent, and long recognized drivers of returns.



Since traditional portfolio allocations, like 60% stocks and 40% bonds, are relatively easy to implement, factor investing can seem overwhelming given the number of factors to choose from. Rather than look at complex attributes, such as momentum, beginners to factor investing can focus on simpler elements, such as style (growth vs. value), size (large cap vs. small cap), and risk (beta). These attributes are readily available for most securities and are listed on popular stock research websites.


   Foundations of Factor Investing  
  Value  

Value aims to capture excess returns from stocks that have low prices relative to their fundamental value. This is commonly tracked by price to book, price to earnings, dividends, and free cash flow. 


  Size  

Historically, portfolios consisting of small-cap stocks exhibit greater returns than portfolios with just large-cap stocks. Investors can capture size by looking at the market capitalization of a stock.


  Momentum  

Stocks that have outperformed in the past tend to exhibit strong returns going forward. A momentum strategy is grounded in relative returns from three months to a one-year time frame.


  Quality  

Quality is defined by low debt, stable earnings, consistent asset growth, and strong corporate governance. Investors can identify quality stocks by using common financial metrics like a return to equity, debt to equity and earnings variability. 


  Volatility  

Empirical research suggests that stocks with low volatility earn greater risk-adjusted returns than highly volatile assets. Measuring standard deviation from a one- to three-year time frame is a common method of capturing beta.


   Example: The Fama-French 3-Factor Model  

One widely used multi-factor model is the Fama and French three-factor model that expands on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Built by economists Eugene Fama and Kenneth French, the Fama and French model utilizes three factors: size of firms, book-to-market values, and excess return on the market. In the model's terminology, the three factors used are SMB (small minus big), HML (high minus low) and the portfolio's return less the risk free rate of return. SMB accounts for publicly traded companies with small market caps that generate higher returns, while HML accounts for value stocks with high book-to-market ratios that generate higher returns in comparison to the market.
What Is a Factor Market?  

"Factor market" is a term economists use for all of the resources that businesses use to purchase, rent, or hire what they need in order to produce goods or services. Those needs are the factors of production, which include raw materials, land, labor, and capital.



The factor market is also called the input market. By this definition, all markets are either factor markets, where businesses obtain the resources they need, or goods and services markets, where consumers make their purchases.






In the view of economists, there are only two markets: the factor market and the goods and services market.They also can be called the input market and the output market.The input market supplies the resources needed to make finished products.The output market buys and uses the finished products.The factor market is driven by demand in the goods and services market. 


   Understanding a Factor Market  

A factor market is termed an input market, while the market for finished products or services is an output market. This can be viewed as a closed-loop flow: In the factor market, households are sellers and businesses are buyers, while in the goods and services market, businesses are sellers and households are buyers.



Workers are participating in the factor market when they make their services available to businesses. An individual member of a household who is looking for a job is participating in the factor market. An employee's wages are a component of the factor market, but the money will be spent in the goods and services market.



The factor market provides every component required to produce goods and services.



In the appliance manufacturing industry, workers who are skilled in refrigerator and dishwasher assembly are considered to be part of the factor market when they are available for hire. In the modern world, job search websites are part of the factor market.



Similarly, raw materials like steel and plastic—both of which are used to build refrigerators and dishwashers—are also examples of factor market products.






Anything used in the creation of a finished product—labor, raw materials, capital, or land—is an element of the factor market.


   Flow of a Factor Market  

The combination of the factor markets and the goods and services market forms a closed loop for the flow of money. Households supply labor to companies, which pay them wages that are then used to buy goods and services from companies.



The goods and services market drives the factor market. When consumers demand more goods and services, manufacturers increase their purchases of the resources used to make those goods and services. Factor market producers, in turn, step up production of the raw materials that the manufacturers need.


   Free Markets in a Factor Economy  

The factor market is one of the defining characteristics of a market economy.



Traditional models of socialism are characterized by the replacement of factor markets, which respond to the dictates of supply and demand, with central economic planning, which dictates supply and assigns resources accordingly.



The assumption of socialism is that market exchanges are redundant within the production process if capital goods are owned by a single entity representing the interests of the society as a whole.






A market economy has three components: the factor market at one end, the consumers market at the other end, and, in between, the producers—the companies that create the products we use.


  Monopoly and Monopsony in the Factor Economy  

A monopoly exists when there is only a single producer or seller of a product or service to serve many buyers. A monopsony is the opposite: there are many producers but only one buyer.



Both are considered examples of market failures. The law of supply and demand can't work efficiently in either situation because of a lack of competition.



This has particular relevance to the labor component of the factor market. An employee has no bargaining power in a town where there is only one possible employer. Moreover, a consumer faced with one brand has no choice but to pay the price demanded and accept the quality offered.



A monopoly has an equally destructive effect in the factor market. A single supplier is under no pressure to cut prices, innovate, or even excel.



Monopoly and monopsony are seen as disturbing the equilibrium of a factor market, which depends on competition to work efficiently.


   Factor Market FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about the factor market.


  Why Are Factor Markets Important?  

A market economy can't exist without three interdependent components: the factor market at one end, the goods and services market at the other end, and, in between, the producers—the companies that create the products we use.



The producers obtain what they need in the factor market, produce finished products, and sell them to end-users. The end-users, by their actions, create and sustain demand for raw materials that are then made available by the factor market in order to supply the producers. This is known as derived demand.



The factor market responds to demand, and the cycle continues.


  How Do Supply and Demand Impact Factor Markets?  

The factor market is driven by demand in the product market. The resources needed to produce goods and services are created or obtained in sufficient quantities to satisfy demand in the product market.



In effect, the consumer market dictates the factor market.


  What Transactions Take Place in a Factor Market?  

In the factor market, businesses are the buyers. They may buy, rent, or hire raw materials, land, or labor. Whatever a business needs in order to build, package, and deliver the products or services they provide must be obtained in the factor market.



The sellers include producers of raw materials. However, every individual who has a job is a participant in the factor market. The skills and labor that the person is offering in return for compensation is a product that is made available in the factor market.


  What Are the Types of Factor Market?  

Economists generally divide the factor market into four components:



The labor market, in which people make themselves available for hireCapital, or money, which is available as business loans or investmentThe land market, which is widely defined to include all the natural resourcesEntrepreneurship, the creators of companies



These are the factors of production.
What Are Factors of Production?  

Factors of production are the inputs needed for creating a good or service, and the factors of production include land, labor, entrepreneurship, and capital.



Those who control the factors of production often enjoy the greatest wealth in a society. In capitalism, the factors of production are most often controlled by business owners and investors. In socialist systems, the government (or community) often exerts greater control over the factors of production.





Key Takeaways

Factors of production is an economic term that describes the inputs used in the production of goods or services to make an economic profit.These include any resource needed for the creation of a good or service.The factors of production are land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship.The state of technological progress can influence the total factors of production and account for any efficiencies not related to the four typical factors.Land as a factor of production can mean agriculture and farming to the use of natural resources.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   How Factors of Production Work  

The modern definition of factors of production is primarily derived from a neoclassical view of economics. It amalgamates past approaches to economic theory, such as the concept of labor as a factor of production from socialism, into a single definition. 



Land, labor, and capital as factors of production were originally identified by early political economists such as Adam Smith, David Ricardo, and Karl Marx. Today, capital and labor remain the two primary inputs for processes and profits. Production, such as manufacturing, can be tracked by certain indexes, including the ISM manufacturing index.


   The 4 Factors of Production  

There are four factors of production—land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Land As a Factor  

Land has a broad definition as a factor of production and can take on various forms, from agricultural land to commercial real estate to the resources available from a particular piece of land. Natural resources, such as oil and gold, can be extracted and refined for human consumption from the land.



Cultivation of crops on land by farmers increases its value and utility. For a group of early French economists called “the physiocrats,” who predated the classical political economists, land was responsible for generating economic value.



While land is an essential component of most ventures, its importance can diminish or increase based on industry. For example, a technology company can easily begin operations with zero investment in land. On the other hand, land is the most significant investment for a real estate venture.


   Labor As a Factor  

Labor refers to the effort expended by an individual to bring a product or service to the market. Again, it can take on various forms. For example, the construction worker at a hotel site is part of labor, as is the waiter who serves guests or the receptionist who enrolls them into the hotel.



Within the software industry, labor refers to the work done by project managers and developers in building the final product. Even an artist involved in making art, whether it is a painting or a symphony, is considered labor. For the early political economists, labor was the primary driver of economic value. Production workers are paid for their time and effort in wages that depend on their skill and training. Labor by an uneducated and untrained worker is typically paid at low prices. Skilled and trained workers are called “human capital” and are paid higher wages because they bring more than their physical capacity to the task.



For example, an accountant’s job requires the analysis of financial data for a company. Countries that are rich in human capital experience increased productivity and efficiency. The difference in skill levels and terminology also helps companies and entrepreneurs create corresponding disparities in pay scales. This can result in a transformation of factors of production for entire industries. An example of this is the change in production processes in the information technology (IT) industry after jobs were outsourced to countries with lower salaries.


   Capital As a Factor  

In economics, capital typically refers to money. However, money is not a factor of production because it is not directly involved in producing a good or service. Instead, it facilitates the processes used in production by enabling entrepreneurs and company owners to purchase capital goods or land or to pay wages. For modern mainstream (neoclassical) economists, capital is the primary driver of value.



It is important to distinguish personal and private capital in factors of production. A personal vehicle used to transport family is not considered a capital good, but a commercial vehicle used expressly for official purposes is. During an economic contraction or when they suffer losses, companies cut back on capital expenditure to ensure profits. However, during periods of economic expansion, they invest in new machinery and equipment to bring new products to market.



An illustration of the above is the difference in markets for robots in China compared to the United States after the 2008 financial crisis. After the crisis, China experienced a multi-year growth cycle, and its manufacturers invested in robots to improve productivity at their facilities and meet growing market demands. As a result, the country became the biggest market for robots. Manufacturers within the United States, which had been in the throes of an economic recession after the financial crisis, cut back on their investments related to production due to tepid demand.   






As a factor of production, capital refers to the purchase of goods made with money in production. For example, a tractor purchased for farming is capital. Along the same lines, desks and chairs used in an office are also capital.


   Entrepreneurship As a Factor  

Entrepreneurship is the secret sauce that combines all the other factors of production into a product or service for the consumer market. An example of entrepreneurship is the evolution of the social media behemoth Meta (META), formerly Facebook.



Mark Zuckerberg assumed the risk for the success or failure of his social media network when he began allocating time from his daily schedule toward that activity. When he coded the minimum viable product himself, Zuckerberg’s labor was the only factor of production. After Facebook, the social media site, became popular and spread across campuses, it realized it needed to recruit additional employees. He hired two people, an engineer (Dustin Moskovitz) and a spokesperson (Chris Hughes), who both allocated hours to the project, meaning that their invested time became a factor of production.



The continued popularity of the product meant that Zuckerberg also had to scale technology and operations. He raised venture capital money to rent office space, hire more employees, and purchase additional server space for development. At first, there was no need for land. However, as business continued to grow, Meta built its own office space and data centers. Each of these requires significant real estate and capital investments.


   Connecting the Factors  

Another example of entrepreneurship is Starbucks Corporation (SBUX). The retail coffee chain needs land (prime real estate in big cities for its coffee chain), capital (large machinery to produce and dispense coffee), and labor (employees at its retail outposts for service). Entrepreneur Howard Schultz, the company’s founder, provided the fourth factor of production by being the first person to realize that a market for such a chain existed and figuring out the connections among the other three factors of production.



While large companies make for excellent examples, a majority of companies within the United States are small businesses started by entrepreneurs. Because entrepreneurs are vital for economic growth, countries are creating the necessary framework and policies to make it easier for them to start companies.


   Ownership of Factors of Production  

The definition of factors of production in economic systems presumes that ownership lies with households, who lend or lease them to entrepreneurs and organizations. But that is a theoretical construct and rarely the case in practice. Except for labor, ownership for factors of production varies based on industry and economic system.



For example, a firm operating in the real estate industry typically owns significant parcels of land, while retail corporations and shops lease land for extended periods of time. Capital also follows a similar model in that it can be owned or leased from another party. Under no circumstances, however, is labor owned by firms. Labor’s transaction with firms is based on wages.



Ownership of the factors of production also differs based on the economic system. For example, private enterprises and individuals own most of the factors of production in capitalism. However, collective good is the predominating principle in socialism. As such, factors of production, such as land and capital, are owned and regulated by the community as a whole under socialism.











Ownership of the factors of production depends on the type of economic system and society


  Factors of Production
Capitalism
Socialism
Communism




 Are owned by...
Individuals
Everyone
Everyone (via the government)


 Are valued for...
Profitability
Usefulness to people
Usefulness to society





   The Role of Technology  

While not directly listed as a factor, technology plays a vital role in influencing production. In this context, technology has a fairly broad definition and can refer to software, hardware, or a combination of both used to streamline organizational or manufacturing processes.



Increasingly, technology is responsible for the difference in efficiency among firms. To that end, technology—like money—is a facilitator of the factors of production. The introduction of technology into a labor or capital process makes it more efficient. For example, the use of robots in manufacturing has the potential to improve productivity and output. Similarly, the use of kiosks in self-serve restaurants can help firms cut back on their labor costs.



The Solow residual, also known as "total factor productivity (TFP)," measures the residual output that remains unaccounted for from the four factors of production and typically increases when technological processes or equipment are applied to production. Economists consider TFP to be the main factor driving economic growth for a country. The greater a firm's or country's TFP, the greater its growth.




What Are the Factors of Production?
The factors of production are an important economic concept outlining the elements needed to produce a good or service for sale. They are commonly broken down into four elements: land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship. However, commentators sometimes refer to labor and capital as the two primary factors of production. Depending on the specific circumstances, one or more factors of production might be more important than the others.




What Are Examples of the Factors of Production?
Land refers to physical lands, such as the acres used for a farm or the city block on which a building is constructed. Labor refers to all wage-earning activities, such as the work of professionals, retail workers, and so on. Entrepreneurship refers to the initiatives taken by entrepreneurs, who typically begin as the first workers in their firms and then gradually employ other factors of production to grow their businesses. Finally, capital refers to the cash, equipment, and other assets needed to start or grow a business.




Are All Factors of Production Equally Important?
Depending on the context, some factors of production might be more important than others. For example, a software company that relies primarily on the labor of skilled software engineers might see labor as its most valuable factor of production. Meanwhile, a company that makes its money from building and renting out office space might see land and capital as its most valuable factors. As the demands of a business change over time, the relative importance of the factors of production will also change accordingly.
What Is FactSet?  

FactSet Research Systems provides computer-based financial data and analysis for financial professionals, including investment managers, hedge funds, and investment bankers. It consolidates data on global markets, public and private companies, and equity and fixed-income portfolios.



FactSet was founded in 1978 by Howard Wille and Charles Snyder and is headquartered in Connecticut, with additional offices in the United States and around the world. The Motley Fool is a major customer who uses their information.





Key Takeaways

FactSet Research System is a financial data and software company that provides research for Wall Street professionals and individual investors.FactSet combines data from a variety of financial information resources into one source, available to users online.FactSet's system provides market analytics, financial content, stock screening, customized data, and other features.


   How FactSet Works  

FactSet's mission is to help the performance of investment professionals throughout the world by providing analytical insight gleaned from raw financial data. The company seeks to do this by providing investors and other professionals with the tools needed to convert this data into information that can be used in financial analysis and financial reporting.



FactSet provides its services for a lower price than some of its competitors because the company uses multiple sources to provide its data, which creates pricing competition between suppliers.





850

The number of independent data providers FactSet allows members to access.



The company gives its clients an all-inclusive computer system that can be personalized for the specific needs of investment managers, hedge funds, investment bankers, and other quantitative fields and industries. FactSet offers products that take care of market analytics, financial content, financial screening, customized data analytics, and more.



As of 2019, FactSet services nearly 100,000 users in more than 4,700 companies and organizations. FactSet has 60 offices in 23 countries. The company reports it has had a client retention rate of 90% for over 15 years.






FactSet Research System's competitors include Morningstar, S&P Global, and Bloomberg.


   The Company Structure  

FactSet is broken down into three business units: one in the United States, one in Europe, and one in Asia-Pacific. The business unit located in the United States provides financial solutions to financial professionals as well as domestic financial institutions. The European and Asia-Pacific business units only service financial professionals in the regions in which each unit operates.



As of October 2019, the company is led by its chief executive officer (CEO), Philip Snow, who assumed the head role in 2015. Snow began his career at FactSet in 1996 as a consultant and held various company positions in the United States and abroad. Snow holds a degree in chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley, and a master's degree in international management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management from Arizona State University.



FactSet has an established corporate governance with audit board committees made up of independent directors to help with financial and corporate compliance. The company also requires shareholders to have a supermajority to amend specific company provisions and an employee hotline that allows for the reporting of ethical or accounting concerns.
What Is Facultative Reinsurance?  

Facultative reinsurance is coverage purchased by a primary insurer to cover a single risk—or a block of risks—held in the primary insurer's book of business. Facultative reinsurance is one of two types of reinsurance (the other type of reinsurance is called treaty reinsurance). Facultative reinsurance is considered to be more of a one-time transactional deal, while treaty reinsurance is typically part of a long-term arrangement of coverage between two parties.





Key Takeaways

Facultative reinsurance is coverage purchased by a primary insurer to cover a single risk or a block of risks held in the primary insurer's book of business.Facultative reinsurance allows the reinsurance company to review individual risks and determine whether to accept or reject them and so are more focused in nature than treaty reinsurance.By covering itself against a single or block of risks, reinsurance gives the insurer more security for its equity and solvency and more stability when unusual or major events occur.


   How Facultative Reinsurance Works  

An insurance company that enters into a reinsurance contract with a reinsurance company—also known as a ceding company—does so in order to pass off some of their risk in exchange for a fee. This fee may be a portion of the premium the insurer receives for a policy. The primary insurer that cedes risk to the reinsurer has the option of either ceding specific risks or a block of risks. Reinsurance contract types determine whether the reinsurer is able to accept or reject an individual risk, or if the reinsurer must accept all the specified risks.



Facultative reinsurance allows the reinsurance company to review individual risks and determine whether to accept or reject them. The profitability of a reinsurance company depends on how wisely it chooses its customers. In a facultative reinsurance arrangement, the ceding company and the reinsurer create a facultative certificate that indicates that the reinsurer is accepting a given risk.



Insurance companies looking to cede risk to a reinsurer may find that facultative reinsurance contracts are more expensive than treaty reinsurance. This is because treaty reinsurance covers a “book” of risks. This is an indicator that the relationship between the ceding company and the reinsurer is expected to become a long-term relationship (versus if the reinsurer only wants to cover a single risk in a one-off transaction). While the increased cost is a burden, a facultative reinsurance arrangement may allow the ceding company to reinsure specific risks that it may otherwise not be able to take on.


   Treaty Reinsurance vs. Facultative Reinsurance  

Both treaty and facultative reinsurance contracts can be written on a proportional or excess-of-loss basis (or a combination of both).



Treaty reinsurance is a broad agreement covering some portion of a particular class (or class of business), such as an insurer's entire workers' compensation or property business. Reinsurance treaties automatically cover all risks, written by the insured, that fall within treaty terms—unless they specifically exclude certain exposures.



While treaty reinsurance does not require review of individual risks by the reinsurer, it demands a careful review of the underwriting philosophy, practice, and historical experience of the ceding insurer.






Facultative reinsurance is usually the simplest way for an insurer to obtain reinsurance protection; these policies are also the easiest to tailor to specific circumstances.



Facultative reinsurance contracts are much more focused in nature. They cover individual underlying policies, and they are written on a policy-specific basis. A facultative agreement covers a specific risk of the ceding insurer. A reinsurer and ceding insurer must agree on terms and conditions for each individual contract. Facultative reinsurance agreements often cover catastrophic or unusual risk exposures.



Because it is so specific, facultative reinsurance requires the use of substantial personnel and technical resources for underwriting activities.


   Benefits of Facultative Reinsurance  

By covering itself against a single risk—or a block of risks—reinsurance gives the insurer more security for its equity and solvency (and more stability when unusual or major events occur).



Reinsurance also allows an insurer to underwrite policies, covering a larger volume of risks without excessively raising the costs of covering their solvency margins—the amount by which the assets of the insurance company, at fair values, are considered to exceed its liabilities and other comparable commitments. In fact, reinsurance makes substantial liquid assets available for insurers in case of exceptional losses.


   Example of Facultative Reinsurance  

Suppose a standard insurance provider issues a policy on major commercial real estate, such as a large corporate office building. The policy is written for $35 million, meaning the original insurer faces a potential $35 million in liability if the building is badly damaged. But the insurer believes it cannot afford to pay out more than $25 million.



So, before even agreeing to issue the policy, the insurer must look for facultative reinsurance and try the market until it gets takers for the remaining $10 million. The insurer might get pieces of the $10 million from 10 different reinsurers. But without that, it cannot agree to issue the policy. Once it has the agreement from the companies to cover the $10 million and is confident it can potentially cover the full amount should a claim come in, it can issue the policy.
What Is Failure To Deliver (FTD)?  

Failure to deliver (FTD) refers to a situation where one party in a trading contract (whether it's shares, futures, options, or forward contracts) doesn't deliver on their obligation. Such failures occur when a buyer (the party with a long position) doesn't have enough money to take delivery and pay for the transaction at settlement.



A failure can also occur when the seller (the party with a short position) does not own all or any of the underlying assets required at settlement, and so cannot make the delivery.





Key Takeaways

Failure to deliver (FTD) refers to not being able to meet one's trading obligations.In the case of buyers, it means not having the cash; in the case of sellers, it means not having the goods.The reckoning of these obligations occurs at trade settlement.Failure to deliver can occur in derivatives contracts or when selling short naked.


   Understanding Failure To Deliver  

Whenever a trade is made, both parties in the transaction are contractually obligated to transfer either cash or assets before the settlement date. Subsequently, if the transaction is not settled, one side of the transaction has failed to deliver. Failure to deliver can also occur if there is a technical problem in the settlement process carried out by the respective clearinghouse.



Failure to deliver is critical when discussing naked short selling. When naked short selling occurs, an individual agrees to sell a stock that neither they nor their associated broker possess, and the individual has no way to substantiate their access to such shares. The average individual is incapable of doing this kind of trade. However, an individual working as a proprietary trader for a trading firm and risking their own capital may be able. Though it would be considered illegal to do so, some such individuals or institutions may believe the company they short will go out of business, and thus in a naked short sale they may be able to make a profit with no accountability.



Subsequently, the pending failure to deliver creates what are called "phantom shares" in the marketplace, which may dilute the price of the underlying stock. In other words, the buyer on the other side of such trades may own shares, on paper, which do not actually exist.


   Chain Reactions of Failure to Deliver Events  

Several potential problems occur when trades don't settle appropriately due to failure to deliver. Both equity and derivative markets can have a failure to deliver occurrence.



With forward contracts, a party with a short position's failure to deliver can cause significant problems for the party with the long position. This difficulty happens because these contracts often involve substantial volumes of assets that are pertinent to the long position's business operations.



In business, a seller may pre-sell an item that they do not yet have in their possession. Often this will be due to a delayed shipment from the supplier. When it comes time for the seller to deliver to the buyer, they can't fulfill the order because the supplier was late. The buyer may cancel the order leaving the seller with a lost sale, useless inventory, and the need to deal with the tardy supplier. Meanwhile, the buyer will not have what they need. Remedies include the seller going into the market to buy the desired goods at what may be higher prices.



The same scenario applies to financial and commodity instruments. Failure to deliver in one part of the chain can impact participants much further down that chain.



During the financial crisis of 2008, failures to deliver increased. Much the same as check kiting, where someone writes a check but has not yet secured the funds to cover it, sellers did not surrender securities sold on time. They delayed the process to buy securities at a lower price for delivery.
What Is the Fair Credit Billing Act?  

The Fair Credit Billing Act is a 1974 federal law enacted to protect consumers from unfair credit billing practices. It enables individuals to dispute unauthorized charges on their accounts and those for undelivered goods or services.





Key Takeaways

The Fair Credit Billing Act (FCBA) provides consumers with protection against unfair billing practices.The FCBA applies only to open-end credit, such as credit cards and lines of credit. It does not apply to loans like auto loans or mortgages.Billing errors covered by the law include unauthorized charges, charges with an incorrect date or amount, and calculation errors.Consumers have 60 days from the time they receive their bill to dispute a charge with the card issuer or other lender.While the FCBA protects consumers from unfair billing practices, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) addresses practices involving the use of a consumer's personal information.A chargeback is the return of money to a customer following the successful dispute of a particular transaction.


   How the Fair Credit Billing Act Works  

The Federal Trade Commission enforces the Fair Credit Billing Act, which covers open-end credit accounts, such as credit cards, charge accounts, and lines of credit. The Act provides consumers with protection from unfair billing practices such as:



Charges not authorized by the consumer.Charges with the wrong date or amount.Charges for goods or services that weren't delivered.Charges for goods or services that were received but were not as described.Calculation errors.Charges for which the consumer needs clarification.Billing statements delivered to an incorrect address.





Important

During an investigation, a consumer may withhold payment only on the disputed amount, not on the rest of their bill.


   Rules for Consumers  

Consumers have 60 days from the time they receive their credit card or loan bill to dispute a charge with the card issuer or other lender.
Charges must be over $50 to be eligible for dispute.
Complaints must be filed in writing.
However, if a credit card was lost or stolen, consumers may dispute charges by phone rather than in writing.
If a consumer has a dispute with a merchant, they can ask the card issuer or lender to withhold payment and request that it help resolve the dispute.
If an unauthorized user makes purchases with a credit card, the cardholder's liabilities are limited to $50.
If a person is authorized to use a card but makes unauthorized purchases with it, those charges are not covered by the Fair Credit Billing Act, and the cardholder is liable for them.
Consumers can challenge the results of the lender's investigation within 10 days.


   Rules for Card Issuers and Other Lenders  

The card issuer or other lender has 30 days to acknowledge receipt of a complaint.The lender has 90 days to complete an investigation, during which time it is not allowed to try to collect payment on the disputed amount, charge interest on it, or report it to credit bureaus as late. (It can, however, report it as being in dispute.)If the lender finds that the dispute is valid, it must correct the error and refund any fees or interest that was charged as a result.If the lender decides the dispute is invalid, it must explain its findings and provide documentation to the consumer.





Note

While the Fair Credit Billing Act limits a cardholder's liability for unauthorized charges to $50, many card issuers now have voluntary zero-liability policies that reduce it to $0.


   Fair Credit Billing Act (FCBA) vs. Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)  

The Fair Credit Billing Act is often compared to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Both are designed to protect consumers from bad credit practices, but the purpose of each law is different.



The Fair Credit Reporting Act is a federal law that regulates the collection and reporting of credit information about consumers. The law governs how a consumer's credit information is collected and shared with others.



In other words, the FCBA protects consumers from unfair billing practices, while the FCRA protects them from unfair practices involving their personal information.




What Kinds of Credit Does the Fair Credit Billing Act Not Cover?
The Fair Credit Billing Act applies only to open-end credit, the kind that a consumer can borrow from repeatedly. Examples include credit cards, charge cards, and home equity lines of credit. It does not apply to closed-end credit, such as auto loans, mortgages, and home equity loans. Consumers who wish to dispute a charge involving closed-end credit are covered by other laws. For example, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) governs disputes between borrowers and their mortgage companies or loan servicers.




What Does "Account in Dispute" Mean?
Under the Fair Credit Billing Act, "account in dispute" refers to the 90-day period in which a credit issuer is investigating a consumer's dispute. The credit issuer must either remedy the situation or send a letter to the consumer explaining why it considers the dispute invalid.




Can a Consumer Dispute a Non-Refundable Charge?
Just like with any other charge, the consumer has the right to dispute a transaction involving a non-refundable charge as long as they believe they have a valid claim. Valid claims include not receiving the product or service or not having signed or authorized the non-refundable charge.




What Is a Chargeback?
A chargeback is the return of money to a customer following the successful dispute of a particular credit transaction. It reverses a money transfer from the payer's bank account or credit card.




Will a Credit Billing Dispute Affect Your Credit Score?
No. Filing a dispute has no impact on a consumer's credit score. However, the card issuer may report the dispute to one or more of the three major credit bureaus while its investigation is in progress and that information may show up in the consumer's credit report.


   The Bottom Line  

The Fair Credit Billing Act is designed to protect consumers from unfair billing practices. The act provides a path for consumers to dispute billing errors or unauthorized charges and requires that credit issuers investigate and resolve them.
What Is the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)?  

The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a federal law that regulates the collection of consumers' credit information and access to their credit reports. It was passed in 1970 to address the fairness, accuracy, and privacy of the personal information contained in the files of the credit reporting agencies.





Key Takeaways

The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) governs how credit bureaus can collect and share information about individual consumers.Businesses check credit reports for many purposes, such as deciding whether to make a loan or sell insurance to a consumer. Employers may check them, too.The FCRA also gives consumers certain rights, including free access to their own credit reports at least once a year.Violations of the FCRA can carry fines, including damages if any are incurred.Enforcement of the FCRA falls to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).


   How the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) Works  

The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is the primary federal law that governs the collection and reporting of credit information about consumers. Its rules cover how a consumer's credit information is obtained, how long it is kept, and how it is shared with others—including consumers themselves.



The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) are the two federal agencies charged with overseeing and enforcing the provisions of the law. Many states also have their own laws relating to credit reporting. The FCRA in its entirety can be found in United States Code Title 15, Section 1681.



The three major credit reporting bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion—as well as other, more specialized companies, collect and sell information on individual consumers' financial history. The information in their reports is also used to compute consumers' credit scores, which can affect, for example, the interest rate that they'll have to pay to borrow money or whether they can qualify for a loan at all.





1970

The year the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), Public Law No. 91-508, was passed by the U.S. Congress to promote the accuracy, fairness, and privacy of personal information collected in credit reports. It has been amended a number of times in the years since.


   What Credit Bureaus Can and Can't Do Under the Law  

The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) describes the kind of data that credit bureaus are allowed to collect. That includes the person's bill payment history, past loans, and current debts. It may also include employment information, present and previous addresses, whether they have ever filed for bankruptcy or owe child support, and any arrest record.



The FCRA also limits who is allowed to see a credit report and under what circumstances. For example, lenders may request a report when someone applies for a mortgage, car loan, or another type of credit. Insurance companies may also view consumers' credit reports when they apply for a policy. The government may request it in response to a court order or federal grand jury subpoena, or if the person is applying for certain types of government-issued licenses.



In some, but not all, instances, consumers must have initiated a transaction or agreed in writing before the credit bureau can release their report. For example, employers can request a job applicant's credit report, but only with the applicant's permission.



However, some potential lenders and insurers can access portions of your credit report without your permission in order to decide whether to send you unsolicited offers for credit or insurance. This process is called prescreening, and the law allows you to opt out of it.






The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) mandates that when a business pulls a credit report on someone, they must specify the reason, such as:In conjunction with a loan requestFor employment purposesAs part of a credit check by a landlordImpermissible uses are violations of the FCRA and punishable by fines.


   Consumer Rights Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)  

Consumers also have a right to see their own credit reports. By law, they are entitled to at least one free credit report every 12 months from each of the three major bureaus. They can request their reports at the official, government-authorized website for that purpose: AnnualCreditReport.com.



Under the FCRA, consumers also have a right to:



Verify the accuracy of their report when it's required for employment purposesReceive notification if information in their file has been used against them in applying for credit or other transactionsDispute—and have the bureau correct—information in their report that is incomplete or inaccurateRemove outdated, negative information after seven years in most cases, or 10 in the case of some bankruptcies



If the credit bureau fails to respond to their request in a satisfactory manner, the person can file a complaint with the CFPB.






Certain negative information should fall off your credit reports automatically after the relevant period of time has elapsed (typically within seven or 10 years). If that doesn't happen, you have a right to have it removed.


   Example of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) in Action  

Say that someone is looking to rent an apartment and the landlord denies their application, claiming it is because of their credit report or credit score. The potential tenant believes this to be a lie, suspecting that it is because of their skin color or religion instead, which is an unlawful reason to deny the lease.



Under the FCRA, they can request their credit report and check whether the information in it is in line with the landlord's claims. They can also see if the landlord actually pulled their credit report or lied about doing so. If a violation did occur, the landlord could be fined.




What Are Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) Requirements for Releasing Your Report?
The FCRA requires that a lender, insurer, landlord, employer, or anybody else seeking someone's credit report have a legally permissible purpose to obtain it. 




What Are the Penalties for Not Complying With the FCRA?
Each violation may carry a fine of $100 to $1,000. If damages are incurred, actual and punitive damages may also be imposed in addition to attorney fees. Criminal charges may apply if someone knowingly and willfully obtains information from a consumer reporting agency under false pretenses.




What Are an Employer's Obligations Under the FCRA?
An employer or potential employer may request an individual's credit report for internal purposes only. The individual must have consented to such a request, and the employer must specify that it is being pulled only for employment purposes.




Who Enforces the FCRA?
As a federal law, enforcement of the FCRA falls to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).


   The Bottom Line  

The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) governs what credit bureaus can and can't do with the information they collect on you. It also gives you certain rights as a consumer. Because the information in your credit reports is important in many ways, it's worth checking them periodically for any errors, which you can then ask the bureaus to correct. Under the FCRA, you are entitled to free copies of your credit reports at least once a year.
What Is the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA)?  

The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) is a federal law that limits the actions of third-party debt collectors who are attempting to collect debts on behalf of another person or entity.



The law restricts the ways that collectors can contact debtors as well as the time of day and number of times that contact can be made. If the FDCPA is violated, the debtor can sue the debt collection company as well as the individual debt collector for damages and attorney fees.



The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB’s) Debt Collection Rule clarifies the FDCPA’s rules about how debt collectors can communicate with debtors.





Key Takeaways

The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) covers when, how, and how often a third-party debt collector can contact a debtor.The FDCPA sets limits on who the debt collector is allowed to contact in addition to the debtor.If a debt collector violates the FDCPA, the debtor can sue them in state or federal court for damages and legal fees within one year of the violation.


   How the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) Works  

The FDCPA creates a structure within which debt collectors are allowed to work in an attempt to make debt collection a fair and nonaggressive process.



The law limits the time of day when collectors may call, the type of language they may use, and how they represent themselves. Essentially, the law makes it illegal for them to threaten or harass you when they are trying to collect a debt.






If a debt collector violates the parameters of the law, debtors may submit a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or take the debt collector to court.



The FDCPA does not protect debtors from those who are attempting to collect a personal debt. If you owe money to the local hardware store, for example, and the owner of the store calls you to collect that debt, that person is not a debt collector under the terms of the law.



The FDCPA only applies to third-party debt collectors, such as those who work for a debt collection agency. Credit card debt, medical bills, student loans, mortgages, and other kinds of household debt are covered by the law.


   Example of Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) Protection  

The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act specifies that debt collectors cannot contact debtors at inconvenient times. That means they should not call before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m. unless the debtor and the collector have made an arrangement for a call outside of the permitted hours.



If a debtor tells a collector that they want to talk after work at 10 p.m., for instance, the collector is allowed to call then. Without an invitation or agreement, however, the debtor cannot legally call at that time. Debt collectors may also send letters, emails, or text messages to collect a debt.



Debt collectors can attempt to reach debtors at their homes or offices. However, if a debtor tells a bill collector, either verbally or in writing, to stop calling their place of employment, the FDCPA says a collector must not call that number again.



Debt collectors may now also contact debtors through social media, although there are stipulations in place. They may only contact debtors in a private manner that is hidden from other friends or connections. They must also identify themselves as a debt collector, even while requesting to connect with you. In every exchange, they must offer you a way to opt out of their communications as well.



The CFPB’s Debt Collection Rule also limits how many times a debt collector may call. They may not call more than seven times in a seven-day period. However, they may message, text, or email you more frequently.



Within five days of contacting a debtor, the debt collector must send a written validation notice that includes:



How much money the debtor owesThe name of the creditor to whom the debt is owedNotice that they have 30 days to dispute the debt and what to doA tear-off portion to use as a dispute form





Important

The FDCPA makes it illegal for debt collectors to use abusive, unfair, or deceptive practices when they attempt to collect debts.


   Other Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) Rules  

Debtors can also stop collectors from calling their home phones, but they must put the request in a letter and send it to the debt collector. It’s a good idea to send the letter by Certified Mail and pay for a return receipt so that you have proof that the debt collector received the request.



If a collector does not have contact information for a debtor, they can call relatives, neighbors, or associates of the debtor to try to find the debtor’s phone number, but they cannot reveal any information about the debt, including the fact that they are calling from a debt collection agency. (The collector may only discuss the debt with the debtor or their spouse.) Additionally, collectors can only call third parties one time each.



The law makes it illegal for debt collectors to harass debtors in other ways, including threats of bodily harm or arrest. They also cannot lie or use profane or obscene language. Additionally, debt collectors cannot threaten to sue a debtor unless they truly intend to take that debtor to court.




Can a debt collector physically come to my place of business?
A debt collector is not allowed to physically come to your place of employment. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) considers a physical visit to your workplace “publicizing” your debt. They may call you at work, but if you tell them to stop, they must comply.




What can I do if I’m being harassed by a debt collector?
If you feel that a debt collector has violated the FDCPA, you may contact the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or your state’s attorney general.




What is considered harassment under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA)?
Harassment can include repetitive phone calls, calling very early or very late, obscene or threatening language, publicizing the debt, and calling without identifying themselves as a debt collector.


   The Bottom Line  

Debtors are responsible for paying off money they’ve borrowed, but they also have rights—including to be free from threats or harassment—if they cannot pay. Debt collectors must follow certain rules with how they try to collect the money you owe. If you know your rights, you can better manage these situations and avoid stress and more financial turmoil.
What Is the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)?  

The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) is a U.S. law that is intended to protect workers against certain unfair pay practices. As such, the FLSA sets out various labor regulations regarding interstate commerce employment, including minimum wages, requirements for overtime pay, and limitations on child labor. The FLSA—which was passed in 1938 and has seen numerous changes over the years—is one of the most important laws for employers to understand, as it sets out a wide array of regulations for dealing with employees, whether salaried or paid by the hour.





Key Takeaways

The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) protects workers against unfair employment practices.FLSA rules specify when workers are considered on the clock and when they should be paid overtime, along with a minimum wage.Employees are deemed either exempt or nonexempt with regard to the FLSA.The FLSA applies only to employers whose annual sales total $500,000 or more or who are engaged in interstate commerce.Originally the FLSA prohibited child labor; it has since been expanded to prohibit wage disparity due to gender and discrimination due to age.


   How the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Works  

The FLSA specifies when workers are “on the clock” and which times are not paid hours. There are also elaborate rules concerning whether employees are exempt or nonexempt from the FLSA overtime regulations. The law requires overtime to be paid at one-and-a-half times the regular hourly rate (“time-and-a-half”) for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours during a seven-day workweek.



The FLSA applies to workers who have an employer and are engaged in interstate commerce or in the production of goods for commerce; it also applies to workers who are employed by an enterprise engaged in commerce or the production of goods for commerce. The FLSA also applies to domestic service workers (housekeepers, cooks, full-time babysitters) and employees of hospitals; schools for mentally or physically disabled or gifted children; educational institutions at any level, from preschools to universities; and public agencies.



The FLSA does not apply to independent contractors or volunteers because they are not considered employees; as a result, they are not eligible for FLSA protections.





$500,000

The nominal amount in annual gross sales or other business that an employer must have to be subject to the full requirements of the FLSA. However, employees of firms that are not covered enterprises still may be subject to its minimum wage, overtime pay, recordkeeping, and child labor provisions if their firm or they are individually engaged in interstate commerce or in the production of goods for interstate commerce. And "interstate commerce" has a broad interpretation: Companies that regularly use the U.S. mail, telephones, or the internet to contact other states are considered engaged in interstate commerce.


   Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and Workers  

Nonexempt employees are entitled to overtime pay, while exempt employees are not. Most FLSA-covered employees are nonexempt. Some hourly workers are not covered by the FLSA but are subject instead to other regulations. Railroad workers, for example, are governed by the Railway Labor Act, and truck drivers fall under the purview of the Motor Carriers Act.



Many full-time office workers (executive and administrative workers) are not protected by FLSA rules when it comes to overtime. Farmworkers may be considered jointly employed by a labor contractor, who recruits, organizes, transports, and pays them, and a farmer, who needs their services and pays the labor contractor for their services. Such situations sometimes see employers falsely categorize such workers as volunteers when they meet the definition of “employee” under the FLSA.



The FLSA also sets the groundwork for how to treat jobs that are primarily compensated by way of tipping. In such a case, an employer must pay the minimum wage to the employee unless they regularly receive more than $30 per month from gratuities. If that employee’s pay (tips included) does not equal minimum wage, then the employer must make up the difference. Such workers must either receive all their tips or be included in a tip pool, for which the FLSA sets guidelines. Busboys are meant to be included in a tip pool under FLSA rules because of the customer-visible nature of their work.






The FLSA is also known as the Wages and Hours Bill.


   Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Exemptions  

The FLSA has a broad reach but does not apply to all workers and workplaces. Exemptions exist, both for employers and those they employ.



The FLSA applies only to employers whose annual sales total $500,000 or more or who are engaged in interstate commerce (which can mean receiving letters, phone calls, or internet orders from another state). A few employers, including small farms—those that use relatively little outside paid labor—are explicitly exempt from the FLSA.



Only staff employees (as opposed to freelancers or independent contractors) are covered by the FLSA. Among these employees, several categories of workers are considered "exempt" as well. The major groups include:



Executive, administrative, and professional workers earn salaries of at least $684 weekly (except for certain professions). Executives manage others—at least two—as a primary job duty, and have the authority to hire, fire, and promote. Administrators primarily perform office or nonmanual work directly for management and use their own discretion in duties. Professionals perform predominantly intellectual work requiring advanced knowledge, talent, imagination, or imagination.Outside salespeople regularly work away from the employer's place of business and are paid primarily through commissions.Computer workers (systems analysts, programmers, software engineers, designer/developers, or others) are compensated either on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $684 per week or $27.63 an hour.



Other groups include:



Employees of seasonal amusement or recreational businessesEmployees of local newspapers having a circulation of less than 4,000Seamen or women on foreign vesselsNewspaper delivery workersWorkers on small farmsPersonal companions, caregivers to seniors, and casual babysittersApprentices






There may be circumstances in which independent contractors, who typically are hired to work on specific projects, can be deemed employees who fall under FLSA jurisdiction. If the relationship appears to be permanent, if the worker lacks bargaining power with regard to the terms of their employment, and if the worker is economically dependent on one employer (that is, nearly all of their income comes from one company), a court would probably rule that they are an employee of that company for purposes of the FLSA.


   Violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)  

Given the complexity of the FLSA and the ever-evolving nature of work and the workforce, a variety of violations of the act can occur. Here are some of the most common.



Misclassifying employees: The exempt and nonexempt classification is not based on the job title but rather on the job duties and, to some extent, salary levels.Confusing salaried employees and hourly wage employees: Some employers believe staffers who receive a fixed weekly or monthly salary are automatically exempt from overtime wages, whereas those receiving hourly wages are nonexempt. Wrong. Even those on a fixed salary can be nonexempt get overtime. Again, it depends on the job duties and the amount of earned pay.Not paying for “off the clock” efforts: If an employee is doing job-related tasks, training, or meetings outside of regular work hours, that counts as work—whether the employer knows of the activities or not, or authorized them or not.Not paying for working during breaks or being on call: If a worker is supposedly on break or having lunch, but answering company texts or sending work emails while they do—it's considered work and should be compensated as such. The same goes for waiting to be called into work or for tasks, assuming the employee is unable to use the on-call time for their own purposes.Waiving overtime pay agreements: Any such agreement is invalid under the act, even if the employee signs it.Averaging work weeks: If an employee works 30 hours one week, but 50 hours the next, the employer might be tempted to average out those hours between the two weeks, so that there are 40 in both—and thus, no need to pay overtime. This sort of accounting trick is another no-no under the FLSA.


   History of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)  

President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Fair Labor Standards Act into law on June 25, 1938. Even though it applied to industries whose combined employment represented only about one-fifth of the labor force, the bill had experienced a bumpy ride in the House of Representatives and the Senate, and Roosevelt signed it on a Saturday along with 120 others—nine days after Congress had adjourned.



Drafted largely by Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins, in its final form the act banned all labor for children under 14, and hazardous labor for ages 14-18; set a minimum hourly wage of 25 cents and a maximum workweek of 44 hours (to be adjusted to 40 hours by Oct. 23, 1940), and guaranteed "time-and-a-half" for certain jobs.



One of the most complex laws of the workplace, the FLSA has been amended many times. Most of the revisions have expanded the law's coverage, or adjusted the minimum wage to reflect inflation.



Some of the major changes to the FLSA include:



The Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947, which addressed certain employee activities to clarify what constitutes “hours worked” under the FLSA.  In general, as long as an employee is engaging in activities that benefit the employer, regardless of when they are performed, the employer has an obligation to pay the employee for that time. The act also specified that travel to and from the workplace should not be considered paid working time.
The FLSA 1961 Amendment, which expanded coverage to include jobs in schools, hospitals, nursing homes, and all government entities. also included the right to sue for back wages, if the employee was owed money.
The Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibited differences in pay based on the employee's gender—making it illegal to compensate men and women differently for the same job. Often described as “equal pay for equal work,” it was a major step in helping women begin to achieve financial parity in the workplace.
The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, which prohibited disparate treatment of employees over the age of 40. Before the Act, older workers could openly be denied health benefits, promotions, or training opportunities due to their age.


   Questions and Answers  


What Pay or Benefits Does the FLSA Not Require?
The FLSA does not require the following:Compensation for traveling to and from the workplaceVacation, holiday, severance, or sick payMeal or rest periods, holidays off, or vacationsPremium pay for weekend or holiday workPay raises or fringe benefitsImmediate payment of final wages to terminated employees




What Kind of Workers Are Exempt From the FLSA?
Any sort of freelance worker or independent contractor is exempt from FLSA coverage. Among staff, those in executive or managerial positions earning more than a certain amount are exempt, as are salespeople who primarily work outside of the office and certain types of computer professionals. In addition, seasonal workers, paid caregivers, and agricultural workers tend to be not covered.




What Are the Four Main Components of the FLSA?
The four main components or elements covered by the FLSA are:payment of a minimum wageovertime pay for working 40+ hours in a weekrecordkeeping by the employer on employees: accurate information identifying the worker and the hours worked and the wages earned.child labor standards and restrictions
What Is Fair Market Value?  

Fair market value (FMV) is the price a product would sell for on the open market assuming that both buyer and seller are reasonably knowledgeable about the asset, are behaving in their own best interests, are free of undue pressure, and are given a reasonable time period for completing the transaction.



Given these conditions, an asset's fair market value should represent an accurate valuation or assessment of its worth.



This definition of the term is commonly accepted in tax law, bankruptcy law, and the real estate market.





Key Takeaways

The fair market value is the price an asset would sell for on the open market when certain conditions are met.The conditions are: the parties involved are aware of all the facts, are acting in their own interest, are free of any pressure to buy or sell, and have ample time to make the decision.Fair market value is different than market value and appraised value.Tax settings and the real estate market are two areas that commonly use fair market value.Insurance companies use fair market value in determining certain claim payouts.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Fair Market Value (FMV)  

The term fair market value is intentionally distinct from similar terms such as market value or appraised value because it considers the economic principles of free and open market activity. In contrast, the term market value refers to the price of an asset in the marketplace. Therefore, while a home's market value can easily be found on a listing, the fair market value is more difficult to determine.



Similarly, the term appraised value refers to an asset's value in the opinion of a single appraiser, thus not immediately qualifying the appraisal as fair market value. In cases where a fair market value is needed, an appraisal will usually suffice. 



Due to the thorough considerations made by the term fair market value, it's often used in legal settings. For example, fair market value in real estate is commonly used in divorce settlements and to calculate compensation related to the government's use of eminent domain.



Fair market values are also often utilized in taxation, such as when determining the fair market value of a property for a tax deduction after a casualty loss.






It's essential to assess the fair market value of an item you buy or sell, as it can significantly impact your finances.


   Practical Uses of Fair Market Value (FMV)  

Municipal property taxes are often assessed based on the FMV of the owner's property. Depending on how long the owner has owned the home, the difference between the purchase price and the residence's FMV can be substantial. Professional appraisers use standards, guidelines, and national and local regulations to determine a home's FMV.



FMV is also often used in the insurance industry. For example, when an insurance claim is made due to a car accident, the insurance company covering the damage to the owner's vehicle usually covers damages up to the vehicle's FMV.


   Fair Market Value (FMV) and Taxation  

Worldwide tax authorities always ensure that transactions are realized at FMV, at least for tax purposes. For example, a father who is retiring may sell the shares of his business to his daughter for $1 so that she can carry on as the owner of the family business.



However, suppose the FMV of the shares is higher. In that case, tax authorities such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may well recharacterize the transaction for tax purposes. The father will need to pay taxes on the disposition of the shares as though he had sold them at FMV to a third party.



Another field of taxation where FMV regularly comes into play is donating property, such as artwork, to charities. In these cases, the donor usually receives a tax credit for the value of the donation. Tax authorities need to ensure that the credit given is for the actual FMV of the object and often ask donors to provide independent valuations for their donations. Correctly applying fair market value to taxes ensures there won't be adverse monetary implications later on or any claims of fraud by authorities.




How Do You Calculate Fair Market Value?
You can assess rather than calculate fair market value in a few different ways. First, by the price the item cost the seller, via a list of sales for objects similar to the asset being sold, or an expert's opinion. For example, a diamond appraiser would likely be able to identify and calculate a diamond ring based on their experience.




How Do I Know the Fair Market Value of My Home?
Real estate property is assessed by professional appraisers who can tell you its fair market value using standards, guidelines, and national and local regulations to determine it.




How Can I Learn the Fair Market Value of My Car?
The Kelley Blue Book is an online guide that can help you determine the fair market value of your car by analyzing data such as trade-in value, private party value, and other areas of research.
What Is Fair Value?  

Fair value is the estimated price at which an asset is bought or sold when both the buyer and seller freely agree on a price.



To determine the fair value of a product or financial investment, an individual or business may look at actual market transactions for similar assets, estimate the expected earnings of the asset, and determine the cost to replace the asset.





Key Takeaways

Fair value is the estimated price at which an asset is bought or sold when both the buyer and seller freely agree on a price.Individuals and businesses may compare current market value, growth potential, and replacement cost to determine the fair value of an asset.Fair value is a measure of an asset's worth and market value is the price of an asset in the marketplace.Fair value accounting is the practice of measuring a business's liabilities and assets at their current market value.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Fair Value  
  Fair Value in Investing  

A common way to determine a stock's fair value is to list it on a publicly-traded stock exchange. As shares trade, investor demand creates the appropriate bid and ask prices, or market value, and influences an investor's fair value estimate.



An investor can compare their fair value estimate with the market value to decide to buy or sell. The fair value is often the price that an investor pays that will generate their desired growth and rate of return.



If the fair value of a stock share is $100, and the market price is $95, an investor may consider the stock undervalued and buy the stock. If the market price is $120, the investor will likely forego the purchase as the market value does not align with their idea of fair value.



The fair value of a derivative is determined by the value of an underlying asset. When an investor buys a 50 call option, they are buying the right to purchase 100 shares of stock at $50 per share for a specific period. If the stock’s market price increases, the value of the option on the stock also increases.



In the futures market, fair value is the equilibrium price for a futures contract or the point where the supply of goods matches demand. This is equal to the spot price and accounts for compounded interest and lost dividends resulting from the futures contract ownership versus a physical stock purchase.


  Fair Value of Stock Index Futures  
















Fair Value


=


Cash


×


(


1


+


r


×


(



x


360



)


)


−


Dividends
















where:
















Cash


=


Current value of security
















r


=


Interest rate charged by broker
















x


=


Number of days remaining in contract
















Dividends


=


Number of dividends investor would
















receive before expiration date







\begin{aligned}&\text{Fair Value} = \text{Cash} \times \Big ( 1 + r \times \big ( \frac{ x }{ 360 } \big ) \Big ) - \text{Dividends} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{Cash} = \text{Current value of security} \\&r = \text{Interest rate charged by broker} \\&x = \text{Number of days remaining in contract} \\&\text{Dividends} = \text{Number of dividends investor would} \\&\text{receive before expiration date} \\\end{aligned}


​Fair Value=Cash×(1+r×(360x​))−Dividendswhere:Cash=Current value of securityr=Interest rate charged by brokerx=Number of days remaining in contractDividends=Number of dividends investor wouldreceive before expiration date​


  Fair Value in Accounting  

The International Accounting Standards Board recognizes the fair value of certain assets and liabilities as the price at which an asset can be sold or a liability settled. Fair value accounting, or mark-to-market accounting, is the practice of calculating the value of a company’s assets and liabilities based on the current market value.



To do this, you will need to consider:



Current market: The fair value of an asset or liability is what it is worth in the current market. It doesn't matter what an asset would have sold for two years ago; its fair value is what it is worth today.Voluntary vs. involuntary transactions: Fair value applies in orderly transactions where there is nothing compelling either the buyer or the seller. If a company is being liquidated, for example, items will not be sold at fair value.Seller's intentions: When and how you intend to sell an asset or settle a liability can impact its fair value. If you need to sell an asset quickly, for example, you will probably not use fair value accounting.Arms-length transactions: In fair value accounting, the transaction should be an arms-length transaction between the seller and an independent third party. Fair value accounting would not apply to a business partner or relative, as these relationships can alter the transaction.



If a construction business acquired a truck worth $20,000 in 2019 and decided to sell the truck in 2022, comparable sale listings of the same used truck may include two trucks priced at $12,000 and $14,000. The estimated fair value of the truck may be determined as the average current market value, or $13,000. 



It is difficult to determine a fair value for an asset if there is not an active market for it. Accountants will use discounted cash flows will determine a fair value by determining the cash outflow to purchase the equipment and the cash inflows generated by using the equipment over its useful life.



Fair value is also used in a consolidation when a subsidiary company’s financial statements are combined or consolidated with those of a parent company. The parent company buys an interest in a subsidiary, and the subsidiary’s assets and liabilities are presented at fair market value for each account.






   Benefits of Fair Value  

Fair value measures the real or estimated value of an asset or liability. Fair value accounting is widely used in business and investing because of its benefits. These include:



Adaptability: Fair value can be adapted to apply to all types of assets and liabilities; if the asset exists, its fair value can be determined. Historical valuations, on the other hand, are less accurate, because an asset or asset class might not have existed in the past.Accuracy: Valuations made with fair value accounting have a high level of accuracy because they change when prices move up or down.Actual income: When a business uses fair value accounting, the total asset value reflects the actual income of the company. This can provide a more reliable picture of a company's financial position than a statement of profit and loss, which can be manipulated.Asset reduction: Fair market accounting allows a business to practice asset reduction, which is declaring that the value of an asset in a sale was overestimated or overstated. This can help businesses weather financial difficulties.


   Fair Value vs. Market Value  

Fair value is a broad measure of an asset's intrinsic worth. It requires determining the right price between two parties depending on their interests, risk factors, and future goals for the asset. Fair value is most often used to gauge the true worth of an asset by looking at factors like its potential for growth or the cost to replace it.



Market value is the observed and actual value for which an asset or liability is exchanged. It reflects the current value of the investment as determined by actual market transactions. It can fluctuate more frequently than fair value. Market value is also highly dependent on supply and demand. For example, housing prices are often dependent on the number of houses for sale in an area (supply) and how many buyers are currently looking (demand) as much as the intrinsic value of the house.





Fair Value

Changes slowly
Influenced by growth potential and replacement cost
Reflects the intrinsic value



Market Value

Changes frequently
Influenced by supply and demand
Determined by current market transactions






For example, a stock's market value can move up and down quickly depending on a variety of external factors. But the fair value of a company changes much more slowly. Investors who know a company's fair value can use that to decide whether the market value of a stock is high (which means it's a good time to sell) or low (which means its a good time to buy).




What Is the Intrinsic Value of a Stock?
Fair value is the price an investor pays for a stock and may be considered the present value of the stock, when the stock's intrinsic value is considered and the stock's growth potential. The intrinsic value is calculated by dividing the value of the next year’s dividend by the rate of return minus the growth rate.


















P


=




D


1



r



−


g
















where:
















P


=


Current stock price
















D


1


=


Value of next year’s dividend
















g


=


Constant growth rate expected
















r


=


Required rate of return







\begin{aligned}&P = \frac{ D1 }{ r } - g \\&\textbf{where:} \\&P = \text{Current stock price} \\&D1 = \text{Value of next year's dividend} \\&g = \text{Constant growth rate expected} \\&r = \text{Required rate of return} \\\end{aligned}


​P=rD1​−gwhere:P=Current stock priceD1=Value of next year’s dividendg=Constant growth rate expectedr=Required rate of return​




How Is Fair Value Considered In the Accounting of Financial Assets?
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards use fair value in accounts comprised of derivatives and hedges, employee stock options, and financial assets and accept that financial markets are efficient and their prevailing prices are reliable measures of fair value.




How Does the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulate Fair Value?
In 2020, the SEC implemented rule 2a-5 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 requiring funds to value their portfolio investments using the market value of their portfolio securities when market quotations are “readily available.” If data is not readily available or if the investment is not a security, the Act requires the fund to use the investment’s fair value.The fair value is determined in good faith by the fund’s board who are required to establish fair value methodologies and oversee pricing services.




What Is Historical Cost Accounting?
Fair value accounting measures assets and liabilities at estimates of their current value whereas historical cost accounting measures the value of an asset based on the original cost of an asset.




What Methods Are Used to Determine Fair Value?
A market approach uses the prices associated with actual market transactions for similar assets to derive a fair value. An income approach uses estimated future cash flows or earnings to determine the present value fair value. A cost approach uses the estimated cost to replace an asset to help find an item's fair value.


   The Bottom Line  

Fair value is the estimated price at which an asset is bought or sold when both the buyer and seller freely agree on a price. Individuals and businesses may compare current market value, growth potential, and replacement cost to determine the fair value of an asset. Fair value calculations help investors make financial choices and fair value accounting practices determine the value of assets and liabilities based on current market value.
What Is a Fallen Angel?  

A fallen angel, in the investing world, is a bond that was initially given an investment-grade rating but has since been reduced to junk bond status. The downgrade is caused by a deterioration in the financial condition of the issuer.



The term is also sometimes used to describe a stock that has fallen precipitously from its all-time highs.


   Fallen Angel Explained  

Fallen angel bonds have been downgraded by one of the major rating services, which include Standard & Poor’s, Fitch, and Moody’s Investors Service. They may be corporate, municipal, or sovereign debt.





Key Takeaways

A fallen angel is a bond that has been reduced to junk status because its issuer has fallen into financial trouble.Its bonds pay higher returns than investment-quality bonds but are riskier.Some bond funds and ETFs focus on fallen angels.



The primary reason for a downgrade is a decline in revenues, which jeopardizes the ability of the issuers to pay the interest due on their bonds. If the declining revenues are combined with increasing levels of debt, the potential for a downgrade increases dramatically.



Fallen angel securities are often attractive to contrarian investors seeking to capitalize on the potential for a company to recover from a temporary setback. Under these circumstances, the downgrade process usually starts with the company's debt being placed on a negative credit watch. That alone forces many portfolio managers to sell their positions, as their governing rules may forbid holding them.


  Junk Status Drives Selling  

The actual downgrade to junk status drives more selling pressure, particularly from funds that are restricted to holding investment-grade debt exclusively. As a result, fallen angel bonds can present value within the high-yield category but only if the issuer appears to have a reasonable chance of recovering from the conditions that caused the downgrade.


  Fallen Angels Funds  

There are even fallen angel bond funds for investors who spot opportunity at a fire sale. The VanEck Vectors Fallen Angel High-Yield Bond ETF invests only in bonds that have been downgraded. As of September 2021, its holdings included bonds from Sprint Capital Corp., Vodafone Group PLC, and Freeport McMoran, among others. There also is the iShares Fallen Angels USD Bond ETF which, as its name suggests, invests only in dollar-denominated fallen angels.


  The Risks of Investing in Fallen Angels  

An oil company that has reported sustained losses over several quarters due to falling oil prices may see its investment-grade bonds downgraded to junk status due to the company's increased risk of default. As a result of the downgrade, the prices of the company’s bonds will decline and its yields will increase. That makes them attractive to contrarian investors who see low oil prices as a temporary condition.






Municipal bonds from troubled cities with declining tax revenues are in danger of being downgraded.



Some fallen angels don't come back. For example, a company will experience declining revenues if a better product than theirs appears on the market. If the company fails to innovate, it won't come back. The progression from VCR tapes to DVDs to streaming video is an example.



Municipal and sovereign debt issuers may also see their investment-grade bonds downgraded to junk status due to a combination of stagnant or declining tax revenues and increasing levels of debt. These conditions can create a downward spiral toward default as debt repayments eat into declining revenues and yet more bonds are issued to cover the shortfall.



Sooner or later, that municipal or national government is going to miss a payment.
What is a Falling Knife?  

A falling knife is a colloquial term for a rapid drop in the price or value of a security. The term is commonly used in phrases like, "don't try to catch a falling knife," which can be translated to mean, "wait for the price to bottom out before buying it." A falling knife can quickly rebound - in what's known as a whipsaw—or the security may lose all of its value, as in the case of a bankruptcy.





Key Takeaways

Falling knife refers to a sharp drop, but there is no specific magnitude or duration to the drop before it constitutes a falling knife.A falling knife is generally used as a caution not to jump into a stock or other asset during a drop.Traders will trade on a sharp drop, but they generally want to be in a short position and will use technical indicators to time their trades.


   What a Falling Knife Tells You  

The term falling knife suggests that buying into a market with a lot of downward momentum can be extremely dangerous—just like trying to catch an actual falling knife. In practice, however, there are many different profit points with a falling knife. If timed perfectly, a trader that buys at the bottom of a downtrend can realize a significant profit as the price recovers. Likewise, piling into a short position as the price falls and getting out before a rebound can be profitable. Moreover, even buy and hold investors can use a falling knife as a buy opportunity provided they have a fundamental case for owning the stock.



That said, there is a very real risk that the timing will be off and there could be significant losses before any gains. So many traders still pay lip service to the adage. Instead of trying to "catch the falling knife," traders should look for confirmation of a trend reversal using other technical indicators and chart patterns. An example of a confirmation could be as simple as waiting for several days of upward momentum after the fall or looking at the relative strength index (RSI) for signs of a stronger uptrend before buying into the new trend.


   How to Use a Falling Knife?  

As mentioned, there are ways to profit from a falling knife. Many of the trading approaches are time sensitive and require more tools than simply identifying a stock seeing a sharp drop. However, for a fundamental case for catching a falling knife can be there depending on the reason for the drop.



There are many different potential causes for a falling knife to occur, including:



Earnings Reports: Companies that report their earnings are often subject to volatile swings. If the financial results are lower than expected, the stock may become a falling knife until the market reaches an equilibrium.
Economic Reports: Major indexes are often influenced by economic reports, such as employment reports or FOMC meetings. If these reports are negative, stocks can move sharply lower in response.
Technical Breakdown: Some falling knives occur due to technical, rather than fundamental, factors. If a security breaks down from key support levels, the price can move sharply lower before finding support below.
Fundamental Deterioration: This occurs when the company underlying the stock either badly misses on a key performance indicator like sales, earnings or so on. It also happens when companies are found to be doing something fraudulent or suffering damage in the media.



If the circumstances that led to the falling knife are temporary or do not alter a buy and hold investor's case for investing, then a falling knife could be a buying opportunity. For traders and those with a shorter timeframe, it is difficult to time bullish trades correctly.


   Example of a Falling Knife  

The following chart shows an example of a falling knife and demonstrates the danger of trying to predict a bottom.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The stock became a falling knife after moving off of its 50-day moving average. Traders trying to "catch the falling knife" may have bought in around $8.50 when there was a brief reprieve from the selling pressure, but they would have lost money as the stock moved to a low of around $6.00 before finally bottoming out. Traders that waited for confirmation could have benefited from the move from $6.00 to $10.00 in the ensuing month.


   Difference Between a Falling Knife and a Spike  

A falling knife is specifically a sharp drop. A similar type of trading slang is a spike, which refers to a sharp movement in price action either up or down. In practice, however, a spike is most often associated with an upward movement.


   Limitations of a Falling Knife  

As mentioned, there are many cases where a sharp fall is an opportunity. From a trading perspective, many of these required some form of confirmation, such as a moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator showing positive divergence. So a falling knife—an ill-defined chart formation at best—is not really the most significant part of a trade playing off of a breach of support or a true reversal.
What Is the Fama and French Three Factor Model?  

The Fama and French Three-Factor Model (or the Fama French Model for short) is an asset pricing model developed in 1992 that expands on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) by adding size risk and value risk factors to the market risk factor in CAPM. This model considers the fact that value and small-cap stocks outperform markets on a regular basis. By including these two additional factors, the model adjusts for this outperforming tendency, which is thought to make it a better tool for evaluating manager performance.





Key Takeaways

The Fama French 3-factor model is an asset pricing model that expands on the capital asset pricing model by adding size risk and value risk factors to the market risk factors.The model was developed by Nobel laureates Eugene Fama and his colleague Kenneth French in the 1990s.The model is essentially the result of an econometric regression of historical stock prices.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding the Fama and French Three Factor Model  

Nobel Laureate Eugene Fama and researcher Kenneth French, former professors at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, attempted to better measure market returns and, through research, found that value stocks outperform growth stocks. Similarly, small-cap stocks tend to outperform large-cap stocks. As an evaluation tool, the performance of portfolios with a large number of small-cap or value stocks would be lower than the CAPM result, as the Three-Factor Model adjusts downward for observed small-cap and value stock outperformance.



The Fama and French model has three factors: the size of firms, book-to-market values, and excess return on the market. In other words, the three factors used are small minus big (SMB), high minus low (HML), and the portfolio's return less the risk-free rate of return. SMB accounts for publicly traded companies with small market caps that generate higher returns, while HML accounts for value stocks with high book-to-market ratios that generate higher returns in comparison to the market.



There is a lot of debate about whether the outperformance tendency is due to market efficiency or market inefficiency. In support of market efficiency, the outperformance is generally explained by the excess risk that value and small-cap stocks face as a result of their higher cost of capital and greater business risk. In support of market inefficiency, the outperformance is explained by market participants incorrectly pricing the value of these companies, which provides the excess return in the long run as the value adjusts. Investors who subscribe to the body of evidence provided by the Efficient Markets Hypothesis (EMH) are more likely to agree with the efficiency side.



The formula is:



















R



i


t




−



R



f


t




=



α



i


t




+



β


1



(



R



M


t




−



R



f


t




)


+



β


2



S


M



B


t



+



β


3



H


M



L


t



+



ϵ



i


t


















where:

















R



i


t




=


total return of a stock or portfolio 


i


 at time 


t

















R



f


t




=


risk free rate of return at time 


t

















R



M


t




=


total market portfolio return at time 


t

















R



i


t




−



R



f


t




=


expected excess return

















R



M


t




−



R



f


t




=


excess return on the market portfolio (index)
















S


M



B


t



=


size premium (small minus big)
















H


M



L


t



=


value premium (high minus low)

















β



1


,


2


,


3




=


factor coefficients







\begin{aligned} &R_{it} - R_{ft} = \alpha_{it} + \beta_1 ( R_{Mt} - R_{ft} ) + \beta_2SMB_t + \beta_3HML_t + \epsilon_{it} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_{it} = \text{total return of a stock or portfolio } i \text{ at time } t \\ &R_{ft} = \text{risk free rate of return at time } t \\ &R_{Mt} = \text{total market portfolio return at time } t \\ &R_{it} - R_{ft} = \text{expected excess return} \\ &R_{Mt} - R_{ft} = \text{excess return on the market portfolio (index)} \\ &SMB_t = \text{size premium (small minus big)} \\ &HML_t = \text{value premium (high minus low)} \\ &\beta_{1,2,3} = \text{factor coefficients} \\ \end{aligned}


​Rit​−Rft​=αit​+β1​(RMt​−Rft​)+β2​SMBt​+β3​HMLt​+ϵit​where:Rit​=total return of a stock or portfolio i at time tRft​=risk free rate of return at time tRMt​=total market portfolio return at time tRit​−Rft​=expected excess returnRMt​−Rft​=excess return on the market portfolio (index)SMBt​=size premium (small minus big)HMLt​=value premium (high minus low)β1,2,3​=factor coefficients​



Fama and French highlighted that investors must be able to ride out the extra volatility and periodic underperformance that could occur in a short time. Investors with a long-term time horizon of 15 years or more will be rewarded for losses suffered in the short term. Using thousands of random stock portfolios, Fama and French conducted studies to test their model and found that when size and value factors are combined with the beta factor, they could then explain as much as 95% of the return in a diversified stock portfolio.



Given the ability to explain 95% of a portfolio’s return versus the market as a whole, investors can construct a portfolio in which they receive an average expected return according to the relative risks they assume in their portfolios. The main factors driving expected returns are sensitivity to the market, sensitivity to size, and sensitivity to value stocks, as measured by the book-to-market ratio. Any additional average expected return may be attributed to unpriced or unsystematic risk.






   Fama and French’s Five Factor Model  

Researchers have expanded the Three-Factor model in recent years to include other factors. These include "momentum," "quality," and "low volatility," among others. In 2014, Fama and French adapted their model to include five factors. Along with the original three factors, the new model adds the concept that companies reporting higher future earnings have higher returns in the stock market, a factor referred to as profitability.



The fifth factor, referred to as "investment", relates the concept of internal investment and returns, suggesting that companies directing profit towards major growth projects are likely to experience losses in the stock market.




What Does Fama and French Three Factor Model Mean for Investors?
The Fama and French Three Factor model highlighted that investors must be able to ride out the extra volatility and periodic underperformance that could occur in the short term. Investors with a long-term time horizon of 15 years or more will be rewarded for losses suffered in the short term. Given that the model could explain as much as 95% of the return in a diversified stock portfolio, investors can tailor their portfolios to receive an average expected return according to the relative risks they assume.The main factors driving expected returns are sensitivity to the market, sensitivity to size, and sensitivity to value stocks, as measured by the book-to-market ratio. Any additional average expected return may be attributed to unpriced or unsystematic risk.




What Are the Three Factors of the Model?
The Fama and French model has three factors: the size of firms, book-to-market values, and excess return on the market. In other words, the three factors used are SMB (small minus big), HML (high minus low), and the portfolio's return less the risk-free rate of return. SMB accounts for publicly traded companies with small market caps that generate higher returns, while HML accounts for value stocks with high book-to-market ratios that generate higher returns in comparison to the market.




What Is the Fama and French Five Factor Model?
In 2014, Fama and French adapted their model to include five factors. Along with the original three factors, the new model adds the concept that companies reporting higher future earnings have higher returns in the stock market, a factor referred to as profitability. The fifth factor, referred to as "investment", relates the concept of internal investment and returns, suggesting that companies directing profit towards major growth projects are likely to experience losses in the stock market.
What Is the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)?  

The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) is a labor law requiring employers of a certain size to provide employees with unpaid time off for serious family health issues or situations. Qualified reasons may include adoption, pregnancy, foster care placement, family or personal illness, or military leave. It also provides for the continuation of insurance coverage and job protection while the employee is on leave. The FMLA is intended to provide families with the time and resources to deal with family emergencies, while also guiding employers.



The U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division (DOL-WHD) is in charge of the FMLA program.





Key Takeaways

The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) is a 1993 labor law that protects the jobs of employees who need to take a leave of absence for personal or family reasons.The law guarantees that a qualified employee may take up to 12 weeks for reasons such as childbirth, adoption, and personal or family illness.The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 guarantees that when an employee returns to work, they can return to the job they held before the leave. If that job is no longer available, they must be offered a job that is essentially equal in pay and status.To qualify for the FMLA, an employee must work for a firm that employs at least 50 people working within a 75-mile radius of the work site, and they must have been employed for at least 1,250 hours within the past 12 months.


   Understanding the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)  

The FMLA was signed into law on Feb. 5, 1993, by President Bill Clinton. Its passage was an acknowledgment by the federal government of changes in U.S. families, the workplace, and the labor force—for example, the proliferation of single-parent households or households in which both parents work—and the expectations of both employees and employers.



The law guarantees that a qualified employee may take up to 12 weeks off for reasons such as pregnancy/childbirth, adoption, personal illness, or the illness of a family member. The types of qualified medical and family situations also include foster care or military leave—for instance, if the eligible employee is a service member’s spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin (military caregiver leave), they are entitled to 26 weeks of leave.






The FMLA-mandated time off is an unpaid leave.



Furthermore, an employee who takes unpaid leave that falls under the FMLA is job-protected; that is, the employee can return to the same position held before the leave began. If the same position is unavailable, the employer must provide a position that is substantially equal in pay, benefits, and responsibility.


   The Purpose of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)  

The FMLA seeks to remove the need for workers to choose between their jobs and their families, enabling them to balance employment security and caring for their children, parents, or other members of their extended family.



It impacts women in particular by recognizing the outsized roles they play in caregiving, and the fact that their familial role as default caregiver has a significant effect on their working lives and careers. For instance, it allows them to take a leave to care for a newborn or an adopted child, with the assurance that they can return to their job afterward.



But it also acknowledges the importance of men in serving a role in their families beyond that of the breadwinner.



The FMLA's intentions are indicated in the stated intentions of the bill itself:



To balance the demands of the workplace with the needs of families, to promote the stability and economic security of families, and to promote national interests in preserving family integrity;To entitle employees to take reasonable leave for medical reasons, for the birth or adoption of a child, and for the care of a child, spouse, or parent who has a serious health condition;To accomplish these purposes in a manner that accommodates the legitimate interests of employers;To accomplish these purposes in a manner that, consistent with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, minimizes the potential for employment discrimination on the basis of sex by ensuring generally that leave is available for eligible medical reasons (including maternity-related disability) and for compelling family reasons, on a gender-neutral basis; andTo promote the goal of equal employment opportunity for women and men, pursuant to such clause.






In 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) expanded the FMLA's provisions to include leaves for COVID-19 related purposes. The American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) expanded that program and extended it to Sept. 30, 2021.


   Special Considerations  

Not every employee is covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act. Companies have to be of a certain size, and the worker has to have met certain conditions.



Specifically, to qualify for time off under the FMLA, a worker:



Must be employed by a business with 50 or more employees within a 75-mile radius of their work siteMust have worked for the employer for at least 12 months and 1,250 hours within the past 12 months
What Is a Family Limited Partnership (FLP)?  

A family limited partnership (FLP) is an arrangement in which family members pool money to run a business project. Each family member buys units or shares of the business and can profit in proportion to the number of shares they own, as outlined in the partnership operating agreement.





Key Takeaways

A family limited partnership (FLP) is a business or holding company owned by two or more family members.There are advantages and disadvantages to creating an FLP. Within a family limited partnership (FLP), each family member can buy shares in the venture for a potential profit.There are two types of partners in an FLP: general partners and limited partners.FLPs are often established to preserve a family's generational wealth, allowing for tax-free transfers of assets, real estate, and other wealth.


   Understanding a Family Limited Partnership (FLP)  

Family Limited Partnerships have two types of partners. General partners usually own the largest share of the business and are responsible for day-to-day management tasks such as overseeing all cash deposits and investment transactions. The general partner may also take a management fee from profits if outlined in the partnership agreement.  Limited partners have no management responsibilities. They instead buy shares of the business in exchange for dividends, interest, and profits the FLP may generate.



FLPs vary depending on the nature of the business. For example, suppose an individual wants to start a luxury apartment venture. They expect the project to cost $1 million, including working capital, and take in about $200,000 in cash each year before interest on mortgage payments and taxes. They calculate that they'll need at least a 50% down payment of $500,000. So, they call some family members, and they all agree to establish an FLP that will issue 5,000 limited partnership shares at $100 each for a total of $500,000. The limited partnership agreement states that units cannot be sold for at least six years, and the FLP will pay 70% of cash earnings in the form of dividends.



As the general partner, the original individual who made the calls buys 500 shares by contributing $50,000 to the FLP. Family members buy the remaining shares. Now, each family member owns a stake in an FLP starting at $500,000. Next, the general partner might get a first mortgage loan for the rest of the $500,000 to start the $1 million luxury housing project.



The FLP then leases these apartments to tenants and begins taking income from rent. As the mortgage is paid off, profits and dividends are distributed, and each family member grows wealthier.


   Advantages of Family Limited Partnerships  

There are some estate and gift tax advantages of a family limited partnership. Several families establish FLPs to pass wealth down to generations while securing some tax protections.



Individuals can gift FLP interests tax-free to other individuals every year up to the annual gift tax exclusion. For calendar year 2022, the gift exclusion is $16,000 for individuals (or $32,000 per married couple). This increases to $17,000 for calendar year 2023 (or $34,000 per married couple).



Suppose a couple amassed savings worth $5 million. They have three children and nine grandchildren. The couple decides to transfer the entire amount to the FLP they established. Each year, they gift $34,000 worth of FLP interests to each of their 12 kids or grandkids. This means the couple can transfer $408,000 worth of FLP interests gift-tax-free every year (assuming the gift tax exclusion remains the same).






Because the structure of FLPs and the tax laws that govern them are complex, families should consult qualified accountants and tax professionals before establishing an FLP.


   Disadvantages of Family Limited Partnerships  

There are downsides to creating an FLP. First, it can be expensive to set up and maintain because of its complexity. Most often, setting up an FLP will call for a tax specialist and estate planning attorney, and you may need to call on other professionals associated with helping to support an FLP. In addition, because an FLP has to run (for tax purposes) as a business, it could expose you or other family members to liabilities and debts, if it is mishandled in any way by any member of the family. In addition, there may be capital gains liability and it can be difficult to transfer ownership interest to minors.





Pros 

Estate and gift tax advantages
Two types of partnerships available
Helps create future wealth among families



Cons

Can be expensive to set up and maintain
Transfers to minors can be difficult
There are risks of members incurring debt and impacting others





   Special Considerations  

In addition, these assets effectively leave the couple's estates, as far as the IRS is concerned, so that any future returns would be excluded from estate taxes. The couple's children and grandchildren would benefit from any interest, dividends, or profits generated from the FLP—thereby preserving wealth for future generations. 



As general partners, the couple can set stipulations in the partnership agreement to protect these gifts from being squandered or mismanaged. For example, they can develop a rule stating that gifted shares can't be transferred or sold until the beneficiaries reach a certain age. If any beneficiaries are minors, the shares can be transferred through a Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) account.




What Are Family Limited Partnerships?
A family limited partnership is an arrangement in which family members pool money to run some sort of business, like a real estate venture.




Is It Expensive to Run a Family Limited Partnership?
Yes. It can be expensive to set-up and run a family limited partnership because it has many moving parts, and if if the business is complex, you may need advice from tax experts and/or estate lawyers.




How Many People Do You Need to Set Up a Family Limited Partnership?
A family limited partnership like a holding company or business must have at least two members.
What Is a Family Office?  

A family office is a private wealth management advisory firm that serves ultra-high-net-worth individuals (HNWI).



Family offices are different from traditional wealth management shops in that they offer a total solution to managing the financial and investment needs of an affluent individual or family.



For example, in addition to financial planning and investment management, many family offices offer budgeting, insurance, charitable giving, wealth transfer planning, tax services, and more.





Key Takeaways

Family offices provide a broad spectrum of private wealth management services to one or a small number of ultra-high-net-worth families.Besides financial services, family offices can provide various kinds of planning, charitable giving advice, concierge services, and other comprehensive services.An important responsibility a family office has is to educate next generations in the handling and management of their wealth.Single-family offices serve one individual and their family, while multi-family offices serve more than one family, and are less expensive due to economies of scale.The need for a family office can be determined by the extent of a family's wealth and the complexity of its life due to that wealth.


   Understanding Family Offices  

A family office provides a wide range of services tailored to meet the needs of HNWIs. From investment management to charitable giving advice, family offices may offer a dedicated team of specialists to service these clients.



Family-run businesses may require structures for succession planning, such as trusts or a foundation for the family assets. Given the complexity of these situations, clients may utilize a family office to help manage the assets and align interests.



The family office can also handle non-financial issues, such as private schooling, travel arrangements, and miscellaneous household arrangements.



Family offices are typically defined as either single-family offices or multi-family offices (MFOs). Single-family offices serve just one ultra-affluent family. MFOs are more closely related to traditional private wealth management practices. They seek to build their business by serving many clients.



MFOs are more prevalent due to economies of scale that allow for cost-sharing among the clientele.



Importantly, what a family office does can differ widely. While one client may need a family office for high-caliber advice from a range of experts, another may need a family office to organize their lifestyle needs. 


   The Responsibilities of a Family Office  

Providing advice and services for ultra-wealthy families under a comprehensive wealth management plan is far beyond the capacity of any one professional advisor.



It requires a well-coordinated, collaborative effort by a team of professionals from the legal, insurance, investment, estate, business, and tax disciplines. 



Often, a family office provides high-level financial planning through an integrative approach. Combining asset management, cash management, risk management, financial planning, lifestyle management, and other services, family offices help clients navigate the complex world of wealth management.


  Legacy Planning and Management  

After a lifetime of accumulating wealth, high-net-worth families can be confronted with several obstacles when trying to maximize their legacy. These obstacles can include confiscatory estate taxes, estate laws, and family or business issues.



Given this complexity, a comprehensive wealth transfer plan must take into account all facets of the family’s wealth, including the management or transfer of business interests, the disposition of the estate, management of family trusts, support for philanthropic desires, and family governance.



To ensure the family’s wealth transfer plan is well-coordinated and optimized for its legacy, family offices work collaboratively with a team of advisors from each of the necessary disciplines.


  Lifestyle Management  

Many family offices also serve as a concierge for families, handling their personal affairs and seeing to their lifestyle needs.



This service could include conducting background checks on personal and business staff, providing personal security for home and travel, aircraft and yacht management, travel planning and fulfillment, and the streamlining of business affairs.


  Investment Management  

For a single family, a family office may be responsible for investment portfolio management, commercial real estate purchase, sale, and property management, private equity deals, hedge fund investments, and venture capital investments.


  Family Wealth Education  

A family office is responsible for educating younger members of the family in the proper handling of wealth and how it can or should be used, based on the family's values. The family office can help instill in next generations an appreciation for their wealth and its demands. With the right education, a family office can help maintain family unity and prevent discord over money issues between the generations.






John D. Rockefeller is thought to have established the first full-service, single family office in the U.S. in 1882. In 1937, when he died, he was worth $1.4 billion. That's equivalent to approximately $255 billion now. The Rockefeller family office exists to this day.


   Types of Family Offices  
  Traditional Family Office  

A traditional family office is an entity established by a wealthy individual to manage the family's wealth. It usually has a staff of experts who protect and grow the wealth. The staff might include a financial advisor, tax specialist, estate planner, accountant, and more. All are employed by the family, so there aren't the conflicts of interest with products and services that might be found if they worked for other financial institutions. The overarching objective is to serve the family's demanding financial interests.


  Multi-Family Office  

A multi-family office is a firm that manages the wealth of more than one family. It offers the same types of services that a traditional family office offers. Its variety of experts tailor wealth-related solutions for each family's financial and household needs.



Beyond investment management, these might involve bill-paying, transfer of wealth plans, philanthropic advice, wealth education, and more. Multi-family offices usually charge a percentage of investment portfolio assets under management for their services.



They can be less expensive than traditional family offices because they work for more than one family. However, a family has less control over these providers, as a result.


  Outsourced Family Office  

An outsourced family office is a network of appropriate service providers—financial advisor, lawyer, accountant, etc.—who collaborate on behalf of a client. Typically, one of the professionals is appointed to coordinate all communication and efforts.



The fact that they're authorized to consult with each other about one family's financial business is what separates them from other professionals who provide the same services.



An outsourced family office can handle many of the same matters that traditional and multi-family offices handle. These might include philanthropic planning and family wealth education. This type of family office is usually less expensive than a traditional family office. However, the family also has far less control over the professionals.


   Do You Need a Family Office?  

Whether or not someone needs a family office depends on the extent and complexity of their wealth, as well as the demands that wealth puts on their family. Certain situations may require a variety, or teams, of specialists with access to high-value resources that can address a long list of important issues.



Broadly speaking, those with a net worth of $250 million might consider establishing a traditional family office. Multi-family offices can be an option for those with a net worth of at least $30 million.



Overall, those with a total net worth of up to $50 million could find the services and support they need from the advisors they would find at a wealth management firm.




What's a Family Office?
A family office is a private wealth management firm established by an ultra-high-net-worth family that provides that family with a selection of personalized services that include investment management, financial planning, estate and tax planning, philanthropic investing, concierge services, and more.




Who Needs a Family Office?
Since family offices can be very expensive to establish and operate, only the extremely wealthy who have complex financial, investment, and personal needs usually require one. One estimate is that only individuals with a net worth of more than $250 million need (and can afford) a dedicated family office.




Is a Family Office the Same as a Wealth Advisory Firm?
Not really. Wealth advisory firms can offer some of the services that a family office offers, such as portfolio management and investment management. However, wealth advisory firms typically have many different clients while a family office focuses on one (or several if it's a multi-family office). What's more, family offices offer a much larger range of services to address the complete list of wealth-related needs an ultra-high-net-worth family has.


   The Bottom Line  

A family office is established by ultra-high-net-worth individuals for a variety of reasons. First and foremost, a family office needs to manage and grow wealth. It also has to provide a wide variety of other services that can help a family manage the complexities and demands associated with that wealth.



While a family office may be appropriate for some extremely wealthy individuals and families, most highly affluent people should be well served by the professionals at a wealth advisory firm.
What Are FANG Stocks?  

In finance, the acronym "FANG" refers to the stocks of four prominent American technology companies: Meta (META) (formerly Facebook), Amazon (AMZN), Netflix (NFLX), and Alphabet/Google (GOOG). FANG stocks are famous for the impressive growth they have experienced, with each member's stock price more than doubling at times since 2018.



In 2017, the company Apple (AAPL) was also added by some analysts, resulting in the new acronym "FAANG." Apple's stock price increased more than 113% between August 2018 and August 2023.





Key Takeaways

The acronym "FANG" refers to the stocks of four popular American technology companies: Facebook (Meta), Amazon, Netflix, and Google (Alphabet).Since 2017, Apple has also been included, making the acronym FAANG.Each FANG company has shown extraordinary growth, reflected in their revenues and net profits.However, these stocks can also be quite volatile when tech stocks take a beating.Although their business models vary, they each share the use of advanced technologies to acquire and retain users.


   Understanding FANG Stocks  

The term "FANG stocks" was initially coined by The Street's Bob Lang and later popularized by Jim Cramer on his CNBC TV show Mad Money. It is now widely used by market commentators and analysts. The stocks referred to by the acronym are all well-known and richly-valued technology companies that trade on the Nasdaq exchange, a collection of approximately 5,000 American companies. Many other companies traded on the Nasdaq exchange are also considered growth investments, although very few have matched the impressive growth of the FANG stocks.



Despite their common reputation as successful growth companies, the business models of the FANG stocks are distinct.


  Facebook (Meta)  

Facebook, for example, is the world's preeminent social networking platform. With a monthly active user base of more than 3.88 billion people as of June 30, 2023, Meta can claim over 50% of the world's population as its customers. To monetize this extraordinary user base, Facebook sells ads targeted based on users' personal preferences and usage patterns.


  Amazon  

Amazon, meanwhile, is a leading business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce platform that uses leading-edge cloud computing and data analytics technologies to sell a retail catalog. Although Amazon initially pioneered the sale of books online, books now represent much less of its overall product catalog than when it started.


  Netflix  

Netflix is also known for its impressive customer growth. An online entertainment streaming service specializing in movies and television shows, the company's subscriber base has grown exponentially in recent years, from 22 million in 2011 to more than 238 million in 2022. To compete with new entrants to the streaming market, Netflix has also begun aggressively producing exclusive content, moving beyond its traditional role as a content aggregator to a major content producer in its own right.


  Google (Alphabet)  

Alphabet has leveraged its core expertise as the world’s foremost search engine, developing a highly profitable online advertising business while driving user retention through popular web applications such as YouTube, Google Docs, and Google Maps.


   FANG Stock Performance  

With these impressive facts in mind, it is no wonder investors have been enthusiastic about the FANG stocks' business prospects. In recent years, this enthusiasm has been supported by the companies' financial performance, which has caused substantial increases in their respective stock prices.



In the trailing twelve months (TTM) as of August 2023, for example, Meta has reported revenues of over $116.6 billion and a net income of more than $23 billion. Meanwhile, Amazon showed an astounding $544 billion in revenue but produced a net income of -$2.7 billion. Over the past five years, these two company's stock prices increased by roughly 62.3% and 41.3%, respectively.



Netflix and Google have also shown strong TTM performance, with Netflix posting revenues of over $31.6 billion and a net income of $4.5 billion. Google generated $280 billion in revenues and nearly $60 billion in net income. Buoyed by these earnings, Netflix's stock rose by 26.8% in the past five years, while Google's rose by about 113.2% over the same timeframe.


   How to Invest in the FANG Stocks  

Since there are only a handful of stocks in the FANG universe, it is relatively easy for investors to trade these names directly with their broker, especially now that many brokers offer zero-commission trading.



Currently, no funds hold only FANG (or FAANG) stocks. Instead, investors looking for ETFs that have heavy weightings of these could look to tech-heavy ETFs such as those that track the Nasdaq 100.




What Does the Acronym FANG Stand for?
The acronym FANG was coined by The Street's Bob Lang and popularized by Jim Cramer on his CNBC TV show Mad Money. This acronym refers to the stocks of four prominent American technology companies—Meta (META) (formerly Facebook), Amazon (AMZN), Netflix (NFLX), and Alphabet (GOOG). By adding Apple (AAPL) in 2017, "FANG" became "FAANG."




Why Are FANG Stocks Popular?
FANG stocks are famous for their impressive growth and popularity, with each member more than doubling its stock price at times over the past five years. However, despite exhibiting growth stock behavior, FANG stocks are not too volatile. This stability, along with delivering superior rates of return, has made these quite attractive to investors.




What Businesses Are FANGs in?
Although they each share the use of advanced technologies to acquire and retain users, FANGs have distinct business models. Facebook is the world’s preeminent social networking platform. Amazon is a leading business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce platform. Netflix is an online entertainment streaming service that has also begun aggressively producing its own exclusive content. Alphabet (Google) has leveraged its core expertise as the world’s foremost search engine to develop a highly profitable online advertising business.


   The Bottom Line  

Meta (Facebook), Amazon, Netflix, and Alphabet (Google) make up the acronym FANG, a group of companies popular with investors due to their phenomenal growth over their life times.
What Is the Farmers Home Administration?  

The Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) is a former U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) agency created to finance and insure loans for rural families and farmers. The FmHA provided credit and technical assistance through housing, utility, business, and community development programs.





Key Takeaways

The Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) was a government agency created to help dispense loans to farmers and rural communities following the Great Depression. It is known today as USDA Rural Development.According to a U.S. Government Accountability Office report, the FmHA faltered by the 1990s due to weak lending practices.The FmHA was abolished in October 1994 and its functions transferred to another agency at the USDA.


   FmHA Loans  

In 1946, Congress authorized the Farmers Home Administration to provide families with financing tools such as loans and grants aimed at helping them re-establish self-sufficient farming efforts, following the Great Depression. In 1961, Congress authorized the FmHA to broaden its bandwidth and finance general water projects and housing for non-farmers in rural municipalities.



FmHA has since been renamed multiple times and is currently known as USDA Rural Development.





$234.4 billion

The amount of USDA Rural Development's portfolio for its loan programs in 2021.


   Historical Problems With FmHA  

By the 1990s, some members of Congress were becoming increasingly concerned with the large number of defaults on FmHA loans and the substantial losses the agency was accruing as a result of weak lending practices. In 1992, Congress directed the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study, which uncovered numerous problems with the FmHA.



Most notably, the report found that nearly $14 billion (70%) of the FmHA direct loan portfolio was at risk of default because the loans were held by delinquent borrowers or by individuals whose debts were rescheduled in the wake of repayment difficulties. In that year, FmHA estimated potential losses of $1.2 billion, or about 28% of its guaranteed loan program.



The GAO also discovered that many field lending officials failed to comply with the loan-making and loan-servicing standards that the FmHA established to safeguard federal financial interests.



Furthermore, the GAO found that by Sept. 30, 1991, the FmHA acquired an estimated 3,100 farms from borrowers who had not repaid their loans. Overall, the GAO concluded that FmHA management weaknesses contributed to the long-standing loan management problems, including inferior information systems and weak financial controls.


   Termination of the Farmers Home Administration  

Under the Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, in October 1995, the FmHA was abolished. Its functions were transferred to the Farm Service Agency at the USDA. In later years, following other reorganizations, these functions were ultimately transferred to USDA Rural Development, as it is known today.




What Did the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) Do?
The Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) was created in 1946 to provide and guarantee loans for rural families and farmers. It managed housing, utility, business, and community development programs that provided credit and technical assistance. These functions are currently performed by USDA Rural Development.




Why Was the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) Terminated?
Members of Congress became concerned when a significant number of FmHA loans defaulted and, in 1992, directed the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study.  It found a multitude of problems related to weak lending practices. In 1994, the FmHA was terminated and its functions transferred to the Farm Service Agency at the USDA, and in the years that followed, to USDA Rural Development.
What Is Fast Fashion?  

Fast fashion is the term used to describe clothing designs that move quickly from the catwalk to stores to take advantage of trends. The collections are often based on styles presented at Fashion Week runway shows or worn by celebrities. Fast fashion allows mainstream consumers to purchase the hot new look or the next big thing at an affordable price.



Fast fashion became common because of cheaper, speedier manufacturing and shipping methods, an increase in consumers' appetite for up-to-the-minute styles, and the increase in consumer purchasing power—especially among young people—to indulge these instant-gratification desires. Because of all this, fast fashion is challenging the established clothing labels' tradition of introducing new collections and lines on an orderly, seasonal basis. In fact, it's not uncommon for fast-fashion retailers to introduce new products multiple times in one week to stay on trend.





Key Takeaways

Fast fashion describes low-priced but stylish clothing that moves quickly from design to retail stores to meet trends, with new collections being introduced continuously.Innovations in supply chain management among retailers make fast fashion possible.Zara and H&M are two giants in the fast fashion field. Others include UNIQLO, GAP, and Topshop.Fast fashion's benefits are affordable prices and instant gratification for consumers, more profits for companies, and the democratization of stylish clothing.On the downside, fast fashion is also associated with pollution, waste, the promulgation of a "disposable" mentality, low wages, and unsafe workplaces.


   Understanding Fast Fashion  

Shopping for clothing was once considered an event. Consumers would save up to buy new clothes at certain times of the year. The style-conscious would get a preview of the styles to come via fashion shows that displayed new collections and clothing lines several months in advance of their appearance in stores.



But that began to change in the late 1990s, as shopping became a form of entertainment and discretionary spending on clothing increased. Enter fast fashion—cheap, trendy knock-off garments, mass-produced at low cost, that allowed consumers to feel as though they were wearing the same styles that "walked the runway" or were sported by a sexy entertainer.



Fast fashion is made possible by innovations in supply chain management (SCM) among fashion retailers. Its goal is to quickly produce cost-efficient articles of clothing in response to (or anticipation of) fast-shifting consumer demands. The assumption is that consumers want high fashion at a low cost. While the garments are often carelessly made, they're not intended to be worn for years or even multiple times.



Fast fashion follows the concept of category management, linking the manufacturer with the consumer in a mutually beneficial relationship. The speed at which fast fashion happens requires this kind of collaboration, as the need to refine and accelerate supply chain processes is paramount.





$30.58 billion

The size of the fast fashion market in 2021. It's projected to reach $39.84 billion in 2025.


   Fast Fashion Leaders  

Major players in the fast-fashion market include Zara, H&M Group, UNIQLO, GAP, Forever 21, Topshop, Esprit, Primark, Fashion Nova, and New Look. Many companies are both retailers and manufacturers, though they often outsource the actual production of clothing.



In addition, traditional mass-market department stores such as Macy's, J. C. Penney, and Kohl's in the U.S. have all taken a page from the fast-fashion book. For their in-house and proprietary brands, they've shortened design and production times to better compete in the market.



Here's a closer look at some of the leaders in fast fashion.


  Zara  

Spanish retail chain Zara, the flagship brand of textile giant Inditex, is all but synonymous with fast fashion, serving as an exemplar of how to cut the time between design, production, and delivery. Zara's designers can sketch a garment—the company sells men's, women's, and children's clothing—and have the finished piece appear on store racks in as little as four weeks. It can modify existing items in as little as two weeks.



Its secret to this rapid turnover is its ownership of a relatively short supply chain. Over half its factories are closely located to its corporate headquarters in A Coruña, Spain—including countries like Portugal, Turkey, and Morocco.



Its fast turnaround time aids another key Zara strategy: to stuff the stores with more goods, offering the consumer an unparalleled amount of choice. It produces 11,000-plus pieces annually, vs. an industry average of 2,000 to 4,000 pieces.



In 2021, Zara's annual net sales (including those of Zara Home) were €19.6 billion. As of mid-2022, it has 1,947 stores across the globe, as well as a strong online operation.


  H&M  

Founded in 1947, Sweden-based H&M Group (short for Hennes & Mauritz ) is one of the oldest fast-fashion companies. As of 2022, H&M Group operates in 74 countries with over 4,000 stores under its various brands, which, along with H&M, include the slightly more upscale COS and the youth-oriented Monki.



H&M Group functions like a department store, selling not only clothing for men, women, and children but cosmetics and home furnishings. It is more strictly a retailer: It does not own any factories but instead relies on about 600 independent suppliers for its garments. However, these suppliers are overseen by 16 H&M production offices, using state-of-the-art IT systems to track inventory and communicate with corporate HQ. The factories are based all around Europe, Asia, and Africa.



Part of H&M's strategy has also been not to offer just knockoffs but original creations via its much-ballyhooed designer collaborations with elite labels like Alexander Wang and Giambattista Vali. In early 2021, for example, it launched a collection designed by Simone Rocha.



H&M's annual net sales in 2021 came to SEK 199 billion (about $18.9 billion).






The traditional clothing-industry model operates seasonally, with the fall fashion week displaying styles for the upcoming spring/summer and the spring fashion week showcasing looks for the following fall/winter; in addition, there are often pre-fall and pre-spring or resort collections too. In contrast to these four seasons, fast-fashion labels produce about 52 “micro-seasons” a year—or one new “collection” a week of clothes meant to be worn immediately instead of months later.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fast Fashion  
  The Advantages of Fast Fashion  

Profitable for manufacturers and retailers: The constant introduction of new products encourages customers to frequent stores more often, which means they end up making more purchases. The retailer does not replenish its stock—instead, it replaces items that sell out with new items. Accordingly, consumers know to purchase an item they like when they see it, no matter the price because it's not likely to be available for long. And because the clothing is cheap (and cheaply made), it's easy to get people back into stores or online to make fresh purchases.Quick to consumers: As for advantages for the consumer, fast fashion has enabled people to get the clothes they want when they want them. Also, it's made clothing more affordable—and not just any clothing, but innovative, imaginative, stylish clothing.Makes clothes affordable: Even those of modest means can constantly buy smart new clothes, indulge in fun or impractical items, and wear something different every day.Democratizes fashion: No longer is the latest look, being "well-dressed," or having a large wardrobe the province of the rich and famous. Everyone can look good.


  The Disadvantages of Fast Fashion  

Cheap materials and poor workmanship: Because the clothing is made overseas, fast fashion is also seen as contributing to a decline in the U.S. garment industry, where labor laws and workplace regulations are stronger, and wages are better. If a consumer buys multiple fast fashion garments, cheap as they are, it eventually costs them more than buying a few pricier ones that last longer.Encourages a “throw-away” consumer mentality: That's why it's also called disposable fashion. Many fast fashionistas in their teens and early twenties—the age group the industry targets—admit they only wear their purchases once or twice.Bad for the environment: Critics contend that fast fashion contributes to pollution, waste, and planned obsolescence due to its cheap materials and manufacturing methods. The poorly made garments don't age well, but they can't be recycled because they're predominantly (over 60%) made of synthetics. So when they're discarded, they molder in landfills for years.Associated with exploitative, abusive labor practices: Manufacturers are generally based in developing countries—and some have been none too stringent in overseeing their sub-contractors nor transparent about their supply chain. That's led to critics charging that fast fashion is built on bad working conditions, poor pay, and other abusive, exploitative practices.Intellectual property theft: Some designers allege that their designs have been illegally duplicated and mass-produced by fast fashion companies.





Pros

Profitable for manufacturers and retailers
Offers fast, efficient delivery
Makes clothes affordable
Democratizes style and fashion



Cons

Uses cheap materials, poor workmanship
Encourages "throwaway" consumer mentality
Bad for the environment
Associated with exploitative, abusive labor practices





   Impact on the Environment and Workers  

It's argued in some circles that fast fashion is wasteful and harmful to the environment. When accounting for quality of workmanship, materials, cheap labor, rapid turnaround, and low stock for quick sales on the newest fashion items, it's easy to observe that waste can occur.



However, the environmental impact is much more severe than a cursory look at the industry reveals. Here's a quick look at some figures:



The industry uses 93 billion cubic meters of water per year.It takes 3,781 liters of water to make one pair of jeans.Of all the wastewater in the world, 20% is from textile dying and is highly toxic—many countries where clothes are made have reduced or no regulations for wastewater disposal.Microplastic fibers used in clothing make their way to the ocean, amounting to about 500,000 tons—close to 50 billion plastic bottles.Fashion emits more than 10% of global carbon emissions.


  Economic Impact  

The apparel industry, in general, has been growing by as much as 8% annually (aside from the blip of the 2020 pandemic year)—and fast fashion leads the apparel industry. It's estimated to grow nearly 7% to $39.84 billion in 2025.



However, the industry growth is unlikely to be felt by the fast fashion manufacturing industry workers—profits are not returned to the local economies for the work being done. Instead, revenues are recognized in the countries the companies are headquartered in, leaving these local economies to stagnate while others enjoy the fruits of their labor.


  Worker Impact  

Fast fashion companies employ thousands in their offices, stores, and factories, making millions in profits yearly. Unfortunately, workers are underpaid, work long hours, and are exposed to harmful chemicals used in the process.


   Fast Fashion vs. Slow Fashion  

If fast fashion is getting garments to consumers as quickly as possible, regardless of the impact on workers and the environment, slow fashion is the exact opposite.



Slow fashion—a concept first introduced in 2008 by fashion and sustainability consultant Kate Fletcher—uses environmentally-friendly processes and materials through "mindful manufacturing," focusing on quality rather than quantity. Mindful manufacturing, an idea championed by 3d printing company Stratasys, is the concept of developing more efficient production, sound chemical and solid waste disposal practices, reusable materials, and recycled packaging.


   How to Avoid Fast Fashion  

It's difficult to avoid products manfactured by companies that practice fast fashion completely; however, it's not impossible. One of the issues is consumerism and price; many people cannot afford the actual products fast fashion imitates but are still obsessed with the latest fashions.



Apart from resisting the urges of consumerism, there are some steps you can take to reduce the impact of your purchases:



Investigate the brands you like and see if they use sustainable processes and fair labor practices. You can buy your clothes at secondhand stores, which helps to reduce the amount of garment waste and extends their usage.



Additionally, speaking up and advocating against fast fashion and consumerism is one of the best ways to ensure awareness spreads. Most people are unaware of fast fashion's social and environmental impact—only with everyone doing their part to raise awareness will accountability be forced onto the companies making these products.




What Is Fast Fashion and Why Is it Important?
Fast fashion is getting garments that imitate new styles to market as quickly as possible, regardless of the impact on the environment and people's health.




What Are Fast Fashion Examples?
Some examples of companies in fast fashion are Stradivarius, Victoria's Secret, Urban Outfitters, Guess, Forever 21, and many other popular brands.




Who Benefits From Fast Fashion?
Consumers who enjoy the latest fashion with the convenience of low prices benefit, but the primary beneficiaries are investors, owners, and other stakeholders who profit from the practice.


   The Bottom Line  

"The benefits of fast fashion are clear: more consumer spending, more profits, and the consumer satisfaction of being able to participate in a trend almost immediately after they see it in magazines or on their favorite celebrities," stated a 2020 article on the GlobalEdge, a Michigan State University business reference site. "However, fast fashion creates a host of issues that make it more problematic than it is beneficial… This industry contributes to climate change, pesticide pollution, and enormous amounts of waste." The exploitation of and danger to workers, promulgated by the need for speed and cost efficiencies, is fast fashion's whole raison d'être.



The debate around fast fashion, alternatives, and how to proceed will continue as long as people are willing to buy high styles at low prices and ignore the issues the practice creates.
What Are Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG)?  

Fast-moving consumer goods are products that sell quickly at relatively low cost. These goods are also called consumer packaged goods.



FMCGs have a short shelf life because of high consumer demand (e.g., soft drinks and confections) or because they are perishable (e.g., meat, dairy products, and baked goods).



These goods are purchased frequently, consumed rapidly, priced low, and sold in large quantities. They also have a high turnover when they're on the shelf at the store.





Key Takeaways

Fast-moving consumer goods are nondurable products that sell quickly at relatively low costs.FMCGs have low profit margins and high-volume sales.Examples of FMCGs include milk, gum, fruit and vegetables, toilet paper, soda, beer, and over-the-counter drugs like aspirin.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG)  

Consumer goods are products purchased for consumption by the average consumer. They are divided into three categories: durable, nondurable, and services.



Durable goods have a shelf life of three years or more, while nondurable goods have a shelf life of less than three years. Fast-moving consumer goods are the largest segment of consumer goods. They fall into the nondurable category, as they are consumed immediately and have a short shelf life.



Nearly everyone uses fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) daily. They are the small-scale consumer purchases we make at the produce stand, grocery store, supermarket, or warehouse outlet. Examples include milk, gum, fruit and vegetables, toilet paper, soda, beer, and over-the-counter drugs like aspirin.






Slow-moving consumer goods, which have a longer shelf life and are purchased over time, include items like furniture and appliances.



FMCGs account for more than half of all consumer spending but tend to be low-involvement purchases. Consumers are more likely to show off a durable good such as a new car or beautifully designed smartphone than a new energy drink they picked up for $2.50 at the convenience store.


   Types of Fast-Moving Consumer Goods  

FMCGs can be divided into several different categories, including:



Processed foods: Cheese products, cereals, and boxed pastaPrepared meals: Ready-to-eat mealsBeverages: Bottled water, energy drinks, and juicesBaked goods: Cookies, croissants, and bagelsFresh foods, frozen foods, and dry goods: Fruits, vegetables, and nutsMedicines: Aspirin, pain relievers, and other medication that can be purchased without a prescriptionCleaning products: Baking soda, oven cleaner, and window and glass cleanerCosmetics and toiletries: Hair care products, concealers, toothpaste, and soapOffice supplies: Pens, pencils, and markers


   The Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Industry  

Because fast-moving consumer goods have such a high turnover rate, the market is not only very large, it is very competitive. Some of the world's largest companies compete for market share in this industry including Tyson Foods, Coca-Cola, Unilever, Procter & Gamble, Nestlé, PepsiCo, and Danone.



Companies like these need to focus their efforts on marketing fast-moving consumer goods to entice and attract consumers to buy their products.



That's why packaging is a very important factor in the production process. The logistics and distribution systems often require secondary and tertiary packaging to maximize efficiency. The unit pack or primary package is critical for product protection and shelf life, and also provides information and sales incentives to consumers.






As investments, FMCG stocks generally promise low growth but are considered less risky, with more predictable margins, returns, and even regular dividends.



FMCGs are sold in large quantities, so they are considered a reliable source of revenue. This high volume of sales also offsets the low profit margins on individual sales.


   Special Considerations  
  Fast-Moving Consumer Goods and Ecommerce  

Shoppers across the globe increasingly purchase things they need online because it offers certain conveniences—from delivering orders right to the door to broad selection and low prices—that brick-and-mortar stores can't.



In the past, popular goods for online purchase were related to travel, entertainment, or durable goods, such as fashion and electronics. However, the online market for groceries and other consumable products is growing as companies redefine delivery logistics efficiency and shorten delivery times.



While non-consumable categories may continue to lead consumable products in sheer volume, gains in logistics efficiency have increased the use of ecommerce channels for acquiring goods, including FMCGs.




What Are Consumer Packaged Goods?
Consumer packaged goods are the same as fast-moving consumer goods. They are items with high turnover rates, low prices, or short shelf lives. Fast-moving consumer goods are characterized by low profit margins and large sales quantities. Some products that fall within this group include soft drinks, toilet paper, and dairy products.




What Are 3 Types of Consumer Goods?
The three main consumer goods categories are durable goods, nondurable goods, and services. Durable goods, such as furniture or cars, last at least three years. Often, economists will watch durable goods spending to track the economy's health. Nondurable goods are items with a shelf life of under three years and are consumed rapidly. Fast-moving consumer goods fall within this category. Finally, services include intangible services or products, such as haircuts or car washes. 




What Are Some of the Largest Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Companies?
Nestlé, Procter & Gamble, and Coca-Cola are among the world’s largest fast-moving consumer goods companies. Swiss-based Nestlé, for instance, operates over 2,000 brands that cover everything from vitamins to frozen foods. Notably, the competition for market share is high within the fast-moving consumer goods industry. In response, companies focus heavily on packaging to attract customers and preserve the product's shelf life and integrity.


   The Bottom Line  

Fast-moving consumer goods are products that sell quickly and are generally sold at lower prices than slower-moving goods. These goods include food, drinks, toothpaste, and other items that expire or are consumed in less than three years.
What Is an FDIC Insured Account?  

An FDIC insured account is a bank or thrift account covered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), an independent federal agency responsible for safeguarding customer deposits in the event of bank failures. The maximum insurable amount in a qualified account is $250,000 per depositor, per FDIC-insured bank and per ownership category.





Key Takeaways

An FDIC insured account is a bank account at an institution where deposits are federally protected against bank failure or theft.The FDIC is a federally backed deposit insurance agency where member banks pay regular premiums to fund claims.The maximum insurable amount is currently $250,000 per depositor, per bank.


   Understanding an FDIC Insured Account  

An FDIC insured account means if you have up to $250,000 in a bank account and the bank fails, the FDIC reimburses any losses you suffered. For individuals, any sum that exceeds $250,000 for a single account type (e.g., individual, joint, etc.) may need to be spread among multiple FDIC-insured banks.



To understand how, and why, the FDIC functions, it is critical to understand how the modern savings and loan system works. Modern bank accounts are not like safe deposit boxes; depositor money does not go into an individualized vault drawer to wait idly until future withdrawal. Instead, banks funnel money from depositor accounts to make new loans in order to generate revenue from the interest.



The federal government requires most banks to keep only 10% of all deposits on hand, meaning the other 90% can be used to make loans. In other words, if you made a $1,000 bank deposit, your bank can actually take $900 from that deposit and use it to finance a car loan or a home mortgage.



This kind of banking is called "fractional reserve banking," since only a small fraction of the total deposits are kept as reserves at the bank. Fractional reserve banking creates extra liquidity in the capital markets and helps keep interest rates low, but it can also create an unstable banking environment.



It is possible the bank's customers could simultaneously request more than 10% of their money back at any one time. When too many depositors ask for their money back, a so-called "bank run," the bank must turn away some customers empty-handed. Other depositors might lose confidence and ask for their money back too, fearing they will not be able to recoup their savings. Often this can create a contagion-like effect that spreads to other banks, triggering systemic bank panics.


   FDIC Insured Account Requirements  

If an FDIC-insured bank cannot meet deposit obligations, the FDIC steps in and pays insurance to depositors on their accounts. Once declared "failed," the bank itself is assumed by the FDIC, which sells the bank's assets and pays off any debts owed. When a bank fails, account holders get their funds back almost immediately, up to the insured amount. If their deposits exceed that limit, they will have to wait until the FDIC sells off the bank's assets to recoup any excess.



A qualified account has to be held in a bank that is a participant in the FDIC program. Participating banks are required to display an official sign at each teller window or station where deposits are regularly received. Depositors can verify whether a bank is an FDIC member through a search at FDIC.gov.






Membership in the FDIC is voluntary, with member banks funding the insurance coverage through premium payments.



Basically, all demand-deposit accounts that become general obligations of the bank are covered by the FDIC. The type of accounts that can be FDIC-insured include negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW), checking, savings, and money market deposit accounts, in addition to certificates of deposit (CDs). Credit union accounts may also be insured for up to $250,000 if the credit union is a member of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).



Accounts that do not qualify for FDIC coverage include safe deposit boxes, investment accounts (containing stocks, bonds, etc.), mutual funds, and life insurance policies. Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) are insured up to $250,000, as are revocable trust accounts, although coverage on a revocable trust extends to each eligible beneficiary.


   Examples of FDIC Insured Accounts  

FDIC guarantees deposits up to $250,000 per account per person. For joint accounts, each co-owner receives the full $250,000 of protection. Along with the many other benefits of a joint account, a couple or partners with a joint account with $500,000 on deposit would be fully protected.



Multiple accounts held in the same bank under the same account holder's name are added together for purposes of determining the amount of insured deposits, so a person with two accounts at the same bank totaling $300,000 would have $50,000 unprotected.



However, deposit limits are separate for each different bank, even for the same owner. Say someone has $200,000 at Bank A and an additional $150,000 at Bank B. Even though their total deposits exceed $250,000, they are considered fully covered as long as both banks are FDIC-insured. 



If this individual transfers the $150,000 to Bank A, they lose coverage on $100,000 since their total deposit at Bank A is now $350,000. Such insurance over deposits benefits savers in that they need only worry about finding the best interest rate on a savings account rather than whether their money is safe.


   History of FDIC Insured Accounts  

The FDIC was created as part of the Banking Act of 1933 after a four-year period that saw nearly 10,000 U.S. banks fail or suspend operations. Most of these closures resulted from a run on the bank; banks did not possess enough money in their vaults to meet depositors' withdrawal demands, so they had to close their doors, leaving many families without their savings.



The purpose of the FDIC was to restore the faith of panicked Americans following the Stock Market Crash of 1929 and the onset of the Great Depression. Conceptually, the FDIC serves as a bulwark against future banking panics. The FDIC "insures," or guarantees, the value of all bank demand deposits up to a certain amount, with the total figure covered steadily growing since its inception.






In October of 2008, Congress increased the amount covered by FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to the current $250,000.



Prior to 2006, the FDIC financed itself through the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF). These were basically composed of insurance premiums the FDIC charged to member banks for housing and safekeeping their funds.



In 2005, President George W. Bush signed the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act to merge the competing funds. Since then, all premiums are left in the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), from which all FDIC-insured deposits are covered.


   Special Considerations  

The FDIC reserve fund has never been fully funded; in fact, the FDIC is normally short of its total insurance exposure by more than 99%. Congress granted the FDIC the power to borrow up to $500 billion from the Department of the Treasury, making the system effectively backed by the Federal Reserve. In other words, if the FDIC exhausts its other options, the government will step in to provide further financial backing.



The FDIC can also borrow money from the Treasury in the form of short-term loans. This occurred during the savings and loan (S&L) crisis in 1991, when the FDIC was forced to borrow several billion dollars to cover the failing thrifts' accounts.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of FDIC Insured Accounts  

According to the FDIC, no depositor has lost a cent of insured funds as a result of bank failure since its insurance debuted on Jan. 1, 1934. Measured on the merits of preventing bank panics, the FDIC has been a resounding success—the U.S. economy has not suffered a legitimate banking panic in the 80-plus years of the FDIC.



The FDIC isn't loved by everyone though. Detractors believe forced deposit insurance creates moral hazard in the banking system and encourages depositors and banks to engage in riskier behavior. They argue that customers do not need to care which bank makes safer loans if the FDIC is going to bail them all out anyway.




Why Is it Important to Choose a Bank Account That Is FDIC-Insured?
Perhaps the most significant benefit of having a FDIC-insured deposit account is that the deposit insurance ensures up to $250,000 ($500,000 for a joint account) for each account ownership category in the event of a bank failure.




What Are 3 Things not Insured by FDIC?
Three of the biggest things that the FDIC doesn't insure are stock investments, bond investments, and mutual funds. Life insurance policies; annuities; municipal securities; safe deposit boxes (and their contents); U.S. Treasury bills, bonds, and notes; and crypto assets are also not covered by FDIC deposit insurance.




Is it Good to Have all Your Money in One Bank?
It can be safe to have all of your money in one bank, but this is not without risk. If your account balances at one bank exceed $250,000 (or $500,000 for a joint account), then that excess amount won't be covered by FDIC deposit insurance in the event of a bank failure. In this scenario, you would be better off keeping some of your funds in a different financial institution.


   The Bottom Line  

Bank failures, although somewhat uncommon, still happen. From 2001 to 2022, 561 banks failed, with four failing at the onset of the pandemic back in 2020. An FDIC insured account offers the peace of mind that your deposited funds will be safe should the worst happen to your bank of choice.
What Is the Fear & Greed Index?  

The Fear & Greed Index is an index developed by CNN Business to measure investor sentiment. It indicates how emotions influence the way investors pay for stocks. The index provides a window into whether stocks are fairly priced at any given point in time. The Fear & Greed index is calculated daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly and is based on the logic that excessive fear will drive share prices down, and too much greed will drive prices up.





Key Takeaways

The Fear & Greed Index was developed by CNN Business. The index measures whether stocks are fairly priced by determining how emotions influence how much investors are willing to pay for stocks.The index assumes that fear drives stocks lower while greed boosts stock values.CNN examines seven indicators that measure aspects of stock market behavior.


   How the Fear & Greed Index Works  

Investing is often emotional and reactionary. Fear and greed indicators can influence an investor's decision to buy or sell stock. The goal of the Fear & Greed Index is to help assess market sentiment when combined with analytical tools.



The Fear & Greed Index can gauge market trends. Based on the premise that fear results in stocks trading below their intrinsic value and greed causes upward trends, the index is seen as either a legitimate investment research tool or a barometer for market timing.



It has been a reliable indicator of a turn in equity markets. The index sank to a low of 12 in September 2008, when the S&P 500 fell to a three-year low in the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and the near-demise of insurance giant AIG. By contrast, it traded over 90 in September 2012 as global equities rallied following the Federal Reserve's third round of quantitative easing.



On March 12, 2020, during the rise of the COVID-19 pandemic, the index fell to an annual low of 2 when stocks plunged 10% and entered a bear market after President Donald Trump announced a U.S. travel ban due to the escalating coronavirus fears. By November 2020, the index registered over 75 in the extreme greed category territory when optimism grew about a coronavirus vaccine.






While the Fear & Greed Index is a useful indicator, it is not the only available tool to make investment decisions. If you decide to use the index, make sure you do your research and compile information from other sources before you make any important moves.


   The Fear & Greed Index Indicators  

There are seven indicators that are measured on the index, on a scale ranging from 0 to 100. The index is computed by taking an equal-weighted average of each. A reading of 50 is deemed neutral, with higher numbers signaling greed. Lower numbers hover in the fear categories.









Fear & Greed Index Scores and Sentiments




Score 
Sentiment 


0 to 24 
Extreme Fear


25 to 44 
Fear 


45 to 55
Neutral


56 to 75
Greed


76 to 100
Extreme Greed



Source: CNN Business



The seven fear and greed indicators include:



Stock Price Momentum: A measure of the S&P 500 versus its 125-day moving average (MA).
Stock Price Strength: The number of stocks hitting 52-week highs versus those hitting 52-week lows on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
Stock Price Breadth: Analyzing the trading volumes in rising stocks against declining stocks.
Put and Call Options: The extent to which put options lag behind call options, signifying greed, or surpassing them, indicating fear.
Junk Bond Demand: Measures the spread between yields on investment-grade bonds and junk bonds.
Market Volatility: CNN measures the Cboe's Volatility Index (VIX) based on a 50-day MA.
Safe Haven Demand: The difference in returns for stocks versus treasuries.


   The Fear & Greed Index vs. the Cryptocurrency Index  

A similar index based on fear and greed and tailored to the cryptocurrency market was introduced by Alternative. The Crypto Fear & Greed Index is developed from various online sources to create a sentiment index for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. According to the company's website, crypto market behavior is as emotional as traditional markets.



The crypto fear and greed index from Alternative uses the following inputs:



Price volatility over the past 30 and 90 days
Market volume and momentum
Social media mentions on X platform (formerly Twitter) via coin hashtags
Bitcoin market cap dominance
Google Trends data for Bitcoin-related searches




What Is a Fear & Greed Index?
A fear & greed index helps gauge stock market movements and whether stocks are priced fairly. The index is based on the logic that excessive fear drives down share prices, and too much greed has the opposite effect. CNN Business developed an index to measure investor sentiment in the stock market. Alternative.me created an index to gauge cryptocurrency market sentiment.




How Is CNN Business Fear & Greed Index Calculated?
Seven factors are graded to establish how much fear and greed there is in the market. Indicators include stock price momentum, stock price strength, stock price breadth, put and call options, junk bond demand, market volatility, and safe-haven demand.




How Do Fear and Greed Affect the Decisions of Investors?
Many investors are emotional and reactionary, with fear and greed being the two predominant emotions affecting investors. 


   The Bottom Line  

Investor sentiment is often characterized by two emotions, fear, and greed. The CNN Business Fear & Greed Index quantifies this facet of market psychology on a scale of 0 as the most fearful to 100 as the most greedy. The company, Alternative.me, created a crypto-specific fear and greed index that follows sentiment for Bitcoin and major cryptocurrencies.
What Is the Fed Balance Sheet?  

The Fed balance sheet is a statement listing the assets and liabilities of the Federal Reserve System. Details of the Fed's balance sheet are disclosed by the Fed in a weekly report called "Factors Affecting Reserve Balances." 





Key Takeaways

The Fed balance sheet is a listing of the Federal Reserve's assets and liabilities.The Fed's assets and liabilities are disclosed in a weekly report by the Fed.The Fed's balance sheet has grown dramatically since 2008 to support the economy after the global financial crisis and again following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Understanding the Fed Balance Sheet  

The Fed is the central bank of the United States, founded by Congress in 1913 to ensure the stability of the nation's financial and banking systems in times of crisis.



For much of its history, the Fed's balance sheet was a sleepy topic. Issued every Thursday, the weekly balance sheet report counts the assets and liabilities of the Federal Reserve by type just as a corporate balance sheet does, providing a consolidated statement of the condition of all 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks.



The Fed's assets consist primarily of government securities it has bought and credit extended to banks and other financial institutions. Its liabilities, meanwhile, include bank and Treasury reserve balances on deposit with the Fed as well as U.S. currency in circulation. 



The weekly balance sheet report became more important as a financial and economic indicator after the 2008 financial crisis, when the Fed initiated a policy of quantitative easing (QE). The Fed balance sheet gave analysts added insight into the scope and scale of Fed market operations. In particular, it allowed analysts to monitor the pace of asset purchases.


   The Fed Balance Sheet and Quantitative Easing (QE)  

QE is a monetary policy in which a central bank purchases large quantities of government bonds or other securities on the open market in order to hold down long-term interest rates and signal loose monetary policy.



The Fed (and other central banks) have used quantitative easing, also known as large scale asset purchases, to support economic growth beyond what could be achieved by lowering short-term interest rates to zero.



The policy has drawn political criticism but has become an increasingly common response to economic and credit crises, used effectively by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan alongside the Fed.


   Special Considerations  

The Fed's balance sheet may look somewhat like a corporate one, but central banks are unique in their unlimited supply of currency. In contrast to a corporation, the Fed and other central banks exist not to make money but to ensure economic and financial stability.



The Fed's role is akin to that of the bank in the board game Monopoly: its goal is not to win but to supply enough money to keep the game going. The right amount of assets for the Fed is that which best enables it meet its mandate.
What Is a Federal Agency?  

Federal agencies are special government organizations set up for a specific purpose such as, the management of resources, financial oversight of industries, or national security issues. These organizations are typically created by legislative action, but may initially be set up by presidential order as well. The directors of these agencies are typically selected by presidential appointment.





Key Takeaways

Federal agencies are special government organizations set up for a specific purpose such as the management of resources or national security issues.Federal agencies are created to regulate industries or practices that require close oversight or specialized expertise. A number of these organizations issue or guarantee securities such as stocks and bonds.Since agency bonds are less liquid than Treasury bonds, they offer a slightly higher interest rate.


   Understanding Federal Agencies  

Federal agencies are created by the government to regulate industries or practices that require close oversight or specialized expertise. Some organizations, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), have their operations explicitly backed by the U.S. Treasury. Other organizations, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Sallie Mae are only provided with an implicit guarantee from the U.S. Treasury.



A number of the organizations which are an actual part of the government issue securities such as stocks and bonds. These have been historically popular with investors. Federal agency bonds, which are bonds that are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government, are examples of federal agency securities. Investors expect to receive regular interest payments from holding an agency bond. At maturity, the full face value of the agency bond is repaid to the bondholder. Because federal agency bonds are less liquid than Treasury bonds, they offer a slightly higher rate of interest than Treasury bonds. Examples of federal agencies that guarantee certain bonds or securities include the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Small Business Administration (SBA), and Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA or Ginnie Mae).


   Other Types of Government Bonds  

Another type of bond issued by government agencies is the government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) bond. These bonds are issued by corporations that are not quite part of the government but are set up by Congress to work for the common good of the country. These enterprises mostly operate on their own and are publicly held on the major exchanges. GSEs include the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage (Freddie Mac), Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB). The government guarantee that applies to agency bonds does not apply to GSE bonds, which therefore have credit risk and default risk. For this reason, the yield on these bonds is typically higher than the yield on Treasury bonds.



Mortgage loans are backed by federal agency securities issued by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the FHLB, and hold a very high credit rating. Agency securities are also used as collateral for the supply of money released by the Federal Reserve. Sold by a nationwide group of banks and dealers, these securities raise money to fund public needs such as road building, low-cost housing, urban renewal, and also to provide low-interest rate loans to farmers, small business owners, and veterans.
What Is the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)?  

The term Federal Communications Commission (FCC) refers to an independent U.S. government agency that oversees all interstate and international communications. The FCC maintains standards and consistency among types of media and methods of communication while protecting the interests of consumers and businesses. It allocates cellular and wireless access, regulates media company mergers and acquisitions (M&A), protects intellectual property rights, and regulates standards of content and distribution for all media companies operating in the United States.



The agency is accountable to U.S. Congress and its actions are monitored closely by investors.





Key Takeaways

The FCC is an independent U.S. government agency that answers to the United States Congress.The FCC oversees all interstate and international communications.It also maintains standards and consistency among media types and communication methods while protecting the interests of consumers and businesses.The agency is accountable to U.S. Congress and its actions are monitored closely by investors.The FCC is headed by a chair, who is one of five commissioners appointed by the President.


   Understanding the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)  

As noted above, the Federal Communications Commission is an independent agency that answers to the U.S. government. It was established in 1934 as part of the Communications Act, which is a law regulating domestic and foreign wire and radio communications. The law was further expanded to include satellite, television, and broadband communications. The agency's reach extends across the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and every U.S. territory.



The FCC is considered the key authority in the United States that oversees communications law, regulation, and innovation in the technology sector. Its mission is to help advance the global communications industry through:



economic support to ensure there is enough competition in the communications sector
the revision of media regulations to allow new technologies to thrive
the promotion of competition, innovation, and capital investment in broadband networks
the strengthening of the national communication infrastructure



The agency is headed by a chair, who is one of five commissioners appointed by the president. Each commissioner is confirmed by the Senate and serves a five-year term. Nearly 1,500 employees work collectively work the commissioners. They are divided into numerous bureaus and offices that focus on different aspects of the commission's duties.



The FCC's actions affect public and private companies that engage in communications. Because of this, its decisions are closely monitored by stock market investors. That's because the regulations and resolutions adopted by the agency have a direct impact on corporate business lines and, therefore, people's investments.






Commissioners cannot have a financial interest in any business regulated by the FCC in order to prevent conflicts of interest.


   FCC Regulations  

The agency's regulatory powers include the setting of manufacturing standards for communications equipment, decency standards in radio and television broadcasts, and ensuring competition. The commission includes an Office of Administrative Law Judges that hear disputes and issues decisions interpreting the agency's regulations.



Tasked with enforcement of the Communications Act and FCC regulations, the commission's enforcement bureau conducts investigations, levies fines, and initiates administrative judgments against violators. FCC fines can tally as high as the tens of millions of dollars for some violations, which can affect the value of some companies.


   FCC Approvals  

The FCC's rulemaking and regulation process is established through what's called the "notice and comment" process. The agency provides the general public with notice, allowing people to submit comments before any rules are established, amended, or developed. These procedures may have wide-ranging effects on the competitive balance in the communication market.



M&A activity of communications companies requires FCC approval. While this approval process is designed to protect consumers and prevent monopolies, it occasionally creates uncertainty for companies and investors while FCC approval is under review. Some don't actually receive approval, which can result in uncertainty for these companies.



The FCC has long wielded significant regulatory powers with radio, television, and telephone providers. In 2015, the commission extended its reach to include broadband internet service providers (ISPs) by classifying the companies as common carriers under Title II of the Communications Act.



The commission's decision to list broadband providers as common carriers occurred via a 3-2 vote that was along party lines. This vote highlights the potential effect the political affiliation of appointed commissioners can have on the regulatory interpretation of the commission.


   The FCC Under President Biden  

The agency is headed up by acting chair Jessica Rosenworcel, who was appointed by President Joe Biden on Jan. 21, 2021. Prior to her appointment, Rosenworcel worked in communications policy and public service. She worked as the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation as senior communications counsel and practiced communications law.



Under her leadership, the commission is expected to undertake several key initiatives. There is a great expectation the agency will take a different direction under the Biden administration than it did when Donald Trump was president. This includes:



Making changes to Section 230, which protects content providers and users from "liability for publishing, removing, or restricting access" to someone else's content
The advancement of 5G technology
Security throughout the country and providing access to broadband where in areas where it is lacking



Issues surrounding broadband privacy, the agency's transparency, industry mergers and ownership, and enforcement of penalties and regulations may also be addressed.


  Net Neutrality  

This is one of the major issues that the administration is expected to explore. The framework for the nation's net neutrality policies was laid out by the Obama administration. In effect, ISPs were required to give "equal and non-discriminatory access" to content that is available online. Put simply, the policies prohibited corporations from slowing down and blocking content from users. These policies were eliminated under the Trump administration in 2017.



Biden hinted that the agency could penalize providers who go against these policies by blocking or prioritizing content to "create artificial scarcity and raise consumer prices." There is a possibility that the commission may also ban data caps, fees, and rates through its rulemaking process.


  2-2 Deadlock  

The commission remained deadlocked, following the resignation of Ajit Pai, who served as chair under then-President Donald Trump. Two Republicans and two Democrats serve as commissioners:



Brendan Carr is the senior Republican on the commission. Nominated by Trump, he was confirmed by the Senate in January 2019.Nathan Simington, another Trump nominee and Republican, was confirmed by the Senate in 2020.Jessica Rosenworcel, acting chair and Democrat, appointed by BidenGeoffrey Starks, a Democrat, was nominated by Trump and confirmed in 2019



Gigi Sohn was nominated by President Joe Biden to fill the remaining open seat on the FCC. Sohn is a Distinguished Fellow at the Georgetown Law Institute for Technology Law & Policy, and a Benton Senior Fellow and Public Advocate, known as a long time advocate for free and reduced cost access to broadband internet. Unsurprisingly, Sohn's FCC confirmation was opposed along party lines. In March 2022, the Senate Commerce Committee voted to advance Sohn's nomination, which will be voted on by the Senate.




Why Was the FCC Created?
The Federal Communications Commission was established in order to regulate interstate and international wire and radio communications. This mandate was expanded to include satellite, television, wireless, and broadband communications. The FCC governs in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and every U.S. territory.




When Was the FCC Created?
The FCC was created in 1934 as part of the Communications Act of 1934.




What Does Net Neutrality Mean?
Net neutrality is a policy that was adopted by the Obama administration in 2015 that would prevent corporations, including internet service providers, from blocking content and slowing down access to the internet. As such, these companies were required to provide equal access to online content. These policies, though, were eliminated in 2017 under the Trump administration.




Who Controls the FCC?
The FCC is an independent U.S. government agency that answers to the United States Congress.


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Communications Commission was established in 1934 as part of the Communications Act. It aims to serve the interests of corporations and consumers by regulating the actions of communications networks, including the access they provide, competition and innovation in the industry, and maintaining consistency throughout the media landscape and methods of communication. Although it is an independent agency, it answers to the government. Its decisions also influence the stock market, which is why investors choose to monitor its actions.
What Is the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC)?  

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) is an independent federal agency insuring deposits in U.S. banks and thrifts in the event of bank failures. The FDIC was created in 1933 to maintain public confidence and encourage stability in the financial system through the promotion of sound banking practices.



As of 2023, the FDIC insures deposits up to $250,000 per depositor as long as the institution is a member firm. It is critical for consumers to confirm whether their institution is FDIC-insured.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) is an independent federal agency insuring deposits in U.S. banks and thrifts in the event of bank failures. The FDIC insures deposits up to $250,000 per depositor, as long as the institution is a member firm.The FDIC covers checking and savings accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), money market accounts, IRAs, revocable and irrevocable trust accounts, and employee benefit plans.Mutual funds, annuities, life insurance policies, stocks, and bonds aren't covered by the FDIC.



The primary purpose of the FDIC is to prevent "run-on-the-bank" scenarios, which devastated many banks during the Great Depression. For example, with the threat of the closure of a bank, small groups of worried customers rushed to withdraw their money in those years.



After fears spread, a stampede of customers, seeking to do the same, ultimately resulted in banks being unable to support withdrawal requests. Those who were first to withdraw their money from a troubled bank would benefit, whereas those who waited risked losing their savings overnight. Before the FDIC, there was no guarantee for the safety of deposits beyond the confidence in the bank's stability.


   Understanding the FDIC  

Because practically all banks and thrifts now offer FDIC coverage, many consumers face less uncertainty regarding their deposits. As a result, banks have a better opportunity to address problems under controlled circumstances without triggering a run on the bank.



In case of bank failure, the FDIC covers deposits up to $250,000, per FDIC-insured bank, for each account ownership category such as retirement accounts and trusts. This sum is adequate for the majority of depositors, though depositors with more than that sum should spread their assets among multiple banks.


  Example 1:  

If you have $200,000 in a savings account and $100,000 in a certificate of deposit (CD), you have $50,000 uninsured.


  Example 2:  

If a couple has $500,000 in a joint account, as well as $250,000 in an eligible retirement account, the entire $750,000 would be covered by the FDIC, as each co-owner's share in the joint account is covered, and the retirement account is a different account category.



The FDIC provides a helpful interactive tool to check whether assets are covered.


   What the FDIC Covers  

Checking accounts, savings accounts, CDs, and money market accounts are generally 100%-covered by the FDIC. Coverage extends to individual retirement accounts (IRAs), but only the parts that fit the type of accounts listed previously. Joint accounts, revocable and irrevocable trust accounts, and employee benefit plans are covered, as are corporate, partnership, and unincorporated association accounts.






If you have more than $250,000 deposited in an account type with a single bank, you may need to spread your assets among multiple banks to ensure you are fully covered by the FDIC.



FDIC insurance doesn't cover products such as mutual funds, annuities, life insurance policies, stocks, or bonds. The contents of safe-deposit boxes are also not included in FDIC coverage. Cashier's checks and money orders issued by the failed bank remain fully covered by the FDIC. 



Eligible business accounts from a corporation, partnership, LLC, or unincorporated organization at a bank are also FDIC-covered.


   Filing a Claim  

A customer can file a claim with the FDIC as early as the day after a bank or thrift folds. The request can be submitted online through the FDIC website. By calling 877-275-3342 (1-877-ASKFDIC), bank customers can receive personalized assistance at no cost.



Note that the FDIC only insures against bank failures. Instances of fraud, theft, and similar loss are handled directly by the banking institution. The FDIC has no jurisdiction over identity theft.


   Special Considerations  

While banks are covered by the FDIC, deposits in credit unions are backstopped by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF). The fund is regulated by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) and also insures individual accounts up to $250,000. 




What Does FDIC Stand For?
The full name of the federal agency that insures bank deposits is the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.




Why Was the FDIC Created?
The main purpose of the FDIC is to prevent "run-on-the-bank" scenarios, which devastated many banks during the Great Depression in the late 1920s and early 1930s. 




Are My Stock and Mutual Fund Holdings Protected by the FDIC?
No. FDIC insurance doesn't cover or offer loss reimbursement for mutual funds, stocks, annuities, life insurance policies, or bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

The FDIC insures deposits in U.S. banks and thrifts in the event of a bank failure or run. It was created during the Depression to bolster consumer confidence and encourage stability in the financial system. The agency insures deposits up to $250,000 per depositor, as long as the institution is a member firm. It's important to confirm whether a banking institution is FDIC-insured before opening an account or making a deposit there.
The Federal Direct Loan Program provides low-interest student loans to post-secondary students (undergraduates and graduate students) and their parents.



The William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, managed by the U.S. Department of Education, is the only government-backed student loan program in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Direct Loan Program offers direct loans that are subsidized and unsubsidized, as well as PLUS loans and consolidation loans.Subsidized federal student loans offer the lowest interest rates.Parent PLUS loans often have the highest interest rates of all the federal student loans offered by the government.All loans have maximum amounts that are set annually, with each successive year allowing for a specified increase.Federal direct loans often have more favorable interest rates than private loans.


   How the Federal Direct Loan Program Works  

The Federal Direct Loan Program offers several types of loans, including subsidized direct loans, unsubsidized direct loans, direct PLUS loans, and direct consolidation loans for refinancing student loans.



Subsidized direct loans are the only student loans made by the federal government that are based on financial need. The U.S. Department of Education pays the interest on these loans while the student is in school.


  Loan Amounts  

All loans granted through the Federal Direct Loan Program have maximum annual amounts and set aggregate amounts. Each successive year allows for an increase in the total maximum yearly loan amount. Students who wish to apply for funding must first submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).



Undergraduate students can borrow $5,500 to $12,500 per year, depending on their year in school and their dependency status. These amounts are for both direct subsidized loans and direct unsubsidized loans.



Professional and graduate students may borrow $20,500 each year in direct unsubsidized loans, and parents of undergraduate students can borrow using a direct PLUS loan.


  Loan Forgiveness  

Loans from the Federal Direct Loans Program are eligible for the student loan forgiveness proposed by President Joe Biden, but private loans are not. (Biden's student loan forgiveness program was deemed unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 30, 2023 but the administration announced the new SAVE repayment program on the same day.)






Your college or university determines the amount of money in federal loans that you can borrow.


   Types of Federal Direct Student Loans  
  Direct Subsidized Loans  

Direct subsidized loans are for undergraduate students who are eligible for financial assistance due to their or their families' economic circumstances.



These loans help to cover the costs of a professional career school, college, or university. Qualified individuals can borrow up to $12,500 per year in direct subsidized loans and $57,000 in total during their undergraduate years.


  Direct Unsubsidized Loans  

These federal loans are available to eligible undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. They are not based on financial need. Undergraduate borrowers can take out $12,500 per year and up to $57,000 in total. Graduate and professional students can borrow up to $20,500 per year and $138,500 in total.


  Direct PLUS Loans  

These loans are offered to parents of undergraduate students and graduate or professional students to help offset the costs of education not covered by other financial aid. Eligibility is not based on financial need.



Borrowers with less than stellar credit may access these loans, but they will have to meet additional criteria.


  Direct Consolidation Loans  

These loans allow a student or family to combine all eligible federal student loans into one loan with a single service provider and loan payment. Direct consolidation loans also provide access to additional loan repayment programs.






No minimum credit score is required for parents to take out a PLUS loan, but they cannot have adverse credit.


   How to Get a Federal Direct Loan  

To obtain any federal direct loan (subsidized or unsubsidized), you must complete the FAFSA form to find out if you qualify.
On the form, you will be asked to create an account with the U.S. Federal Student Aid Office, which will issue you an ID to access the site.
After you file your FAFSA, your college will send you a student financial aid letter outlining the aid available to you, including federal direct loans.
If you qualify for subsidized direct loans, consider them first because they have a lower interest rate. Unsubsidized direct loans are also available. PLUS loans are the most costly of the federal direct loans due to fees and higher interest rates.
Once you've decided on the federal direct loans you want, contact your school's financial aid office to take the necessary steps.
The money will be sent directly to the school and used for tuition, room and board, and other costs. Any money left over is given to you. All of the money must be repaid.





The New SAVE Program

On June 30, 2023, after the Supreme Court decision that invalidated the administration’s original student loan forgiveness plan, President Biden announced a new income-driven repayment (IDR) plan called Saving on a Valuable Eduction (SAVE). It offers student loan borrowers new and improved benefits, such as forgiving a student loan with an original principal amount of $12,000 or less after 10 years of payment (rather than the previous 20 to 25 years).
SAVE will replace the existing REPAYE plan. Those already enrolled in REPAYE will be enrolled in SAVE automatically. While three significant program features will launch during the summer of 2023, the full slate of SAVE regulations goes into effect on July 1, 2024. For more information about SAVE, see the Department of Education’s fact sheet.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Federal Direct Student Loan Program  

The federal direct student loan program has its advantages and disadvantages.


  Advantages  

One advantage of federal direct student loans versus private loans is the low-interest fixed rates. Federal loans (except for PLUS loans) do not require strong credit.The interest on subsidized federal student loans is paid by the government while you are enrolled at school. Federal direct student loans have several pathways to repayment via federal repayment and loan forgiveness plans.


  Disadvantages  

Only unsubsidized loans are available to graduate students.These students are also charged higher interest rates than undergraduates.Discharging a federal student loan through bankruptcy may be possible in certain cases, but only after you file a separate action in court.Federal direct loans have lower loan limits for undergraduates claimed as dependents on their parents' or guardians' income taxes.Students must apply each year for direct loans.





Pros

Low, fixed interest rates
Federal repayment programs can help when it's time to pay loans back
Good credit not required
Grace period on repayment after graduation



Cons

Only unsubsidized direct loans are offered to graduate students
Parents who take out PLUS loans must pay fees
Can borrow only a specific amount each year
Subsidized direct student loans have eligibility criteria





   Federal Direct Loans vs. Private Loans  

Private lenders also provide student loans that can be used instead of—or in addition to—federal loans. Those seeking student loans should carefully investigate all available options.



Consider the following differences:



The federal program often has more favorable interest rates and other attractive provisions, such as loan consolidation and forgiveness programs.



Federal direct student loans have a cap on loan amounts. Private loan companies do not often impose a cap on how much they will lend.



Interest rates may be higher, but private loans may offer flexibility in how the money can be used. All in all, though, private student loans usually end up being more expensive than federal student loans.



Federal direct student loan payments are deferred until you graduate, but not all private loan payments offer the same option.



In addition, while direct loans may be eligible for student loan forgiveness and repayment plans, private loans may not be eligible.




What Are Interest Rates on Federal Student Loans?
Direct subsidized loans and direct unsubsidized loans for undergraduates disbursed after July 1, 2023 and before July 1, 2024 have an interest rate of 5.50%. Unsubsidized student loans for graduate students have a 7.05% interest rate. Direct PLUS loans for parents and graduate students have an interest rate of 8.05%, the highest interest rate of all the federal student loans.




Are Student Loans Ever Forgiven?
Depending on the type of repayment plan you have, your student loan may be forgiven after a certain amount of time.




How Often Do You Apply for the Federal Direct Loan Program?
You must apply with a FAFSA every year that you need funding for higher education (undergraduate and graduate).


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Direct Student Loan program offers a number of advantages, including low interest rates and fixed interest rates, but there are downsides as well. For example, you can only borrow a certain amount each year. Consider all of your financing options before deciding which type of student loan is best for you.
What Is the Federal Discount Rate?  

The discount rate is the interest rate set by the Federal Reserve (Fed) on loans extended by the central bank to commercial banks or other depository institutions. Adjusting the discount rate allows central banks such as the Fed to reduce liquidity problems and the pressures of reserve requirements, control the supply of money in the economy and basically assure stability in the financial markets.



This is not to be confused with the federal funds rate, which is instead the target interest rate for overnight interbank lending, where commercial banks borrow and lend excess reserves between each other. The target is set by the Fed, but the actual fed funds rate is determined by the market's supply and demand for overnight loans.



The discount rate is set higher than the fed funds rate, and is intended to be used as a last resort for banks who are unable to borrow in the interbank market. The secondary discount rate is an even higher discount window rate of interest for Fed loans made to banks that are struggling with liquidity.





Key Takeaways

The federal discount rate is the interest rate the Federal Reserve (Fed) charges banks to borrow funds from a Federal Reserve bank from the discount window.The Fed's discount rate is set by the Fed's board of governors, and can be adjusted up or down as a tool of monetary policy.Lending at the discount rate is part of the Fed's function as a lender of last resort, and is one of the Fed's primary monetary policy tools.The federal funds rate target is set by the fed, but the actual rate is determined by the supply and demand for overnight loans in the interbank money market.


   How the Federal Discount Rate Works   

In addition to its other monetary policy and regulatory tools, the Fed banks can lend directly to member banks and depository institutions. This is part of the primary purpose of the Fed as a lender of last resort to ensure the stability of the banks and the financial system in general. To prevent undue bank failures, healthy banks are allowed to borrow all they want at very short maturities (usually overnight) from the Fed's discount window, and it is therefore referred to as a standing lending facility.



Under normal circumstances, banks prefer to borrow from one another on the overnight lending market. However, banks that face increased liquidity needs or heightened risks are sometimes unable to raise the necessary funds in the open market. Once the interbank overnight lending system has been maxed out, Fed discount lending serves as an emergency backstop to provide liquidity to such banks in order to prevent them from failing.



Borrowing from the central bank is a substitute for borrowing from other commercial banks, and so it is seen as a last-resort measure. The interbank rate, called the Fed funds rate, is usually lower than the discount rate. As long as the Fed funds rate is lower than the discount rate, commercial banks will prefer to borrow from another commercial bank rather than the Fed. As a result, in most circumstances, the total amount of discount lending is very small and intended only to be a backup source of liquidity for sound banks.


   Three Discount Rates  

Discount lending is generally classified as either primary or secondary credit. The Fed also sets a seasonal discount rate for non-emergency lending to banks that serve agricultural and other communities where credit demand is highly seasonal.



Depository institutions and commercial banks that are in generally sound financial condition are eligible to borrow from their regional Fed banks at a primary credit rate. This rate is commonly just referred to as the discount rate. Funds for commercial banks borrowed from the Fed are processed through the discount window, and the rate is reviewed every 14 days.



Secondary credit is given to banks that are in financial trouble and are experiencing severe liquidity problems. The central bank's interest rate on secondary credit is usually set at 50 basis points (0.5 percentage points) above the discount rate. The interest rate on these loans is set at a higher penalty rate to reflect the less-sound condition of these borrowers.






The federal discount rate is one of the most important indicators in the economy, as most other interest rates move up and down with it.


   The Discount Rate and Monetary Policy  

Beyond its role in preventing bank failures, the federal discount rate is used as a tool to either stimulate (expansionary monetary policy) or rein in (contractionary monetary policy) the economy.



A decrease in the discount rate makes it cheaper for commercial banks to borrow money, which results in an increase in available credit and lending activity throughout the economy. Conversely, a raised discount rate makes it more expensive for banks to borrow and thereby diminishes the money supply while retracting investment activity.



Besides setting the discount rate, the Fed has several other monetary policy tools at its disposal. It can influence the money supply, credit, and interest rates through open market operations (OMO) in U.S. Treasury markets, and by raising or lowering reserve requirements for private banks.



The reserve requirement is the portion of a bank's deposits that it must hold in cash form, either within its own vaults or on deposit at its regional Fed bank. The higher the reserve requirements are, the fewer room banks have to leverage their liabilities or deposits.


   Federal Discount Rate vs. Federal Funds Rate   

The federal discount rate is the interest rate the Fed charges on loans. It is not to be confused with the federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge each other for loans that are used to hit reserve requirements.



The discount rate is determined by the Fed's board of governors, as opposed to the federal funds rate, which is set by the market between member banks. The Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) sets a target for the Fed funds rate, which it pursues through the open sale and purchase of U.S. Treasuries, whereas the discount rate is reached solely through review by the board of governors.



The discount rate is typically set higher than the federal funds rate target, usually by 100 basis points (1 percentage point), because the central bank prefers that banks borrow from each other so that they continually monitor each other for credit risk and liquidity. 




Why Is the Discount Rate Set Higher than the Fed Funds Rate Target?
The discount rate is set higher than the federal funds rate target because it is intended to serve as a backup source of liquidity for banks in case they cannot obtain funds from other banks in the market. The fed prefers that banks borrow and lend to one another instead of going to the discount window, and sets the discount rate higher to discourage its use unless it becomes necessary.




Why Does the Federal Reserve Change the Discount Rate?
The Federal Reserve increases or decreases the discount rate (and the federal funds rate target) in order to curtail or stimulate the overall level of economic activity in the country. When the economy is growing too rapidly and inflation becomes a concern, the Fed may raise rates to discourage lending and borrowing and reduce inflationary pressures. When the economy is weak or in recession, the Fed may lower interest rates to encourage more economic activity and spur a recovery.




Which Is More Important? The Discount Rate or Fed Funds Rate?
The federal funds rate is usually considered the more important figure in terms of its overall impact on the economy. Many other interest rates, from mortgages and personal loans to bonds and interest-bearing derivatives are set based on the fed funds rate.The discount rate is used less frequently and has a more limited impact on overall lending and borrowing in the economy.


   The Bottom Line  

The federal funds rate is the target interest rate at which commercial banks and other financial institutions borrow and lend reserve funds from each other on an overnight basis. While the Fed sets the target, the actual rate is determined by the interbank market. The Federal Reserve may use open market operations (OMO), such as buying or selling government securities, to influence the fed funds rate and keep it near its target.



The discount rate, on the other hand, is the interest rate at which banks can borrow money directly from the Federal Reserve's discount window. This rate will be set higher than the fed funds rate and serves as a backstop for banks that cannot obtain sufficient funds from the interbank market.
What Are Federal Funds?  

Federal funds, often referred to as fed funds, are excess reserves that commercial banks and other financial institutions deposit at regional Federal Reserve banks; these funds can be lent, then, to other market participants with insufficient cash on hand to meet their lending and reserve needs. The loans are unsecured and are made at a relatively low interest rate, called the federal funds rate or overnight rate, as that is the period for which most such loans are made.





Key Takeaways

Federal funds refer to excess reserves held by financial institutions, over and above the mandated reserve requirements of the central bank.Banks will borrow or lend their excess funds to each other on an overnight basis, as some banks find themselves with too much reserves and others with too little.The federal funds rate is a target set by the central bank, but the actual market rate for federal fund reserves is determined by this overnight inter-bank lending market.


   Understanding Federal Funds  

Fed funds help commercial banks meet their daily reserve requirements, which is the amount of money that banks are required to maintain at their regional Federal Reserve. Reserve requirements are based on the volume of customer deposits that each bank holds. Excess, or secondary, reserves are cash amounts held by a bank or financial institution in excess of what is required by regulators, creditors or internal controls. For commercial banks, excess reserves are measured against standard reserve requirement amounts set by central banking authorities. These required reserve ratios set the minimum liquid deposits (such as cash) that must be in reserve at a bank; more is considered excess.



The Federal Reserve Bank sets a target rate or range for the fed funds rate; it is adjusted periodically based on economic and monetary conditions.


   Overnight Markets  

The fed funds market operates in the United States and runs parallel to the offshore eurodollar deposit market. Eurodollars are also traded overnight and the interest rate is virtually identical to the fed funds rate, but the transactions must be booked outside of the United States. Multinational banks often use branches domiciled in the Caribbean or Panama for these accounts, even though the transactions may be executed in U.S. trading rooms. Both are wholesale markets with transactions ranging from $2 million to well over $1 billion.


   The Fed Funds Rates  

The Federal Reserve uses open market operations to manage the supply of money in the economy and adjust short-term interest rates. This means that the Fed buys or sells some of the government bonds and bills it has issued; this increases or decreases the money supply and, thus, lowers or raises short-term interest rates. Open Market Operations are carried out by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.



The federal funds rate (fed funds rate) is one of the most important interest rates for the U.S. economy, as it affects broad economic conditions in the country, including inflation, growth, and employment. The federal funds rate is set in U.S. dollars and is typically charged on overnight loans. The fed funds rate is thus the effective interest rate at which commercial banks lend reserves to one another on an overnight basis.



The federal funds rate is closely related to short-term interest rates in the broader market, so these transactions directly impact eurodollar and LIBOR rates as well. The Federal Reserve announces the effective fed funds rate at the end of each trading day, which is the weighted average rate for all transactions in the market that day.


   Market Participants  

The participants in the fed funds market include U.S. commercial banks, U.S. branches of foreign banks, savings and loan organizations and government-sponsored enterprises, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association (Freddie Mac), as well as securities firms and agencies of the federal government.
What Is the Federal Funds Rate?  

The term federal funds rate refers to the target interest rate range set by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). This target is the rate at which commercial banks borrow and lend their excess reserves to each other overnight.



The FOMC, which is the policymaking body of the Federal Reserve System, meets eight times a year to set the target federal funds rate, which is part of its monetary policy. This is used to help promote economic growth.





Key Takeaways

The federal funds rate is the target interest rate range set by the FOMC.This is the rate at which commercial banks borrow and lend their excess reserves to each other overnight.The FOMC sets a target federal funds rate eight times a year, based on prevailing economic conditions.The federal funds rate can influence short-term rates on consumer loans and credit cards.Investors keep an eye out on the federal funds rate as well because it has an impact on the stock market.


   Understanding the Federal Funds Rate  

The federal funds rate refers to the interest rate that banks charge other institutions for lending excess cash to them from their reserve balances on an overnight basis.



By law, banks must maintain a reserve equal to a certain percentage of their deposits in an account at a Federal Reserve bank. The amount of money a bank must keep in its Fed account is known as a reserve requirement and is based on a percentage of the bank's total deposits.



Financial institutions are required to maintain interest-bearing accounts at Federal Reserve banks to ensure they have enough money to cover depositors' withdrawals and other obligations. Any money in their reserve that exceeds the required level is available for lending to other banks that might have a shortfall.






In March 2020, the Federal Reserve announced the reserve requirement would be 0%, effectively eliminating the requirements. The central bank said this move would free up liquidity in the banking system and that it had no plans to increase the requirement in the immediate future.



The end-of-the-day balances in the bank's account averaged over two-week reserve maintenance periods are used to determine whether it meets its reserve requirements. If a bank expects to have end-of-the-day balances greater than what's required, it can lend the excess to an institution that anticipates a shortfall in its balances. The interest rate the lending bank can charge is the federal funds rate, or fed funds rate.



The FOMC makes its decisions about rate adjustments based on key economic indicators that may show signs of inflation, recession, or other issues that can affect sustainable economic growth. The indicators can include measures like the core inflation rate and the durable goods orders report.







The target for the federal funds rate has varied widely over the years in response to the prevailing economic conditions. It was set as high as 20% in the early 1980s in response to inflation. With the coming of the Great Recession, the rate was slashed to a record-low target of 0% to 0.25% in an attempt to encourage growth.



In 2022, to combat inflation, the Fed started raising its rate, which is a process that continues into 2023. In March 2020, the target rate was between 0% and 0.25%. On July 26, 2023, the FOMC made the latest increase, setting the target fed funds rate between 5.25% and 5.5%. The group said the increase was necessary to meet its target of maximum employment and a 2% inflation rate.



Reasons for this action according to the FOMC were that indicators show the economy is expanding at a modest pace, job gains have been robust, the unemployment rate has remained low, and inflation remains elevated.


   Special Considerations  

The FOMC cannot force banks to charge the exact federal funds rate. Rather, the FOMC sets a target rate as a guidepost. The actual interest rate a lending bank will charge is determined through negotiations between the two banks. The weighted average of interest rates across all transactions of this type is known as the effective federal funds rate.



While the FOMC can't mandate a particular federal funds rate, the Federal Reserve System can adjust the money supply so that interest rates will move toward the target rate. By increasing the amount of money in the system it can cause interest rates to fall. Conversely, by decreasing the money supply it can make interest rates rise.



Besides the federal funds rate, the Federal Reserve also sets a discount rate, which is the interest rate the Fed charges banks that borrow from it directly. This rate tends to be higher than the target fed funds rate, partly to encourage banks to borrow from other banks at the lower federal funds rate.


   Impact of the Federal Funds Rate  

The federal funds rate is one of the most important interest rates in the U.S. economy. That's because it impacts monetary and financial conditions, which in turn have a bearing on critical aspects of the broader economy including employment, growth, and inflation.



The rate also influences short-term interest rates, albeit indirectly, for everything from home and auto loans to credit cards, as lenders often set their rates based on the prime lending rate. The prime rate is the rate banks charge their most creditworthy borrowers—a rate that is also influenced by the federal funds rate.



Investors keep a close watch on the federal funds rate. The stock market typically reacts very strongly to changes in the target rate.



For example, a small decline in the rate can prompt the market to leap higher as the borrowing costs for companies get lower. Many stock analysts pay particular attention to statements by members of the FOMC to try to get a sense of where the target rate may be headed.




How Does the Federal Funds Rate Work?
The federal funds rate is the interest rate that banks charge each other to borrow or lend excess reserves overnight. Law requires that banks must have a minimum reserve level in proportion to their deposits. This reserve requirement is held at a Federal Reserve Bank. When a bank has excess reserve requirements, it may lend these funds overnight to other banks that have realized a reserve deficit.




How Is the Federal Funds Rate Determined?
It is customary for the Federal Open Market Committee to meet eight times annually to determine the federal funds rate. These rates are influenced by economic indicators, such as the core inflation rate and the durable goods orders report, which provide signals about the economic health of the country.




What Is the Difference Between the Federal Funds and Regular Interest Rates?
Both the federal funds rate and interest rates are some of the most important financial indicators in the U.S. The chief distinction is that the federal funds rate sets the range that banks will lend or borrow to each other overnight. Because this impacts borrowing costs and financial conditions, stock markets are typically sensitive to changes in these rates. The federal funds rate also indirectly affects short-term interest rates. Conversely, interest rates, which are set by the Federal Reserve, determine the rate that it costs for banks to borrow.


   The Bottom Line  

The federal funds rate is used by the Fed to control monetary policy and is watched closely by investors to gauge how the market may move in the future. The rate is one of the most important pieces of financial data in the U.S.
What Is the Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLB)?  

The Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLB) is a consortium of 11 regional banks across the U.S. that provide a reliable stream of cash to other banks and lenders to finance housing, infrastructure, economic development, and other individual and community needs. The Federal Housing Finance Agency oversees the FHLB.



While the FHLB itself is overseen by a government bureau and its mandate reflects a public purpose, each bank in the FHLB network is privately capitalized and does not receive any government funding.





Key Takeaways

The FHLB is a network of 11 regional banks that provide cash to other banks in order to keep money flowing to consumers and businesses.The FHLB was created by the federal government during The Great Depression.The FHLB receives no taxpayer funding: Its banks are private cooperatives.FHLB banks raise funds primarily from issuing bonds called consolidated obligations.FHLB banks focus on mortgage financing and related community investments, providing low-cost loans that member banks can pass on to customers.


   How the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System Works  

The 11 regional banks comprising the Federal Home Loan Bank System, known as FHLBanks, are structured as privately capitalized corporations—specifically, cooperatives. They are owned by their members, local financial institutions which buy stock in the FHLBank. The institutions must engage in real estate lending as a condition of membership. As cooperatives, the FHLBanks pay no federal or state income taxes.


  FHLB Banks  

The 11 banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System are scattered around the country. Each one services a geographic region made up of several states. The 11 FHLBanks include:



Federal Home Loan Bank of AtlantaFederal Home Loan Bank of BostonFederal Home Loan Bank of ChicagoFederal Home Loan Bank of CincinnatiFederal Home Loan Bank of DallasFederal Home Loan Bank of Des MoinesFederal Home Loan Bank of IndianapolisFederal Home Loan Bank of New YorkFederal Home Loan Bank of PittsburghFederal Home Loan Bank of San FranciscoFederal Home Loan Bank of Topeka





6,600

The approximate number of banks, credit unions, insurance companies, thrifts, and certified community development financial institutions that are members of the FHLB and receive funding from it.


   FHLB Services  

As cooperatives, FHLBanks maintain moderate costs and overhead, reflected in the interest they charge their member banks. This means the member banks have access to low-cost loans, which they, in turn, lend to their customers.



The FHLBanks' primary focus is real estate financing. Unlike the other real estate-oriented government-sponsored enterprises—Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac—FHLBs do not guarantee or ensure mortgage loans, however. Instead, FHLBs act as a "bank to banks" by providing long- and short-term loans, called "advances," to their members, as well as specialized grants and loans aimed at increasing affordable housing and economic development. In some cases, FHLBs also provide secondary market outlets for members interested in selling mortgage loans.



FHLBanks participate in and operate through various federal programs. These include the Affordable Housing Program, the Community Investment Program, the Mortgage Partnership Finance Program, and the Mortgage Purchase Program.



About 80% of U.S. lending institutions rely on Federal Home Loan Banks.


   How the FHLBanks are Funded  

The Federal Home Loan Banks issue bonds, discount notes, and other forms of term debt in the capital markets to raise funds. These are known as consolidated obligations.



The FHLB Office of Finance manages debt issuance for all 11 FHLBanks. While each debt instrument is issued individually by each bank, it is backed collectively by all banks in the system, providing for a lower-risk investment.






On June 23, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the head of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), which oversees the FHLB, could be removed without cause. Later the same day, President Joe Biden removed Trump-appointed FHFA Director Mark Calabria and appointed Sandra L. Thompson as acting director.


   History of the FHLB System  

The Federal Home Loan Bank System was developed in response to the Great Depression, which devastated the U.S. economy—especially the banking industry. It was created by the Federal Home Loan Bank Act of 1932, the first in a series of bills that sought to make homeownership an achievable goal for more Americans. The rationale was by providing banks with low-cost funds to be used for mortgages. They would be more likely to make loans; as a result, individuals would find it easier to borrow money to buy homes, thus stimulating the residential real estate market.



The FHLB originally consisted of 12 independent, regional wholesale banks (similar to the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks). The Act provided them with total funding of $125 million. In 2015, though, the Seattle and Des Moines banks merged, reducing the total number of FHLBanks to its current 11.



The Act also created the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to oversee the system. It was discontinued in 1989, and oversight responsibility was transferred to the Federal Housing Finance Board (FHFB) and regulatory responsibility to the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). Since 2008, the FHLB has been regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, created by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA).



For much of the FHLB's 89-year history, savings and loan institutions dominated the ranks of its member financial institutions. Their numbers began to dwindle in the 1980s and '90s, after the Savings and Loan Crisis. In the 21st century, commercial banks (which were allowed to join the system in 1989) and insurance companies have come to make up most of the membership.


   Impact of the Federal Home Loan Bank System  

Proponents of the Federal Home Loan Bank System argue it plays a critical role in the continuous flow of funds to the residential mortgage market, making housing and homeownership possible for millions. FHLBs also provide funding for rental properties, small businesses, and other neighborhood development initiatives, resulting in economic and employment growth, stronger local communities, and a higher overall quality of living.



However, critics claim that the FHLB, via its use of federally subsidized programs, distorts the basic supply-and-demand economics of the housing market. Funding through the FHLB, they argue, encourages irresponsible lending and a residential real estate cycle with more volatile booms and busts.





$723.2B

The amount in total combined assets held by FHLBanks as of Dec. 31, 2021, the most recent figure as of Mar. 25, 2022.



There are also concerns that the recent growth in the Federal Home Loan Bank members and increased reliance on FHLB funding, along with the increasing interconnectedness of the financial system, could mean that any distress among FHLBanks could spread more widely throughout the capital markets and the economy.



FHLBanks have had their share of financial difficulties over the years—in fact, it was an inability to recover from capital losses that led FHLB Seattle to merge with FHLB Des Moines. However, their practices overall remain strong. During the subprime mortgage-induced 2008 financial crisis, for example, the FHLBanks did not require any government bailouts, as sister GSEs Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac did. In fact, as other sources of funding dried up, they increased their lending.




Is Federal Home Loan Bank a Government Agency or Bank?
The Federal Home Loan Bank System in its entirety was created to act as a government-sponsored entity designed to support community investments and mortgage lending. It is not an agency but it was created by the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.




How Many FHLBanks Are There?
The FHLB is not one single bank, but it is a network of 11 regional banks that provide cash to other banks that use it.




Does the FHLB System Loan Money to Individuals?
No The FHLB System's banks loan to other lending institutions, primarily to support real estate loans.
What Is the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)?  

The term Federal Housing Administration (FHA) refers to a U.S. agency that provides mortgage insurance to FHA-approved lenders. The FHA was established in 1934 by the U.S. government and became part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in 1965.



The FHA funds its operations with income generated through mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs). FHA loans allow lower down payment minimums and lower credit scores than traditional lenders. This opens up homeownership to thousands of Americans who otherwise couldn’t qualify for a mortgage. The mortgage insurance protects lenders against losses from mortgage defaults, so if a borrower does default, then the FHA pays the lender.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) offers mortgage insurance to approved lenders.The agency was established in 1934 and became part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in 1965.The FHA home loan program is designed for borrowers who can’t make large down payments, have lower credit scores, and don’t qualify for conventional mortgages.Borrowers with FHA loans must purchase FHA mortgage insurance.Mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs) collected from FHA-insured loans help pay for the program.


   Understanding the FHA  

The FHA is one of the world’s largest mortgage insurers, protecting FHA-approved lenders from losses—especially if the borrower defaults. It was established in 1934 to help stimulate the U.S. housing market. The underlying idea was that more people would qualify for mortgages to buy homes if lenders were provided with insurance. As noted above, the agency came under the purview of HUD’s Office of Housing in 1965.



The FHA insures mortgage loans in the United States and U.S. territories for the following property types:



Single-family homes
Multifamily properties
Residential care facilities
Hospitals



Most FHA loans require a lower minimum down payment—as little as 3.5%, which means that loans are insured for up to 96.5%. Approved FHA lenders can also provide loans to people with lower credit scores than most conventional loan lenders. These benefits make FHA loans popular with first-time homebuyers. Qualifying borrowers must also purchase mortgage insurance. These premiums are made to the FHA, which it uses as self-generated income.



When a borrower stops paying their mortgage, the lender can file a claim through the FHA. The agency pays the mortgage company the remaining principal balance on a loan using the above-mentioned MIPs that it collects. This allows lenders to offer larger loans to borrowers.






There are limits on how much you can borrow. FHA loan limits are set by the region where you live—low-cost areas have a lower limit than the usual FHA loan, and high-cost areas have a higher limit.


   Special Considerations  

The FHA requires borrowers to pay two types of MIPs:



The first is the up-front MIP, which is 1.75% of the loan amount in 2022.The second is the annual MIP, which is charged monthly. These payments range from 0.45% to 1.05% of the loan amount.



Payment amounts differ depending on the loan amount, the length of the loan, and the original loan-to-value (LTV) ratio. Originally, the annual MIP was automatically removed once borrowers hit 78% LTV based on the original purchase price. After the subprime mortgage crisis, the FHA was facing a fiscal crisis and in 2013 implemented a rule that the annual MIP remains over the life of the loan. As a result of the change, most borrowers with FHA mortgages will refinance through a traditional mortgage once they hit 80% LTV. Even if their credit scores have not improved significantly, they are more likely to be approved for a conventional loan now that they have 20% equity in their property.






MIPs also help fund other FHA programs that benefit homeowners, renters, and communities at large.


   History of the FHA  

Bank failures caused home loans to decline, decreasing homeownership significantly during the Great Depression. Default and foreclosure rates skyrocketed, as loans were limited to 50% of a property’s market value and mortgage terms (including short repayment schedules coupled with balloon payments) were difficult for many homebuyers to meet. As a result, the United States was primarily a nation of renters—only one in 10 households owned their homes.



Congress enacted the National Housing Act of 1934 to help restructure the federal banking system. Its primary purpose was to improve housing standards and conditions, provide a method of mutual mortgage insurance, and reduce foreclosures on family home mortgages. The legislation created the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. (FSLIC), a former government institution whose responsibilities are now part of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), and the FHA. These acts increased the market for single-family homes and built more affordable housing and mortgages.






The FHA website offers informative consumer resources, including a home-buying guide.


   Criticism of the FHA  

FHA programs provide substantial U.S. economic stimulation via community and home development, which flows down to local communities in the form of jobs, schools, and other sources of revenue. Even though it also ensures that lenders are protected and helps borrowers get larger loans, the FHA isn’t without criticism.



Critics say that borrowers are bound by strict requirements, such as the up-front and annual MIPs. Some experts argue that homeowners may be better off going with a conventional mortgage if they qualify. That’s because they may save money in the long run through private mortgage insurance (PMI) premiums provided by conventional lenders.



Lenders of conventional mortgages require borrowers to purchase PMI when they can’t come up with a 20% down payment. PMI can be canceled once a borrower pays down enough of the mortgage’s principal. MIP is collected for 11 years or until the end of the loan term, whichever comes first, regardless of the equity in the home.



Historically, the FHA implemented policies like redlining, in which officials would literally draw a red line around neighborhoods that were predominantly Black and viewed as “unsafe” and refuse to lend to borrowers in those neighborhoods. This practice, among others, prevented generations of Black citizens from taking advantage of the same programs as their White peers. This barrier to becoming homeowners and building generational wealth exacerbated the racial wealth inequity that we still see today.




What does the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) do?
Congress created the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) in 1934 during the Great Depression to stimulate the housing market. The FHA guarantees home loans issued by approved lenders. The loans are designed for borrowers with lower-than-average credit scores and who don’t have the cash to come up with a big down payment.




How do FHA loans work?
Qualified borrowers can borrow up to 96.5% of the value of a home. Homebuyers are required to purchase mortgage insurance. Premium payments are made to the FHA, and if a borrower defaults on a mortgage, then the FHA pays the lender.




Do FHA home loans have income limits?
FHA loans do not have income limits. There are limits on how much you can borrow, which are based on the region where you live.


   The Bottom Line  

The FHA was originally created to stimulate the economy by encouraging home buying and home construction, and to help lower-income Americans become homeowners. When viewed in that light, the program has been a resounding success.



However, early policies like redlining have prevented millions of Black Americans from experiencing the generational wealth that cheap homeownership gave the post-World War II generation of their White peers. While the program continues today and has attempted to rectify some of its past misdoings, changes following the subprime mortgage crisis make FHA loans less of a hand-up bargain than they once were.
What Is a Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Loan?  

A Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan is a home mortgage that is insured by the government and issued by a bank or other lender that is approved by the agency. FHA loans require a lower minimum down payment than many conventional loans, and applicants may have lower credit scores than is usually required.



The FHA loan is designed to help low- to moderate-income families attain homeownership. They are particularly popular with first-time homebuyers.





Key Takeaways


FHA loans are mortgages intended for certain borrowers who find it difficult to obtain loans from private lenders.
The federal government insures FHA loans.
FHA borrowers must pay two types of mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs)—one upfront and the other monthly.
Because they are insured, banks are more willing to loan money to homebuyers with relatively low credit scores and little cash to put down on the purchase.
First-time homebuyers may find that an FHA loan is the most affordable mortgage option.
















Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou.


   How Does an FHA Loan Work?  

If you have a credit score of at least 580, you can borrow up to 96.5% of the value of a home with an FHA loan, as of 2022. That means the required down payment is only 3.5%.



If your credit score falls between 500 and 579, you can still get an FHA loan as long as you can make a 10% down payment.



With FHA loans, the down payment can come from savings, a financial gift from a family member, or a grant for down payment assistance.


  The Bank's Role in an FHA Loan  

The FHA doesn't actually lend anyone money for a mortgage. The loan is issued by a bank or other financial institution that is approved by the FHA.



The FHA guarantees the loan. That makes it easier to get bank approval since the bank isn't bearing the default risk. Some people refer to it as an FHA-insured loan for that reason.



Borrowers who qualify for an FHA loan are required to purchase mortgage insurance, with the premium payments going to the FHA.


   History of the FHA Loan  

Congress created the FHA in 1934 during the Great Depression. At that time, the housing industry was in trouble: Default and foreclosure rates had skyrocketed, 50% down payments were commonly required, and the mortgage terms were impossible for ordinary wage earners to meet. As a result, the U.S. was primarily a nation of renters, and only one in 10 households owned their homes.



The government created the FHA to reduce the risk to lenders and make it easier for borrowers to qualify for home loans.



The homeownership rate in the U.S. steadily climbed, reaching an all-time high of 69.2% in 2004, according to research from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. In the first quarter of 2022, the rate stood at 65.4%.






Though principally designed for lower-income borrowers, FHA loans are available to everyone, including those who can afford conventional mortgages. In general, borrowers with good credit and strong financials will be better off with a conventional mortgage, while those with poorer credit and more debt can benefit from an FHA loan.


   Types of FHA Loans  

In addition to traditional mortgages, the FHA offers several other home loan types.


  Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)  

This is a reverse mortgage program that helps seniors ages 62 and older convert the equity in their homes to cash while retaining the home's title. The homeowner can withdraw the funds in a fixed monthly amount, a line of credit, or a combination of both.


  FHA 203(k) Improvement Loan  

This loan factors the cost of certain repairs and renovations into the amount borrowed. It's great for those willing to buy a fixer-upper and put some sweat equity into their home.


  FHA Energy Efficient Mortgage  

This program is similar to the FHA 203(k) improvement loan program, but it’s focused on upgrades that can lower your utility bills, such as new insulation or solar or wind energy systems.


  Section 245(a) Loan  

This program works for borrowers who expect their incomes to increase. The Graduated Payment Mortgage (GPM) starts with lower monthly payments that gradually increase over time. The Growing Equity Mortgage (GEM) has scheduled increases in monthly principal payments. Both promise shorter loan terms.









The 5 Types of FHA Loan


FHA LOAN TYPE
WHAT IT IS




Traditional Mortgage
A mortgage that finances a primary residence.


Home Equity Conversion Mortgage
A reverse mortgage that allows homeowners ages 62+ to exchange home equity for cash.


203(k) Mortgage Program
A mortgage that includes extra funds to cover the cost of repairs, renovations, and home improvements.


Energy Efficient Mortgage Program
A mortgage that includes extra funds to pay for energy-efficient home improvements.


Section 245(a) Loan
A Graduated Payment Mortgage (GPM) has a low initial monthly payment that increases over time. A Growing Equity Mortgage (GEM) has scheduled increases in monthly principal payments to shorten the loan term.



Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development


   What Are FHA Loan Requirements?  

Your lender will evaluate your qualifications for an FHA loan as it would any mortgage applicant, starting with a check to see that you have a valid Social Security number, reside lawfully in the U.S., and are of legal age (according to your state laws).



FHA loan criteria are less rigid in some ways than a bank's loan criteria. However, there are some more stringent requirements.



Whether or not it's an FHA-guaranteed loan, your financial history will be examined when you apply for a mortgage.


  Credit Scores and Down Payments  

FHA loans are available to individuals with credit scores as low as 500. That is within the "very bad" range for a FICO score.



If your credit score is between 500 and 579, you may be able to secure an FHA loan, assuming you can afford a down payment of 10%. Meanwhile, if your credit score is 580 or higher, you can get an FHA loan with a down payment of as little as 3.5%. 



By comparison, applicants typically need a credit score of at least 620 in order to qualify for a conventional mortgage. The down payment required by banks varies between 3% and 20%, depending on how eager they are to lend money at the time you apply.






As a general rule, the lower your credit score and down payment, the higher the interest rate you'll pay on your mortgage.


  History of Honoring Debts  

A lender will look at your work history for the past two years as well as your payment history for bills such as utility and rent payments.



People who fall behind on federal student loan payments or income tax payments will be rejected unless they agree to a satisfactory repayment plan. A history of bankruptcy or foreclosure may prove problematic, too.



Typically, to qualify for an FHA loan—or any type of mortgage—at least two or three years must have passed since the borrower experienced bankruptcy or foreclosure. However, exceptions can be made if the borrower demonstrates having worked to re-establish good credit and get their financial affairs in order.


  Proof of Steady Employment  

Mortgages must be repaid, and the FHA-approved lender will want assurances that the applicant can achieve this. The key to determining if the borrower can make good on their commitment is evidence of recent and steady employment.



This can be documented by tax returns and a current year-to-date balance sheet and profit-and-loss statement.



If you've been self-employed for less than two years but more than one year, you may still qualify if you have a solid work and income history in the same or a related occupation for the two years before becoming self-employed.


  Sufficient Income  

Your mortgage payment, HOA fees, property taxes, mortgage insurance, and homeowners insurance should be less than 31% of your gross income. Banks call this the front-end ratio.



Meanwhile, your back-end ratio, which consists of your mortgage payment and all other monthly consumer debts, should be less than 43% of your gross income.










FHA Loans vs. Conventional Loans


 
FHA LOAN
CONVENTIONAL LOAN




Minimum Credit Score
500
620


Down Payment
3.5% with a credit score of 580+ and 10% for a credit score of 500 to 579
3% to 20%


Loan Terms
15 or 30 years
10, 15, 20, or 30 years


Mortgage Insurance
Upfront MIP + annual MIP for either 11 years or the life of the loan, depending on LTV and length of the loan
None with a down payment of at least 20% or after the loan is paid down to 78% LTV


Mortgage Insurance Premiums
Upfront: 1.75% of the loan + annual: 0.45% to 1.05%
PMI: 0.5% to 1% of the loan amount per year


Down Payment Gifts
100% of the down payment can be a gift
Only part can be a gift if the down payment is less than 20%


Down Payment Assistance Programs
Yes
No



Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development


  FHA Mortgage Insurance Premiums (MIPs)  

An FHA loan requires that you pay two types of mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs)—an upfront MIP and an annual MIP, which is paid monthly. In 2022, the upfront MIP is equal to 1.75% of the base loan amount.



You can either pay the upfront MIP at the time of closing, or it can be rolled into the loan. For example, if you’re issued a home loan for $350,000, you’ll pay an upfront MIP of 1.75% x $350,000 = $6,125.



These payments are deposited into an escrow account that the U.S. Treasury Department manages. If you end up defaulting on your loan, the funds will go toward the mortgage repayment.



Despite its name, borrowers make annual MIP payments every month, with the payments ranging from 0.45% to 1.05% of the base loan amount. The payment amounts differ depending on the loan amount, the length of the loan, and the original loan-to-value (LTV) ratio.



Let's assume you have an annual MIP of 0.85%. In that case, a $350,000 loan would result in annual MIP payments of 0.85% x $350,000 = $2,975 (or $247.92 monthly). These monthly premiums are paid in addition to the one-time upfront MIP payment. You will make annual MIP payments for either 11 years or the life of the loan, depending on the length of the loan and the LTV.



You may be able to take a tax deduction for the amount you pay in premiums. You have to itemize your deductions—rather than take the standard deduction—in order to do this.










How Long You Will Pay the Annual Mortgage Insurance Premium (MIP)


TERM
LTV%
HOW LONG YOU PAY THE ANNUAL MIP




≤ 15 years
≤ 78%
11 years


≤ 15 years
78.01% to 90%
11 years


≤ 15 years
> 90%
Loan term


> 15 years
≤ 90%
11 years


> 15 years
> 90%
Loan term



Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development


  Homes That Qualify for an FHA Loan  

Usually, the property financed must be your principal residence and must be owner-occupied. In other words, the FHA loan program is not intended for investment or rental properties.



Detached and semi-detached houses, townhouses, rowhouses, and condominiums within FHA-approved condo projects are all eligible for FHA financing.



Also, you need a property appraisal from an FHA-approved appraiser, and the home must meet certain minimum standards. If the home doesn’t meet these standards and the seller won’t agree to the required repairs, you must pay for the repairs at closing. (In this case, the funds are held in escrow until the repairs are made.)


   What Are the Federal Housing Administration Loan Limits?  

FHA loans have limits on how much you can borrow. These are set by region, with lower-cost areas having a lower limit (referred to as the "floor") than the usual FHA loan and high-cost areas having a higher figure (referred to as the "ceiling").



There are "special exception" regions—including Alaska, Hawaii, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands—where very high construction costs make the limits even higher.



Elsewhere, the limit is set at 115% of the median home price for the county, as determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



The chart below lists the 2022 loan limits:











2022 FHA Loan Limits


PROPERTY TYPE
LOW-COST AREA 'FLOOR'
HIGH-COST AREA 'CEILING'
SPECIAL EXCEPTION AREAS




One-Unit
$420,680
$970,800
$1,456,200


Two-Unit
$538,650
$1,243,050
$1,864,575


Three-Unit
$651,050
$1,502,475
$2,253,700


Four-Unit
$809,150
$1,867,275
$2,800,900



U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development


   Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Loan Relief  

When you get an FHA loan, you may be eligible for loan relief if you’ve experienced a legitimate financial hardship such as a loss of income or an increase in living expenses. The FHA Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), for example, can permanently lower your monthly mortgage payment to an affordable level.



To become a full participant in the program, you must successfully complete a trial payment plan in which you make three scheduled payments—on time—at the lower, modified amount.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of FHA Loans  

FHA loans are often the best source of a mortgage for certain borrowers that are unable to obtain financing through private lenders. Thus, you may qualify for an FHA loan with a lower credit score and/or greater amounts of debt (and higher debt-to-income),



However, because FHA borrowers are often riskier, FHA loans usually come with somewhat higher interest rates and require MIPs paid both upfront and monthly. FHA loans can only be used for your primary residence and come with certain borrowing limits.




Pros and Cons of FHA Loans

Pros

Available to borrowers with lower credit scores
Lower down payments
Federally-backed



Cons

Requires MIPs paid both upfront and monthly
Cannot be used for second homes or investment properties
Higher interest rates
Not all properties qualify







How Do I Apply for an FHA Loan?
You apply for an FHA loan directly with the bank or other lender that you choose. Most banks and mortgage lenders are approved for FHA loans.You can apply for pre-approval of an FHA loan with the lender you choose. The lender will gather enough financial information to issue (or deny) a pre-approval within a day or so. That will give you an idea of how much you can borrow while not committing yourself to anything.All of the above is true for any mortgage application. If you want an FHA loan you should say that upfront.




What Is the Max Amount You Can Get From an FHA Loan?
That depends on where you live as well as on your ability to repay the loan. The maximum amount you will be able to borrow will be based on your financial circumstances.The maximum amount anyone can borrow from the FHA varies by region.In 2022, loan limits range from $420,680 for a one-unit property in a lower-cost area to $2,800,900 for a four-unit home in the country's most expensive cities.




How Much Does FHA Mortgage Insurance Cost?
FHA loans include both an upfront premium fee, which can be rolled into the mortgage, and a monthly charge, which is added to your mortgage payment and goes directly to the FHA.The upfront fee is 1.75% of the loan amount.The monthly fee is based on the value of the home.To estimate the costs, plug the numbers in an FHA Loan Calculator. For example, it will show that a 30-year FHA loan at an interest rate of 3.955% on a home valued at $250,000 will have a $1,166 monthly loan payment plus a $174 monthly mortgage insurance payment.Most lenders require that borrowers have mortgage insurance if they're putting less than 20% down on the loan. Once the borrower pays off enough of the loan to reach 20% ownership the insurance can be dropped.




How Do I Get Rid of My FHA Mortgage Insurance?
FHA mortgage insurance lasts for the life of the loan or for 11 years, depending on the length of the loan.The only way to get rid of that mortgage insurance is to refinance the mortgage with a non-FHA loan. Your FHA loan will then be paid off in full. Assuming you own at least 20% equity in the home, you should no longer be required to have mortgage insurance.




What Are the Downsides of FHA Loans?
FHA loans usually feature higher interest rates than conventional mortgages and require borrowers to purchase mortgage insurance. FHA loans are also less flexible and have loan limits.


   The Bottom Line  

The FHA loan is a path to homeownership for people who the banks would probably otherwise reject. They may have little cash for a down payment or a less-than-stellar credit rating. They might not qualify without that government guarantee that the bank will get its money back.



However, those who can afford a substantial down payment may be better off going with a conventional mortgage. They may be able to avoid the monthly mortgage insurance payment and get a lower interest rate on the loan.



FHA loans were not created to help potential homeowners who are shopping at the higher end of the price spectrum. Rather, the FHA loan program was created to support low- and moderate-income homebuyers, particularly those with limited cash saved for a down payment.



Correction—Sept. 10, 2023: A previous version of this article misstated the type of mortgage insurance required for an FHA loan.
What Is Federal Income Tax?  

The U.S. federal income tax is levied by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on the annual earnings of individuals, corporations, trusts, and other legal entities. Federal income taxes apply to all forms of earnings that make up a taxpayer's taxable income, including wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, tips, investment income, and certain types of unearned income.



In the U.S., federal income tax rates for individuals are progressive, meaning that as taxable income increases, so does the tax rate. Federal income tax rates range from 10% to 37% and kick in at specific income thresholds. The income ranges to which the rates apply are called tax brackets. Income that falls within each bracket is taxed at the corresponding rate.





Key Takeaways

The federal income tax is the largest source of revenue for the U.S. government.Federal income tax is used for various expenses ranging from building and repairing the country's infrastructure to improving education and public transportation and providing disaster relief.Federal income taxes are based on your income and filing status; taxes apply to everyone, regardless of where they live or work.Federal income tax liability can be reduced by tax deductions and tax credits, legislation that provides benefits to specific types of taxpayers.Federal income taxes are collected by the federal government, while state income taxes are collected by the individual state(s) in which a taxpayer lives and earns income.


   How Federal Income Tax Works  

Tax is collected from individuals and corporations by the city, state, or country where they reside or operate. When the tax collected is credited to the country's government, it is referred to as a federal tax.



Governments use the money collected through federal taxes to pay for the growth and upkeep of the country. Some look at federal tax as “rent” charged to live in a country or the fee to use the resources provided by a country. When you pay tax to the U.S. government, you’re investing in your economy, as the government uses the funds to do the following:



Build, repair, and maintain infrastructureFund the pensions and benefits of government workersFund Social Security programsFund major health programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, and marketplace subsidiesFund "safety net" programs to assist lower-income householdsFund defense and international security programsImprove sectors such as education, health, agriculture, utilities, and public transportationEmbark on new feats such as space explorationProvide emergency disaster relief






In fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government has collected $1.4 trillion in revenue and spent $1.93 trillion, resulting in a $460 billion deficit.



The largest source of revenue for the federal government comes from the income of its residents. In 2021 (the latest data available), the IRS collected nearly $4.1 trillion in receipts, of which individuals, estates, and trusts contributed $2.3 trillion. Meanwhile, business income taxes accounted for about $419 billion.


   Types of Taxable Income  

Many different types of income are taxable. In addition, different forms of income may be assessed at different tax rates. Generally speaking, there are two types of income: earned income and unearned income. 



Earned income is income primarily generated by being employed by an employer, including if you are self-employed. The most common forms of earned income are:



Wages, whether by salary or hourly payBusiness income or income from operationsPensions and other forms of retirement benefitsUnemployment benefitsSick pay and other forms of fringe benefitsSelf-employment income



Unearned income is income primarily generated by more passive forms of activity, especially surrounding investing. The most common forms of unearned income are:



Interest income or dividendsRoyalties or residual incomeStaking rewards or airdropped cryptocurrencySales of assets at a profit


   Gross Income vs. Net Income  

Workers receive their earnings either as net income (NI), also known as take-home pay, or gross income. Net income is the total amount received after taxes, benefits, and voluntary contributions are deducted from the paycheck. When taxes are withheld, it means the company or payer has paid the tax to the government on the worker’s behalf.



The amount your employer withholds for taxes depends on how much you earn and the information you gave your employer on Form W-4. All money earned, whether as a wage, salary, cash gift from an employer, business income, tips, gambling income, bonuses, or unemployment compensation, constitutes income for federal tax purposes.


   Filing Federal Income Taxes  

Federal income taxes are reported and remitted to the IRS through a series of forms created by the U.S. Department of Treasury. The primary form used to report Federal income taxes is Form 1040 which collects not only your personal information but your income and tax benefit activities for the year.



There are several variations of Form 1040 based on the type of activity incurred by the taxpayer over the prior year; an example of the first page for Form 1040-SR is below.













If a taxpayer has more information to submit to the IRS, they usually attach or provide additional forms. For example, if you decide to claim an itemized deduction (discussed below), you are required to submit Schedule A to support your return. Many tax credits (also discussed below) require additional forms.


   Federal Income Tax Brackets  

The federal income tax is built on a progressive tax system, where higher-income earners are taxed at higher rates. The tables below show the tax brackets and rates for 2022 and 2023.











2022 Tax Brackets and Rates


2022 Tax Rate
Single Filers
Married Filing Jointly
Heads of Households




10%
$0 to $10,275
$0 to $20,550
$0 to $14,650


12% 
$10,275 to $41,775
$20,550 to $83,550
$14,650 to $55,900


22% 
$41,775 to $89,075
$83,550 to $178,150
$55,900 to $89,050


24% 
$89,075 to $170,050
$178,150 to $340,100
$89,050 to $170,050


32% 
$170,050 to $215,950
$340,100 to $431,900
$170,050 to $215,950


35% 
$215,950 to $539,900
$431,900 to $647,850
$215,950 to $539,900


37% 
$539,900 or more
$647,850 or more
$539,900 or more














2023 Tax Brackets and Rates


2023 Tax Rate
Single Filers
Married Filing Jointly
Heads of Households




10%
Up to $11,000
Up to $22,000
Up to $15,700


12% 
$11,000 to $44,725
$22,000 to $89,450
$15,700 to $59,850


22% 
$44,725 to $95,375
$89,450 to $190,750
$59,850 to $95,350


24% 
$95,375 to $182,100
$190,750 to $364,200
$95,350 to $182,100


32% 
$182,100 to $231,250
$364,200 to $462,500
$182,100 to $231,250


35% 
$231,250 to $578,125
$462,500 to $693,750
$231,250 to $578,100


37% 
$578,125 or more
$693,750 or more
$578,100 or more





   How Tax Brackets Work  

The United States uses a progressive tax system, meaning taxpayers pay more incremental tax as they earn more income. This system aims to provide inherent tax benefits to lower-income individuals and collect more taxes from higher-income individuals.



Tax brackets are often cited as a range of income with an associated percentage. For example, for 2023 federal income taxes, taxpayers that earn between $44,726 and $95,375 are “in the 22% tax bracket”. This means their earnings between these two amounts are assessed a 22% tax rate. Earnings below $44,726 are assessed a lower rate, and earnings above $95,375 are assessed a higher rate. 


  Marginal Tax Rate vs. Effective Tax Rate  

As an example, an individual who is single and earns $80,000 annually falls into the 22% marginal tax bracket. This means the taxpayer would be responsible for $12,908 in taxes for 2023, the breakdown for which is illustrated in the chart below:











Applying 2023 Tax Brackets and Rates to an Individual Earning $80,000




Dollars
Amount Subject to Tax
Tax Rate
Tax at Each Rate


$0~$11,000
$11,000
10%
$1,100


$11,000 to $44,725
$33,725
12%
$4,047


$44,725 to $95,375
$35,275
22%
$7,761


Total
$80,000
-
$12,908 total tax bill






Because of the varying tax brackets, a taxpayer will usually have an effective tax rate different from their highest tax bracket. The marginal tax rate is the additional tax paid for every extra dollar of income. For example, a 10% marginal tax rate means that $.10 of every next dollar earned will be taken as tax.



However, note that while the marginal rate is 22%, the effective tax rate is 16.1%. This figure is arrived at by dividing the total tax bill ($12,908) by income ($80,000) and multiplying by 100. The effective tax rate is the actual rate the individual ends up paying in taxes to the government.


   How to Reduce Your Taxes: Tax Deductions  

There are two ways to pay less tax: make less money or earn more tax benefits. As it’s usually more advantageous to seek out tax benefits, there are several specific places taxpayers can look.



Tax deductions are legislative enactments that allow a taxpayer to reduce the amount of income they are taxed on their return. Though tax deductions don’t directly reduce the amount of tax a taxpayer must pay, it does reduce the calculation basis for the taxpayer’s tax liability.



For example, consider a taxpayer that contributes to a traditional IRA. In many situations, the taxpayer is allowed to deduct their contribution from their taxable income. Should the taxpayer have contributed the 2023 maximum amount, their taxable income would be reduced by $6,500. If the taxpayer is in the 22% marginal tax bracket, this would result in a potential $1,430 ($6,500 * 22%) tax savings.


  Examples of Tax Deductions  

The most common Federal tax deduction used to reduce your Federal income tax liability is the standard deduction. Each taxpayer may claim a standard deduction based on their filing status; this amount (which is reassessed annually) allows a taxpayer to reduce their taxable income by a set amount established by the Federal government.



The alternative to a standard deduction is the itemized deduction. This option allows taxpayers to accumulate certain types of eligible expenses and opt to deduct the total allowable amount of these expenses instead of the standard deduction. These types of expenses include charitable contributions, mortgage interest payments, and medical expenses.



Last, there are deductions exclusive of the standard deduction or itemized deduction. For example, as long as taxpayers meet specific contribution and income limit thresholds, certain types of retirement contributions may be deducted. Alternatively, taxpayers may receive deductions on other types of spending such as educational expenses.


   How to Reduce Your Taxes: Tax Credits  

Tax credits are legislative enactments that allow a taxpayer to reduce the amount of tax they owe. After a taxpayer’s tax liability is calculated, a taxpayer may then directly reduce their liability by tax credit amounts they are eligible for. 



Take a taxpayer who has one child and is eligible for the Child Tax Credit. The taxpayer’s taxable income is $50,000, and the taxpayer’s tax liability is $4,500. The Child Tax Credit directly reduces the tax liability from $4,500 to $2,900. The Child Tax Credit is not applied to the $50,000 of taxable income; instead, it is directly applied to the tax liability amount.



The largest tax credits are all associated with legislative incentive endeavors for specific types of taxpayers. For example, the Earned Income Tax Credit awards tax credits to those of low income, while the American Opportunity Tax Credit and Lifetime Learning Credit award those pursuing higher education. The Child and Dependent Care Credit benefit those with children/dependents.


  Refundable vs. Nonrefundable Tax Credits  

Some Federal tax credits are nonrefundable, meaning once they reduce your tax liability to $0, a taxpayer may not receive additional benefit nor receive a refund due to an unused portion of the credit. An example of a nonrefundable tax credit is the Adoption Tax Credit; once the credit reduces a taxpayer's tax liability to $0, the taxpayer will simply not pay tax.



On the other hand, other credits may be refundable; not only can refundable tax credits reduce a taxpayer's liability to $0, they may flip the taxpayer into receiving a tax refund. For example, if you owe $750 in taxes but qualify for a $1,000 refundable tax credit, you would ultimately receive a $250 tax refund.



Be mindful that some credits are partially refundable. For example, the Child Tax Credit of $2,000 is partially refundable; in 2023, up to $1,600 is refundable.


   State Income Tax vs. Federal Income Tax  

It is important to distinguish between the definition of income tax and federal income tax. In the U.S., governments at the state level may also levy income taxes in addition to federal income taxes.



Not all states have state-level income taxes. Currently, Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming don’t have an income tax.



New Hampshire taxes dividends and interest income only, but the state will completely phase out these taxes by 2027.


   Individual vs. Other Federal Income Taxes  

The information above has been primarily informative regarding individual Federal income taxes. The IRS also collects tax revenue from other entities.



Businesses must report income and receive tax benefits similar to individuals. Certain legal business forms, such as partnerships, have a different tax filing date compared to individual filers. In addition, businesses are subject to a wide range of tax credits only available to businesses; many credits derive from the General Business Credit filed using Form 3800.



Charities and nonprofits that have received tax-exempt status must also usually file a Form 990 with the IRS to maintain their tax-free status. This information return does not result in any taxes owed from the nonprofit. However, information provided on the return may result in further evaluation or revocation of the tax-advantaged status.



Last, international individuals or businesses may be required to file Federal taxes within the U.S. There are specific rules for foreign entities with income-generating activities within the United States and domestic entities with income-generating activities outside the United States.




What Are the Federal Income Tax Brackets for 2022 and 2023?
The U.S. federal income tax is a marginal tax rate system based on an individual's income and filing status. For the 2022 and 2023 tax years, the tax brackets are 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%.




Does Social Security Count as Income?
Social Security benefits are not counted as gross income. However, benefits are included in your combined income, which the IRS uses to determine if you should pay taxes on your benefits. Combined income is determined by totaling your adjusted gross income (AGI), nontaxable interest, and half of your Social Security benefits. If your combined income is between $25,000 and $34,000, you may be taxed on up to 50% of your benefits. If your combined income is more than $34,000, you may be taxed on up to 85% of your benefits.




Which Country Has the Highest Federal Income Tax?
The Ivory Coast has the highest tax rate at 60%. Finland (56.95%), Denmark (56), Japan (55.97), Austria (55), Sweden (52.3%), Aruba (52%), Belgium (50%), Israel (50%), and the Netherlands (49.5%) round out the top 10.




Which U.S. President Imposed the First Federal Income Tax?
President Abraham Lincoln was the president to impose the first federal income tax by signing the Revenue Act on Aug. 5, 1861. The reason he did so was to finance the Civil War. A 3% tax was imposed on all annual incomes over $800.




When Is Federal Income Tax Due?
Generally, federal income tax is due on April 15 of every year. The day can shift slightly if April 15 falls on a weekend or because of other factors.


   The Bottom Line  

Federal income taxes are considered a marginal tax or progressive tax and apply to all forms of earnings that make up a taxpayer's taxable income, including wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, tips, investment income, and certain types of unearned income. Each year, the IRS releases updates to the tax brackets and rates that apply to single filers, married individuals filing joint returns or separately, and heads of households.
What Is the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA)?  

The Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) is a U.S. law enacted in 1935 that mandates a payroll tax on the paychecks of employees, with matching contributions from employers. The money collected is used to fund the Social Security and Medicare programs.



From the beginning, the idea behind the act was that working people would contribute a certain amount of each of their paychecks throughout their working years to fund Social Security (and later Medicare) so that, later in life, they'd be able to count on earned financial and health benefits.



The Self-Employment Contributions Act (SECA) of 1954 requires the self-employed to pay taxes on their net earnings to help fund Social Security and Medicare.





Key Takeaways

Individuals' FICA contributions pay current benefits and build future ones that will be owed to them.FICA contributions are withheld from a wage earner's gross pay; the amount withheld depends on gross wages. Employers match the FICA taxes paid by their employees.Wage earners cannot opt out of paying FICA taxes. Since the 1930s, FICA has funded Social Security programs that provide benefits to retirees, children and surviving spouses, and the disabled.


   Understanding FICA  
  History  

In 1935, the United States Congress passed the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, known as FICA. Its purpose was to collect contributions to fund the new Social Security program established by the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the same year.



Roosevelt believed that the money collected from all working Americans through FICA would belong directly to them. He didn't want the financial benefits for their retirement, disability, or death to depend on federal revenue. He feared that politicians would take and use the money for their own purposes.



In 1965, the payroll tax to fund health care benefits was added when Medicare was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson.



FICA contributions are mandatory. Although the rate can be set annually, it has remained mostly stable since 1990. The limit changes each year based on the National Average Wage Index.


  Rates and Limits  

According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), FICA taxes are made up of old-age, survivors, and disability insurance taxes (Social Security) plus the hospital insurance tax (Medicare). Each applies different rates.



There's a maximum wage base for Social Security taxes on earnings, above which no tax is levied. The wage base is set at $147,000 for 2022 and $160,200 for 2023.



There is no wage base limit for Medicare taxes.



For 2022 and 2023, the total Social Security tax rate of 12.4% is split between employee and employer. The employee pays 6.2% and the employer pays the other 6.2%.



The total Medicare tax rate of 2.9% is also split between employee and employer. The employee pays 1.45% and the employer pays 1.45%.



Employees pay an additional 0.9% Medicare tax on wages over a threshold amount. For 2022, that amount is $200,000 for individuals ($250,000 for married couples filing jointly). So, depending on their wages, an employee's total Medicare tax could reach 2.35% (1.45% plus 0.9%). Employers are not required to match the additional Medicare tax.


   The Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA)  

Under SECA, the self-employed pay both the employee and employer portions of the Social Security and Medicare taxes. For example, as a sole proprietor, you'd be responsible for paying 12.4% of your income toward Social Security and 2.9% toward Medicare.



Moreover, you'd pay the additional Medicare tax of 0.9% on self-employment income over the threshold amount.



Though they pay more than wage earners, self-employed individuals do get a tax break. They can deduct the amount that represents the employer's share (half) as a business expense.






FICA and SECA taxes do not fund Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits, even though that particular program is run by the Social Security Administration (SSA). SSI benefits come out of general tax revenues.


   How To Calculate FICA  
  Example 1  

An employee earning $50,000 will pay $3,825 in FICA contributions in 2023. That breaks down to $3,100 in Social Security tax and $725 in Medicare tax. The wage earner's employer would pay the same amount.



How it's calculated:



Social Security tax = $50,000 x .062 (the employee rate of 6.2%) = $3,100



Medicare tax = $50,000 x .0145 (the employee rate of 1.45%) = $725



Total FICA = $3,825 ($3,100 + $725)


  Example 2  

An employee earning $250,000 and filing singly will pay $13,282.40 in FICA contributions in 2023. That breaks down to $9,932.40 in Social Security tax and $3,350 in Medicare tax. The wage earner's employer would pay slightly less because they aren't required to pay the additional Medicare tax of 0.9% on the $50,000 above the $200,000 threshold.



How it's calculated:



Social Security tax = $160,200 (wage base limit) x .062 (the employee rate of 6.2%) = $9,932.40



Medicare tax = $200,000 x .0145 (the employee rate of 1.45%) = $2,900



Additional Medicare tax = $50,000 x .009 (the total rate of 0.9%) = $450



Total Medicare taxes = $3,350 ($2,900 + $450)



Total FICA = $13,282.40 ($9,932.40 + $3,350)


   Special Considerations  

On March 27, 2020, former President Donald Trump signed a $2 trillion coronavirus emergency stimulus package into law. Under the CARES Act, employers (not employees) were allowed to defer their share of Social Security taxes owed for the year ending Dec. 31, 2020. Specifically, 50% of the deferred amount was due by Dec. 31, 2021. The other half is due by Dec. 31, 2022. The law applies to the self-employed, too.



Certain employers were also eligible to claim a payroll tax credit for employees whom they continued to pay but who were not working due to the pandemic.




Do I Have To Pay FICA?
Yes. The Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or FICA, requires that wage earners contribute a portion of their earnings to fund the Social Security and Medicare programs. Ultimately, you'll be entitled to what's referred to as earned benefits. You paid for them and they're owed to you.




Is Social Security the Same as FICA?
No, but it's related to it. FICA is an acronym that stands for an act passed by the U.S. Congress back in 1935 at about the time Social Security was established. This Federal Insurance Contributions Act called for all working people in the U.S. to fund Social Security so that it could provide them with financial benefits later in life. The dollar amounts on your paycheck labeled as FICA are the payroll taxes contributed to Social Security, and since 1965, Medicare.




What Is the FICA Tax Rate?
Wage earners pay 6.2% on income of $147,000 ($160,200 in 2023) or less toward Social Security. Their employers also pay 6.2% on their behalf. So the total tax rate for Social Security is 12.4%. Any income above $147,000 ($160,200 in 2023) is not taxed for Social Security purposes. The Medicare rate of 1.45% is paid by wage earners on income currently up to $200,000 for individuals. For income above that, they pay an additional Medicare tax of 0.9%. Employers match the 1.45% rate but are not responsible for matching the 0.9% rate.
What Is the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)?  

The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the branch of the Federal Reserve System (FRS) that determines the direction of monetary policy in the United States by directing open market operations (OMOs). The committee is made up of 12 members, including seven members of the Board of Governors, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and four of the remaining 11 Reserve Bank presidents, who serve on a rotating basis.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Open Market Committee is a branch of the Federal Reserve System.The FOMC determines the direction of monetary policy by directing open market operations.The committee is composed of the seven members of the Board of Governors and five Federal Reserve Bank presidents.It has eight regularly scheduled meetings each year that are the subject of speculation on Wall Street.


   Understanding the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)  

The 12 members of the FOMC meet eight times a year to discuss whether there should be any changes to near-term monetary policy. A vote to change policy would result in either buying or selling U.S. government securities on the open market to promote the healthy growth of the national economy. Committee members are typically categorized as hawks favoring tighter monetary policies, doves who favor stimulus, or centrists/moderates who are somewhere in between.



The FOMC chair is also the chair of the Board of Governors. The current makeup of the board is as follows:



The chair is Jerome Powell, who was sworn in for a second four-year term on May 23, 2022. He began his first term in this role in Feb. 2018. Powell is considered a moderate.
The vice-chair of the FOMC is John Williams. He became the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2018.
Other Federal Reserve Board members include Michelle Bowman, Michael Barr, Lisa Cook, Philip Jefferson, and Christopher Waller.



There are 12 Federal Reserve districts, each with its own Federal Reserve Bank. These regional banks operate as extensions of the central bank. The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York serves continuously while the presidents of the others serve one-year terms on a three-year rotating schedule (except for Cleveland and Chicago, which rotate on a two-year basis).



The one-year rotating seats of the FOMC are always comprised of one Reserve Bank president from each of the following groups:



Boston, Philadelphia, and RichmondCleveland and ChicagoSt. Louis, Dallas, and AtlantaKansas City, Minneapolis, and San Francisco



The geographic-group system helps ensure that all regions of the United States receive fair representation. Here are the current FOMC members:









Current FOMC Members


Name
Position




Jerome Powell
Chair of the Federal Reserve Board


John Williams
Vice-Chair of the Federal Reserve Board


Michelle Bowman
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lisa Cook
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Philip Jefferson
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Christopher Waller
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Michael Barr
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lael Brainard
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lorie Logan
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas


Neel Kashkari
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis


Patrick Harker
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia


Austan Goolsbee
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago





   FOMC Meetings  

The FOMC has eight regularly scheduled meetings each year, but they can meet more often if the need should arise. The meetings are not held in public and are therefore the subject of much speculation on Wall Street, as analysts attempt to predict whether the Fed will tighten or loosen the money supply with a resulting increase or decrease in interest rates.



In recent years, FOMC meeting minutes have been made public following the meetings. When it is reported in the news that the Fed changed interest rates, it is the result of the FOMC's regular meetings.



During the meeting, members discuss developments in the local and global financial markets, as well as economic and financial forecasts. All participants—the Board of Governors and all 12 Reserve Bank presidents—share their views on the country’s economic stance and converse on the monetary policy that would be most beneficial for the country. After much deliberation by all participants, only designated FOMC members get to vote on a policy that they consider appropriate for the period.






At the last FOMC meeting, in July 2023, the committee raised the fed funds rate to a target between 5.25% and 5.50%. This was an increase of 25 basis points from the last increase in May 2023.


   FOMC Operations  

The Federal Reserve possesses the tools necessary to increase or decrease the money supply. This is done through OMOs, adjusting the discount rate, and setting bank reserve requirements. The Fed's Board of Governors is in charge of setting the discount rate and reserve requirements, while the FOMC is specifically in charge of OMOs, which entails buying and selling government securities. For example, to tighten the money supply and decrease the amount of money available in the banking system, the Fed would offer government securities for sale.



Securities bought by the FOMC are deposited in the Fed's System Open Market Account (SOMA), which consists of a domestic and a foreign portfolio. The domestic portfolio holds U.S. Treasuries and federal agency securities, while the foreign portfolio holds investments denominated in euros and Japanese yen.



The FOMC can hold these securities until maturity or sell them when they see fit, as granted by the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 and the Monetary Control Act of 1980. A percentage of the Fed's SOMA holdings are held in each of the 12 regional Reserve Banks; however, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York executes all of the Fed's open market transactions.



The process begins with the results of the meeting being communicated to the SOMA manager, who relays them to the trading desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which then conducts transactions of government securities on the open market until the FOMC mandate is met.



The interaction of all of the Fed's policy tools determines the federal funds rate or the rate at which depository institutions lend their balances at the Federal Reserve to each other on an overnight basis. The federal funds rate, in turn, directly influences other short-term rates and indirectly influences long-term interest rates; foreign exchange rates, and the supply of credit and demand for investment, employment, and economic output.


   Special Considerations  

On Jan. 31, 2023, the FOMC reaffirmed its "Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy."



This statement is based on the FOMC's commitment to fulfilling a statutory mandate from Congress to promote maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. Because monetary policy determines the inflation rate over the long term, the FOMC can specify a longer-run goal for inflation. In the statement, the FOMC reaffirmed its analysis that a 2% target inflation rate was the rate most consistent with its statutory mandate.




What Does the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee Do?
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is responsible for directing monetary policy through open market operations. The group is a 12-member group that is the primary committee of the Fed affecting monetary policy. Through its decisions, it sets the Fed's short-term objective for purchasing and selling securities, which is the target level of the fed funds rate, which influences other interest rates.




Is the FOMC the Same as the Fed?
No, the FOMC is not the same as the Fed. The FOMC is a committee within the Fed, the Federal Open Market Committee, and is responsible only for open market operations. The Fed's Board of Governors set the discount rate and the reserve requirements.




How Often Does the FOMC Meet?
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets eight times a year.


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the division of the Federal Reserve that sets monetary policy by managing open market operations. By doing this, the Fed influences the fed funds rate, which impacts other interest rates. The FOMC does this to either contract or expand the economy, depending on current market conditions.
What Is the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)?  

The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the branch of the Federal Reserve System (FRS) that determines the direction of monetary policy in the United States by directing open market operations (OMOs). The committee is made up of 12 members, including seven members of the Board of Governors, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and four of the remaining 11 Reserve Bank presidents, who serve on a rotating basis.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Open Market Committee is a branch of the Federal Reserve System.The FOMC determines the direction of monetary policy by directing open market operations.The committee is composed of the seven members of the Board of Governors and five Federal Reserve Bank presidents.It has eight regularly scheduled meetings each year that are the subject of speculation on Wall Street.


   Understanding the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)  

The 12 members of the FOMC meet eight times a year to discuss whether there should be any changes to near-term monetary policy. A vote to change policy would result in either buying or selling U.S. government securities on the open market to promote the healthy growth of the national economy. Committee members are typically categorized as hawks favoring tighter monetary policies, doves who favor stimulus, or centrists/moderates who are somewhere in between.



The FOMC chair is also the chair of the Board of Governors. The current makeup of the board is as follows:



The chair is Jerome Powell, who was sworn in for a second four-year term on May 23, 2022. He began his first term in this role in Feb. 2018. Powell is considered a moderate.
The vice-chair of the FOMC is John Williams. He became the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2018.
Other Federal Reserve Board members include Michelle Bowman, Michael Barr, Lisa Cook, Philip Jefferson, and Christopher Waller.



There are 12 Federal Reserve districts, each with its own Federal Reserve Bank. These regional banks operate as extensions of the central bank. The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York serves continuously while the presidents of the others serve one-year terms on a three-year rotating schedule (except for Cleveland and Chicago, which rotate on a two-year basis).



The one-year rotating seats of the FOMC are always comprised of one Reserve Bank president from each of the following groups:



Boston, Philadelphia, and RichmondCleveland and ChicagoSt. Louis, Dallas, and AtlantaKansas City, Minneapolis, and San Francisco



The geographic-group system helps ensure that all regions of the United States receive fair representation. Here are the current FOMC members:









Current FOMC Members


Name
Position




Jerome Powell
Chair of the Federal Reserve Board


John Williams
Vice-Chair of the Federal Reserve Board


Michelle Bowman
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lisa Cook
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Philip Jefferson
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Christopher Waller
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Michael Barr
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lael Brainard
Member of the Federal Reserve Board


Lorie Logan
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas


Neel Kashkari
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis


Patrick Harker
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia


Austan Goolsbee
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago





   FOMC Meetings  

The FOMC has eight regularly scheduled meetings each year, but they can meet more often if the need should arise. The meetings are not held in public and are therefore the subject of much speculation on Wall Street, as analysts attempt to predict whether the Fed will tighten or loosen the money supply with a resulting increase or decrease in interest rates.



In recent years, FOMC meeting minutes have been made public following the meetings. When it is reported in the news that the Fed changed interest rates, it is the result of the FOMC's regular meetings.



During the meeting, members discuss developments in the local and global financial markets, as well as economic and financial forecasts. All participants—the Board of Governors and all 12 Reserve Bank presidents—share their views on the country’s economic stance and converse on the monetary policy that would be most beneficial for the country. After much deliberation by all participants, only designated FOMC members get to vote on a policy that they consider appropriate for the period.






At the last FOMC meeting, in July 2023, the committee raised the fed funds rate to a target between 5.25% and 5.50%. This was an increase of 25 basis points from the last increase in May 2023.


   FOMC Operations  

The Federal Reserve possesses the tools necessary to increase or decrease the money supply. This is done through OMOs, adjusting the discount rate, and setting bank reserve requirements. The Fed's Board of Governors is in charge of setting the discount rate and reserve requirements, while the FOMC is specifically in charge of OMOs, which entails buying and selling government securities. For example, to tighten the money supply and decrease the amount of money available in the banking system, the Fed would offer government securities for sale.



Securities bought by the FOMC are deposited in the Fed's System Open Market Account (SOMA), which consists of a domestic and a foreign portfolio. The domestic portfolio holds U.S. Treasuries and federal agency securities, while the foreign portfolio holds investments denominated in euros and Japanese yen.



The FOMC can hold these securities until maturity or sell them when they see fit, as granted by the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 and the Monetary Control Act of 1980. A percentage of the Fed's SOMA holdings are held in each of the 12 regional Reserve Banks; however, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York executes all of the Fed's open market transactions.



The process begins with the results of the meeting being communicated to the SOMA manager, who relays them to the trading desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which then conducts transactions of government securities on the open market until the FOMC mandate is met.



The interaction of all of the Fed's policy tools determines the federal funds rate or the rate at which depository institutions lend their balances at the Federal Reserve to each other on an overnight basis. The federal funds rate, in turn, directly influences other short-term rates and indirectly influences long-term interest rates; foreign exchange rates, and the supply of credit and demand for investment, employment, and economic output.


   Special Considerations  

On Jan. 31, 2023, the FOMC reaffirmed its "Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy."



This statement is based on the FOMC's commitment to fulfilling a statutory mandate from Congress to promote maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. Because monetary policy determines the inflation rate over the long term, the FOMC can specify a longer-run goal for inflation. In the statement, the FOMC reaffirmed its analysis that a 2% target inflation rate was the rate most consistent with its statutory mandate.




What Does the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee Do?
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is responsible for directing monetary policy through open market operations. The group is a 12-member group that is the primary committee of the Fed affecting monetary policy. Through its decisions, it sets the Fed's short-term objective for purchasing and selling securities, which is the target level of the fed funds rate, which influences other interest rates.




Is the FOMC the Same as the Fed?
No, the FOMC is not the same as the Fed. The FOMC is a committee within the Fed, the Federal Open Market Committee, and is responsible only for open market operations. The Fed's Board of Governors set the discount rate and the reserve requirements.




How Often Does the FOMC Meet?
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets eight times a year.


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the division of the Federal Reserve that sets monetary policy by managing open market operations. By doing this, the Fed influences the fed funds rate, which impacts other interest rates. The FOMC does this to either contract or expand the economy, depending on current market conditions.
What Is the Federal Poverty Level (FPL)?  

The federal poverty level (FPL) is an economic measure used to decide whether the income level of an individual or family qualifies them for certain federal benefits and programs. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) updates its poverty guidelines, illustrating the set minimum amount of income that a family needs for food, clothing, transportation, shelter, and other necessities, once a year, adjusted for inflation.



The FPL, which is referred to as the poverty line for short, shouldn’t be confused with the poverty threshold. This threshold is another important federal measure that actually defines poverty. The poverty threshold is mainly used for statistical purposes and to help calculate poverty guidelines.





Key Takeaways

The federal poverty level is the amount of annualized income earned by a household, below which they would be eligible to receive certain welfare benefits.This is the minimum amount of income required by a family for food, clothing, transportation, shelter, and other necessities.The FPL is published by the Department of Health and Human Services annually after being adjusted for inflation.The FPL is used to determine eligibility for certain federal and state assistance programs, such as housing vouchers, Medicaid, and CHIP.The FPL is different from the poverty threshold, which defines poverty and provides statistics on the number of people living under such conditions in the U.S.


   Understanding the Federal Poverty Level  

Each year, the U.S. Census Bureau issues a public report on the level of poverty in the country. The report provides an estimate of the number of people that are poor; the percentage of people living below the poverty level; the poverty distribution by age, sex, ethnicity, location, etc.; and the level of income inequality.



The FPL is typically issued annually in January by HHS and is determined by household income and size. Within its annual report, the HHS shows the total cost needed by the average person per year to cover basic necessities such as food, utilities, and accommodation. This number is adjusted each year for inflation.



The FPL is used to establish who qualifies for certain federal subsidies and aid, such as:



Medicaid
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which is commonly known as food stamps
Family and Planning Services
Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)
National School Lunch Program


   What Is Poverty Level Income in 2022 and 2023?  

The official federal poverty level varies according to the size of the family and their geographical location within the country. For instance, Alaska and Hawaii have higher poverty levels since the cost of living in these regions is higher.



A higher threshold is added to the poverty level for each additional family member, set as follows:



Contiguous United States: $4,720 per family member for 2022 and $5,140 for 2023Alaska: $5,900 for 2022 and $6,430 for 2023Hawaii: $5,430 for 2022 and $5,910 for 2023



Thus, since the FPL for a family of two is $18,310 in 2022, a family of three would have a poverty level set at $18,310 + $4,720 = $23,030 in any state other than Hawaii or Alaska.



The table below shows the federal poverty guidelines for household sizes by region for 2022 and 2023:











2022 Federal Poverty Level




Number of Persons in Household
48 States Plus D.C. 
Alaska 
Hawaii


1
$13,590
$16,990
$15,630


2
$18,310
$22,890
$21,060


3
$23,030
$28,790
$26,490


4
$27,750
$34,690
$31,920


5
$32,470
$40,590
$37,350


6
$37,190
$46,490
$42,780


7
$41,910
$52,390
$48,210


8
$46,630
$58,290
$53,640














2023 Federal Poverty Level




Number of Persons in Household
48 States Plus D.C. 
Alaska 
Hawaii


1
$14,580
$18,210
$16,770


2
$19,720
$24,640
$22,680


3
$24,860
$31,070
$28,590


4
$30,000
$37,500
$34,500


5
$35,140
$43,930
$40,410


6
$40,280
$50,360
$46,320


7
$45,420
$56,790
$52,230


8
$50,560
$63,220
$58,140





   The Federal Poverty Level (FPL) vs. the Poverty Threshold  

As noted above, don't confuse the FPL with the poverty threshold because they two are inherently different. The poverty threshold is another important federal poverty measure that actually defines what poverty is and provides statistics on the number of Americans living in such conditions.



Data on the poverty threshold is created by the US Census Bureau, which uses pre-tax income as a yardstick to measure poverty. The statistical report on the poverty threshold is then used by the HHS to determine the FPL.






Increased premium tax credits based on the lower-income contribution percentage along with expanding tax credit access to consumers with household incomes above 400%, were made available via HealthCare.gov starting on April 1, 2021.


   The Federal Poverty Level (FPL) Requirements for Welfare Programs  

How a family’s income compares to the FPL determines if they are eligible for any plans. When determining an individual's or a family's eligibility for receiving benefits, some government agencies compare before-tax income to the poverty guidelines, while others compare after-tax income.



Certain federal agencies and programs use percentage multiples of the FPL to define income limits and to set eligibility criteria for households. For example, an income of less than 138% of the FPL will qualify an individual for Medicaid or CHIP. This means that an individual in a one-household set up in, say, Texas will need to earn below 138% x $13,590 = $18,754.20 in 2022 to be eligible for Medicaid.



The Emergency Shelter Grant ESG, Utility Assistance, and United Way Rent, on the other hand, require a household to earn an income of less than 150% of the FPL. Meanwhile, to be eligible for premium tax credits on health insurance marketplace plans, which would help reduce the monthly payments for a health plan, the criteria are in the range of 100% to 400% of FPL.



To calculate the percentage of the poverty level, divide income by the poverty guideline and multiply by 100. So, a family of five in New Jersey with an annual income of $80,000 would be calculated to earn ($80,000/$32,470) x 100 = 246% of the federal poverty guidelines for 2022 and will likely not qualify for Utility Assistance or Medicaid but may still be eligible for an advanced premium tax credit subsidy.
What Is the Federal Reserve System (FRS)?  

The Federal Reserve System (FRS) is the central bank of the United States. Often simply called the Fed, it is arguably the most powerful financial institution in the world. It was founded to provide the country with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system. The Fed has a board that is comprised of seven members. There are also 12 Federal Reserve banks with their own presidents that represent a separate district.





Key Takeaways


The Federal Reserve System is the central bank and monetary authority of the United States.
The Fed provides the country with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial system.
The Federal Reserve System is composed of 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks that are each responsible for a specific geographic area of the U.S.
The Fed's main duties include conducting national monetary policy, supervising and regulating banks, maintaining financial stability, and providing banking services.
The Federal Open Market Committee is the Fed's monetary policy-making body and manages the country's money supply.



   Understanding the Federal Reserve System (FRS)  

A central bank is a financial institution given privileged control over the production and distribution of money and credit for a nation or a group of nations. In modern economies, the central bank is usually responsible for the formulation of monetary policy and the regulation of member banks. The Fed is composed of 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks that are each responsible for a specific geographic area of the U.S.



The Fed was established by the Federal Reserve Act, which was signed by President Woodrow Wilson on Dec. 23, 1913, in response to the financial panic of 1907. Before that, the U.S. was the only major financial power without a central bank. Its creation was precipitated by repeated financial panics that afflicted the U.S. economy over the previous century, leading to severe economic disruptions due to bank failures and business bankruptcies. A crisis in 1907 led to calls for an institution that would prevent panics and disruptions.



The Fed has broad power to act to ensure financial stability, and it is the primary regulator of banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. It acts as the lender of last resort to member institutions that have no other place from which to borrow. Often referred to simply as the Fed, it has the mandate to ensure there is financial stability in the system. It is also the main regulator of the country's financial institutions.



The system's 12 regional Federal Banks are based in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.















Fed System Banks.


   Special Considerations  

The Fed's main income source is interest charges on a range of U.S. government securities it has acquired through its open market operations (OMO). Other income sources include interest on foreign currency investments, interest on loans to depository institutions, and fees for services—such as check clearing and fund transfers—provided to these institutions. After paying expenses, the Fed transfers the rest of its earnings to the U.S. Treasury.



The Federal Reserve payments system, commonly known as the Fedwire, moves trillions of dollars daily between banks throughout the U.S. Transactions are for same-day settlement. In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed has paid increased attention to the risk created by the time lag between when payments are made early in the day and when they are settled and reconciled. Large financial institutions are being pressured by the Fed to improve real-time monitoring of payments and credit risk, which has been available only on an end-of-day basis.


   The Federal Reserve System's Mandate and Duties  

The monetary policy goals of the Federal Reserve are twofold: to foster economic conditions that achieve stable prices and maximum sustainable employment.



The Fed's duties can be further categorized into four general areas:



Conducting national monetary policy by influencing monetary and credit conditions in the U.S. economy to ensure maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates.
Supervising and regulating banking institutions to ensure the safety of the U.S. banking and financial system and to protect consumers' credit rights.
Maintaining financial system stability and containing systemic risk.
Providing financial services, including a pivotal role in operating the national payments system, depository institutions, the U.S. government, and foreign official institutions.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   The Federal Reserve System's Organizational Structure  

There are seven members of the Board of Governors. These individuals are nominated by the President and approved by the U.S. Senate. Each governor serves a maximum of 14 years. Their appointment is staggered by two years to limit the power of the president. The law also dictates that appointments represent all broad sectors of the U.S. economy.



Note that as of June 7, 2022, only one board seat remains empty.









Fed Governors (as of June 2022)




Chair
Jerome H. Powell


Vice-Chair
Lael Brainard


Board Member
Michelle W. Bowman


Board Member
Lisa D. Cook


Board Member
Philip N. Jefferson


Board Member
Christopher J. Waller


Board Member
Seat Currently Empty



Source: Federal Reserve



In addition to the governors of the Fed's board, each of the 12 regional banks has its own president. Each of these banks is set up in a different Federal Reserve district.









Fed Regional Bank Presidents (as of June 2022)


Name of President
Bank Location-District




Kenneth C. Montgomery
Boston-1


John C. Williams
New York-2


Patrick T. Harker
Philadelphia-3


Loretta J. Mester
Cleveland-4


Thomas I. Barkin
Richmond-5


Raphael W. Bostic
Atlanta-6


Austan Goolsbee
Chicago-7


James Bullard
St. Louis-8


Neel Kashkari
Minneapolis-9


Esther L. George
Kansas City-10


Meredith Black
Dallas-11


Mary C. Daly
San Francisco-12



Source: Federal Reserve


   The Federal Reserve System's Independence  

Central bank independence refers to the question of whether the overseers of monetary policy should be completely disconnected from the realm of government. Those who favor independence recognize the influence of politics in promoting monetary policy that can favor re-election in the near term but cause lasting economic damage down the road. Critics say that the central bank and government must be tightly coordinated in their economic policy and that central banks must have regulatory oversight.



The Fed is also considered to be independent because its decisions do not have to be ratified by the president or any other government official. However, it is still subject to congressional oversight and must work within the framework of the government's economic and fiscal policy objectives.



Fears over the expansion of the Federal Reserve balance sheet and risky bailouts for firms such as American International Group (AIG) have led to demands for increased transparency and accountability. Recent calls in Washington to audit the Federal Reserve could potentially undermine the independent status of the U.S. central bank.






The Fed is considered to be independent because its decisions do not have to be ratified.


   The Federal Reserve System (FRS) vs. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)  

The Federal Reserve's Board of Governors is responsible for setting reserve requirements. This is the amount of money banks are required to hold to ensure they have enough to meet sudden withdrawals. It also sets the discount rate, which is the interest rate the Fed charges on loans made to financial institutions and other commercial banks.



The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), on the other hand, is the Federal Reserve's main monetary policymaking body. It is responsible for open market operations including the buying and selling of government securities. The FOMC includes the Board of Governors (or the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as it's also called), the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the presidents of four other regional Federal Reserve Banks who serve on a rotating basis.



The committee is responsible for monetary policy decisions, which are categorized into three areas: maximizing employment, stabilizing prices, and moderating long-term interest rates. The first two are known as the Fed's dual mandate.



Central banks across the globe, including the Fed, have also come to use a tool known as quantitative easing (QE) to expand private credit, lower interest rates, and increase investment and commercial activity through FOMC decision-making. Quantitative easing is mainly used to stimulate economies during recessions when credit is scarce, as it was during and following the 2007-2008 financial crisis, for example.




What Does It Mean That the Federal Reserve Is a Central Bank?
A central bank is a financial institution that is responsible for overseeing the monetary system and policy of a nation. A central bank regulates the money supply and sets a nation's interest rates. Central banks also enact monetary policy. By easing or tightening the money supply and availability of credit, central banks seek to keep a nation's economy on an even keel.




Who Owns the Federal Reserve?
The Federal Reserve System is not owned by anyone. It was created in 1913 by the Federal Reserve Act to serve as the nation's central bank. The Board of Governors is an agency of the federal government and reports to and is directly accountable to Congress.




Does the Fed Print U.S. Money?
Though the U.S. Treasury Department issues coins, the Fed prints and manages paper money, which is technically known as Federal Reserve notes. The Federal Reserve currently issues $1, $5, $10, $20, $50, and $100 notes. The largest denomination Federal Reserve note ever issued for public circulation was the $10,000 note.




How Does the Fed Set Interest Rates?
The Fed has an implicit target rate of inflation of 2%. The principle of inflation targeting is based on the belief that long-term economic growth is best achieved by maintaining price stability, and price stability is achieved by controlling inflation. Inflation levels of 1% to 2% per year are generally considered acceptable, while inflation rates greater than 3% represent a dangerous zone that could cause the currency to become devalued. The Taylor rule is an econometric model that says the Federal Reserve should raise interest rates when inflation or gross domestic product (GDP) growth rates are higher than desired.




Does the Fed Collect Taxes?
No. The Fed is responsible only for monetary policy and banking system oversight. Federal taxes are approved and collected exclusively by Congress—via the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a federal agency)—which is an instance of fiscal policy. State and local taxes are collected by individual states or municipalities.
What Is the Federal Reserve Board (FRB)?  

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, also known as the Federal Reserve Board (FRB), is the governing body of the Federal Reserve System. The FRB was established by the Banking Act of 1935. The members are statutorily tasked with giving a “fair representation of the financial, agricultural, industrial, and commercial interests and geographical divisions of the country.”





Key Takeaways

The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) is the governing body of the Federal Reserve System, America's central bank.The FRB is an independent governmental agency in charge of conducting monetary policy through open market operations or setting interest rates.The FRB is composed of seven members including a chair, appointed by congress from among the regional federal reserve banks.


   How the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) Works  

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System called the Federal Reserve Board or FRB for short, is a seven-member body that governs the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. central bank in charge of making the country's monetary policy.



The FRB is considered an independent agency of the federal government. The Fed has a statutory mandate to maximum employment and stable prices at moderate long-term interest rates, and the FRB chair and other officials frequently testify before Congress, but it makes monetary policy independently of the legislative or executive branches and is structured like a private corporation.


   Appointments, Terms, and Roles  

The president appoints the FRB's members, and they are confirmed by the Senate. Each is appointed to a single 14-year term but may serve shorter or longer periods. A new board member serves the remainder of the outgoing member's term if any. The new member may then be reappointed to one full term.



If a replacement has not been confirmed when that term expires, they may continue to serve, so that it is possible for a member to serve for much longer than 14 years. However, the President is allowed to remove a member from the board, given sufficient cause. Terms are staggered so that a new one begins every two years. Once appointed, each board member operates independently.



The chair and vice-chair for the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board are appointed to four-year terms by the president from among the board's existing members. They can be reappointed to these leadership roles as many times as their term limits as board members allow. 



The board of governors includes several subcommittees with their chairs and vice-chairs. These are the committees on board affairs; consumer and community affairs; economic and financial monitoring and research; financial stability; Federal Reserve Bank affairs; supervision and regulation; payments, clearing, and settlement; and the subcommittee on smaller regional and community banking. 



Here is the current list of Federal Reserve Board members:








Current Federal Reserve Board




Jerome H. Powell (Chair)


Vice Chair—Seat Currently Empty (as of Jan. 20, 2022)


Vice Chair for Supervision—Seat Currently Empty (as of Jan. 20, 2022)


Michelle W. Bowman


Lael Brainard


Christopher Waller


Seat Currently Empty





   Duties of the Federal Reserve Board (FRB)  

The Federal Reserve Board members' most important role is as members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which is in charge of the open market operations that determine the federal funds rate, one of the global economy's most important benchmark interest rates. In addition to the seven governors, the FOMC consists of the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and a rotating set of four other branch presidents. The chair of the FRB also chairs the FOMC.



The FRB is directly in charge of two other monetary policy tools, the discount rate (based on suggestions from the regional branches) and reserve requirements. It is also tasked with supervising the Fed's 12 regional branches.



Correction—Jan. 31, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly listed the Federal Reserve Board as a "non-governmental agency." While independent, the FRB is an agency of the federal government.
What Is the Federal Reserve System (FRS)?  

The term Federal Reserve System (FRS) refers to the central bank of the U.S. The Fed, as it is commonly known, regulates the U.S. monetary and financial system. The Federal Reserve System is composed of a central governmental agency in Washington, D.C., the Board of Governors, and 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks in major cities throughout the U.S. The Fed's central role is to handle the country's monetary policy, among other things.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Reserve System is the central bank of the United States.Its key functions include handling the country's monetary policy and regulating banks, among other things.The Federal Reserve payments system, known as the Fedwire, moves trillions of dollars daily between banks.The Federal Open Market Committee is the Fed's monetary policy-making body and manages the country's money supply.The FOMC adjusts the target for the overnight federal funds rate, which controls short-term interest rates, based on its view of the economy.


   Understanding the Federal Reserve System (FRS)  

The Federal Reserve System is the central banking system of the United States. It is a major force in the country's economy and banking industry. The bank is headed by the governor and has a board with six other members. These individuals are nominated by the president and are then confirmed by the Senate.



The Fed performs five general functions:



Conducting the nation's monetary policy
Regulating banking institutions
Monitoring and protecting the credit rights of consumers
Maintaining the stability of the financial system
Providing financial services to the U.S. government



The Fed also operates three wholesale payment systems, including the Fedwire Funds Service, the Fedwire Securities Service, and the National Settlement Service.



The Fed has broad power to act to ensure financial stability, and it is the primary regulator of banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. It acts as the lender of last resort to member institutions who have no place else to borrow.



The Fed's open-mouth operations are known to publicly declare the current interest rate. Banks in the U.S. are also subject to regulations established by the states, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (if they are members), and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).






Jerome Powell was sworn in as Fed chair on Feb. 5, 2018, for a four-year term. He was reappointed for a second four-year term on May 23, 2022.


   Fed Payments  

The Fed uses two payment systems: Fedwire and FedNow. The FedNow service allows for instant payments. As the Fed describes, "payments that can be sent and received within seconds at any time of the day, on any day of the year, such that the receiver can use the funds almost instantly."



Fedwire is a payment service for financial institutions that hold an account with the Fed. According to the Fed, it is a "real-time gross settlement system that enables participants to initiate funds transfer that are immediate, final, and irrevocable once processed." It is used to make large-value, time-critical payments.


   History of the Federal Reserve System (FRS)  

The Fed was established by the Federal Reserve Act, which was signed by President Woodrow Wilson on Dec. 23, 1913, in response to the financial panic of 1907. Before that, the U.S. was the only major financial power without a central bank.



The following are some key highlights in the Fed's history:



When the Federal Reserve Act was established, it required commercial banks to hold reserves at their local Reserve Bank. Banks were able to borrow additional funds if and when needed by approaching the discount window. The discount window is the lending facility that helps commercial banks meet their short-term liquidity needs.
The Fed went through several changes in its early years. For instance, there were changes made to the way it works after the Great Depression. The Fed's board received more power (which was shifted from the 12 Reserve Banks) with the passing of the Banking Acts of 1933 and 1935.
Similarly, the Federal Reserve Reform Act, which was established in 1977, required the central bank to report to Congress with its goal of achieving maximum employment and reaching its inflationary targets.






The Federal Reserve attempts to reach a target rate of inflation of 2%.


   Federal Reserve System (FRS) vs. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)  

The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the Fed's monetary policy-making body and manages the country's money supply. It is made up of the seven members of the Fed's board of governors, the president of the New York Fed, and four of the remaining 11 regional Fed presidents, who serve one-year terms on a rotating basis. The FOMC meets eight times a year on a regular basis and additionally on an as-needed basis to discuss the outlook for the national economy and review options for its monetary policy.



The FOMC adjusts the target for the overnight federal funds rate, which controls short-term interest rates, at its meetings based on its view of the strength of the economy. When it wants to stimulate the economy, it reduces the target rate. Conversely, it raises the federal funds rate to slow the economy.



Here's a history of how the target rate has moved in recent years:



The target rate was lowered to 0.25% in response to the recession in 2008 and stayed there for seven years.On Dec. 16, 2015, the Fed raised the target rate to a range of 0.25% to 0.5%—the first rate hike in almost 10 years.The FOMC increased the rate all the way to the range of 2.0% to 2.25% starting Aug. 1, 2019.The rate fell drastically to the 0% to 0.25% range when the Fed announced the change on March 16, 2020. The Fed cited issues stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic.Since then, the rate has increased dramatically, all the way to the range of 5.25% to 5.5% as of the last FOMC meeting in July 2023. Higher inflation was among the reasons for the hikes.




What Are the 3 Main Purposes of the Federal Reserve System?
The three main purposes of the Federal Reserve System are:Maximum employmentStable pricesModerate long-term interest ratesThese goals were laid out in the Federal Reserve Act that created the Federal Reserve System.




Who Controls the Federal Reserve?
The Federal Reserve is the central bank of the United States and is managed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The board is based in Washington D.C. and is made up of seven members who are nominated by the President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.




Who Controls Monetary Policy?
Monetary policy is controlled by a central bank, in the United States, this is the Federal Reserve. A central bank controls open market operations, reserve requirements, and the discount window/rate. A country's government is responsible for fiscal policy, such as setting taxes.


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Reserve System (FRS) refers to the central bank of the United States. The Fed, as it is commonly known, sets the monetary policy of the United States. Its responsibilities also include regulating banking institutions, monitoring and protecting the credit rights of consumers, maintaining the stability of the financial system, and providing financial services to the U.S. government.
What Is the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)?  

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is an independent, bipartisan agency of the U.S. government tasked with protecting consumers and ensuring a strong competitive market. Lina Khan is the current Chair of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). 



Its principal purpose is to enforce non-criminal antitrust laws in the United States, preventing and eliminating anticompetitive business practices, including coercive monopolies. The FTC also seeks to protect consumers from predatory or misleading business practices.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is a bipartisan federal agency that enforces antitrust laws and protects consumers.It was signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson in 1914 as part of the administration's trust-busting efforts.FTC activities include investigating fraud or false advertising, congressional inquiries, and pre-merger notification.The FTC also handles scams and unfair or predatory business practices.The FTC discourages anticompetitive behavior through the Bureau of Competition, which reviews proposed mergers with the Department of Justice.


   Understanding the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)  

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) was established in 1914 by the Federal Trade Commission Act, as part of the Wilson administration's trust-busting efforts—trust-busting being a significant concern at the time. It was tasked with enforcing the Clayton Act, which banned monopolistic practices.



Before the birth of the FTC, there was the Bureau of Corporations, created by the Roosevelt administration in February 1903. Part of the Department of Commerce and Labor, the Bureau of Corporations was tasked with making sure businesses acted in the best interest of the public. The success of the Bureau of Corporations led to the creation of the FTC.



The FTC continues to discourage anticompetitive behavior through the Bureau of Competition, which reviews proposed mergers together with the Department of Justice (DOJ). As the years have passed, the FTC has been tasked with enforcing additional business regulations, as codified in Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations.






Under the premerger notification program, parties of larger mergers must submit a premerger notification to the FTC and Department of Justice (DOJ).


   The Federal Trade Commission's Core Activities  

The FTC's regular activities include investigating fraud or false advertising from consumers, businesses, and the media, congressional inquiries, and pre-merger notification filings.



The FTC may investigate a single company or an entire industry. If an FTC investigation reveals unlawful activities on the part of one or more companies within an industry, it can seek voluntary compliances via consent order, initiate federal litigation, or file an administrative complaint. Traditionally, such a complaint would be heard in front of an administrative law judge (ALJ) and may be appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals and then the Supreme Court.



The FTC also deals with complaints of unfair business practices, such as scams and deceptive advertising. Its Bureau of Consumer Protection conducts investigations into alleged abuses, carries out enforcement actions, and provides educational materials to consumers. The Bureau of Consumer Protection is in charge of the U.S. National Do Not Call Registry.



The FTC also administers and enforces the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Pay-Per-Call Rule, and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. In total, the Commission has enforcement or administrative responsibilities under more than 70 laws.



The Bureau of Economics provides research support to the other two departments of the FTC, including analysis of the potential effects of FTC actions.






The FTC typically does not have the ability to directly enforce its rulings, but it can go to the courts to have them enforced.


   Examples of Federal Trade Commission Actions  

In 1984, the FTC cracked down on deceptive pricing in the funeral home industry, implementing the FTC Funeral Rule, which requires funeral homes to offer a written General Price List (GPL) detailing all prices for goods and services in the funeral industry to anyone who requests one.



No one can be denied a written copy of GPL by law, and they must be allowed to keep it if they desire. In 1996, the FTC implemented the Funeral Rule Offenders Program, which allows offending funeral homes to make a voluntary payment to the U.S. Treasury or an appropriate state fund in exchange for not having to go to court.



In the 1990s, the agency also conducted several investigations into telemarketing scams, beginning with Project Telesweep in 1995, which cracked down on at least 100 fictitious business opportunity scams.



The FTC has been active in the healthcare industry, too, blocking the proposed acquisition of Palmyra Medical Center by Putney Memorial Hospital based on potential harm to consumers. The case went to the Supreme Court, which ruled in the FTC's favor in 2013.



More recently, in 2021, the FTC ordered e-commerce giant Amazon to pay more than $61 million as a settlement for its failure to pay Amazon Flex drivers all of their tips from Amazon customers. The charges against Amazon state that the company promised its Flex drivers 100% of customers tips while delivering and that the customers were advised the same. For more than two years, it withheld part of customer paid tips from its Flex drivers.




What Is the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914?
The Federal Trade Commissions Act of 1914 created the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and bestowed full power to the U.S. government to address unscrupulous acts among businesses.




What Does the FTC Regulate?
The FTC can regulate trade by outlining deceptive and unfair practices in the marketplace. It also enforces antitrust and consumer protection laws.




How Do You File a Complaint With the Federal Trade Commission?
Consumers can file complaints with the Federal Trade Commission online or call 1-877-FTC-HELP.The FTC also maintains the Identity theft hotline (1-877-ID-THEFT) and the National Do Not Call Registry (1-888-382-1222).




What Happens When You File a Complaint With the FTC?
Once a complaint is submitted, the FTC shares it with more than 3,000 law enforcers. The FTC gathers information from submitted complaints to create reports, which are used to investigate fraud, unfair business practices, and scams.
What Is the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA)?  

The Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) is a federal law that imposes a payroll tax on most employers. The money raised through FUTA is allocated to state unemployment insurance agencies, which fund unemployment benefits for individuals who are out of work. FUTA taxes are only paid by employers, which means individual taxpayers are not responsible to pay them. The FUTA tax rate is 6% and only applies to a certain dollar figure paid to employees during the year.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Unemployment Tax Act is legislation that imposes a payroll tax on any business with employees; the revenue raised is used to fund unemployment benefits. The FUTA tax rate is 6% of the first $7,000 paid to each employee annually.FUTA taxes are only imposed on employers even though they is based on employees' wages.FUTA and SUTA are similar taxes just imposed on different levels of government, while FUTA and FICA fund entirely different programs by charging different individuals.Employers who also pay their state unemployment insurance can receive a federal tax credit of up to 5.4%, resulting in an effective FUTA tax rate of 0.6%.


   How to Calculate FUTA Tax Liability  

A company's FUTA tax liability is fairly straightforward to calculate. A company is subject to FUTA taxes on the first $7,000 of payments made to an employee excluding exempt payments. The FUTA tax rate is 6%, and employers often receive a credit of up to 5.4% against this tax.



Suppose that Employee A was paid $10,000 in wages subject to FUTA taxes while Employee B was paid $5,000 in wages subject to FUTA taxes—both in the first quarter. Regarding Employee A, only the first $7,000 of wages per quarter are subject to the tax. Therefore, the tax liability is:



FUTA Liability = (Employee A's Eligible Wages + Employee B's Eligible Wages) x 6%



FUTA Liability = ($7,000 + $5,000) x $6%



The company's FUTA tax liability would be $720. Note that the company may be eligible for a tax credit of $648 ($12,000 x 5.4%); if this is the case, the company would only owe $72.


   Understanding the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA)  

FUTA is a federal law that raises revenue to administer unemployment insurance and job service programs in every state. As directed by the Act, employers are required to pay annual or quarterly federal unemployment taxes; they make up a part of what is commonly known as payroll taxes.



The tax rate is 6%. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the "tax applies to the first $7,000 you paid to each employee as wages during the year. The $7,000 is often referred to as the federal or FUTA wage base. Your state wage base may be different based on the respective state’s rules."



The funds in the account are used for unemployment compensation payments to workers who have lost their jobs. Although the amount of the FUTA payroll tax is based on employees' wages, it is imposed on employers only, not their employees. In other words, it is not deducted from a worker's wages. As such, FUTA differs from other payroll taxes such as the Social Security tax, which applies to both employers and employees.






The Federal Unemployment Tax Act requires employers to file IRS Form 940 annually to report the paying of their FUTA taxes. IRS Form 940 generally must be filed in the first quarter of the year.


   Special Considerations  

Wages that an employer pays to their spouse, a child under the age of 21, or parents do not count as FUTA wages. Payments such as fringe benefits, group term life insurance benefits, and employer contributions to employee retirement accounts are not included in the tax calculation for the federal unemployment tax.



Form 940 can be amended for a previous year. When the prior year's information needs to be updated, the IRS requests using the subsequent year to reflect the change. For example, an amendment to the 2022 Form 940 is done using the 2023 filing.



Various authorized personnel are allowed to sign Form 940 and remit the reporting of FUTA taxes. In general, a business owner, president, vice president, principal officer, fiduciary overseeing an estate, authorized partner, or officer knowing the affairs of a company may be allowed to sign the form.


   Who Pays the FUTA Tax?  

The reporting requirements for FUTA vary on the underlying entity that is remitting the taxes to the IRS. FUTA taxes can be paid annually or quarterly, and the amount of an employer's FUTA tax liability determines when the tax must be paid. Here are the different reporting requirements for various types of entities or employers.


  Businesses  

According to the IRS, a business owes FUTA if it meets one of two requirements. There are two broad measurements to determine whether a business must collect and remit FUTA, and a company only needs to satisfy one of the two following conditions in order to be required to remit FUTA:



It paid at least $1,500 in wages during any calendar quarter in the current or previous year.
It had at least one full-time, part-time, or temporary employee for at least some part of a day in any 20 or more different weeks in the current or previous year.






A calendar quarter is January through March, April through June, July through September, or October through December.


  Household Employers  

There is a different set of reporting requirements for household employers, those who hire a nanny, babysitter, maid, housekeeper, or other people to provide services within one's private home. Household employers must pay FUTA tax on wages if the following two conditions are met:



Cash wages of $1,000 or more were paid to a household employee in any quarter during the year.The household employee performs household work in a private home, local college club, or local chapter of a college fraternity.



Household employers can opt to file and report FUTA taxes using Schedule H via Form 1040 instead of Form 940.


  Agricultural Employers  

Another varying set of requirements exists for agricultural or farming employers. If the employer meets either of the conditions below, they are subject to FUTA tax collection and reporting:



Cash wages of $20,000 or more were paid to farmworkers during any calendar quarter during the year.Ten or more farmworkers were employed during some part of the day during any 20 or more varying weeks within a calendar year.


  Other Employers  

Indian tribal governments are exempt from the FUTA tax. However, the tribe must have participated in the state unemployment system for the entire year and be compliant with prevailing unemployment laws. Religious, educational, scientific, charitable, or other tax-exempt organizations are also exempt from FUTA. Services performed by state or local government parties are also exempt.






If you're filing your last Form 940 because your business has closed or you have stopped paying wages, you can select Box D in the top right corner of the form to notify the IRS.


   How to Pay and Report FUTA Taxes  

There's two components to FUTA: depositing FUTA taxes and filing the appropriate tax form. Companies that owe $500 or more of FUTA in a calendar year must make at least one quarterly payment. The IRS permits any single quarterly tax liability of less than $500 to be rolled to the next period.



FUTA must usually be deposited at the end of the month subsequent to quarter-end. For example, with the first quarter ending March 31, FUTA taxes in Q1 are due for deposit by April 30. The IRS also requires all federal tax deposits to be made via electronic funds transfer.



The tax form is often due in full early in the calendar year. The due date for filing Form 940 was Jan. 31, 2023. Taxpayers who already deposited their FUTA taxes to the IRS had until Feb. 10, 2023, to file. Form 940 is considered to be on time as long as it is properly addressed and postmarked prior to the due date.



FUTA can be reported via Form 940 electronically using the IRS' electronic filing platform. Taxpayers wanting to mail in a paper form will have varying mailing addresses based on the state they are in.






If the due date for filing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, IRS guidelines mandate that the return is subsequently due the next business day.


   Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) vs. State Unemployment Tax Act (SUTA)  

Many states collect an additional unemployment tax from employers as per the State Unemployment Tax Act. The SUTA taxes range from 2% to 5% of an employee's wages.



Paying SUTA taxes can lessen the burden of FUTA taxes. As noted above, employers can take a tax credit of up to 5.4% of taxable income if they pay state unemployment taxes in full and on time. This amount is deducted from the amount of employee federal unemployment taxes owed.



An employer that qualifies for the highest credit will have a net tax rate of 0.6% (calculated as 6% minus 5.4%). Thus, the minimum amount an employer can pay in FUTA tax is $42 per employee. However, companies that are exempt from state unemployment taxes do not qualify for the FUTA credit.


   Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) vs. Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA)  

While FUTA is used to fund unemployment benefits, Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA) taxes are different in several ways. FICA taxes are paid by both the employer and the employee. The tax is split evenly between the two, though self-employed individuals are usually responsible for both portions.



FICA is intended to fund different government programs. These taxes are used to provide Social Security and Medicare benefits. It is automatically deducted from employee paychecks, and federal law dictates that it is furnished by workers and their employers.




What Is FUTA?
FUTA stands for Federal Unemployment Tax Act. The law imposes a payroll tax on employers to fund unemployment programs in the United States. A company is usually responsible for a tax of 6% on every employee's wages up to $7,000 per year. A company may often be eligible to receive a credit of up to 5.4%.




What Is the Difference Between FUTA and SUTA?
FUTA and SUTA are essentially the same type of payroll tax used to fund government unemployment programs. However, FUTA is assessed at the federal level, while SUTA is assessed at the state level.




What Is the Difference Between FUTA and FICA?
FUTA is a payroll tax implemented on just an employer to help fund federal unemployment programs. FICA is a payroll tax implemented on both the employer and employee that provides funding for Medicare and Social Security.




Who Is Subject to FUTA?
Most businesses are subject to FUTA if they have employees. If a company paid wages of more than $1,500 to employees in any calendar quarter during the year, they are subject to FUTA. In addition, if one or more employees worked part of a day in 20 or more different weeks during the year, the company they work for is subject to FUTA.




Is FUTA Paid by the Employer?
Yes, FUTA is paid for by the employer. Unlike other payroll taxes, FUTA is not deducted from an employee's paycheck, and all tax liability for FUTA resides with the employer.


   The Bottom Line  

Most people don't know about FUTA taxes. That's because the Federal Unemployment Tax Act only imposes this tax on employers—not employees. This means that, as an employee, you don't have to pay this additional tax. Taxes collected through the Federal Unemployment Tax Act are used to fund unemployment insurance programs along with those collected by individual states.



Correction—May 17, 2023: A previous version of this article misstated that FUTA taxes are due on every employee's wages up to $7,000 per quarter. The article was corrected to show that it is paid on every employee's wages up to $7,000 per year.
What Is a Feasibility Study?  

A feasibility study is a detailed analysis that considers all of the critical aspects of a proposed project in order to determine the likelihood of it succeeding.



Success in business may be defined primarily by return on investment, meaning that the project will generate enough profit to justify the investment. However, many other important factors may be identified on the plus or minus side, such as community reaction and environmental impact.



Although feasibility studies can help project managers determine the risk and return of pursuing a plan of action, several steps should be considered before moving forward.





Key Takeaways

A company may conduct a feasibility study when it's considering launching a new business, adding a new product line, or acquiring a rival.A feasibility study assesses the potential for success of the proposed plan or project by defining its expected costs and projected benefits in detail.It's a good idea to have a contingency plan on hand in case the original project is found to be infeasible.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding a Feasibility Study  

A feasibility study is an assessment of the practicality of a proposed plan or project. A feasibility study analyzes the viability of a project to determine whether the project or venture is likely to succeed. The study is also designed to identify potential issues and problems that could arise while pursuing the project.



As part of the feasibility study, project managers must determine whether they have enough of the right people, financial resources, and technology. The study must also determine the return on investment, whether this is measured as a financial gain or a benefit to society, as in the case of a nonprofit project.



The feasibility study might include a cash flow analysis, measuring the level of cash generated from revenue versus the project's operating costs. A risk assessment must also be completed to determine whether the return is enough to offset the risk of undergoing the venture.






When doing a feasibility study, it’s always good to have a contingency plan that is ready to test as a viable alternative if the first plan fails.


   Benefits of a Feasibility Study  

There are several benefits to feasibility studies, including helping project managers discern the pros and cons of undertaking a project before investing a significant amount of time and capital into it.



Feasibility studies can also provide a company's management team with crucial information that could prevent them from entering into a risky business venture.



Such studies help companies determine how they will grow. They will know more about how they will operate, what the potential obstacles are, who the competition is, and what the market is.



Feasibility studies also help convince investors and bankers that investing in a particular project or business is a wise choice.


   How to Conduct a Feasibility Study  

The exact format of a feasibility study will depend on the type of organization that requires it. However, the same factors will be involved even if their weighting varies.


  Preliminary Analysis  

Although each project can have unique goals and needs, there are some best practices for conducting any feasibility study:



Conduct a preliminary analysis, which involves getting feedback about the new concept from the appropriate stakeholders
Analyze and ask questions about the data obtained in the early phase of the study to make sure that it's solid
Conduct a market survey or market research to identify the market demand and opportunity for pursuing the project or business
Write an organizational, operational, or business plan, including identifying the amount of labor needed, at what cost, and for how long
Prepare a projected income statement, which includes revenue, operating costs, and profit
Prepare an opening day balance sheet
Identify obstacles and any potential vulnerabilities, as well as how to deal with them
Make an initial "go" or "no-go" decision about moving ahead with the plan


  Suggested Components  

Once the initial due diligence has been completed, the real work begins. Components that are typically found in a feasibility study include the following:



Executive summary: Formulate a narrative describing details of the project, product, service, plan, or business.
Technological considerations: Ask what will it take. Do you have it? If not, can you get it? What will it cost?
Existing marketplace: Examine the local and broader markets for the product, service, plan, or business.
Marketing strategy: Describe it in detail.
Required staffing: What are the human capital needs for this project? Draw up an organizational chart.
Schedule and timeline: Include significant interim markers for the project's completion date.
Project financials.
Findings and recommendations: Break down into subsets of technology, marketing, organization, and financials.


   Examples of a Feasibility Study  

Below are two examples of a feasibility study. The first involves expansion plans for a university. The second is a real-world example conducted by the Washington State Department of Transportation with private contributions from Microsoft Inc.


  A University Science Building  

Officials at a university were concerned that the science building—built in the 1970s—was outdated. Considering the technological and scientific advances of the last 20 years, they wanted to explore the cost and benefits of upgrading and expanding the building. A feasibility study was conducted.



In the preliminary analysis, school officials explored several options, weighing the benefits and costs of expanding and updating the science building. Some school officials had concerns about the project, including the cost and possible community opposition. The new science building would be much larger, and the community board had earlier rejected similar proposals. The feasibility study would need to address these concerns and any potential legal or zoning issues.



The feasibility study also explored the technological needs of the new science facility, the benefits to the students, and the long-term viability of the college. A modernized science facility would expand the school's scientific research capabilities, improve its curriculum, and attract new students.



Financial projections showed the cost and scope of the project and how the school planned to raise the needed funds, which included issuing a bond to investors and tapping into the school's endowment. The projections also showed how the expanded facility would allow more students to be enrolled in the science programs, increasing revenue from tuition and fees.



The feasibility study demonstrated that the project was viable, paving the way to enacting the modernization and expansion plans of the science building.



Without conducting a feasibility study, the school administrators would never have known whether its expansion plans were viable.


  A High-Speed Rail Project  

The Washington State Department of Transportation decided to conduct a feasibility study on a proposal to construct a high-speed rail that would connect Vancouver, British Colombia, Seattle, Washington, and Portland, Oregon. The goal was to create an environmentally responsible transportation system to enhance the competitiveness and future prosperity of the Pacific Northwest.



The preliminary analysis outlined a governance framework for future decision-making. The study involved researching the most effective governance framework by interviewing experts and stakeholders, reviewing governance structures, and learning from existing high-speed rail projects in North America. As a result, governing and coordinating entities were developed to oversee and follow the project if it was approved by the state legislature.



A strategic engagement plan involved an equitable approach with the public, elected officials, federal agencies, business leaders, advocacy groups, and indigenous communities. The engagement plan was designed to be flexible, considering the size and scope of the project and how many cities and towns would be involved. A team of the executive committee members was formed and met to discuss strategies, lessons learned from previous projects and met with experts to create an outreach framework.



The financial component of the feasibility study outlined the strategy for securing the project's funding, which explored obtaining funds from federal, state, and private investments. The project's cost was estimated to be between $24 billion to $42 billion. The revenue generated from the high-speed rail system was estimated to be between $160 million and $250 million.



The report bifurcated the money sources between funding and financing. Funding referred to grants, appropriations from the local or state government, and revenue. Financing referred to bonds issued by the government, loans from financial institutions, and equity investments, which are essentially loans against future revenue that needs to be paid back with interest.



The sources for the capital needed were to vary as the project moved forward. In the early stages, most of the funding would come from the government, and as the project developed, funding would come from private contributions and financing measures. Private contributors included Microsoft Inc., which donated more than $570,000 to the project.



The benefits outlined in the feasibility report show that the region would experience enhanced interconnectivity, allowing for better management of the population and increasing regional economic growth by $355 billion. The new transportation system would provide people with access to better jobs and more affordable housing. The high-speed rail system would also relieve congested areas from automobile traffic.



The timeline for the study began in 2016 when an agreement was reached with British Columbia to work together on a new technology corridor that included high-speed rail transportation. The feasibility report was submitted to the Washington State land Legislature in December 2020.




What Is the Main Objective of a Feasibility Study?
A feasibility study is designed to help decision-makers determine whether or not a proposed project or investment is likely to be successful. It identifies both the known costs and the expected benefits.In business, "successful" means that the financial return exceeds the cost. In a nonprofit, success may be measured in other ways. A project's benefit to the community it serves may be worth the cost.




What Are the Steps in a Feasibility Study?
A feasibility study starts with a preliminary analysis. Stakeholders are interviewed, market research is conducted, and a business plan is prepared. All of this information is analyzed to make an initial "go" or "no-go" decision.If it's a go, the real study can begin. This includes listing the technological considerations, studying the marketplace, describing the marketing strategy, and outlining the necessary human capital, project schedule, and financing requirements.




Who Conducts a Feasibility Study?
A feasibility study may be conducted by a team of the organization's senior managers. If they lack the expertise or time to do the work internally it may be outsourced to a consultant.




What Are the 4 Types of Feasibility?
The study considers the feasibility of four aspects of a project:Technical: A list of the hardware and software needed, and the skilled labor required to make them work.Financial: An estimate of the cost of the overall project and its expected return.Market: An analysis of the market for the product or service, the industry, competition, consumer demand, sales forecasts, and growth projectionsOrganizational: An outline of the business structure and the management team that will be needed.


   The Bottom Line  

Feasibility studies help project managers determine the viability of a project or business venture by identifying the factors that can lead to its success. The study also shows the potential return on investment and any risks to the success of the venture.



A feasibility study contains a detailed analysis of what's needed to complete the proposed project. The report may include a description of the new product or venture, a market analysis, the technology and labor needed, as well as the sources of financing and capital. The report will also include financial projections, the likelihood of success, and ultimately, a go-or-no-go decision.
What Is a Fee?  

A fee is a fixed price charged for a specific service. Fees are applied in a variety of ways such as costs, charges, commissions, and penalties. Fees are most commonly found in heavily transactional services and are paid in lieu of a wage or salary.





Key Takeaways

Most often, fees are the payment one makes for service, both basic—mowing a lawn, for example, and complex—like drafting a will or preparing your taxes.Sometimes there is more than one fee charged for a service (i.e., buying a plane ticket for X amount of money, but getting hit with luggage fees and travel fees).There are government (local and federal) fees connected with obtaining licenses, such as a driver’s license or a passport.Fees can add up fast, for example, credit card companies often charge hefty fees for late charges. Some services use hidden fees to pad their bills with unexpected costs. Asking about hidden fees (or simply fees that are not obvious) may save you from a higher bill than expected.


   How a Fee Works  

Fees are most often associated with transactional relationships, specifically to professionals who provide services. In some cases, a fee is charged when an individual hires a business to do a specific task, such as cleaning a house or filing taxes. This type of fee is often the most transparent and transactional, as it represents payment for the sole reason a fee-charging business was hired. Examples of transactional fees include mortgage fees and fees for wiring money.






It is important to read the fine print in contracts and ask questions about any and all fees in order to not be surprised by "hidden fees" for a product or service.


   Types of Fees  

Individuals and businesses pay fees for a wide variety of reasons. An individual may pay a financial advisor a fee for helping choose and manage investments, and a family may pay a fee to a real estate broker when selling a home. A business may pay a fee to an accountant to help manage its books, and to a security company to make sure that the building is protected after work hours.



Governments may charge fees for obtaining a business license or an individual passport. Investment institutions may charge a quarterly maintenance fee for accounts, and banks may charge overdraft fees when cardholders overdraw their accounts.


  Banking and Investment Fees  

Fees charged by banks are less likely to be transactional in the sense that the account holder has not requested a service. In some cases, as when an account is overdrawn or a credit card payment is made late, a fee is charged as a penalty.



In other cases, such as when a bank charges a monthly fee to checking account holders, the fee has little to do with the cost of maintaining the accounts. Regulations targeting the activities of banks have reduced or eliminated traditional sources of revenue, prompting these organizations to find other sources.



Investors who trade stocks, mutual funds, and options face a variety of fees. Equity trades often carry a per trade fee known as a trade commission, while options trades include both a per trade fee and a per-contract fee.



Fees paid for margin trading vary according to the outstanding margin balance, with a lower fee rate levied on higher balances. An investor looking to put some money into mutual funds may be faced with costs like the management expense ratio (MER) and fees associated with load funds.


  A La Carte Fees  

Fees can also be charged in situations in which a customer requests additional services. These à la carte fees are commonly found in transactions related to travel. For example, a travel package may include the option of having ground transportation waiting for the customer upon arrival at a port of call. One of the more recognizable examples involves baggage on flights, as airlines often allow passengers to bring one carry-on item for free but charge for any bags that are checked.


  Hidden Fees  

Have you ever noticed that your phone or cable bill or the price you paid for your dream vacation may be higher than you expected? That may be due to extra fees tacked on to the original charge. While most consumers expect to pay specific fees for the services they use, there may be additional charges added on that they may not necessarily be aware of at the time they signed up. These are called hidden or undisclosed fees, which may be a one-time charge and may appear in fine print on a contract. These are charged by a variety of companies such as banks, credit cards, cellphone, cable and Internet providers, brokers and insurance firms, and those in the travel industry.



Hidden fees can cost consumers billions of dollars a year (and, in turn, make big profits for corporations) and are usually regulated at the state and federal level. According to a 2016 report from the National Economic Council, these fees can often be deceptive because they muddy the purchase price for consumers. The report states that fees have steadily increased in the airline, hotel, and related industries.


   Example of a Hidden Fee  

For example, one hotel may charge travelers $110 per night. But if you’re looking for a deal, you may opt for cheaper accommodations at another hotel at a rate of $100 per night. But there may be a $10 resort fee at the time of booking or even at a later date. These charges are not typically part of the price advertised.



Some hotels will justify these fees for amenities like swimming pools or gym access. Even though the cost may be the same in the end, the $100 per night rate may still be attractive to the consumer, despite the hidden fee.





Warning

Securities traders may face multiple fees and expenses. It is important to carefully study the fee schedule before trading to avoid losing profits.


   The Bottom Line  

Fees are an unpleasant but expected part of transactional relationships, especially when there are additional charges by third parties. While some additional costs are to be expected for various services, the abuse of hidden fees is a potentially unethical way of squeezing extra revenue from unsuspecting customers.


   Fee FAQs  
  What Is an HOA Fee?  

HOA Fees are charged by a Homeowner's Association to pay for maintenance of public areas, security, and other services to improve the neighborhood. They may also be used to remunerate elected HOA officials and to defray legal costs.


  How Much Is a PayPal Fee?  

As of May 31, 2021, Paypal transactions and donations are free for senders in the United States. Most merchant fees are 2.9%, but they are slightly lower for QR code transactions. There are additional fees for international transactions (1.5%) and fixed fees for currency transactions.



There is a separate fee schedule for cryptocurrency transactions, which cost between 1.5% and 2.3%, in addition to the normal cost spread.


  What Is a Retainer Fee?  

A retainer fee is an upfront payment to engage a consultant, lawyer, accountant, or other professional. A typical retainer fee does not represent the final cost of the transaction. The specialist may return money from the retainer if the work finishes early, or bill additional time if the retainer is insufficient.


  What Does Fee Simple Mean?  

Fee simple is a term in real estate, referring to full and irrevocable ownership of an area of land and any buildings on it. This is the highest form of real estate ownership recognized by law. When a landowner in fee simple dies, their land is divided among their heirs.


  What Is a Balance Transfer Fee?  

A balance transfer fee is the cost of transferring debt from one lender to another, or in other words, the cost of using one loan to pay another. Balance transfer fees are common in credit cards, many of which have low introductory rates. A typical balance transfer fee ranges from 1%–3%.


  What Is a Loan Origination Fee?  

A loan origination fee is an additional fee charged by lenders to pay for the costs of executing a loan. A typical origination fee is 0.5% to 1% of the total loan value and is used to defray the cost of processing, underwriting, and executing a loan contract.


  What Is a Rehoming Fee?  

A rehoming fee is a fee charged by animal shelters or owners for the adoption of an animal. In addition to defraying the costs of food and veterinary care, a high rehoming fee can prevent animals from being used for unethical purposes.
What Is a Feed-In Tariff (FIT)?  

A feed-in tariff is a policy tool designed to promote investment in renewable energy sources. This usually means promising small-scale producers of the energy—such as solar or wind energy—an above-market price for what they deliver to the grid.





Key Takeaways

A feed-in tariff (FIT) is a policy designed to support the development of renewable energy sources by providing a guaranteed, above-market price for producers.FITs usually involve long-term contracts, from 15 to 20 years.FITs are common in the U.S. and around the world, used most notably in Germany and Japan.


   Understanding Feed-In Tariffs (FITs)  

Feed-in tariffs are seen as necessary to promote renewable energy sources in the early stages of their development, when production is often not economically feasible. Feed-in tariffs usually involve long-term agreements and prices tied to the cost of production of the energy in question. The long-term contracts and guaranteed prices shelter producers from some of the risks inherent in renewable energy production, encouraging investment and development that otherwise might not take place.


   Feed-In Tariffs and Small Energy Producers  

Anyone who produces renewable energy is eligible for a feed-in tariff, but those who take advantage of it are often not commercial energy producers. They can include homeowners, business owners, farmers, and private investors. Generally, FITs have three provisions.



They guarantee grid access, meaning energy producers will have access to the grid.They offer long-term contracts, typically in the range of 15 to 25 years.They offer guaranteed, cost-based purchase prices, meaning that energy producers are paid in proportion to the resources and capital expended in order to produce the energy.






One of the first feed-in tariffs was implemented in the U.S. by the Carter administration in 1978, but they are now used around the world.


   History of Feed-In Tariffs (FITs)  

The U.S. was a pioneer in feed-in tariffs. Its first was implemented by the Carter administration in 1978 in response to the energy crisis of the 1970s, which famously created long lines at gas pumps. Known as the National Energy Act, the FIT was meant to promote energy conservation along with the development of renewable energy such as solar and wind power.


   The Growth in Use of FITs  

Since then FITs have become widely used internationally. Japan, Germany, and China have all used them successfully over the past decade or so, and in total dozens of countries have used them to one degree or another to drive the development of renewable energy. It is estimated that about three-fourths of global solar energy is linked to feed-in tariffs.


   A Shift Away From Feed-In Tariffs  

Despite the successful role feed-in tariffs have played in promoting the development of renewable energy, some countries are turning away from relying on them, instead seeking more market-driven sources of support as well as more control over the supply of renewable energy that is produced. That includes Germany and China, two of the more prominent FIT success stories. Nonetheless, FITs still play a vital role in the development of renewable energy resources around the globe.
What Is a Feeder Fund?  

A feeder fund is one of several sub-funds that put all of their investment capital into an overarching umbrella fund, known as a master fund, for which a single investment advisor handles all portfolio investments and trading. This two-tiered investment structure of a feeder fund and a master fund is commonly used by hedge funds as a means of assembling a larger portfolio account by pooling investment capital.



Profits from the master fund are then split, or distributed, proportionately to the feeder funds based on the percentage of investment capital they have contributed to the master fund.





Key Takeaways

A feeder fund is one of many smaller investment funds that pool investor money, which is then aggregated under a single centralized master fund.Consolidation of feeder funds into a master fund allows for reductions of operation and trading costs, and a larger portfolio has the added benefit of economies of scale.Hedge funds commonly use master-feeder structures, where fees generated are pro-rated and distributed to the feeder funds.


   Understanding Feeder Funds  

In a feeder fund arrangement, all management fees and any performance fees due are paid by investors at the feeder fund level.



The primary purpose served by the feeder fund-master fund structure is the reduction of trading costs and overall operating costs. The master fund effectively achieves economies of scale through having access to the large pool of investment capital provided by a number of feeder funds, which enables it to operate less expensively than would be possible for any of the feeder funds investing on their own.



The use of this two-tiered fund structure can be very advantageous when the feeder funds share common investment goals and strategies but are not appropriate for a feeder fund with a unique investment strategy or aim since those unique characteristics would be lost in the combination with other funds within a master fund.


   Structure of Feeder Funds and Master Funds  

The feeder funds that invest capital in a master fund operate as separate legal entities from the master fund and may be invested in more than one master fund. Various feeder funds invested in a master fund often differ substantially from one another in terms of things such as expense fees or investment minimums and do not usually have identical net asset values (NAV). In the same way that a feeder fund is free to invest in more than one master fund, a master fund is likewise free to accept investments from a number of feeder funds.



In regard to feeder funds operating in the United States, it is common for the master fund to be established as an offshore entity. This frees up the master fund to accept investment capital from both tax-exempt and U.S.-taxable investors. If, however, an offshore master fund elects to be taxed as a partnership or limited liability company (LLC) for U.S. tax purposes, then onshore feeder funds receive pass-through treatment of their share of the master fund's gains or losses, thus avoiding double taxation.


   New Rules on International Feeder Funds  

In March 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) ruled to allow foreign-regulated companies (foreign feeder funds) to invest in open-end master funds (U.S. Master Fund), making it easier for global managers to market their investment products in different foreign jurisdictions employing a master fund. 



The letter modified parts 12(d)(1)(A) and (B) of the 1940 Act, which previously limited the use of foreign feeder funds into U.S.-registered funds. The SEC regulated the practice for several reasons. First, it wanted to prevent master funds from exerting too much influence over an acquired fund. It also aimed to protect investors in the funds from layered fees and the possibility of fund structures becoming so complex that they became difficult to understand.
What Is an FHA 203(k) Loan?  

An FHA 203(k) loan is a type of government-insured mortgage that allows the borrower to take out one loan for two purposes: home purchase and home renovation. An FHA 203(k) loan is wrapped around rehabilitation or repairs to a home that will become the mortgagor’s primary residence.



An FHA 203(k) is effectively an FHA construction loan.





Key Takeaways

An FHA 203(k) loan is a government-backed mortgage that is essentially a construction loan that finances both the purchase and repairs of a home.These loans are intended to support homeownership among lower-income households, allowing them to improve and update older properties as their primary residence.The FHA offers different varieties of the 203(k) loan depending on the extent of repairs needed.


   Understanding FHA 203(k) Loans  

The FHA 203(k) loan is meant to encourage families in low- to moderate-income brackets to purchase homes that are in dire need of repairs, especially homes that are situated in old communities. The program allows an individual to buy a home and renovate it under one fixed-rate or adjustable-rate mortgage. The amount that is borrowed includes the purchase price of the home and the cost of renovation, including materials and hired labor.



The loan may also cover temporary housing funding (if needed), which could be in the form of rent for the period that the house is under rehabilitation. The dual-purpose loan eliminates the need for a borrower to make two separate applications for a mortgage and a loan for home renovation, either of which may not be approved by the bank or may come at a higher combined cost.



Normally, lenders are unwilling to offer a mortgage for a property in need of major repairs due to their safety and livability standards. FHA 203(k) loans, which are backed by the government, provide reassurance to lending institutions because the cost of renovating the home is included in the mortgage package. The renovation fees are placed in an escrow account and disbursed as payment to the contractors as the work is completed. Complete renovation of the home should not take more than six months, as outlined by the FHA guide for a 203(k) loan.


   Types of 203(k) Loans  

There are two types of 203(k) loans: limited 203(k) and standard 203(k). The loans apply only to individuals and families who intend on making the property their primary residence. This means that real estate investors and house-flippers do not qualify.



The work carried out must be contracted to a licensed handyman. If the mortgagor qualifies as one, they may act as their own general contractor and do the repair work themselves, using the money saved for cost overruns or additional improvements. They cannot, however, be reimbursed for their labor.


  Limited 203(k): Minimal Repairs  

A home that does not require much work would usually be paid for using the limited 203(k). This option does not include structural work on the home, such as adding new rooms or landscaping, and the home must be habitable throughout the renovation period. Repairs under the limited 203(k) are capped at $35,000.


  Standard 203(k): Extensive Work  

The standard 203(k) includes any extensive repairs and structural work that need to be done in the home with no capped repair cost. The minimum amount that can be borrowed is $5,000, but the total value of the property must still fall within the FHA mortgage limit for the area.



Some of the repairs that an FHA 203(k) loan covers include plumbing, flooring, painting, heat and air-conditioning systems, bathroom and kitchen remodeling, improvement of health and safety standards, landscape improvements, implementing access tools for disabled persons, the addition of energy conservation systems, and window and door replacements. Renovations that are considered extravagant or luxurious—such as tennis courts, gazebos, and new swimming pools)—are not covered under an FHA 203(k) loan.


   How Do Lenders Use an FHA 203(k) Loan?  

The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) was created in 1934 during the Great Depression, which saw a high rate of foreclosures and defaults. The FHA served to incentivize banks to give home loans to low- and medium-income earners, individuals with low credit scores, and first-time homebuyers with no credit history. This helped to stimulate the economy because people who would normally not be approved for a loan were issued mortgages. The FHA loan was created to insure these types of mortgages so that when a borrower defaults, the FHA will step in to cover the payments, minimizing the lender's default risk.



High-income earners generally prefer to buy in newer and more-developed areas of a city. The FHA introduced the 203(k) loan specifically to encourage low-income earners who do not qualify for a standard mortgage to choose to live in neglected neighborhoods and upgrade them.


   Getting an FHA 203(k) Loan  

It is important to note that the FHA is not a lender; rather, it is a mortgage insurer. You get an FHA 203(k) loan by applying through your bank, credit union, or another lender. Not all lenders offer these loans. To find an approved lender, see HUD’s approved lender search.



The FHA is also not a home insurer or warranty provider. Homebuyers still need to purchase home insurance and warranties for their home and property.


   Pros and Cons of FHA 203(k) Loans  

As with other FHA loans, an individual can make a down payment of only 3.5%. Because the loan is insured by the FHA, lenders may offer lower interest rates for a 203(k) loan compared to what borrowers may be quoted elsewhere. Interest rates will vary for each borrower depending on their credit history.



However, the FHA 203(k) loan is not without its costs. An upfront mortgage insurance premium has to be paid every month by the borrower. A supplemental origination fee may also be charged by the lending institution. In addition to the financial costs to the borrower, the rigorous paperwork required and the lengthy time it takes to hear back from the FHA and lender are factors to consider when applying for this program.



Overall, an individual with a low credit score seeking to own a home that may need to be fixed and modernized may realize that the FHA 203(k) has great benefits that outweigh its costs.


   FHA 203(k) vs. Construction Loans  

Though an FHA 203(k) loan is a type of FHA construction loan, it's possible to get construction loans outside of the FHA program. A construction loan is typically a short-term loan that provides funding to cover the cost of building or rehabbing a home.



Construction loans may have higher interest rates than conventional mortgage loans. The money may be paid out in installments as construction gets underway and continues, rather than as a lump sum. The balance due on a construction loan may be paid in a lump sum at the end of the loan term. Alternately, homeowners may choose to convert a construction loan to a conventional mortgage.






If your lender doesn’t allow for automatic conversion of a construction loan to a conventional mortgage, you may need to apply for a brand-new loan to avoid having to make one large balloon payment.


   FHA 203(k) Loan Qualifications  

If you’re interested in an FHA 203(k) loan, it’s important to understand what you’ll need to qualify. The first step is finding an eligible lender if you haven’t done so already. Next, you’ll need to ensure that your purpose for getting the loan meets FHA 203(k) guidelines. Again, these types of loans can cover:



Structural alterations and reconstruction Modernization and improvements to the home’s functionElimination of health and safety hazardsChanges that improve the appearance of the property and eliminate obsolescenceReconditioning or replacing plumbing and installing a well and/or septic systemAdding or replacing roofing, gutters, and downspoutsAdding or replacing floors and/or floor treatmentsMajor landscape work and site improvementsEnhancing accessibility for a disabled personMaking energy conservation improvements



If the property satisfies those guidelines, you can move forward with the application process. The qualification requirements for an FHA 203(k) loan are similar to the requirements for a regular FHA loan, in terms of credit scoring, income, down payment requirements, and FHA loan limits. That means you’ll need a credit score of at least 580 to make the purchase with a down payment of 3.5%. The typical score needed to get a standard mortgage is 620, though some lenders require a score as high as 740.






It’s possible to qualify for an FHA 203(k) loan with a credit score as low as 500, though that will require you to increase your down payment to 10%.




How Does an FHA 203(k) Loan Work and What Are the Types?
An FHA 203(k) loan is for home purchase and home renovation. There are two types: limited and standard. The amount borrowed accounts for both the purchase price of the home and its renovation costs, which include materials and labor. It is intended to help rehabilitate poorer communities and aid lower-income people.




Does the FHA Make the Loan?
No. The FHA insures the loan. You must get the loan through a financial institution such as a bank or credit union.




Can You Use a 203(k) Loan for All Improvements?
No. Anything considered extravagant or luxurious—such as a tennis court, gazebo, or a new swimming pool—is not allowed. However, most repairs and upgrades do qualify, including rehabbing an existing swimming pool.


   The Bottom Line  

FHA 203(k) loans are government-backed mortgages that work as construction loans to finance both the purchase and the cost of renovation, including materials and labor



The FHA is not a lender, but a mortgage insurer. To get an FHA 203(k) loan, borrowers need to apply through a bank, credit union, or another lender; not all lenders offer this type of loan.



FHA 203(k) loans are an excellent solution for borrowers with a low credit score seeking to own a home in need of repairs, varying from minimal to extensive work. A low down payment and low-interest rates (fixed or adjustable) also make this option attractive.



However, borrowers need to consider the drawbacks when applying for this program, like an upfront mortgage insurance premium to be paid every month, a supplemental origination fee, the extensive paperwork required, and the lengthy time it takes to get approved.
What Is Fiat Money?  

Fiat money is a government-issued currency that is not backed by a physical commodity, such as gold or silver, but rather by the government that issued it. The value of fiat money is derived from the relationship between supply and demand and the stability of the issuing government, rather than the worth of a commodity backing it.



Most modern paper currencies are fiat currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the euro, and other major global currencies.





Key Takeaways

Fiat money is a government-issued currency that is not backed by a commodity such as gold.Fiat money gives central banks greater control over the economy because they can control how much money is printed.Most modern paper currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, are fiat currencies.One danger of fiat money is that governments can print too much of it, resulting in hyperinflation.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Fiat Money  

The term "fiat" is a Latin word that is often translated as "it shall be" or "let it be done." Thus fiat currencies only have value because the government maintains that value; there is no utility to fiat money in itself.



Before fiat currency came about, governments would mint coins out of a valuable physical commodity, such as gold or silver, or print paper money that could be redeemed for a set amount of a physical commodity. Fiat, however, is inconvertible and cannot be redeemed simply because there is no underlying commodity backing it.



Because fiat money is not linked to physical reserves, such as a national stockpile of gold or silver, it risks losing value due to inflation or even becoming worthless in the event of hyperinflation. In some of the worst cases of hyperinflation, such as in Hungary immediately after WWII, the rate of inflation can double in a single day.



Furthermore, if people lose faith in a nation's currency, the money will no longer hold value. This is much different from a currency backed by gold, for example; it has intrinsic value because of the demand for gold in jewelry and decoration as well as in the manufacturing of electronic devices, computers, and aerospace vehicles.


   History of Fiat Money in the U.S.  

The U.S. dollar is considered to be both fiat money and legal tender, accepted for private and public debts. Legal tender is basically any currency that a government declares to be legal. Many governments issue a fiat currency, then make it legal tender by setting it as the standard for debt repayment.



Earlier in U.S. history, the country's currency was backed by gold (and in some cases, silver). The federal government stopped allowing citizens to exchange currency for government gold with the passage of the Emergency Banking Act of 1933. The gold standard, which backed U.S. currency with federal gold, ended completely in 1971 when the U.S. also stopped issuing gold to foreign governments in exchange for U.S. currency.



Since that time, U.S. dollars are known to be backed by the "full faith and credit" of the U.S. government, "legal tender for all debts, public and private" but not "redeemable in lawful money at the United States Treasury or at any Federal Reserve Bank," as printing on U.S. dollar bills used to claim. In this sense, U.S. dollars are now "legal tender," rather than "lawful money," which can be exchanged for gold, silver, or any other commodity.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fiat Money  



Advantages

Gives central banks greater control over the economy
Is cost-efficient to produce
Provides governments with flexibility



Disadvantages

Is not a fool-proof way to protect the economy
Creates opportunity for a bubble
Provides risk of inflation





  Advantages Explained  

Fiat currencies gained prominence in the 20th century in part because governments and central banks sought to insulate their economies from the worst effects of the natural booms and busts of the business cycle.



Since fiat money is not a scarce or fixed resource like gold, central banks have much greater control over its supply, which gives them the power to manage economic variables such as credit supply, liquidity, interest rates, and money velocity. For instance, the U.S. Federal Reserve has the dual mandate to keep unemployment and inflation low, and using fiat money can help it meet those goals.



Fiat money serves as a good currency if it can handle the roles that a nation's economy requires of its monetary unit: Storing value, providing a numerical account, and facilitating exchange. It also has excellent seigniorage, meaning it is more cost-efficient to produce than a currency that is directly tied to a commodity.


  Disadvantages Explained  

The mortgage crisis of 2007 and subsequent financial meltdown tempered the belief that central banks could necessarily prevent depressions or serious recessions by regulating the money supply.



A currency tied to gold, for example, is generally more stable than fiat money because of the limited supply of gold.



There also are more opportunities for the creation of bubbles with fiat money due to its unlimited supply.


   Examples of Fiat Money  

The U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, and the Indian rupee are all examples of fiat money.



Because it's a currency that is backed by an issuing government, fiat money usually provides some economic stability—but not always.



The African nation of Zimbabwe provided an example of the worst-case scenario in the early 2000s. In response to serious economic problems, the country's central bank began to print money at a staggering pace, resulting in hyperinflation.



Experts suggest the currency lost 99.9% of its value during this time. Prices rose rapidly and consumers carried bags full of money just to purchase basic staples. At the height of the crisis, the government of Zimbabwe was forced to issue a 100-trillion Zimbabwean dollar note. Eventually, foreign currencies were used more widely than the Zimbabwean dollar.




Why Is Fiat Money Valuable?
In contrast to commodity-based money, such as gold coins or paper bills redeemable for precious metals, fiat money is backed entirely by the full faith and trust in the government that issued it. One reason this has merit is that governments demand that you pay taxes in the fiat money it issues. Since everybody needs to pay taxes, or else face stiff penalties or prison, people will accept it in exchange (this is known as chartalism).Other theories of money, such as the credit theory, suggest that since all money is a credit-debt relation, it does not matter if money is backed by anything to maintain value.




Why Do Modern Economies Favor Fiat Money?
Prior to the 20th century, most countries utilized some sort of gold standard or backing by a commodity. As international trade and finance grew in scale and scope; however, the limited amount of gold coming out of mines and in central bank vaults could not keep up with the new value that was being created, causing serious disruptions to global markets and commerce.Fiat money gives governments greater flexibility to manage their own currency, set monetary policy, and stabilize global markets. It also allows for fractional reserve banking, which lets commercial banks multiply the amount of money on hand to meet demand from borrowers.




What Are Some Alternatives to Fiat Money?
Virtually every country today has legal tender that is fiat money. While you can buy and sell gold and gold coins, these are rarely used in exchange or for everyday purchases and tend to be more of a collectible or speculative asset.Cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, emerged over the past decade as a challenge to the inflationary nature of fiat currencies, but despite increased interest and adoption, these virtual assets do not seem to approach being "money" in the traditional sense.




Does Fiat Money Lead to Hyperinflation?
There is always the possibility of hyperinflation when a country prints its own currency. However, most developed countries have experienced only moderate bouts of inflation. In fact, having some consistent, low level of inflation is seen as a positive driver of economic growth and investment, as it encourages people to put their money to work rather than have it sit idle and lose purchasing power over time.Having a relatively strong and stable currency is not only a mandate of most modern central banks, but a rapidly devalued currency is harmful to trade and obtaining financing.Moreover, it is unclear whether or not hyperinflation is caused by "runaway printing" of money. In fact, hyperinflation has occurred throughout history, even when money was based on precious metals; and all contemporary hyperinflation has begun with a fundamental breakdown in the real production economy and/or political instability in the country.


   The Bottom Line  

Fiat money derives its value from supply and demand, not an underlying physical commodity. Governments use fiat money to create economic stability and help protect against the booms and busts that are natural parts of the business cycle. However, the overproduction of fiat money risks inflation or even hyperinflation by increasing supply beyond demand.
What Are Fibonacci Extensions?  

Fibonacci extensions are a tool that traders can use to establish profit targets or estimate how far a price may travel after a pullback is finished. Extension levels are also possible areas where the price may reverse.



Drawn as connections to points on a chart, these levels are based on Fibonacci ratios (as percentages). Common Fibonacci extension levels are 61.8%, 100%, 161.8%, 200%, and 261.8%.





Key Takeaways


Because Fibonacci ratios are common in everyday life, some traders believe these common ratios may also have significance in the financial markets.
Fibonacci extensions don't have a formula. Rather, they are drawn at three points on a chart, marking price levels of possible importance.
The Fibonacci extensions show how far the next price wave could move following a pullback.
Based on Fibonacci ratios, common Fibonacci extension levels are 61.8%, 100%, 161.8%, 200%, and 261.8%.
Extension levels signal possible areas of importance, but should not be relied on exclusively.



   Creating Fibonacci Extensions  

Fibonacci ratios are common in everyday life and nature, seen in galaxy formations, architecture, shells, hurricanes, and some plants. Therefore, some traders believe these common ratios may also have significance in the financial markets.



Fibonacci extensions don't have a formula. When the indicator is applied to a chart, the trader chooses three points. The first point chosen is the start of a move, the second point is the end of a move and the third point is the end of the retracement against that move. The extensions then help project where the price could go next. Once the three points are chosen, the lines are drawn at percentages of that move.



Extensions are drawn on a chart, marking price levels of possible importance. These levels are based on Fibonacci ratios (as percentages) and the size of the price move the indicator is being applied to.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   How to Calculate Fibonacci Retracement Levels  

You can calculate Fibonacci retracement levels by completing the following steps:



Multiply the difference between points one and two by any of the ratios desired, such as 1.618 or 0.618. This gives you a dollar amount.If projecting a price move higher, add the dollar amount above to the price at point three. If projecting a price move lower, subtract the dollar amount from step one from the price at point three.



For example, if the price moves from $10 to $20, back to $15, $10 could be point one, $20 point two, and $15 point three. The Fibonacci levels will then be projected out above $15, providing levels to the upside of where the price could go next. If instead, the price drops, the indicator would need to be redrawn to accommodate the lower price at point three.



If the price rises from $10 to $20, and these two price levels are points one and two used on the indicator, then the 61.8% level will be $6.18 (0.618 x $10) above the price chosen for point three. In this case, point three is $15, so the 61.8% extension level is $21.18 ($15 + $6.18). The 100% level is $10 above point three for an extension level of $25 ((1.0 x $10) + 15).



The ratios themselves are based on something called the golden mean or ratio. To learn about this ratio, start a sequence of numbers with zero and one, and then add the prior two numbers to end up with a number string like this:



0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377, 610, 987...



The Fibonacci extension levels are derived from this number string. Excluding the first few numbers, as the sequence gets going, if you divide one number by the prior number, you get a ratio approaching 1.618, such as dividing 233 by 144. Divide a number by two places to the left and the ratio approaches 2.618. Divide a number by three to the left and the ratio is 4.236.



The key Fibonacci extension levels include 23.6%, 38.2%, 50%, 61.8%, and 78.6%. Also common are 100%, 161.8%, 200%, and 261.8%. The 100% and 200% levels are not official Fibonacci numbers, but they are useful since they project a similar move (or a multiple of that move) to what just happened on the price chart.


   What Do Fibonacci Extensions Tell You?  

Fibonacci extensions are a way to establish price targets or find projected areas of support or resistance when the price is moving into an area where other methods of finding support or resistance are not applicable or evident.



If the price moves through one extension level, it may continue moving toward the next. That said, Fibonacci extensions are areas of possible interest. The price may not stop or reverse right at the level, but the area around it may be important. For example, the price may move just past the 1.618 level, or pull up just shy of it, before changing directions.



If a trader is long on a stock and a new high occurs, the trader can use the Fibonacci extension levels for an idea of where the stock may go. The same is true for a trader who is short. Fibonacci extension levels can be calculated to give the trader ideas on profit target placement. The trader then has the option to decide whether to cover the position at that level.



Fibonacci extensions can be used for any timeframe or in any market. Typically, clusters of Fibonacci levels indicate a price area that will be significant for the stock, and also for traders in their decision making. Since extension levels can be drawn on different price waves over time, when multiple levels from these different waves converge at one price, that could be a very important area.


   The Difference Between Fibonacci Extensions and Fibonacci Retracements  

While extensions show where the price will go following a retracement, Fibonacci retracement levels indicate how deep a retracement could be. In other words, Fibonacci retracements measure the pullbacks within a trend, while Fibonacci extensions measure the impulse waves in the direction of the trend.


   Limitations of Using Fibonacci Extensions  

Fibonacci extensions are not meant to be the sole determinant of whether to buy or sell a stock. Investors should use extensions along with other indicators or patterns when looking to determine one or multiple price targets. Candlestick patterns and price action are especially informative when trying to determine whether a stock is likely to reverse at the target price.



There is no assurance price will reach or reverse at a given extension level. Even if it does, it is not evident before a trade is taken which Fibonacci extension level will be important. The price could move through many of the levels with ease, or not reach any of them.
What Is the Fibonacci Sequence?  

The Fibonacci sequence was developed by the Italian mathematician, Leonardo Fibonacci, in the 13th century. The sequence of numbers, starting with zero and one, is a steadily increasing series where each number is equal to the sum of the preceding two numbers.



Some traders believe that the Fibonacci numbers and ratios created by the sequence play an important role in finance that traders can apply using technical analysis.





Key Takeaways

The Fibonacci sequence is a set of steadily increasing numbers where each number is equal to the sum of the preceding two numbers.The golden ratio of 1.618 is derived from the Fibonacci sequence.Many things in nature have dimensional properties that adhere to the golden ratio of 1.618.The Fibonacci sequence can be applied to finance by using four techniques including retracements, arcs, fans, and time zones.


   Understanding the Fibonacci Sequence  

The numbers in the Fibonacci Sequence don't equate to a specific formula, however, the numbers tend to have certain relationships with each other. Each number is equal to the sum of the preceding two numbers. For example, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377.





Fibonacci Sequence Rule

xn = xn−1 + xn−2where:xn is term number "n"xn−1 is the previous term (n−1)xn−2 is the term before that (n−2)



The golden ratio of 1.618, important to mathematicians, scientists, and naturalists for centuries is derived from the Fibonacci sequence. The quotient between each successive pair of Fibonacci numbers in the sequence approximates 1.618, or its inverse 0.618.





Golden Ratio

The golden ratio is derived by dividing each number of the Fibonacci series by its immediate predecessor. Where F(n) is the nth Fibonacci number, the quotient F(n)/ F(n-1) will approach the limit 1.618, known as the golden ratio.



Many things in nature have dimensional properties that adhere to the ratio of 1.618, like the honeybee. If you divide the female bees by the male bees in any given hive, you will get a number near 1.618. The golden ratio also appears in the arts and rectangles whose dimensions are based on the golden ratio appear at the Parthenon in Athens and the Great Pyramid in Giza.


   How to Use the Fibonacci Sequence  

The Fibonacci sequence can be applied to finance by using four techniques including retracements, arcs, fans, and time zones.



Fibonacci retracements require two price points chosen on a chart, usually a swing high and a swing low. Once two points are chosen, the Fibonacci numbers and lines are drawn at percentages of that move. If a stock rises from $15 to $20, then the 23.6% level is $18.82, or $20 - ($5 x 0.236) = $18.82. The 50% level is $17.50, or $15 - ($5 x 0.5) = $17.50.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Fibonacci retracements are the most common form of technical analysis based on the Fibonacci sequence. During a trend, Fibonacci retracements can be used to determine how deep a pullback may be. Traders tend to watch the Fibonacci ratios between 23.6% and 78.6% during these times. If the price stalls near one of the Fibonacci levels and then start to move back in the trending direction, an investor may trade in the trending direction.



Arcs, fans, and time zones are similar concepts but are applied to charts in different ways. Each one shows potential areas of support or resistance, based on Fibonacci numbers applied to prior price moves. These supportive or resistance levels can be used to forecast where prices may fall or rise in the future.








What Is the Fibonacci Spiral?
The limits of the squares of successive Fibonacci numbers create a spiral known as the Fibonacci spiral. It follows turns by a constant angle close to the golden ratio and is commonly called the golden spiral. The numbers of spirals in pinecones are Fibonacci numbers, as is the number of petals in each layer of certain flowers. In spiral-shaped plants, each leaf grows at an angle compared to its predecessor, and sunflower seeds are packed in a spiral formation in the center of their flower in a geometry governed by the golden ratio.




Where Is the Fibonacci Sequence Evident?
In almost all flowering plants, the number of petals on the flower is a Fibonacci number. It is extremely rare for the number of petals not to be so and examples of this phenomenon include corn marigold, cineraria, and daisies with 13 petals and asters and chicory with 21 petals.




How Can the Fibonacci Sequence Affect Trading Behavior?
Humans tend to identify patterns and traders easily equate patterns in charts through the Fibonacci sequence. It's unproven that Fibonacci numbers relate to fundamental market forces, however, markets by design react to the beliefs of their players. Consequently, if investors buy or sell because of Fibonacci analysis, they tend to create a self-fulfilling prophecy that affects the market trends.


   The Bottom Line  

The Fibonacci sequence is a set of steadily increasing numbers where each number is equal to the sum of the preceding two numbers. Many things in nature have dimensional properties that adhere to the golden ratio of 1.618, a quotient derived from the Fibonacci sequence. When applied to finance and trading, investors apply the Fibonacci sequence through four techniques including retracements, arcs, fans, and time zones.
What Are Fibonacci Retracement Levels?  

Fibonacci retracement levels—stemming from the Fibonacci sequence—are horizontal lines that indicate where support and resistance are likely to occur.



Each level is associated with a percentage. The percentage is how much of a prior move the price has retraced. The Fibonacci retracement levels are 23.6%, 38.2%, 61.8%, and 78.6%. While not officially a Fibonacci ratio, 50% is also used.



The indicator is useful because it can be drawn between any two significant price points, such as a high and a low. The indicator will then create the levels between those two points.



Suppose the price of a stock rises $10 and then drops $2.36. In that case, it has retraced 23.6%, which is a Fibonacci number. Fibonacci numbers are found throughout nature. Therefore, many traders believe that these numbers also have relevance in financial markets.



Fibonacci retracement levels were named after Italian mathematician Leonardo Pisano Bigollo, who was famously known as Leonardo Fibonacci.  However, Fibonacci did not create the Fibonacci sequence. Instead, Fibonacci introduced these numbers to western Europe after learning about them from Indian merchants. Fibonacci retracement levels were formulated in ancient India between 450 and 200 BCE.





Key Takeaways

Fibonacci retracement levels connect any two points that the trader views as relevant, typically a high point and a low point.The percentage levels provided are areas where the price could stall or reverse.The most commonly used ratios include 23.6%, 38.2%, 50%, 61.8%, and 78.6%.These levels should not be relied on exclusively, so it is dangerous to assume that the price will reverse after hitting a specific Fibonacci level.Fibonacci numbers and sequencing were first used by Indian mathematicians centuries before Leonardo Fibonacci.






   Numbers First Formulated in Ancient India  

Despite its name, the Fibonacci sequence was not developed by its namesake. Instead, centuries before Leonardo Fibonacci shared it with western Europe, it was developed and used by Indian mathematicians.



Most notably, Indian mathematician Acarya Virahanka is known to have developed Fibonacci numbers and the method of their sequencing around 600 A.D. Following Virahanka’s discovery, other subsequent generations of Indian mathematicians—Gopala, Hemacandra, and Narayana Pandita—referenced the numbers and method. Pandita expanded its use by drawing a correlation between the Fibonacci numbers and multinomial co-efficients.



It is estimated that Fibonacci numbers existed in Indian society as early as 200 B.C.


   The Formula for Fibonacci Retracement Levels  

Fibonacci retracement levels do not have formulas. When these indicators are applied to a chart, the user chooses two points. Once those two points are chosen, the lines are drawn at percentages of that move.



Suppose the price rises from $10 to $15, and these two price levels are the points used to draw the retracement indicator. Then, the 23.6% level will be at $13.82 ($15 - ($5 × 0.236) = $13.82). The 50% level will be at $12.50 ($15 - ($5 × 0.5) = $12.50).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   How to Calculate Fibonacci Retracement Levels  

As discussed above, there is nothing to calculate when it comes to Fibonacci retracement levels. They are simply percentages of whatever price range is chosen.



However, the origin of the Fibonacci numbers is fascinating. They are based on something called the Golden Ratio. Start a sequence of numbers with zero and one. Then, keep adding the prior two numbers to get a number string like this:



0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377, 610, 987...with the string continuing indefinitely.



The Fibonacci retracement levels are all derived from this number string. After the sequence gets going, dividing one number by the next number yields 0.618, or 61.8%. Divide a number by the second number to its right, and the result is 0.382 or 38.2%. All the ratios, except for 50% (since it is not an official Fibonacci number), are based on some mathematical calculation involving this number string.






The Golden Ratio, known as the divine proportion, can be found in various spaces, from geometry to human DNA.



Interestingly, the Golden Ratio of 0.618 or 1.618 is found in sunflowers, galaxy formations, shells, historical artifacts, and architecture.


   What Do Fibonacci Retracement Levels Tell You?  

Fibonacci retracements can be used to place entry orders, determine stop-loss levels, or set price targets. For example, a trader may see a stock moving higher. After a move up, it retraces to the 61.8% level. Then, it starts to go up again. Since the bounce occurred at a Fibonacci level during an uptrend, the trader decides to buy. The trader might set a stop loss at the 61.8% level, as a return below that level could indicate that the rally has failed.



Fibonacci levels also arise in other ways within technical analysis. For example, they are prevalent in Gartley patterns and Elliott Wave theory. After a significant price movement up or down, these forms of technical analysis find that reversals tend to occur close to certain Fibonacci levels.






Market trends are more accurately identified when other analysis tools are used with the Fibonacci approach.



Fibonacci retracement levels are static, unlike moving averages. The static nature of the price levels allows for quick and easy identification. That helps traders and investors to anticipate and react prudently when the price levels are tested. These levels are inflection points where some type of price action is expected, either a reversal or a break.


   Fibonacci Retracements vs. Fibonacci Extensions  

While Fibonacci retracements apply percentages to a pullback, Fibonacci extensions apply percentages to a move in the trending direction. For example, a stock goes from $5 to $10, then back to $7.50. The move from $10 to $7.50 is a retracement. If the price starts rallying again and goes to $16, that is an extension.


   Limitations of Using Fibonacci Retracement Levels  

While the retracement levels indicate where the price might find support or resistance, there are no assurances that the price will actually stop there. This is why other confirmation signals are often used, such as the price starting to bounce off the level.



The other argument against Fibonacci retracement levels is that there are so many of them that the price is likely to reverse near one of them quite often. The problem is that traders struggle to know which one will be useful at any particular time. When it doesn’t work out, it can always be claimed that the trader should have been looking at another Fibonacci retracement level instead.




Why are Fibonacci retracements important?
In technical analysis, Fibonacci retracement levels indicate key areas where a stock may reverse or stall. Common ratios include 23.6%, 38.2%, and 50%, among others. Usually, these will occur between a high point and a low point for a security, designed to predict the future direction of its price movement.




What are the Fibonacci ratios?
The Fibonacci ratios are derived from the Fibonacci sequence: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, and so on. Here, each number is equal to the sum of the two preceding numbers. Fibonacci ratios are informed by mathematical relationships found in this formula. As a result, they produce the following ratios: 23.6%, 38.2%, 50%, 61.8%, 78.6%, 100%, 161.8%, 261.8%, and 423.6%. Although 50% is not a pure Fibonacci ratio, it is still used as a support and resistance indicator.




How do you apply Fibonacci retracement levels in a chart?
As one of the most common technical trading strategies, a trader could use a Fibonacci retracement level to indicate where they would enter a trade. For instance, a trader notices that after significant momentum, a stock has declined 38.2%. As the stock begins to face an upward trend, they decide to enter the trade. Because the stock reached a Fibonacci level, it is deemed a good time to buy, with the trader speculating that the stock will then retrace, or recover, its recent losses.




How do you draw a Fibonacci retracement?
Fibonacci retracements are trend lines drawn between two significant points, usually between absolute lows and absolute highs, plotted on a chart. Intersecting horizontal lines are placed at the Fibonacci levels.


   The Bottom Line  

Fibonacci retracements are useful tools that help traders identify support and resistance levels. With the information gathered, traders can place orders, identify stop-loss levels, and set price targets. Although Fibonacci retracements are useful, traders often use other indicators to make more accurate assessments of trends and make better trading decisions.
What Is a FICO Score?  

A FICO score is a credit score created by the Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO). Lenders use borrowers’ FICO scores along with other details on borrowers’ credit reports to assess credit risk and determine whether to extend credit.



FICO scores take into account data in five areas to determine a borrower's credit worthiness: payment history, the current level of indebtedness, types of credit used, length of credit history, and new credit accounts.





Key Takeaways

FICO credit scores are a method of quantifying and evaluating an individual’s creditworthiness.FICO scores are used in 90% of mortgage application decisions in the United States.Scores range from 300 to 850, with scores in the 670 to 739 range considered to be “good” credit scores.You can improve your FICO score by paying bills on time, using less than 30% of your available credit, and having a mix of different types of credit.


   How FICO Scores Work  

FICO is a major analytics software company that provides products and services to both businesses and consumers. The company is best known for producing the most widely used consumer credit scores that financial institutions use in deciding whether to lend money or issue credit.



FICO scores are used in many credit decisions made in the U.S. Although borrowers can explain negative items in their credit report, many lenders will deny loans to people with low FICO scores.






Many lenders maintain strict FICO minimums for approval, particularly in the mortgage industry. One point below this threshold can result in a denial.


   FICO Score Ranges  

The overall FICO score range is between 300 and 850. In general, scores in the 670 to 739 range indicate a “good” credit history and most lenders will consider this score favorable. In contrast, borrowers in the 580 to 669 range may find it difficult to get financing at attractive rates. 



To determine creditworthiness, lenders take a borrower’s FICO score into account, but they also consider other details, such as income, how long the borrower has been at their job, and the type of credit requested.


   How to Improve Your FICO Score  

Achieving a high FICO score requires having a mix of credit accounts and maintaining an excellent payment history. Staying well below your credit limits also helps your score. The ideal credit utilization ratio is below 30%.



Maxing out credit cards, paying late, and applying for new credit frequently are all things that lower FICO scores. You can check your credit regularly to ensure your credit report is free of errors. By law, you are entitled to one free credit report each year from major credit bureaus.


   Calculating FICO Scores  

To determine credit scores, the FICO weighs each category differently for each individual. However, in general, payment history is 35% of the score, accounts owed is 30%, length of credit history is 15%, new credit is 10%, and credit mix is 10%.


  Payment History (35%)  

Payment history refers to whether an individual pays their credit accounts on time. Credit reports show the payments submitted for each line of credit, and the reports detail bankruptcy or collection items along with any late or missed payments.


  Accounts Owed (30%)  

Accounts owed refers to the amount of money an individual owes. Having a lot of debt does not necessarily equate to low credit scores. Rather, FICO considers the ratio of money owed to the amount of credit available. To illustrate, an individual who owes $10,000 but has all of their lines of credit fully extended and all of their credit cards maxed out may have a lower credit score than an individual who owes $100,000 but is not close to the limit on any of their accounts.


  Length of Credit History (15%)  

As a general rule of thumb, the longer an individual has had credit, the better their score. However, with favorable scores in the other categories, even someone with a short credit history can have a good score. FICO scores take into account how long the oldest account has been open, the age of the newest account, and the overall average.


  Credit Mix (10%)  

Credit mix is the variety of accounts. To obtain high credit scores, individuals need a strong mix of retail accounts, credit cards, installment loans (such as signature loans or vehicle loans), and mortgages.


  New Credit (10%)  

New credit refers to recently opened accounts. If a borrower has opened a bunch of new accounts in a short period of time, that indicates risk and lowers their score.















What FICO scores mean.


   FICO Score vs. VantageScore  

The main alternative to the FICO Score is VantageScore, a credit scoring method jointly developed by the three main credit bureaus in 2006. Like FICO Scores, the VantageScore rates an individual's creditworthiness on a scale of 300 to 850, based on factors like payment history, credit mix, and credit utilization.



However, the VantageScore attaches different weights to those factors, so your VantageScore may be slightly different from your FICO Score. They also have different scoring criteria: FICO requires at least one tradeline older than six months in order to calculate a score, and at least one tradeline with activity over the last six months. In contrast, VantageScore requires only one tradeline with no age requirement.


   FICO Versions  

Various versions of FICO exist because the company has periodically updated its calculation methods since introducing its first scoring methodology in 1989. Each new version is made available to lenders, but it is up to them to determine if and when to implement the upgrade.



The most widely used version is still FICO Score 8, even though it has been followed by FICO Score 9 and FICO Score 10 Suite. FICO Score 9 was introduced in 2016, with adjustments to the treatment of medical collection accounts, increased sensitivity to rental history, and a more forgiving approach to fully paid third-party collections.



It did not surpass FICO Score 8 in popularity. However, the incorporation of trended credit bureau data in FICO Score 10T (part of FICO Score 10 Suite, announced on Jan. 23, 2020) might cause it to supplant FICO Score 8 in the future.






FICO score 5 is one alternative to FICO score 8 that is still prevalent in auto lending, credit cards, and mortgages.



According to FICO, Score 8 is consistent with previous versions, but there are several specific features that make it a more predictive score than prior versions. Like all prior FICO score systems, FICO Score 8 attempts to convey how responsibly a borrower manages debt. Scores tend to be higher for those who pay their bills on time, keep low credit card balances, and only open new accounts for targeted purchases.



Conversely, lower scores are attributed to those who are frequently delinquent or who use a significant amount of their credit. Scores do not include collection accounts in which the original balance is less than $100.



The change with FICO Score 8 included increased sensitivity to highly utilized credit cards—meaning that low credit card balances on active cards can more positively influence a borrower’s score. It also treats isolated late payments more judiciously than past versions.



FICO Score 8 is more forgiving if a late payment is an isolated event and other accounts are in good standing, and it divides consumers into more categories to provide a better statistical representation of risk. The primary purpose of this change was to keep borrowers with little to no credit history from being graded on the same curve as those with longer credit histories.




What Is a Good FICO Score?
A FICO Score above 670 is better than average, while scores above 740 indicate that the borrower is extremely responsible with credit. A FICO Score above 800 is considered exceptional.




Which FICO Score Do Mortgage Lenders Use?
According to Experian, the most commonly-used FICO Scores in mortgage lending decisions are the FICO Score 2, FICO Score 5, or FICO Score 4. However, the credit score is only part of a mortgage application, and lenders will also consider factors like the borrower's income, assets, and payment history.




How Often Does the FICO Score Update?
Every lender has its own schedule for reporting payment information to the credit bureaus. Your credit score can change roughly once a month, but it may change more often depending on how many different loans you have active.


   The Bottom Line  

The FICO Score is one of the leading tools for measuring the creditworthiness of a borrower. Most lenders in the U.S. use FICO Scores when making a decision on mortgage applications. While a low score can be discouraging, you can improve your FICO score by borrowing responsibly and making payments on time.
What Is a Fidelity Bond?  

A fidelity bond is a form of business insurance that offers an employer protection against losses that are caused by its employees’ fraudulent or dishonest actions. Also known as an honesty bond, this form of insurance can protect against monetary or physical losses.



In Australia, a fidelity bond is called employee dishonesty insurance, and in the United Kingdom, it’s called fidelity guarantee insurance.





Key Takeaways

Fidelity bonds are insurance policies that protect policyholder companies from wrongful acts committed by employees.Fidelity bonds are not tradable securities.This form of insurance is considered a component of a company’s risk management strategy.


   Understanding Fidelity Bonds  

If a company has employees who commit fraudulent acts, the company itself may be exposed to legal or financial penalty in addition to the individual employee or employees who committed the act. As a result, companies are at risk of being exposed to such penalties, especially firms with a large number of employees.



Fidelity bonds cover firms for such damages. Although they are called bonds, fidelity bonds are actually a form of insurance policy. They are typically designated as either first-party or third-party:



First-party fidelity bonds are policies protecting businesses from wrongful acts committed by employees.Third-party fidelity bonds protect companies from similar acts by individuals employed on a contract basis.






A fidelity bond should not be confused with a regular bond. It is an insurance policy that is neither tradable nor can accrue interest.



Fidelity bonds are most often held by insurance companies, banks, and brokerage firms, which are specifically required to carry protection proportional to their net capital. Among the possible forms of loss that a fidelity bond covers include fraudulent trading, theft, and forgery.


   Why Fidelity Bonds Are Used  

Fidelity bonds can be considered part of a business’s approach to enterprise risk management. These insurance policies function as a sort of protection should the company suffer losses caused by fraudulent or criminal employee actions taken against the company or its clientele.



This can include cash thefts from the business as well as if the employee steals from a customer of the company. Acts of forgery by an employee that affect the business may also be covered by this type of policy. Robbery and burglary of the company safe, destruction of company property, and the illicit transfer of funds are covered by fidelity bonds, too.


   Types of Fidelity Bonds  

Fidelity bonds are broken down into various types, each covering specific things. The most common forms of fidelity bond are:



Business services bonds: These products, also called business bonds or janitorial service bonds, are generally the most common type of fidelity bond. Their job is to protect clients when employees visit their premises. For example, should a company send an employee to a customer’s home and that staff member steals a computer, the bond would reimburse the client for the loss.
Employee dishonesty bonds: These bonds protect companies and their clients in the event that an employee misuses Social Security numbers, credit card numbers, or other financial or personal data.
ERISA bonds: The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974 demands that trustees of pension plans have fidelity bond coverage equal to at least 10% of the total plan’s assets. This rule was put in place to protect plan beneficiaries from theft or other inappropriate actions orchestrated by those responsible for managing 401(k)s and other pension plans.






Another type of fidelity bond is used by certain states such as Alaska, Michigan, and Texas to encourage employers to provide job opportunities to applicants who have backgrounds that make them high-risk, potentially untrustworthy workers. With these fidelity bonds, the employer would be reimbursed should the employee behave dishonestly.




How does a fidelity bond work?
Fidelity bonds are insurance products that offer employers protection against losses caused by employees’ fraudulent or dishonest actions. Should an event covered by the policy transpire, the company would file a claim and get reimbursed according to what it agreed to with the insurer.




What are examples of fidelity bonds?
The most common type of fidelity bond is the so-called business services bond, which is designed to protect against losses when an employee is on a customer’s premises. For example, if a window repair worker is sent to a home that was damaged by a storm and steals jewelry from the residence, the company may have exposure concerning their employee’s actions. Likewise, if a dog sitter were to use their access to a client’s home to steal money, or if a home health provider took clothes or a laptop from a client, then a fidelity bond tailored for such circumstances could provide the company with the coverage it needs.




What are two main types of fidelity bonds?
Two popular types of fidelity bonds are business services bonds, which are specifically designed to protect clients when employees enter their home or place of business, and employee dishonesty bonds, which protect companies from financial loss should an employee or group of employees engage in fraudulent activities. Another common type of fidelity bond is the ERISA (Employee Retirement Income Security Act) bond, which protects retirement-plan beneficiaries should trustees steal from them.


   The Bottom Line  

Fidelity bonds are something that many businesses need, either out of choice or because their state or municipality demands it. Sadly, not everybody is honest, and it’s often worth paying the premium for peace of mind and to reassure customers.
What Is a Fiduciary?  

A fiduciary is a person or organization that acts on behalf of another person or persons, putting their clients’ interests ahead of their own, with a duty to preserve good faith and trust. Being a fiduciary thus requires being bound both legally and ethically to act in the other’s best interests.



A fiduciary may be responsible for the general well-being of another (e.g., a child’s legal guardian), but the task often involves finances—for example, managing the assets of another person or a group of people. Money managers, financial advisors, bankers, insurance agents, accountants, executors, board members, and corporate officers all have fiduciary responsibility. 





Key Takeaways

A fiduciary is legally bound to put their client’s best interests ahead of their own.Fiduciary duties appear in a range of business relationships, including a trustee and a beneficiary, corporate board members and shareholders, and executors and legatees.An investment fiduciary is anyone with legal responsibility for managing somebody else’s money, such as a member of the investment committee of a charity.Registered investment advisors and insurance agents have a fiduciary duty to clients.Broker-dealers just have to meet the less-stringent suitability standard, which doesn’t require putting the client’s interests ahead of their own.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding Fiduciaries  

A fiduciary’s responsibilities and duties are both ethical and legal. When a party knowingly accepts a fiduciary duty on behalf of another party, they are required to act in the best interest of the principal (i.e., the client or party whose assets they are managing). This is what is known as a “prudent person standard of care,” a standard that originally stems from an 1830 court ruling. 



This formulation of the prudent-person rule required that a person acting as fiduciary was required to act first and foremost with the needs of beneficiaries in mind. Strict care must be taken to ensure that no conflict of interest arises between the fiduciary and their principal.



In many cases, no profit is to be made from the relationship unless explicit consent is granted when the relationship begins. As an example, in the United Kingdom, fiduciaries cannot profit from their position, according to an English High Court ruling, Keech vs. Sandford (1726). If the principal provides consent, then the fiduciary can keep whatever benefit they have received; these benefits can be either monetary or defined more broadly as an “opportunity.”





Tip

Want more advice for saving money toward your financial goals? Order a copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine.



Fiduciary duties appear in a wide variety of common business relationships, including:



Trustee and beneficiary (the most common type)Corporate board members and shareholdersExecutors and legateesGuardians and wardsPromoters and stock subscribersLawyers and clientsInvestment corporations and investorsInsurance companies/agents and policyholders






Fiduciary negligence is a form of professional malpractice when a person fails to honor their fiduciary obligations and responsibilities.


   Fiduciary Relationship Between Trustee and Beneficiary  

Estate arrangements and implemented trusts involve both a trustee and a beneficiary. An individual named as a trust or estate trustee is the fiduciary, and the beneficiary is the principal. Under a trustee/beneficiary duty, the fiduciary has legal ownership of the property or assets and holds the power necessary to handle assets held in the name of the trust. In estate law, the trustee may also be known as the estate’s executor.



Note that the trustee must make decisions that are in the best interest of the beneficiary, as the latter holds equitable title to the property. The trustee/beneficiary relationship is an important aspect of comprehensive estate planning, and special care should be taken to determine who is designated as trustee.



Politicians often set up blind trusts to avoid real or perceived conflict-of-interest scandals. A blind trust is a relationship in which a trustee is in charge of all of the investment of a beneficiary’s corpus (assets) without the beneficiary knowing how the corpus is being invested. Even while the beneficiary has no knowledge, the trustee has a fiduciary duty to invest the corpus according to the prudent person standard of conduct. 


   Fiduciary Relationship Between Board Members and Shareholders  

A similar fiduciary duty can be held by corporate directors, as they can be considered trustees for stockholders if on the board of a corporation, or trustees of depositors if they serve as the director of a bank. Specific duties include the following:


  Duty of Care  

Duty of care applies to the way the board makes decisions that affect the future of the business. The board has the duty to fully investigate all possible decisions and how they may impact the business. If the board is voting to elect a new chief executive officer (CEO), for example, the decision should not be made based solely on the board’s knowledge or opinion of one possible candidate; it is the board’s responsibility to investigate all viable applicants to ensure that the best person for the job is chosen.


  Duty to Act in Good Faith  

Even after it reasonably investigates all the options before it, the board has the responsibility to choose the option that it believes best serves the interests of the business and its shareholders.


  Duty of Loyalty  

Duty of loyalty means the board is required to put no other causes, interests, or affiliations above its allegiance to the company and the company’s investors. Board members must refrain from personal or professional dealings that might put their own self-interest or that of another person or business above the interest of the company.



If a member of a board of directors is found to be in breach of their fiduciary duty, they can be held liable in a court of law by the company itself or its shareholders.






Contrary to popular belief, there is no legal mandate that a corporation is required to maximize shareholder return.


   More Examples of Fiduciaries  
  Fiduciary Relationship Between Executor and Legatee  

Fiduciary activities can also apply to specific or one-time transactions. For example, a fiduciary deed is used to transfer property rights in a sale when a fiduciary must act as an executor of the sale on behalf of the property owner. A fiduciary deed is useful when a property owner wishes to sell but is unable to handle their affairs due to illness, incompetence, or other circumstances, and needs someone to act in their stead.



A fiduciary is required by law to disclose to the potential buyer the true condition of the property being sold, and they cannot receive any financial benefits from the sale. A fiduciary deed is also useful when the property owner is deceased and their property is part of an estate that needs oversight or management.


  Fiduciary Relationship Between Guardian and Ward  

Under a guardian/ward relationship, the legal guardianship of a minor is transferred to an appointed adult. As the fiduciary, the guardian is tasked with ensuring the minor child or ward has appropriate care, which can include deciding where the minor attends school, that the minor has suitable medical care, that they are disciplined in a reasonable manner, and that their daily welfare remains intact.



A guardian is appointed by the state court when the natural guardian of a minor child is not able to care for the child any longer. In most states, a guardian/ward relationship remains intact until the minor child reaches the age of majority.


  Fiduciary Relationship Between Attorney and Client  

The attorney/client fiduciary relationship is arguably one of the most stringent. The U.S. Supreme Court states that the highest level of trust and confidence must exist between an attorney and a client—and that an attorney, as fiduciary, must act in complete fairness, loyalty, and fidelity in each representation of, and dealing with, clients.



Attorneys are held liable for breaches of their fiduciary duties by the client and are accountable to the court in which that client is represented when a breach occurs.


  Fiduciary Relationship Between Principal and Agent  

A more generic example of fiduciary duty lies in the principal/agent relationship. Any individual person, corporation, partnership, or government agency can act as a principal or agent as long as the person or business has the legal capacity to do so. Under a principal/agent duty, an agent is legally appointed to act on behalf of the principal without conflict of interest.



A common example of a principal/agent relationship that implies fiduciary duty is a group of shareholders as principals electing management or C-suite individuals to act as agents. Similarly, investors act as principals when selecting investment fund managers as agents to manage assets.


  Investment Fiduciary  

While it may seem as if an investment fiduciary would be a financial professional (money manager, banker, and so on), an investment fiduciary is actually any person who has the legal responsibility for managing somebody else’s money.



That means if you volunteered to sit on the investment committee of the board of your local charity or other organization, you have a fiduciary responsibility. You have been placed in a position of trust, and there may be consequences for the betrayal of that trust. Also, hiring a financial or investment expert does not relieve the committee members of all of their duties. They still have an obligation to prudently select and monitor the activities of the expert. 


   The Suitability Rule  

Broker-dealers, who are often compensated by commission, generally only have to fulfill a suitability obligation. This is defined as making recommendations that are consistent with the needs and preferences of the underlying customer. Broker-dealers are regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) under standards that require them to make suitable recommendations to their clients.



Instead of having to place their interests below that of the client, the suitability standard only details that the broker-dealer has to reasonably believe that any recommendations made are suitable for the client, in terms of the client’s financial needs, objectives, and unique circumstances. A key distinction in terms of loyalty is also important: A broker’s primary duty is to their employer, the broker-dealer for whom they work, not to their clients.



Other descriptions of suitability include making sure that transaction costs are not excessive and that their recommendations are not unsuitable for the client. Examples that may violate suitability include excessive trading, churning the account simply to generate more commissions, and frequently switching account assets to generate transaction income for the broker-dealer.



Also, the need to disclose potential conflicts of interest is not as strict a requirement for brokers—an investment only has to be suitable; it doesn’t necessarily have to be consistent with the individual investor’s objectives and profile.



The suitability standard can end up causing conflicts between a broker-dealer and a client. The most obvious conflict has to do with compensation. Under a fiduciary standard, an investment advisor would be strictly prohibited from buying a mutual fund or other investment for a client because it would garner the broker a higher fee or commission than an option that would cost the client less—or yield more for the client.






Under the suitability requirement, as long as the investment is suitable for the client, it can be purchased for the client. This can also incentivize brokers to sell their own products ahead of competing for products that may cost less.


   Suitability vs. Fiduciary Standard  

If your investment advisor is a Registered Investment Advisor (RIA), they share fiduciary responsibility with the investment committee. On the other hand, a broker, who works for a broker-dealer, may not. Some brokerage firms don’t want or allow their brokers to be fiduciaries.



Investment advisors, who are usually fee-based, are bound to a fiduciary standard that was established as part of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. They can be regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or state securities regulators. The act is pretty specific in defining what a fiduciary means, and it stipulates a duty of loyalty and care, which means that the advisor must put their client’s interests above their own.



For example, the advisor cannot buy securities for their account prior to buying them for a client and is prohibited from making trades that may result in higher commissions for the advisor or their investment firm.



It also means that the advisor must do their best to make sure investment advice is made using accurate and complete information—basically, that the analysis is thorough and as accurate as possible. Avoiding conflicts of interest is important when acting as a fiduciary, and it means that an advisor must disclose any potential conflicts to placing the client’s interests ahead of the advisor’s.



Additionally, the advisor needs to place trades under a “best execution” standard, meaning that they must strive to trade securities with the best combination of low cost and efficient execution.


   The Short-Lived Fiduciary Rule  

While the term “suitability” was the standard for transactional accounts or brokerage accounts, the U.S. Department of Labor Fiduciary Rule proposed to toughen things up for brokers. Anyone with retirement money under management, who made recommendations or solicitations for an individual retirement account (IRA) or other tax-advantaged retirement accounts, would be considered a fiduciary required to adhere to that standard, rather than to the suitability standard that was otherwise in effect.



The fiduciary rule has had a long and yet unclear implementation. Originally proposed in 2010, it was scheduled to go into effect between April 10, 2017, and Jan. 1, 2018. After then-President Donald Trump took office, it was postponed to June 9, 2017, including a transition period for certain exemptions extending through Jan. 1, 2018.



Subsequently, the implementation of all elements of the rule was pushed back to July 1, 2019. Before that could happen, the rule was vacated following a June 2018 decision by the Fifth U.S. Circuit Court.



In June 2020, a new proposal, Proposal 3.0, was released by the Department of Labor, which “reinstated the investment advice fiduciary definition in effect since 1975 accompanied by new interpretations that extended its reach in the rollover setting, and proposed a new exemption for conflicted investment advice and principal transactions.”



It remains to be seen if it will be approved under President Biden’s administration.


   Risks of Being a Fiduciary  

The possibility of a trustee/agent who is not optimally performing in the beneficiary’s best interests is referred to as “fiduciary risk.” This does not necessarily mean that the trustee is using the beneficiary’s resources for their own benefit; this could be the risk that the trustee is not achieving the best value for the beneficiary.



For example, a situation where a fund manager (agent) is making more trades than necessary for a client’s portfolio is a source of fiduciary risk because the fund manager is slowly eroding the client’s gains by incurring higher transaction costs than are needed.



In contrast, a situation in which an individual or entity who is legally appointed to manage another party’s assets uses their power in an unethical or illegal fashion to benefit financially, or to serve their self-interest in some other way, is called “fiduciary abuse” or “fiduciary fraud.”


   Fiduciary Insurance  

A business can insure the individuals who act as fiduciaries of a qualified retirement plan, such as the company’s directors, officers, employees, and other natural person trustees.



Fiduciary liability insurance is meant to fill in the gaps existing in traditional coverage offered through employee benefits liability or director’s and officer’s policies. It provides financial protection when the need for litigation arises, due to scenarios such as purported mismanaging of funds or investments, administrative errors or delays in transfers or distributions, a change or reduction in benefits, or erroneous advice surrounding investment allocation within the plan.


   Investment Fiduciary Guidelines  

In response to the need for guidance for investment fiduciaries, the nonprofit Foundation for Fiduciary Studies was established to define the following prudent investment practices:


  Step 1: Organize  

The process begins with fiduciaries educating themselves on the laws and rules that will apply to their situations. Once fiduciaries identify their governing rules, they then need to define the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved in the process. If investment service providers are used, then any service agreements should be in writing.


  Step 2: Formalize  

Formalizing the investment process starts by creating the investment program’s goals and objectives. Fiduciaries should identify factors such as investment horizon, an acceptable level of risk, and expected return. By identifying these factors, fiduciaries create a framework for evaluating investment options. 



Fiduciaries then need to select appropriate asset classes that will enable them to create a diversified portfolio through some justifiable methodology. Most fiduciaries go about this by employing modern portfolio theory (MPT), because MPT is one of the most accepted methods for creating investment portfolios that target a desired risk/return profile. 



Finally, the fiduciary should formalize these steps by creating an investment policy statement that provides the detail necessary to implement a specific investment strategy. Now the fiduciary is ready to proceed with the implementation of the investment program, as identified in the first two steps.


  Step 3: Implement  

The implementation phase is where specific investments or investment managers are selected to fulfill the requirements detailed in the investment policy statement. A due diligence process must be designed to evaluate potential investments. The due diligence process should identify criteria used to evaluate and filter through the pool of potential investment options.



The implementation phase is usually performed with the assistance of an investment advisor or adviser because many fiduciaries lack the skill or resources to perform this step. When an advisor or adviser is used to assist in the implementation phase, fiduciaries and advisors or advisers must communicate to ensure that an agreed-upon due diligence process is being used in the selection of investments or managers.


  Step 4: Monitor  

The final step can be the most time-consuming and the most neglected part of the process. Some fiduciaries do not sense the urgency for monitoring if they got the first three steps correct. Fiduciaries should not neglect any of their responsibilities because they could be equally liable for negligence in each step.



To properly monitor the investment process, fiduciaries must periodically review reports that benchmark their investments’ performance against the appropriate index and peer group, and determine whether the investment policy statement objectives are being met. Simply monitoring performance statistics is not enough.



Fiduciaries must also monitor qualitative data, such as changes in the organizational structure of investment managers used in the portfolio. If the investment decision-makers in an organization have left, or if their level of authority has changed, then investors must consider how this information may impact future performance.



In addition to performance reviews, fiduciaries must review expenses incurred in the implementation of the process. Fiduciaries are responsible not only for how funds are invested but also for how funds are spent. Investment fees have a direct impact on performance, and fiduciaries must ensure that fees paid for investment management are fair and reasonable.





Fiduciary Rules and Regulations

A U.S. Department of the Treasury agency, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is in charge of regulating federal savings associations and their fiduciary activities in the U.S. Multiple fiduciary duties may at times be in conflict with one another, a problem that often occurs with real estate agents and lawyers. Two opposing interests can at best be balanced; however, balancing interests is not the same as serving the best interest of a client.
Fiduciary certifications are distributed at the state level and can be revoked by the courts if a person is found to neglect their duties. To become certified, a fiduciary is required to pass an examination that tests their knowledge of laws, practices, and security-related procedures, such as background checks and screening. While board volunteers do not require certification, due diligence includes making sure that professionals working in these areas have the appropriate certifications or licenses for the tasks that they are performing.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What is a fiduciary?
A fiduciary must place the interest of their clients first, under a legal and ethically binding agreement. Importantly, fiduciaries are required to prevent a conflict of interest between the fiduciary and the principal. Among the most common forms of fiduciaries are financial advisors, bankers, money managers, and insurance agents. At the same time, fiduciaries are present across many other business relationships, such as corporate board members and shareholders.




What are the three fiduciary duties to shareholders?
Since corporate directors can be considered fiduciaries for shareholders, they possess the following three fiduciary duties:Duty of care requires directors to make decisions in good faith for shareholders in a reasonably prudent manner.Duty of loyalty requires that directors should not put other interests, causes, or entities above the interest of the company and its shareholders.Finally, duty to act in good faith requires that directors choose the best option to serve the company and its stakeholders.




What is an example of fiduciary duty?
There are many examples of fiduciary duty. Consider the examples of a trustee and beneficiary, the most common form of a fiduciary relationship. The trustee is an organization or individual that is responsible for managing the assets of a third party, often found within estates, pensions, and charities. A trustee is bound under a fiduciary duty to put the interests of the trust first, ahead of their own.




Why does someone need a fiduciary?
Working with a fiduciary means that you can be assured that a financial professional will always be putting your interests first, and not their own. This means that you don’t have to worry about conflicts of interest, misplaced incentives, or aggressive sales tactics.


   The Bottom Line  

A fiduciary is a person or other entity who is put in a position of control and influence over another person's property or finances. The concept of fiduciaries can be found in a wide array of legal contexts in the United States and throughout the world. Fiduciary relationships are most often found when individuals are entrusted with carrying out a particular act for another, such as a trustee handling assets on behalf of a trust beneficiary.



The term “fiduciary” is widely used in the context of financial advising and brokerage relationships, whereby the client's best interests must be put first and foremost. Because of the significance of these fiduciary relationships, new legal challenges have arisen in the ever-changing rules regarding fair dealing and fair information requirements.
What Is Filing Status?  

Filing status is a category that defines the type of tax return form a taxpayer must use when filing their taxes. Filing status is closely tied to marital status.


   Understanding Filing Status  

The filing status is important because an individual's tax bracket (and, therefore, the amount they must pay) is determined by marital status, the number of children, occupation, and several other factors. You must file your status honestly, or it will be considered fraudulent and penalties will be assessed.



For federal income tax purposes, a taxpayer falls into one of five categories: single, married filing jointly, married filing separately, head of household, and qualifying widow(er) with dependent children.


  Single Filer  

A single filer is a taxpayer that is unmarried, divorced, a registered domestic partner, or legally separated according to state law as of the last day of the tax year. The head of a household or a person who is widowed may not fall under the "single" category for tax purposes. Single filers have lower income limits for most exemptions.










For Tax Year 2022 and 2023




  Federal Income Tax Rate 
Income Range for Single Taxpayer for 2022
Income Range for Single Taxpayer for 2023


  10%
$0-$10,275
$0-$11,000


  12%
$10,276-$41,775
$11,001-$44,725


  22%
$41,776-$89,075
$44,726-95,375


  24%
$89,076-$170,050
$95,376-$182,100


  32%
$170,051-$215,950
$182,101- $231,250


  35%
$215,951-$539,900
$231,251 - $578,125


  37%
Over $539,900
Over $578,125


  Standard Deduction
$12,950
$13,850





  Married Person Filing Jointly or Surviving Spouse  

An individual that is married by the end of the tax year can file tax returns jointly with their spouse. When filing under married filing jointly status, couples can record their respective incomes, exemptions, and deductions on the same tax return. A joint tax return often provides a bigger tax refund or a lower tax liability.










For Tax Years 2022 and 2023




  Federal Income Tax Rate
Income Range for Taxpayer who is Married Filing Jointly in 2022
Income Range for Taxpayers Who Are Married Filing Jointly in 2023


  10%
$0-$20,550
$0-$22,000


  12%
$20,551-$83,550
$22,001-$89,450


  22%
$83,551-$178,150
$89,451-$190,750


  24%
$178,151-$340,100
$190,751-$364,200


  32%
$340,101-$431,900
$364,201-$462,500


  35%
$431,901-$647,850
$462,500-$693,750


  37%
Over $647,850
Over $693,751


  Standard Deduction
$25,900
$27,700






Married filing jointly is best if only one spouse has a significant income. If both spouses work and the income and itemized deductions are large and very unequal, it may be more advantageous to file separately.


  Head of Household  

A head of household is a single or unmarried taxpayer who pays at least 50% of the costs of supporting their household and lives with other qualifying family members for whom they provide support for more than half of the year.



This means that the taxpayer must have paid more than half of the total household bills, including rent or mortgage, utility bills, insurance, property taxes, groceries, repairs, and other common household expenses. Some examples of qualifying family members include a dependent child, grandchild, sibling, grandparent, or anyone else you can claim as an exemption.



A head of household benefits from a lower tax rate.










For Tax Years 2022 and 2023




  Federal Income Tax Rate
Income Range for Taxpayer filing as the Head of Household for 2022
Income Range for Taxpayer filing as Head of Household for 2023


  10%
$0-$14,650
$0-$15,700


  12%
$14,651-$55,900
$15,701-$59,850


  22%
$55,901-$89,050
$59,851-$95,350


  24%
$89,051-$170,050
$95,351-$182,100


  32%
$170,051-$215,950
$182,101-$231,250


  35%
$215,951-$539,900
$$231,251-$578,100


  37%
Over $539,900
Over $578,101


  Standard Deduction
$19,400
$20,800





  Qualifying Widow(er) With Dependent Child  

During the year in which a spouse dies, the surviving spouse can typically use the joint filing status. For the two tax years following the year of a spouse's death, the surviving spouse can file as a qualifying surviving spouse. While the surviving spouse cannot continue to claim an exemption for the deceased spouse, they may claim the standard deduction for a married couple filing jointly.



The tax bracket and income range for a surviving spouse is the same as that for married filing jointly.
What Is Fill or Kill (FOK)?  

Fill or kill (FOK) is a conditional type of time-in-force order used in securities trading that instructs a brokerage to execute a transaction immediately and completely or not at all. This type of order is most often used by active traders and is usually for a large quantity of stock. The order must be filled in its entirety or else canceled (killed).



A FOK is essentially an all-or-none (AON) and immediate-or-cancel order (IOC) combined.





Key Takeaways

A Fill or Kill (FOK) order is an order that is directed to be executed immediately at the market or a specified price or canceled if not filled.A FOK order combines an all-or-none (AON) specification indicating it must be filled entirely with an immediate-or-cancel (IOC) timeframe.Typical FOK orders last a couple of seconds to minimize disruption to the stock's price and partial fills are not allowed.


   Understanding Fill or Kill  

The purpose of a fill or kill (FOK) order is to ensure that an entire position is executed at prevailing prices in a timely manner. Without a fill or kill designation, it might take a prolonged period of time to complete a large order. Because such orders are typically placed for large quantities, prolonged execution of the order has the potential to cause significant changes to a stock's price and causing market disruption.



On some exchanges, an FOK should be executed within a few seconds of it being shown to the trading community. In this context, the market or limit order FOK is treated similarly to an "all or none" order with the exception that it is immediately canceled if not completely filled. On other exchanges, an FOK is executed by filling the order with the number of shares that the first bid or offer makes available. Then, any unfilled balance of shares would be canceled. In this context, the FOK is a way for a buyer or seller to fill what is possible, then cancel the rest.



In reality, however, the fill-or-kill type of trade does not occur very often. Other methods of instructing a brokerage on the time frame in which a trade is to be executed include immediate or cancel (IOC) which means to fill all or part of the order immediately, then cancel any part that cannot be filled, and good ‘til canceled (GTC), which keeps an order open until it is able to be filled at a specified price.


   Fill or Kill Example  

Assume an investor wants to purchase 1 million shares of Stock XYZ at $15 per share. If the investor wants to buy 1 million shares fairly immediately, and no fewer, at $15 (or better), an FOK order should be placed. Assume the order is placed. If a broker has more than a million shares in its inventory and would only like to sell 700,000 shares at the $15 price, the order would be killed. If the broker is willing to sell 1 million shares but only a price of $15.01, the order would be killed.



On the other hand, if the broker is willing to sell the full 1 million shares at $15, the order would be filled instantly. Also, if the broker is willing to sell the full 1 million shares at a better price, say $14.99, the order would also be filled.
What Is Finance?  

Finance is a term for matters regarding the management, creation, and study of money and investments. It involves the use of credit and debt, securities, and investment to finance current projects using future income flows. Because of this temporal aspect, finance is closely linked to the time value of money, interest rates, and other related topics.



Finance can be broadly divided into three categories:



Public finance
Corporate finance
Personal finance



There are many other specific categories, such as behavioral finance, which seeks to identify the cognitive (e.g., emotional, social, and psychological) reasons behind financial decisions.





Key Takeaways

Finance is a term broadly describing the study and system of money, investments, and other financial instruments.Finance can be divided broadly into three distinct categories: public finance, corporate finance, and personal finance.More recent subcategories of finance include social finance and behavioral finance.The history of finance and financial activities dates back to the dawn of civilizationWhile it has roots in scientific fields, such as statistics, economics, and mathematics, finance also includes non-scientific elements that liken it to an art.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Finance  

"Finance" is typically broken down into three broad categories: public finance, corporate finance, and personal finance.



Public finance includes tax systems, government expenditures, budget procedures, stabilization policy and instruments, debt issues, and other government concerns. Corporate finance involves managing assets, liabilities, revenues, and debts for a business. Personal finance defines all financial decisions and activities of an individual or household, including budgeting, insurance, mortgage planning, savings, and retirement planning.


   Key Finance Terms  

These are some key finance terms you should be familiar with.



Asset: An asset is something of value, such as cash, real estate, or property. A business may have current assets or fixed assets.



Liability: A liability is a financial obligation, such as debt. Liabilities can be current or long-term.



Balance sheet: A balance sheet is a document that shows a company's assets and its liabilities. Subtract the liabilities from the assets to see the firm's net worth.



Cash flow: Cash flow is the movement of money into and out of a business or household.



Compound interest: Unlike simple interest, which is interest added to the principal one time, compound interest is calculated and added periodically. This results in interest being charged not only on the principal, but also on the interest already accrued.



Equity: Equity means ownership. Stocks are called equities, because each share represents a portion of ownership.



Liquidity: Liquidity refers to how easily an asset can be converted to cash. For example, real estate is not a very liquid investment, because it can take weeks or months to sell.



Profit: Profit is the money left over after expenses. A profit and loss statement shows how much a business has earned or lost for a particular period.


   History of Finance  

Finance, as a study of theory and practice distinct from the field of economics, arose in the 1940s and 1950s with the works of Harry Markowitz, William F. Sharpe, Fischer Black, and Myron Scholes, to name just a few. Particular realms of finance—such as banking, lending, and investing, of course, money itself—have been around since the dawn of civilization in some form or another.



The financial transactions of the early Sumerians were formalized in the Babylonian Code of Hammurabi (circa 1800 BCE). This set of rules regulated ownership or rental of land, employment of agricultural labor, and credit. Yes, there were loans back then, and yes, interest was charged on them—rates varied depending on whether you were borrowing grain or silver.



By 1200 BCE, cowrie shells were used as a form of money in China. Coined money was introduced in the first millennium BCE. King Croesus of Lydia (now Turkey) was one of the first to strike and circulate gold coins around 564 BCE—hence the expression, “rich as Croesus.”



In ancient Rome, coins were stored in the basement of temples as priests or temple workers were considered the most honest, devout, and safest to safeguard assets. Temples also loaned money, acting as financial centers of major cities.


  Early Stocks, Bonds, and Options  

Belgium claims to be home to the first exchange, with an exchange in Antwerp dating back to 1531. During the 16th century, the East India Company became the first publicly-traded company as it issued stock and paid dividends on proceeds from its voyages. The London Stock Exchange was created in 1773 and was followed by the New York Stock Exchange less than 20 years later.



The earliest recorded bond dates back to 2400 BCE, as a stone tablet that recorded debt obligations that guaranteed repayment of grain. During the Middle Ages, governments began issuing debts to fund war efforts. In the 17th century, the Bank of England was created to finance the British Navy. The United States also began issuing Treasury bonds to support the Revolutionary War.



Options contracts can be found dating back to the Bible. In Genesis 29, Laban offers Jacob the option to marry his daughter in exchange for seven years of labor. However, this example demonstrates the difficulty of preserving obligations, as Laban reneged on the agreement after Jacob's labor was complete.



In Aristotle's 4th-century philosophical work Politics, the early practice of options is outlined through an anecdote by the philosopher Thales. Believing a great future harvest of olives in the coming year, Thales pre-emptively acquired the rights to all olive presses in Chios and Miletus. Regarding options on an exchange, both forward and options contracts were integrated into Amsterdam's sophisticated clearing process by the mid-17th century.


  Advances in Accounting  

Compound interest—interest calculated not just on principal but on previously accrued interest—was known to ancient civilizations (the Babylonians had a phrase for “interest on interest,” which basically defines the concept). But it was not until medieval times that mathematicians started to analyze it in order to show how invested sums could mount up: One of the earliest and most important sources is the arithmetical manuscript written in 1202 by Leonardo Fibonacci of Pisa, known as Liber Abaci, which gives examples comparing compound and simple interest.



The first comprehensive treatise on book-keeping and accountancy, Luca Pacioli's Summa de arithmetica, geometria, proportioni et proportionalita, was published in Venice in 1494. A book on accountancy and arithmetic written by William Colson appeared in 1612, containing the earliest tables of compound interest written in English. A year later, Richard Witt published his Arithmeticall Questions in London in 1613, and compound interest was thoroughly accepted.



Towards the end of the 17th century, in England and the Netherlands, interest calculations were combined with age-dependent survival rates to create the first life annuities.


   Types of Finance  
  Public Finance  

The federal government helps prevent market failure by overseeing the allocation of resources, distribution of income, and stabilization of the economy. Regular funding for these programs is secured mostly through taxation. Borrowing from banks, insurance companies, and other governments and earning dividends from its companies also help finance the federal government.



State and local governments also receive grants and aid from the federal government. Other sources of public finance include user charges from ports, airport services, and other facilities; fines resulting from breaking laws; revenues from licenses and fees, such as for driving; and sales of government securities and bond issues.


  Corporate Finance  

Businesses obtain financing through a variety of means, ranging from equity investments to credit arrangements. A firm might take out a loan from a bank or arrange for a line of credit. Acquiring and managing debt properly can help a company expand and become more profitable.



Startups may receive capital from angel investors or venture capitalists in exchange for a percentage of ownership. If a company thrives and goes public, it will issue shares on a stock exchange; such initial public offerings (IPO) bring a great influx of cash into a firm. Established companies may sell additional shares or issue corporate bonds to raise money. Businesses may purchase dividend-paying stocks, blue-chip bonds, or interest-bearing bank certificates of deposit (CDs); they may also buy other companies in an effort to boost revenue.



Recent examples of corporate financing include:



Bausch & Lomb Corp's initial public offering was initially filed Jan. 13, 2022, and officially sold shares in May 2022. The healthcare company generated $630 million in proceeds.Ford Motor Credit Company LLC manages outstanding notes to raise capital or extinguish debt to support Ford Motor Company.HomeLight, a real estate company, used a blended financial approach to raise $115 million ($60 million by issuing additional equity and $55 million through debt financing). HomeLight used the additional capital to acquire lending start-up Accept.inc.


  Personal Finance  

Personal financial planning generally involves analyzing an individual's or a family's current financial position, predicting short-term, and long-term needs, and executing a plan to fulfill those needs within individual financial constraints. Personal finance depends largely on one's earnings, living requirements, and individual goals and desires.



Matters of personal finance include but are not limited to: the securing of financial products like credit cards; life and home insurance; mortgages; and retirement products. Personal banking (such as checking and savings accounts, individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and 401(k) plans) is also considered a part of personal finance.



The most important aspects of personal finance include:



Assessing the current financial status (expected cash flow, current savings, and so on)Buying insurance to protect against risk and to ensure one's material standing is secureCalculating and filing taxesEarmarking savings and investmentsPlanning for retirement



As a specialized field, personal finance is a recent development, though forms of it have been taught in universities and schools as "home economics" or "consumer economics" since the early 20th century. The field was initially disregarded by male economists, as "home economics" appeared to be the purview of housewives. Recently, economists have repeatedly stressed widespread education in matters of personal finance as integral to the macro performance of the overall national economy.


  Social Finance  

Social finance typically refers to investments made in social enterprises including charitable organizations and some cooperatives. Rather than an outright donation, these investments take the form of equity or debt financing, in which the investor seeks both a financial reward as well as a social gain.



Modern forms of social finance also include some segments of microfinance, specifically loans to small business owners and entrepreneurs in less developed countries to enable their enterprises to grow. Lenders earn a return on their loans while simultaneously helping to improve individuals' standard of living and to benefit the local society and economy.



Social impact bonds (also known as Pay for Success Bonds or social benefit bonds) are a specific type of instrument that acts as a contract with the public sector or local government. Repayment and return on investment are contingent upon the achievement of certain social outcomes and achievements.


  Behavioral Finance  

There was a time when theoretical and empirical evidence seemed to suggest that conventional financial theories were reasonably successful at predicting and explaining certain types of economic events. Nonetheless, as time went on, academics in the financial and economic realms detected anomalies and behaviors which occurred in the real world but could not be explained by any available theories.



It became increasingly clear that conventional theories could explain certain “idealized” events—but that the real world was, in fact, a great deal more messy and disorganized, and that market participants frequently behave in ways that are irrational and thus difficult to predict according to those models.



As a result, academics began to turn to cognitive psychology in order to account for irrational and illogical behaviors which are unexplained by modern financial theory. Behavioral science is the field that was born out of these efforts; it seeks to explain our actions, whereas modern finance seeks to explain the actions of the idealized “economic man” (Homo economicus).



Behavioral finance, a sub-field of behavioral economics, proposes psychology-based theories to explain financial anomalies, such as severe rises or falls in stock price. The purpose is to identify and understand why people make certain financial choices. Within behavioral finance, it is assumed the information structure and the characteristics of market participants systematically influence individuals' investment decisions as well as market outcomes.



Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, who began to collaborate in the late 1960s, are considered by many to be the fathers of behavioral finance. Joining them later was Richard Thaler, who combined economics and finance with elements of psychology in order to develop concepts like mental accounting, the endowment effect, and other biases that have an impact on people’s behavior.


  Tenets of Behavioral Finance  

Behavioral finance encompasses many concepts, but four are key: mental accounting, herd behavior, anchoring, and high self-rating and overconfidence. 



Mental accounting refers to the propensity for people to allocate money for specific purposes based on miscellaneous subjective criteria, including the source of the money and the intended use for each account. The theory of mental accounting suggests that individuals are likely to assign different functions to each asset group or account, the result of which can be an illogical, even detrimental, set of behaviors. For instance, some people keep a special “money jar” set aside for a vacation or a new home while at the same time carrying substantial credit card debt.



Herd behavior states that people tend to mimic the financial behaviors of the majority, or herd, whether those actions are rational or irrational. In many cases, herd behavior is a set of decisions and actions that an individual would not necessarily make on his or her own, but which seem to have legitimacy because "everyone's doing it." Herd behavior often is considered a major cause of financial panics and stock market crashes. 



Anchoring refers to attaching spending to a certain reference point or level, even though it may have no logical relevance to the decision at hand. One common example of “anchoring” is the conventional wisdom that a diamond engagement ring should cost about two months’ worth of salary. Another might be buying a stock that briefly rose from trading around $65 to hit $80 and then fell back to $65, out of a sense that it's now a bargain (anchoring your strategy at that $80 price). While that could be true, it's more likely that the $80 figure was an anomaly, and $65 is the true value of the shares.



High self-rating refers to a person's tendency to rank him/herself better than others or higher than an average person. For example, an investor may think that he is an investment guru when his investments perform optimally, blocking out the investments that are performing poorly. High self-rating goes hand-in-hand with overconfidence, which reflects the tendency to overestimate or exaggerate one’s ability to successfully perform a given task. Overconfidence can be harmful to an investor’s ability to pick stocks, for example. A 1998 study by researcher Terrance Odean found that overconfident investors typically conducted more trades as compared with their less-confident counterparts—and these trades actually produced yields significantly lower than the market.






Scholars have argued that the past few decades have witnessed an unparalleled expansion of financialization—or the role of finance in everyday business or life.


   Finance vs. Economics  

Economics and finance are interrelated, informing and influencing each other. Investors care about economic data because they also influence the markets to a great degree. It's important for investors to avoid "either/or" arguments regarding economics and finance; both are important and have valid applications.



In general, the focus of economics—especially macroeconomics—tends to be a bigger picture in nature, such as how a country, region, or market is performing. Economics also can focus on public policy, while the focus of finance is more individual, company- or industry-specific.



Microeconomics explains what to expect if certain conditions change on the industry, firm, or individual level. If a manufacturer raises the prices of cars, microeconomics says consumers will tend to buy fewer than before. If a major copper mine collapses in South America, the price of copper will tend to increase, because supply is restricted.



Finance also focuses on how companies and investors evaluate risk and return. Historically, economics has been more theoretical and finance more practical, but in the last 20 years, the distinction has become much less pronounced.


   Is Finance an Art or a Science?  

The short answer to this question is: both.


  Finance As a Science  

Finance, as a field of study and an area of business, definitely has strong roots in related-scientific areas, such as statistics and mathematics. Furthermore, many modern financial theories resemble scientific or mathematical formulas.



However, there is no denying the fact that the financial industry also includes non-scientific elements that liken it to an art. For example, it has been discovered that human emotions (and decisions made because of them) play a large role in many aspects of the financial world.



Modern financial theories, such as the Black Scholes model, draw heavily on the laws of statistics and mathematics found in science; their very creation would have been impossible if science hadn't laid the initial groundwork. Also, theoretical constructs, such as the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), attempt to logically explain the behavior of the stock market in an emotionless, completely rational manner, wholly ignoring elements such as market sentiment and investor sentiment.


  Finance As an Art  

Still, while these and other academic advancements have greatly improved the day-to-day operations of the financial markets, history is rife with examples that seem to contradict the notion that finance behaves according to rational scientific laws. For example, stock market disasters, such as the October 1987 crash (Black Monday), which saw the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fall 22%, and the great 1929 stock market crash beginning on Black Thursday (Oct. 24, 1929), are not suitably explained by scientific theories such as the EMH. The human element of fear also played a part (the reason a dramatic fall in the stock market is often called a "panic").



In addition, the track records of investors have shown that markets are not entirely efficient and, therefore, not entirely scientific. Studies have shown that investor sentiment appears to be mildly influenced by weather, with the overall market generally becoming more bullish when the weather is predominantly sunny. Other phenomena include the January effect, the pattern of stock prices falling near the end of one calendar year and rising at the beginning of the next.


   Careers in Finance  

There are many career options for someone interested in finance. Here are a few common career paths.





$72,000

The average recipient of a bachelor's degree in finance earned $72,000 a year as of 2023, according to the website Payscale.



Accountant: An accountant manages a company's financial records, tracks expenses, and runs reports.



Auditor: An auditor is someone tasked with ensuring accuracy in financial records. They may be employed by a company to analyze finances, or they may work for the government.



Banker: A commercial banker works with businesses to provide banking services such as accounts and loans. An investment banker is someone who focuses on companies looking to raise capital or conduct a sale or merger.



Capital manager: A capital management professional helps a company allocate its capital resources and balance them against its debts.



Lender: Someone who works in lending, such as a loan officer, manages the issuance of loans. For example, a mortgage lender works up contracts that secure a real estate loan.



Market analyst: Market analysts evaluate trends and make forecasts that account for changing market conditions, preparing recommendations that can guide a company's financial decisions.





23.5%

The amount that wages in the finance and insurance industry have increased since 2006, according to Payscale.




How Can I Learn Finance?
As college students, undergraduate majors in finance will learn the ins and outs. A masters degree in finance will hone those skills and expand your knowledge base. An MBA will also provide some basics for corporate finance and similar topics. For those who already have graduated without a finance degree, the chartered financial analyst (CFA) self-study program is a rigorous series of three difficult exams that culminates in a globally-recognized credential in finance. Other, more specific industry standards also exist such as the certified financial planner (CFP).




What Is the Purpose of Finance?
Finance involves borrowing & lending, investing, raising capital, and selling & trading securities. The purpose of these pursuits is to allow companies and individuals to fund certain activities or projects today, to be repaid in the future based on income streams generated from those activities. Without finance, people would not be able to afford to buy homes (entirely in cash), and companies would not be able to grow and expand as they can today. Finance, therefore, allows for the more efficient allocation of capital resources.




What Are the Basic Areas of Finance?
Finance is generally divided into these three basic areas:Public finance includes tax, spending, budgeting, and debt issuance policies that affect how a government pays for the services it provides to the publicCorporate finance refers to the financial activities related to running a company or business, usually with a division or department set up to oversee those financial activities.Personal finance involves money matters for individuals and their families, including budgeting, strategizing, saving and investing, purchasing financial products, and safeguarding assets. Banking is also considered a component of personal finance.




How Much Do Finance Jobs Pay?
Finance jobs can vary a lot in pay. Among the most common positions:A personal financial advisor's median annual compensation is $94,170, according to the latest U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) statistics.The median pay for budget analysts—the professionals who examine how a company or organization spends money—is a solid $79,940 annually. A job as a treasury analyst pays $60,730 a year on average, according to Payscale. However, corporate treasurers, who have more experience, make an average salary of $118,704.Financial analysts make a median of $81,410, though salaries can run in the six figures at major Wall Street firms.Accountants and auditors' median pay clocks in at $77,250. According to Payscale, the average salary for CPAs ranges from $50,000 to $126,000 per year.Financial managers—who create financial reports, direct investment activities, and develop plans for the long-term financial goals of their organization—have a median pay of $131,710 per year, reflecting the fact that theirs is a fairly senior position.Securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents—brokers and financial advisors who connect buyers and sellers in financial markets—make a median of $62,910 per year. However, their compensation is often commission-based, and so a salaried figure may not fully reflect their earnings.According to an Indeed.com survey, Chief Finance Officers (CFOs) have the highest salaried jobs in finance. As of mid-2022, CFOs earned an average of $123,265 before bonuses.




What Is the Difference Between Accounting and Finance?
Accounting is one aspect of finance that tracks day-to-day cash flows, expenses, and income. Accounting tasks include bookkeeping, tax preparation, and auditing.


   The Bottom Line  

Finance is a broad term that describes a variety of activities. But basically, they all boil down to the practice of managing money—getting, spending, and everything in between, from borrowing to investing. Along with activities, finance also refers to the tools and instruments people use in relation to money, and the systems and institutions through which activities occur.



Finance can involve something as large as a country's trade deficit or as small as the dollar bills in a person's wallet. But without it, very little could function—neither an individual household, nor a corporation, nor a society.
What Is a Financial Account?  

In macroeconomics, a financial account is a component of a country's balance of payments that covers claims on or liabilities to nonresidents, specifically concerning financial assets. Financial account components include direct investment, portfolio investment, and reserve assets broken down by sector.



When recorded in a country's balance of payments, nonresidents' claims made on residents' financial assets are liabilities, while claims made against nonresidents by residents are assets.





Key Takeaways


A financial account is a component of a country’s balance of payments that covers claims on or liabilities to nonresidents concerning financial assets.
Financial account components include direct investment, portfolio investment, and reserve assets broken down by sector.
The financial account involves financial assets such as gold, currency, derivatives, special drawing rights, equities, and bonds.



   Understanding Financial Accounts  

The financial account is a tracking mechanism for shifts in international asset ownership, and it is composed of two subaccounts.



The first subaccount includes domestic ownership of foreign assets, such as foreign bank deposits and securities in foreign companies.The second subaccount includes foreign ownership of domestic assets, such as the purchase of government bonds by foreign entities or loans provided to domestic banks by foreign institutions.



To compare how the financial account can increase or decrease, let's analyze the following scenarios for the financial account of the United States:



If there's an increase in U.S.-owned foreign assets abroad, it's a financial outflow and decreases the financial account of the U.S., as shown by a negative value.Conversely, if there's a decrease in U.S.-owned foreign assets abroad, it's considered a financial inflow and increases the financial account; shown as a positive value.If there's an increase in foreign-owned assets in the U.S., it's a financial inflow and increases the financial account of the U.S., showing a positive value.Conversely, if there's a decrease in foreign-owned assets in the U.S., it's a financial outflow and decreases the financial account of the U.S., showing a negative value.


   Capital Account vs. Current Account  

The financial account differs from the capital account in that the capital account records transfers of capital assets. Transactions in the capital account have no impact on a country’s production levels, rate of savings, or overall income.



The current account reflects the country’s current trade balance, combined with net income and direct payments, and measures the import and export of goods and services. When combined with the financial and capital accounts, the three accounts form a country’s balance of payments.


   Transaction Recording  

The financial account involves financial assets such as gold, currency, derivatives, special drawing rights, equities, and bonds. During a complex transaction containing capital assets and financial claims, a country may record part of a transaction in its capital account and the other part in its current account.



In addition, because entries in the financial account are net entries that offset credits with debits, they may not appear in a country’s balance of payments, even if transactions occur between residents and nonresidents.


   Risks and Benefits of Increased Access  

Easing access to a country’s capital is considered part of a broader movement toward economic liberalization, and a more liberalized financial account opens a country up to capital markets.



However, reducing restrictions on the financial account has risks. The more a country’s economy is integrated with other economies worldwide, the greater the likelihood that economic troubles abroad will affect the domestic situation. This potential outcome is weighed against the potential benefits: lower funding costs, access to global capital markets, and increased efficiency.




What Makes Up the Balance of a Financial Account?
The balance of a financial account is the sum of net direct investments, net portfolio investments, asset funding, and errors/omissions.




What Is a Current Account and Financial Account?
The current account records imports and exports; the movement of goods in and out of a country, measuring the transfers between U.S. residents and foreign residents. A financial account measures the change in a country's ownership of international assets.




Does the Financial Account Always Balance?
The current account is offset by the capital account and the financial account, meaning the sum of these accounts, which is the balance of payments, will balance to zero.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial accounts are a part of a nation's balance of payments that covers nonresident claims and liabilities, which comprises assets such as gold, equities, bonds, derivatives, and special drawing rights. The purpose of a financial account is to track the changes in international asset ownership.
What Is Financial Accounting?  

Financial accounting is a specific branch of accounting involving a process of recording, summarizing, and reporting the myriad of transactions resulting from business operations over a period of time. These transactions are summarized in the preparation of financial statements—including the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement—that record a company’s operating performance over a specified period.



Work opportunities for a financial accountant can be found in both the public and private sectors. A financial accountant’s duties may differ from those of a general accountant, who works for themself rather than directly for a company or an organization.





Key Takeaways

Financial accounting is the framework that dictates the rules, processes, and standards for financial recordkeeping.Nonprofits, corporations, and small businesses use financial accountants to prepare their books and records and generate their financial reports.Financial reporting occurs through the use of financial statements, such as the balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flow, and statement of changes in shareholder equity.Financial accounting differs from managerial accounting, as financial reporting is for reporting to external parties, while managerial accounting is for internal strategic planning.Financial accounting may be performed under the accrual method (recording expenses for items that have not yet been paid) or the cash method (only cash transactions are recorded).












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How Financial Accounting Works  

Financial accounting utilizes a series of established principles. Which accounting principles are used depends on the regulatory and reporting requirements of the business.



U.S. public companies are required to perform financial accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Their purpose is to provide consistent information to investors, creditors, regulators, and tax authorities.



The statements used in financial accounting cover the five main classifications of financial data, which are:



Revenues – Included here is income from sales of products and services, plus other sources, including dividends and interest.Expenses – These are the costs of producing goods and services, from research and development to marketing to payroll.Assets – These consist of owned property, both tangible (buildings, computers) and intangible (patents, trademarks).Liabilities – These are all outstanding debts, such as loans or rent.Equity – If you paid off the company’s debts and liquidated its assets, you would get its equity, which is what a company is worth.



Revenues and expenses are accounted for and reported on the income statement, resulting in the determination of net income at the bottom of the statement. Assets, liabilities, and equity accounts are reported on the balance sheet, which utilizes financial accounting to report ownership of the company’s future economic benefits.






International public companies also frequently report financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).


   Financial Statements  
  Balance Sheet  

A balance sheet reports a company’s financial position as of a specific date. It lists the company’s assets, liabilities, and equity, and the financial statement rolls over from one period to the next. Financial accounting guidance dictates how a company records cash, values assets, and reports debt.



A balance sheet is used by management, lenders, and investors to assess the liquidity and solvency of a company. Through financial ratio analysis, financial accounting allows these parties to compare one balance sheet account with another. For example, the current ratio compares the amount of current assets with current liabilities to determine how likely a company is going to be able to meet short-term debt obligations.


  Income Statement  

An income statement, also known as a “profit and loss statement,” reports a company’s operating activity during a specific period of time. Usually issued on a monthly, a quarterly, or an annual basis, the income statement lists revenue, expenses, and net income of a company for a given period. Financial accounting guidance dictates how a company recognizes revenue, records expenses, and classifies types of expenses.



An income statement can be useful to management, but managerial accounting gives a company better insight into production and pricing strategies compared with financial accounting. Financial accounting rules regarding an income statement are more useful for investors seeking to gauge a company’s profitability and external parties looking to assess the risk or consistency of operations.


  Cash Flow Statement  

A cash flow statement reports how a company used cash during a specific period. It is broken into three sections:



Operations – These are the costs of a company’s core business activities.Financing – This is money the company receives from taking loans or issuing shares, as well as money paid in interest on loans and dividends to investors.Investments – This is money that comes from buying and selling the company’s investments, such as securities or fixed assets.



Financial accounting guidance dictates when transactions are to be recorded, though there is often little to no flexibility in the amount of cash to be reported per transaction.



A cash flow statement is used by managed to better understand how cash is being spent and received. It extracts only items that impact cash, allowing for the clearest possible picture of how money is being used, which can be somewhat cloudy if the business is using accrual accounting.


  Shareholders' Equity Statement  

A shareholders' equity statement reports how a company’s equity changes from one period to another, as opposed to a balance sheet, which is a snapshot of equity at a single point in time. It shows how the residual value of a company increases or decreases and why it changed. It gives details about the following components of equity:



Share Capital – Money raised by selling stock in the companyNet Income – Any profit after expenses and deductionsDividends – The part of profit that is paid to shareholdersRetained Earnings – Whatever is left after paying dividends






Nonprofit entities and government agencies use similar financial statements; however, their financial statements are more specific to their entity types and will vary from the statements listed above.


   Accrual Method vs. Cash Method  

There are two primary types of financial accounting: the accrual method and the cash method. The main difference between them is the timing in which transactions are recorded.


  Accrual Method  

The accrual method of financial accounting records transactions independently of cash usage. Revenue is recorded when it is earned (when a bill is sent), not when it actually arrives (when the bill is paid). Expenses are recorded upon receiving an invoice, not when paying it. Accrual accounting recognizes the impact of a transaction over a period of time. 



For example, imagine a company receives a $1,000 payment for a consulting job to be completed next month. Under accrual accounting, the company is not allowed to recognize the $1,000 as revenue, as it has technically not yet performed the work and earned the income. The transaction is recorded as a debit to cash and a credit to unearned revenue, a liability account. When the company earns the revenue next month, it clears the unearned revenue credit and records actual revenue, erasing the debt to cash.



Another example of the accrual method of accounting are expenses that have not yet been paid. Imagine a company received an invoice for $5,000 for July utility usage. Even though the company won’t pay the bill until August, accrual accounting calls for the company to record the transaction in July, debiting utility expense. The company records a credit to accounts payable. When the invoice is paid, the credit is cleared.


  Cash Method  

The cash method of financial accounting is an easier, less strict method of preparing financial statements: Transactions are recorded only when cash is involved. Revenue and expenses are only recorded when the transaction has been completed via the facilitation of money.



In the example above, the consulting firm would have recorded $1,000 of consulting revenue when it received the payment. Even though it won’t actually perform the work until the next month, the cash method calls for revenue to be recognized when cash is received. When the company does the work in the following month, no journal entry is recorded, because the transaction will have been recorded in full the prior month.



In the other example, the utility expense would have been recorded in August (the period when the invoice was paid). Even though the charges relate to services incurred in July, the cash method of financial accounting requires expenses to be recorded when they are paid, not when they occur. 




Financial Accounting

Accrual Method

Records transactions when benefit is received or liability is incurred
A more accurate method of accounting that depicts more-realistic business operations
Required for larger, public companies as part of external reporting



Cash Method

Records transactions when cash is received or distributed
An easier method of accounting that simplifies a company down to what has already actually occurred
Primarily used by smaller, private companies with low to no reporting requirements





   Principles of Financial Accounting  

Financial accounting is dictated by five general, overarching principles that guide companies in how to prepare their financial statements. They are the basis of all financial accounting technical guidance. These five principles relate to the accrual method of accounting.



Revenue Recognition Principle – This states that revenue should be recognized when it has been earned. It dictates how much revenue should be recorded, the timing of when that revenue is reported, and circumstances in which revenue should not be reflected within a set of financial statements. 
Cost Principle – This states the basis for which costs are recorded. It dictates how much expenses should be recorded for (i.e. at transaction cost) in addition to properly recognizing expenses over time for appropriate situations (i.e. a depreciable asset is expensed over its useful life). 
Matching Principle – This states that revenue and expenses should be recorded in the same period in which both are incurred. It strives to prevent a company from recording revenue in one year with the associated cost of generating that revenue in a different year. The principle dictates the timing in which transactions are recorded.
Full Disclosure Principle – This states that the financial statements should be prepared using financial accounting guidance that includes footnotes, schedules, or commentary that transparently report the financial position of a company. It dictates the amount of information provided within financial statements.
Objectivity Principle – This states that while financial accounting has aspects of estimations and professional judgement, a set of financial statements should be prepared objectively. It dictates when technical accounting should be used as opposed to personal opinion.


   Importance of Financial Accounting  

Companies engage in financial accounting for a number of important reasons.



Creating a standard set of rules – By delineating a standard set of rules for preparing financial statements, financial accounting creates consistency across reporting periods and different companies.
Decreasing risk – Financial accounting does this by increasing accountability. Lenders, regulatory bodies, tax authorities, and other external parties rely on financial information; financial accounting ensures that reports are prepared using acceptable methods that hold companies accountable for their performance.
Providing insight to management – Though other methods such as managerial accounting may provide better insights, financial accounting can drive strategic concepts if a company analyzes its financial results and makes reactionary investment decisions. 
Promoting trust in financial reporting – Independent governing bodies oversee the rules of financial accounting, making the basis of reporting independent of management and a highly reliable source of accurate information
Encouraging transparency – By setting rules and requirements, financial accounting forces companies to disclose certain information on how operations are going, and what risks the company is facing, painting an accurate picture of financial performance regardless of how well or poorly the company is doing.






Careers in financial accounting can include preparing financial statements, analyzing financial statements, auditing financial statements, and supporting the technology/systems that produce financial statements.


   Users of Financial Accounting/Financial Statements  

The entire purpose of financial accounting is to prepare financial statements, which are used by a variety of groups and often required as part of agreements with the preparing company. In addition to management using financial accounting to gain information on operations, the following groups use financial accounting reporting. 



Investors – Before putting their money into a company, investors often seek reports prepared using financial accounting to understand how the company has been doing and set expectations about the company’s future. 
Auditors – Companies may be required to present their financial position to auditors, who analyze the financial statements and ensure that proper financial accounting guidance has been used and the reports are free from material misstatements.
Regulatory Agencies – Public companies are required to submit financial statements to governing bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with financial accounting rules, and companies face fines or exchange delisting if they do not comply with reporting requirements.
Suppliers – Vendors or suppliers may ask for financial statements as part of their credit application process. Suppliers may require a credit history or evidence of profitability, such as a Piotroski Score, before issuing or increasing credit to a requested amount.
Banks – Lenders and other similar financial institutions will almost always require financial statements as part of the business loan process. Lenders will need to see verifiable proof via financial accounting that a company is in good operational health prior to issuing a loan. The statements may also be used for determining the cost, covenants, or interest rate of the loan.


   Financial Accounting vs. Managerial Accounting  

The key difference between financial and managerial accounting is that financial accounting provides information to external parties, while managerial accounting helps managers within the organization make decisions. Managerial accounting assesses financial performance and hopes to drive smarter decision-making through internal reports that analyze operations. It is not an allowable basis for financial statements. 



Managerial accounting uses operational information in specific ways to glean information. For example, it may use cost accounting to track the variable costs, fixed costs, and overhead costs along a manufacturing process. Then, using this cost information, a company may decide to switch to a lower quality, less expensive type of raw materials.


   Professional Designations for Financial Accounting  

Members of financial accounting can carry several different professional designations.



Certified Public Accountant (CPA) – The most common accounting designation demonstrating an ability to perform financial accounting within the United States is the CPA license.
Chartered Accountant (CA) – Outside of the United States, holders of the CA license demonstrate the ability as well.
Certified Management Accountant (CMA) – The CMA designation is more demonstrative of an ability to perform internal management functions than financial accounting. However, this license does test on financial analysis.
Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) – Holding a CIA designation demonstrates creditability in maintaining the control environment within a company by overseeing processes and procedures related to financial accounting.
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) – The CISA exam tests proficiency on maintaining the systems of an entity and may directly or indirectly influence the outcome of the financial accounting process.




What Is an Example of Financial Accounting?
A public company’s income statement is an example of financial accounting. The company must follow specific guidance on what transactions to record. In addition, the format of the report is stipulated by governing bodies. The end result is a financial report that communicates the amount of revenue recognized in a given period. 




What Is the Main Purpose of Financial Accounting?
Financial accounting is intended to provide financial information on a company’s operating performance. Though management can analyze reports generated using financial accounting, they often find it more useful to use managerial accounting, an internally geared method of calculating financial results that is not allowable for external reports. Financial accounting is the widely accepted method of preparing financial results for external use.




Who Uses Financial Accounting?
Public companies are required to perform financial accounting as part of the preparation of their financial statement reporting. Small or private companies may also use financial accounting, but they often operate with different reporting requirements. Financial statements generated through financial accounting are used by many parties outside of a company, including lenders, government agencies, auditors, insurance agencies, and investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial accounting is the framework that sets the rules on how financial statements are prepared. These guidelines dictate how a company translates its operations into a series of widely accepted and standardized financial reports. Financial accounting plays a critical part in keeping companies responsible for their performance and transparent regarding their operations.
What Is the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)?  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is an independent nonprofit organization responsible for establishing accounting and financial reporting standards for companies and nonprofit organizations in the United States, following generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The FASB was formed in 1973 to succeed the Accounting Principles Board and carry on its mission. It is based in Norwalk, Conn.





Key Takeaways:

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) sets accounting rules for public and private companies and nonprofits in the United States.A related organization, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), sets rules for state and local governments.In recent years, the FASB has been working with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to establish compatible standards worldwide.


   How the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Works  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board has the authority to establish and interpret generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States for public and private companies and nonprofit organizations. GAAP is a set of standards that companies, nonprofits, and governments should follow when preparing and presenting their financial statements, including any related party transactions.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) recognizes the FASB as the accounting standard setter for public companies. It is also recognized by state accounting boards, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), and other organizations in the field.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board is part of a larger, independent nonprofit group that also includes the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF), the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council (FASAC), the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), and the Governmental Accounting Standards Advisory Council (GASAC).



The GASB, which is similar in function to the FASB, was established in 1984 to set accounting and financial reporting standards for state and local governments across the United States. The FAF oversees both the FASB and the GASB. The two advisory councils provide guidance in their respective areas.



Collectively, the organizations' mission is to improve financial accounting and reporting standards so that the information is useful to investors and other users of financial reports. The organizations also educate stakeholders on how to understand and implement the standards most effectively.



The FASB is governed by seven full-time board members, who are required to sever their ties to the companies or organizations they work for before joining the board. Board members are appointed by the FAF's board of trustees for five-year terms and may serve for up to 10 years.



In 2009, the FAF launched the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, an online research tool designed as a single source for authoritative, nongovernmental, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. According to the FAF, the tool "reorganizes the thousands of U.S. GAAP pronouncements into roughly 90 accounting topics and displays all topics using a consistent structure." The website also provides relevant Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidance on those topics. A "basic view" version is free, while the more comprehensive "professional view" is available by paid subscription.


  FASB vs. IASB  

The London-based International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), founded in 2001 to replace an older standards organization, is responsible for the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are now used in many countries throughout the world. In recent years, the FASB has been working with the IASB on an initiative to improve financial reporting and the comparability of financial reports globally.
What Is a Financial Advisor?  

A financial advisor provides financial advice or guidance to customers for compensation. Financial advisors (sometimes spelled as advisers) can provide many different services, such as investment management, tax planning, and estate planning. Increasingly, financial advisors are acting as a "one-stop-shop" by providing everything from portfolio management to insurance products.



Registered advisors must carry the Series 65 license to conduct business with the public. A wide variety of other licenses and certifications may be required depending on the services provided by a given financial advisor.





Key Takeaways

A financial advisor is a professional who provides expertise for clients' decisions around money matters, personal finances, and investments.Financial advisors may work as independent agents or they may be employed by a larger financial firm.Registered advisors must pass one or more exams and be properly licensed in order to carry out business with clients.Unlike stockbrokers who simply execute orders in the market, financial advisors provide guidance and make informed decisions on behalf of their clients.Financial advisor's pay can be based on a fee, commission, profit-percentage structure, or a combination thereof. 


   Understanding Financial Advisors  

"Financial advisor" is a generic term with no precise industry definition. As a result, this title can describe many different types of financial professionals. Stockbrokers, insurance agents, tax preparers, investment managers, and financial planners can all be considered financial advisors. Estate planners and bankers may also fall under this umbrella.



Still, an important distinction can be made: that is, a financial advisor must provide guidance and advice. A financial advisor can be distinguished from an execution stockbroker that simply places trades for clients or a tax accountant who simply prepares tax returns without providing advice on how to maximize tax advantages.



Furthermore, what may pass as a financial advisor in some instances may simply be a product salesperson, such as a stockbroker or a life insurance agent. A true financial advisor should be a well-educated, credentialed, experienced, financial professional who works on behalf of their clients, as opposed to serving the interests of a financial institution by maximizing the sales of certain products or capitalizing on commissions from sales.





330,300

There were 330,300 professional financial advisors in the U.S. as of 2021, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.



Generally, a financial advisor is an independent practitioner who operates in a fiduciary capacity in which a client’s interests come before their own. However, only Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs), who are governed by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, are held to a true fiduciary standard. This fiduciary standard mandates that an RIA must always unconditionally put the client's best interests ahead of their own, regardless of all other circumstances.



There are some agents and brokers who elect to practice in this capacity, as a fiduciary, as a way of attracting clients. However, their compensation structure is such that they are bound by the contracts of the companies where they work.


  The Fiduciary Distinction  

Since the enactment of the Investment Adviser Act of 1940, two types of relationships have existed between financial intermediaries and their clients. These are the reasonableness standard and the stricter fiduciary standard. These relationships characterize the nature of the transactions between registered representatives and clients in the broker-dealer space. There is a fiduciary relationship that requires advisors registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as Registered Investment Advisors to exercise duties of loyalty, care, and full disclosure in their interactions with clients.



While the former is based on the principle of "caveat emptor" guided by self-governed rules of "suitability" and "reasonableness" in recommending an investment product or strategy, the latter is grounded in federal laws that impose the highest ethical standards. At its core, the fiduciary relationship relies on the necessity that a financial advisor must act on behalf of a client in a way the client would act for themself if they had the requisite knowledge and skills to do so.


   Financial Advisors vs. Financial Planners  

The financial planner is one particular type of financial advisor who specializes in helping companies and individuals create a program to meet long-term financial goals.



A financial planner might have a specialty in investments, taxes, retirement, and/or estate planning. Further, the financial planner may hold various licenses or designations, such as the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) designation. Financial planners may specialize in tax planning, asset allocation, risk management, retirement planning, and/or estate planning.




How Do You Become a Financial Advisor?
To become a financial advisor, one first needs to complete a bachelor's degree. A degree in finance or economics is not needed, but this does help. From there, you would look to be hired by a financial institution, most often joining through an internship. It is recommended to work at an institution as it will sponsor you for the industry licenses you need to complete before being able to practice as a financial advisor. You can do these on your own; however, it is easier to do through a company. An internship or entry-level job will also help you understand the industry and what is required for the career. The licenses you will need to complete may include Series 7, Series 63, Series 65, and Series 6. Once you obtain the licenses, you can work as a financial advisor.




What Do Financial Advisors Do?
Financial advisors are tasked with managing every aspect of your financial life, from retirement planning to estate planning to savings and investing. They are responsible for more than just suggesting investment choices or selling financial products. They assess your financial status and understand your financial goals and create a tailored financial plan to achieve those goals. They can help reduce the taxes you pay and maximize the returns on any financial assets you may own.




How Much Does a Financial Advisor Cost?
The cost of a financial advisor depends on the services you hire them for. Generally, the average fee a financial advisor charges is 1% on assets under management (AUM); however, many financial advisors operate on a sliding scale, so the more business you do, the lower this fee will be. There are also different fees for the different tasks that a financial advisor will perform. Many financial advisors charge a flat annual fee between $2,000 and $7,500; between $1,000 and $3,000 for creating a tailored financial plan and depending on the agreement, commissions of 3% to 6% on the account.




How Much Does a Financial Advisor Make?
The amount that a financial advisor makes depends on a variety of factors, such as their experience, the region in which they work, their types of clients, the types of products they sell, and the type of financial advice they provide. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 2021, the median pay of a financial advisor was $94,170 per year/$45.27 an hour.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial advisors help their clients achieve financial independence and security. They can work independently or as part of a larger firm, and generally pursue professional designations proving their knowledge. Their pay is based on a number of factors, and the average starting salary is well above the national average.
What Is Financial Analysis?  

Financial analysis is the process of evaluating businesses, projects, budgets, and other finance-related transactions to determine their performance and suitability. Typically, financial analysis is used to analyze whether an entity is stable, solvent, liquid, or profitable enough to warrant a monetary investment.





Key Takeaways

If conducted internally, financial analysis can help fund managers make future business decisions or review historical trends for past successes.If conducted externally, financial analysis can help investors choose the best possible investment opportunities.Fundamental analysis and technical analysis are the two main types of financial analysis.Fundamental analysis uses ratios and financial statement data to determine the intrinsic value of a security.Technical analysis assumes a security's value is already determined by its price, and it focuses instead on trends in value over time.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Financial Analysis  

Financial analysis is used to evaluate economic trends, set financial policy, build long-term plans for business activity, and identify projects or companies for investment. This is done through the synthesis of financial numbers and data. A financial analyst will thoroughly examine a company's financial statements—the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement. Financial analysis can be conducted in both corporate finance and investment finance settings.



One of the most common ways to analyze financial data is to calculate ratios from the data in the financial statements to compare against those of other companies or against the company's own historical performance.



For example, return on assets (ROA) is a common ratio used to determine how efficient a company is at using its assets and as a measure of profitability. This ratio could be calculated for several companies in the same industry and compared to one another as part of a larger analysis.






There is no single best financial analytic ratio or calculation. Most often, analysts use a combination of data to arrive at their conclusion.


   Corporate Financial Analysis  

In corporate finance, the analysis is conducted internally by the accounting department and shared with management in order to improve business decision making. This type of internal analysis may include ratios such as net present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) to find projects worth executing.



Many companies extend credit to their customers. As a result, the cash receipt from sales may be delayed for a period of time. For companies with large receivable balances, it is useful to track days sales outstanding (DSO), which helps the company identify the length of time it takes to turn a credit sale into cash. The average collection period is an important aspect of a company's overall cash conversion cycle.



A key area of corporate financial analysis involves extrapolating a company's past performance, such as net earnings or profit margin, into an estimate of the company's future performance. This type of historical trend analysis is beneficial to identify seasonal trends.



For example, retailers may see a drastic upswing in sales in the few months leading up to Christmas. This allows the business to forecast budgets and make decisions, such as necessary minimum inventory levels, based on past trends.


   Investment Financial Analysis  

In investment finance, an analyst external to the company conducts an analysis for investment purposes. Analysts can either conduct a top-down or bottom-up investment approach. A top-down approach first looks for macroeconomic opportunities, such as high-performing sectors, and then drills down to find the best companies within that sector. From this point, they further analyze the stocks of specific companies to choose potentially successful ones as investments by looking last at a particular company's fundamentals.



A bottom-up approach, on the other hand, looks at a specific company and conducts a similar ratio analysis to the ones used in corporate financial analysis, looking at past performance and expected future performance as investment indicators. Bottom-up investing forces investors to consider microeconomic factors first and foremost. These factors include a company's overall financial health, analysis of financial statements, the products and services offered, supply and demand, and other individual indicators of corporate performance over time.






Financial analysis is only useful as a comparative tool. Calculating a single instance of data is usually worthless; comparing that data against prior periods, other general ledger accounts, or competitor financial information yields useful information.


   Types of Financial Analysis  

There are two types of financial analysis: fundamental analysis and technical analysis.


  Fundamental Analysis  

Fundamental analysis uses ratios gathered from data within the financial statements, such as a company's earnings per share (EPS), in order to determine the business's value. Using ratio analysis in addition to a thorough review of economic and financial situations surrounding the company, the analyst is able to arrive at an intrinsic value for the security. The end goal is to arrive at a number that an investor can compare with a security's current price in order to see whether the security is undervalued or overvalued.


  Technical Analysis  

Technical analysis uses statistical trends gathered from trading activity, such as moving averages (MA). Essentially, technical analysis assumes that a security’s price already reflects all publicly available information and instead focuses on the statistical analysis of price movements. Technical analysis attempts to understand the market sentiment behind price trends by looking for patterns and trends rather than analyzing a security’s fundamental attributes.


   Horizontal vs. Vertical Analysis  

When reviewing a company's financial statements, two common types of financial analysis are horizontal analysis and vertical analysis. Both use the same set of data, though each analytical approach is different.



Horizontal analysis entails selecting several years of comparable financial data. One year is selected as the baseline, often the oldest. Then, each account for each subsequent year is compared to this baseline, creating a percentage that easily identifies which accounts are growing (hopefully revenue) and which accounts are shrinking (hopefully expenses).



Vertical analysis entails choosing a specific line item benchmark, then seeing how every other component on a financial statement compares to that benchmark. Most often, net sales is used as the benchmark. A company would then compare cost of goods sold, gross profit, operating profit, or net income as a percentage to this benchmark. Companies can then track how the percent changes over time.


   Examples of Financial Analysis  

In the nine-month period ending Sept. 30, 2022, Amazon.com reported a net loss of $3 billion. This was a substantial decline from one year ago where the company reported net income of over $19 billion.















Amazon.com, Q3 2022 Statement of Operations.



Financial analysis shows some interesting facets of the company's earnings per share (shown above. On one hand, the company's EPS through the first three quarters was -$0.29; compared to the prior year, Amazon earned $1.88 per share. This dramatic difference was not present looking only at the third quarter of 2022 compared to 2021. Though EPS did decline from one year to the next, the company's EPS for each third quarter was comparable ($0.31 per share vs. $0.28 per share).



Analysts can also use the information above to perform corporate financial analysis. For example, consider Amazon's operating profit margins below.



2022: $9,511 / $364,779 = 2.6%2021: $21,419 / $332,410 = 6.4%



From Q3 2021 to Q3 2022, the company experienced a decline in operating margin, allowing for financial analysis to reveal that the company simply earns less operating income for every dollar of sales.




Why Is Financial Analysis Useful?
The financial analysis aims to analyze whether an entity is stable, liquid, solvent, or profitable enough to warrant a monetary investment. It is used to evaluate economic trends, set financial policies, build long-term plans for business activity, and identify projects or companies for investment.




How Is Financial Analysis Done?
Financial analysis can be conducted in both corporate finance and investment finance settings. A financial analyst will thoroughly examine a company's financial statements—the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement.One of the most common ways to analyze financial data is to calculate ratios from the data in the financial statements to compare against those of other companies or against the company's own historical performance. A key area of corporate financial analysis involves extrapolating a company's past performance, such as net earnings or profit margin, into an estimate of the company's future performance.




What Techniques Are Used in Conducting Financial Analysis?
Analysts can use vertical analysis to compare each component of a financial statement as a percentage of a baseline (such as each component as a percentage of total sales). Alternatively, analysts can perform horizontal analysis by comparing one baseline year's financial results to other years.Many financial analysis techniques involve analyzing growth rates including regression analysis, year-over-year growth, top-down analysis such as market share percentage, or bottom-up analysis such as revenue driver analysis.Last, financial analysis often entails the use of financial metrics and ratios. These techniques include quotients relating to the liquidity, solvency, profitability, or efficiency (turnover of resources) of a company.




What Is Fundamental Analysis?
Fundamental analysis uses ratios gathered from data within the financial statements, such as a company's earnings per share (EPS), in order to determine the business's value. Using ratio analysis in addition to a thorough review of economic and financial situations surrounding the company, the analyst is able to arrive at an intrinsic value for the security. The end goal is to arrive at a number that an investor can compare with a security's current price in order to see whether the security is undervalued or overvalued.




What Is Technical Analysis?
Technical analysis uses statistical trends gathered from market activity, such as moving averages (MA). Essentially, technical analysis assumes that a security’s price already reflects all publicly available information and instead focuses on the statistical analysis of price movements. Technical analysis attempts to understand the market sentiment behind price trends by looking for patterns and trends rather than analyzing a security’s fundamental attributes.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial analysis is a cornerstone of making smarter, more strategic decisions based on the underlying financial data of a company. Whether corporate, investment, or technical analysis, analysts use data to explore trends, understand growth, seek areas of risk, and support decision-making. Financial analysis may include investigating financial statement changes, calculating financial ratios, or exploring operating variances.
What Is a Financial Asset?  

A financial asset is a liquid asset that gets its value from a contractual right or ownership claim. Cash, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and bank deposits are all are examples of financial assets. Unlike land, property, commodities, or other tangible physical assets, financial assets do not necessarily have inherent physical worth or even a physical form. Rather, their value reflects factors of supply and demand in the marketplace in which they trade, as well as the degree of risk they carry.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding a Financial Asset  

Most assets are categorized as either real, financial, or intangible. Real assets are physical assets that draw their value from substances or properties, such as precious metals, land, real estate, and commodities like soybeans, wheat, oil, and iron.



Intangible assets are the valuable property that is not physical in nature. They include patents, trademarks, and intellectual property.



Financial assets are in-between the other two assets. Financial assets may seem intangible—non-physical—with only the stated value on a piece of paper such as a dollar bill or a listing on a computer screen. What that paper or listing represents, though, is a claim of ownership of an entity, like a public company, or contractual rights to payments—say, the interest income from a bond. Financial assets derive their value from a contractual claim on an underlying asset.



This underlying asset may be either real or intangible. Commodities, for example, are the real, underlying assets that are pinned to such financial assets as commodity futures, contracts, or some exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Likewise, real estate is the real asset associated with shares of real estate investment trusts (REITs). REITs are financial assets and are publicly traded entities that own a portfolio of properties.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires businesses to report financial and real assets together as tangible assets for tax purposes. The grouping of tangible assets is separate from intangible assets.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





key takeaways

A financial asset is a liquid asset that represents—and derives value from—a claim of ownership of an entity or contractual rights to future payments from an entity.A financial asset's worth may be based on an underlying tangible or real asset, but market supply and demand influence its value as well.Stocks, bonds, cash, CDs, and bank deposits are examples of financial assets.


   Common Types of Financial Assets  

According to the commonly cited definition from the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), financial assets include:



CashEquity instruments of an entity—for example a share certificateA contractual right to receive a financial asset from another entity—known as a receivableThe contractual right to exchange financial assets or liabilities with another entity under favorable conditionsA contract that will settle in an entity's own equity instruments﻿﻿



In addition to stocks and receivables, the above definition comprises financial derivatives, bonds, money market or other account holdings, and equity stakes. Many of these financial assets do not have a set monetary value until they are converted into cash, especially in the case of stocks where their value and price fluctuate.



Aside from cash, the more common types of financial assets that investors encounter are:



Stocks are financial assets with no set ending or expiration date. An investor buying stocks becomes part-owner of a company and shares in its profits and losses. Stocks may be held indefinitely or sold to other investors.
Bonds are one way that companies or governments finance short-term projects. The bondholder is the lender, and the bonds state how much money is owed, the interest rate being paid, and the bond's maturity date.
A certificate of deposit (CD) allows an investor to deposit an amount of money at a bank for a specified period with a guaranteed interest rate. A CD pays monthly interest and can typically be held between three months to five years depending on the contract.


   Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets  

The purest form of financial assets is cash and cash equivalents—checking accounts, savings accounts, and money market accounts. Liquid accounts are easily turned into funds for paying bills and covering financial emergencies or pressing demands.



Other varieties of financial assets might not be as liquid. Liquidity is the ability to change a financial asset into cash quickly. For stocks, it is the ability of an investor to buy or sell holdings from a ready market. Liquid markets are those where there are plenty of buyers and plenty of sellers and no extended lag-time in trying to execute a trade.



In the case of equities like stocks and bonds, an investor has to sell and wait for the settlement date to receive their money—usually two business days. Other financial assets have varying lengths of settlement.



Maintaining funds in liquid financial assets can result in greater preservation of capital. Money in bank checking, savings, and CD accounts are insured against loss of up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for credit union accounts. If for some reason the bank fails, your account has dollar-for-dollar coverage up to $250,000. However, since FDIC covers each financial institution individually, an investor with brokered CDs totaling over $250,000 in one bank faces losses if the bank becomes insolvent.﻿﻿



Liquid assets like checking and savings accounts have a limited return on investment (ROI) capability. ROI is the profit you receive from an asset divided by the cost of owning that asset. In checking and savings accounts the ROI is minimal. They may provide modest interest income but, unlike equities, they offer little appreciation. Also, CDs and money market accounts restrict withdrawals for months or years. When interest rates fall, callable CDs are often called, and investors end up moving their money to potentially lower-income investments.





Pros

Liquid financial assets convert into cash easily.
Some financial assets have the ability to appreciate in value.
The FDIC and NCUA insure accounts up to $250,000.



Cons

Highly liquid financial assets have little appreciation
Illiquid financial assets may be hard to convert to cash.
The value of a financial asset is only as strong as the underlying entity.





   Illiquid Assets Pros and Cons  

The opposite of a liquid asset is an illiquid asset. Real estate and fine antiques are examples of illiquid financial assets. These items have value but cannot convert into cash quickly.



Another example of an illiquid financial asset are stocks that do not have a high volume of trading on the markets. Often these are investments like penny stocks or high-yield, speculative investments where there may not be a ready buyer when you are ready to sell.



Keeping too much money tied up in illiquid investments has drawbacks—even in ordinary situations. Doing so may result in an individual using a high-interest credit card to cover bills, increasing debt and negatively affecting retirement and other investment goals.


   Real-World Example of Financial Assets  

Businesses, as well as individuals, hold financial assets. In the case of an investment or asset management company, the financial assets include the money in the portfolios firm handles for clients, called assets under management (AUM). For example, BlackRock Inc. is the largest investment manager in the U.S. and in the world, judging by its $6.84 trillion in AUM (as of June 30, 2019).﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



In the case of banks, financial assets include the worth of the outstanding loans it has made to customers. Capital One, the 10th largest bank in the U.S., reported $373,191 million in total assets on its first-quarter 2019 financial statement; of that, $240,273 million were from real estate-secured, commercial, and industrial loans. ﻿﻿
What Is a Finance Charge?  

A finance charge is a fee charged for the use of credit or the extension of existing credit. It may be a flat fee or a percentage of borrowings, with percentage-based finance charges being the most common. A finance charge is often an aggregated cost, including the cost of carrying the debt along with any related transaction fees, account maintenance fees, or late fees charged by the lender.


   Understanding Finance Charges  

Finance charges allow lenders to make a profit on the use of their money. Finance charges for commoditized credit services, such as car loans, mortgages, and credit cards, have known ranges and depend on the creditworthiness of the person looking to borrow. Regulations exist in many countries that limit the maximum finance charge assessed on a given type of credit, but many of the limits still allow for predatory lending practices, where finance charges can amount to 25% or more annually.



Finance charges are a form of compensation to the lender for providing the funds, or extending credit, to a borrower. These charges can include one-time fees, such as an origination fee on a loan, or interest payments, which can amortize on a monthly or daily basis. Finance charges can vary from product to product or lender to lender.



There is no single formula for the determination of what interest rate to charge. A customer may qualify for two similar products from two different lenders that come with two different sets of finance charges.





Key Takeaways

A finance charge, such as an interest rate, is assessed for the use of credit or the extension of existing credit.Finance charges compensate the lender for providing the funds or extending credit.The Truth in Lending Act requires lenders to disclose all interest rates, standard fees, and penalty fees to consumers.﻿﻿


   Finance Charges and Interest Rates  

One of the more common finance charges is the interest rate. This allows the lender to make a profit, expressed as a percentage, based on the current amount that has been provided to the borrower. Interest rates can vary depending on the type of financing acquired and the borrower's creditworthiness. Secured financing, which is most often backed by an asset such as a home or vehicle, often carries lower interest rates than unsecured financings, such as a credit card. This is most often due to the lower risk associated with a loan backed by an asset.



For credit cards, all finance charges are expressed in the currency from which the card is based, including those that can be used internationally, allowing the borrower to complete a transaction in a foreign currency.


   Finance Charges and Regulation  

Finance charges are subject to government regulation. The federal Truth in Lending Act requires that all interest rates, standard fees, and penalty fees must be disclosed to the consumer.﻿﻿ Additionally, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure (CARD) Act of 2009 required a minimum 21-day grace period before interest charges can be assessed on new purchases.﻿﻿
What Is a Financial Crisis?  

In a financial crisis, asset prices see a steep decline in value, businesses and consumers are unable to pay their debts, and financial institutions experience liquidity shortages. A financial crisis is often associated with a panic or a bank run during which investors sell off assets or withdraw money from savings accounts because they fear that the value of those assets will drop if they remain in a financial institution.



Other situations that may be labeled a financial crisis include the bursting of a speculative financial bubble, a stock market crash, a sovereign default, or a currency crisis. A financial crisis may be limited to banks or spread throughout a single economy, the economy of a region, or economies worldwide.





Key Takeaways

Banking panics were at the genesis of several financial crises of the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries, many of which led to recessions or depressions.Stock market crashes, credit crunches, the bursting of financial bubbles, sovereign defaults, and currency crises are all examples of financial crises.A financial crisis may be limited to a single country or one segment of financial services, but is more likely to spread regionally or globally.


   What Causes a Financial Crisis?  

A financial crisis may have multiple causes. Generally, a crisis can occur if institutions or assets are overvalued, and can be exacerbated by irrational or herd-like investor behavior. For example, a rapid string of selloffs can result in lower asset prices, prompting individuals to dump assets or make huge savings withdrawals when a bank failure is rumored.



Contributing factors to a financial crisis include systemic failures, unanticipated or uncontrollable human behavior, incentives to take too much risk, regulatory absence or failures, or contagions that amount to a virus-like spread of problems from one institution or country to the next. If left unchecked, a crisis can cause an economy to go into a recession or depression. Even when measures are taken to avert a financial crisis, they can still happen, accelerate, or deepen.


   Financial Crisis Examples  

Financial crises are not uncommon; they have happened for as long as the world has had currency. Some well-known financial crises include:



Tulip Mania (1637). Though some historians argue that this mania did not have so much impact on the Dutch economy, and therefore shouldn't be considered a financial crisis, it did coincide with an outbreak of bubonic plague which had a significant impact on the country. With this in mind, it is difficult to tell if the crisis was precipitated by over-speculation or by the pandemic.
Credit Crisis of 1772. After a period of rapidly expanding credit, this crisis started in March/April in London. Alexander Fordyce, a partner in a large bank, lost a huge sum shorting shares of the East India Company and fled to France to avoid repayment. Panic led to a run on English banks that left more than 20 large banking houses either bankrupt or stopping payments to depositors and creditors. The crisis quickly spread to much of Europe. Historians draw a line from this crisis to the cause of the Boston Tea Party—unpopular tax legislation in the 13 colonies—and the resulting unrest that gave birth to the American Revolution.
Stock Crash of 1929. This crash, starting on Oct. 24, 1929, saw share prices collapse after a period of wild speculation and borrowing to buy shares. It led to the Great Depression, which was felt worldwide for over a dozen years. Its social impact lasted far longer. One trigger of the crash was a drastic oversupply of commodity crops, which led to a steep decline in prices. A wide range of regulations and market-managing tools were introduced as a result of the crash.
1973 OPEC Oil Crisis. OPEC members started an oil embargo in October 1973 targeting countries that backed Israel in the Yom Kippur War. By the end of the embargo, a barrel of oil stood at $12, up from $3. Given that modern economies depend on oil, the higher prices and uncertainty led to the stock market crash of 1973–74, when a bear market persisted from January 1973 to December 1974 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost about 45% of its value.
Asian Crisis of 1997–1998. This crisis started in July 1997 with the collapse of the Thai baht. Lacking foreign currency, the Thai government was forced to abandon its U.S. dollar peg and let the baht float. The result was a huge devaluation that spread to much of East Asia, also hitting Japan, as well as a huge rise in debt-to-GDP ratios. In its wake, the crisis led to better financial regulation and supervision.
The 2007-2008 Global Financial Crisis. This financial crisis was the worst economic disaster since the Stock Market Crash of 1929. It started with a subprime mortgage lending crisis in 2007 and expanded into a global banking crisis with the failure of investment bank Lehman Brothers in September 2008. Huge bailouts and other measures meant to limit the spread of the damage failed and the global economy fell into recession.
COVID19 Pandemic. A global stock market crash began in February 2020. From February 20 until March 23, 2020 the S&P 500 lost over 30% of its value. This was a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused widespread panic and uncertainty about the future of the global economy. Despite being severe and with global reach, markets and national economies rebounded quickly and by early April 2020, the S&P 500 had began a decisive rise, surpassing its pre-pandemic high in August 2020.


   The 2008 Global Financial Crisis  

The 2008 Global Financial Crisis remains one of the deepest economic downturns in modern history and deserves special attention, as its causes, effects, response, and lessons are still relevant to the current financial landscape.


  Loosened Lending Standards  

The crisis was the result of a sequence of events, each with its own trigger and culminating in the near-collapse of the banking system. It has been argued that the seeds of the crisis were sown as far back as the 1970s with the Community Development Act, which required banks to loosen their credit requirements for lower-income consumers, creating a market for subprime mortgages.



The amount of subprime mortgage debt, which was guaranteed by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, continued to expand into the early 2000s when the Federal Reserve Board began to cut interest rates drastically to avoid a recession. The combination of loose credit requirements and cheap money spurred a housing boom, which drove speculation, pushing up housing prices and creating a real estate bubble.






A financial crisis can take many forms, including a banking/credit panic or a stock market crash, but differs from a recession, which is often the result of such a crisis.


  Complex Financial Instruments  

In the meantime, the investment banks, looking for easy profits in the wake of the dot-com bust and 2001 recession, created collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) from the mortgages purchased on the secondary market. Because subprime mortgages were bundled with prime mortgages, there was no way for investors to understand the risks associated with the product. When the market for CDOs began to heat up, the housing bubble that had been building for several years had finally burst. As housing prices fell, subprime borrowers began to default on loans that were worth more than their homes, accelerating the decline in prices.


  Failures Begin, Contagion Spreads  

When investors realized the CDOs were worthless due to the toxic debt they represented, they attempted to unload the obligations. However, there was no market for the CDOs. The subsequent cascade of subprime lender failures created liquidity contagion that reached the upper tiers of the banking system. Two major investment banks, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, collapsed under the weight of their exposure to subprime debt, and more than 450 banks failed over the next five years. Several of the major banks were on the brink of failure and were rescued by a taxpayer-funded bailout.


  Response  

The U.S. Government responded to the Financial Crisis by lowering interest rates to nearly zero, buying back mortgage and government debt, and bailing out some struggling financial institutions. With rates so low, bond yields became far less attractive to investors when compared to stocks. The government response ignited the stock market. By March 2013, the S&P bounced back from the crisis and continued on its 10-year bull run from 2009 to 2019 to climb to about 250%. The U.S. housing market recovered in most major cities, and the unemployment rate fell as businesses began to hire and make more investments.


  New Regulations  

One big upshot of the crisis was the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, a massive piece of financial reform legislation passed by the Obama administration in 2010. Dodd-Frank brought wholesale changes to every aspect of the U.S. financial regulatory environment, which touched every regulatory body and every financial services business. Notably, Dodd-Frank had the following effects:



More comprehensive regulation of financial markets, including more oversight of derivatives, which were brought into exchanges.
Regulatory agencies, which had been numerous and sometimes redundant, were consolidated.
A new body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, was devised to monitor systemic risk.
Greater investor protections were introduced, including a new consumer protection agency (the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) and standards for "plain-vanilla" products.
The introduction of processes and tools (such as cash infusions) is meant to help with the winding down of failed financial institutions.
Measures meant to improve standards, accounting, and regulation of credit rating agencies.


   The 2020 Financial Crisis  

In February of 2020, the COVID19 virus was discovered in China. The disease soon made its way around the world, killing millions and stoking fear. This, in turn, caused markets to fall and credit to the financial system to grind to a halt.



The pandemic resulted in strict lockdowns and travel restrictions, which had a significant impact on global supply chains, consumer demand, and financial markets. Investors became increasingly concerned about the economic consequences of the pandemic, leading to a rapid sell-off in stock markets around the world. The crash was particularly severe in March 2020, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) experienced its worst day since 1987, falling over 2,000 points in a single day. Other major stock indexes, such as the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100, also experienced significant losses. From February 12 through March 23, 2020, the DJIA lost 37% of its value.



Central banks and governments around the world responded with various measures to stabilize the financial system and support the economy, including monetary stimulus and fiscal policies such as government spending and tax breaks.



Despite the severity of the initial crash, the markets rebounded somewhat in the following months, and many investors saw significant gains toward the end of 2020 and into 2021, where markets hit new all-time highs. However, the long-term economic consequences of the pandemic are still unclear, and many industries and countries are still struggling to recover fully.




What Is a Financial Crisis?
A financial crisis is when financial instruments and assets decrease significantly in value. As a result, businesses have trouble meeting their financial obligations, and financial institutions lack sufficient cash or convertible assets to fund projects and meet immediate needs. Investors lose confidence in the value of their assets and consumers' incomes and assets are compromised, making it difficult for them to pay their debts.




What Causes a Financial Crisis?
A financial crisis can be caused by many factors, maybe too many to name. However, often a financial crisis is caused by overvalued assets, systemic and regulatory failures, and resulting consumer panic, such as a large number of customers withdrawing funds from a bank after learning of the institution's financial troubles. Some believe that financial crises are an inherent feature in how modern capitalist economies function, where the business cycle fuels speculative growth during economic booms, only to be met by contractions and recession. During these contractions, borrowers default on their loans and creditors tighten their lending criteria.




What Are the Stages of a Financial Crisis?
The financial crisis can be segmented into three stages, beginning with the launch of the crisis. Financial systems fail, generally caused by system and regulatory failures, institutional mismanagement of finances, and more. The next stage involves the breakdown of the financial system, with financial institutions, businesses, and consumers unable to meet obligations. Finally, assets decrease in value, and the overall level of debt increases.




What Was the Cause of the 2008 Financial Crisis?
Although the crisis was attributed to many breakdowns, it was largely due to the bountiful issuance of sub-prime mortgages, which were frequently sold to investors on the secondary market. Bad debt increased as sub-prime mortgagors defaulted on their loans, leaving secondary market investors scrambling. Investment firms, insurance companies, and financial institutions slaughtered by their involvement with these mortgages required government bailouts as they neared insolvency. The bailouts adversely affected the market, sending stocks plummeting. Other markets responded in tow, creating global panic and an unstable market.




What Was the Worst Financial Crisis Ever?
Arguably, the worst financial crisis in the last 90 years was the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, which sent stock markets crashing, financial institutions into ruin, and consumers scrambling.


   The Bottom Line  

A financial crisis occurs when asset prices drop steeply, businesses and consumers cannot pay their debts, and financial institutions experience liquidity shortages. Various factors contribute to a financial crisis, including systemic failures, unanticipated or uncontrollable human behavior, incentives to take excessive risks, regulatory absence or failures, or natural disasters such as pandemic viruses. Some of the historical examples of financial crises include Tulip Mania, the Credit Crisis of 1772, the Stock Crash of 1929, the 1973 OPEC Oil Crisis, the Asian Crisis of 1997-1998, and the 2008 Global Financial Crisis.
What Is Financial Distress?  

Financial distress is a condition in which a company or individual cannot generate sufficient revenues or income, making it unable to meet or pay its financial obligations. This is generally due to high fixed costs, a large degree of illiquid assets, or revenues sensitive to economic downturns. For individuals, financial distress can arise from poor budgeting, overspending, too high of a debt load, lawsuit, or loss of employment.



Ignoring the signs of financial distress before it gets out of control can be devastating. There may come a time when severe financial distress can no longer be remedied because the company or individual's obligations have grown too high and cannot be repaid. If this happens, bankruptcy may be the only option.





Key Takeaways

Financial distress happens when revenues or income no longer meet or pay for the financial obligations of an individual or organization.Financial distress is often a harbinger of bankruptcy and can cause lasting damage to one's creditworthiness.In order to remedy the situation, a company or individual may consider options such as restructuring debt or cutting back on costs.


   Understanding Financial Distress  

If a company or individual experiences a period of time when it cannot pay its debts, bills, and other obligations by their due date, they are likely experiencing financial distress.



Examples of a firm's expenses that must be paid may include financing such as paying interest on debts, opportunity costs of projects, and employees who aren't productive. Employees of a distressed firm usually have lower morale and higher stress caused by the increased chance of bankruptcy, which could force them out of their jobs. Companies under financial distress may find it difficult to secure new financing. They may also find the market value of the firm falls significantly, as customers cut back on new orders, and suppliers change their terms of delivery.



Looking at a company's financial statements can help investors and others determine its current and future financial health. For example, negative cash flows appearing in the company's cash flow statement is one red flag of financial distress. This could be caused by a large disparity between cash payments and receivables, high interest payments, or a drop in working capital.



Individuals who experience financial distress may find themselves in a situation where their debt servicing costs are much more than their monthly income. These debts or obligations include items such as home or rent payments, car payments, credit cards, and utility bills. People who experience situations like these tend to go through it for an extended period of time and may ultimately be forced to relinquish assets secured by their debts and lose their home or car, or face eviction.






Individuals who experience financial distress may be subject to wage garnishments, judgments, or legal action from creditors.


   Signs of Financial Distress  

There are multiple warning signs that could indicate a company is experiencing financial distress, or is about to in the near-term. Poor profits may point to a company that is financially unhealthy. Struggling to break even suggests a business that cannot sustain itself by generating internal funds and must instead raise capital externally. This increases the company’s business risk and lowers its creditworthiness with lenders, suppliers, investors, and banks. Limiting access to funds typically results in a company (or individual) failing.



Declining sales or poor sales growth indicates that demand is not there for a company’s products or services based on its existing business model. When expensive marketing campaigns result in no growth, consumers may no longer be satisfied with their offerings and the company may be forced to close down. Likewise, if a company offers poor quality products or services, consumers will start buying from competitors, eventually forcing a business to close its doors as well.



When debtors take too much time paying their debts to the company, cash flow may be severely stretched. The business or individual may be unable to pay its own liabilities. The risk is especially enhanced when a company has just one or two major customers.


   How to Remedy Financial Distress  

As difficult as it may seem, there are some ways to turn things around and remedy financial distress. One of the first things many companies do is to review their business plans. This should include both its operations and performance in the market, as well as setting up a target date to accomplish all its goals.



Another consideration is where to cut costs. This may include cutting staff or even cutting back on management incentives, which can often be costly to a business's bottom line.



Some companies may consider restructuring their debts. Under this process, companies that cannot meet their obligations can renegotiate their debts and change their repayment terms in order to improve their liquidity. By restructuring, they can continue operations.



For individuals who experience financial distress, the tips to remedy the situation are similar to those listed above. Those affected may find it prudent to cut back on unnecessary or excessive spending habits such as dining out, travel, and other purchases that may be deemed a luxury. Another option may be credit counseling. With credit counseling, a counselor renegotiates a debtor's obligations, allowing him or her to avoid bankruptcy. Debt consolidation is another method for reducing monthly debt obligations by rolling high-interest debts such as credit cards into a single, lower-interest personal loan.


   Distress in Large Financial Institutions  

One factor contributing to the financial crisis of 2007–2008 was the government’s history of providing emergency loans to distressed financial institutions in markets believed "too big to fail." This created an expectation for parts of the financial sector being protected against losses, known as moral hazard.



The federal financial safety net is supposed to protect large financial institutions and their creditors from failure to reduce systemic risk to the financial system. However, these guarantees also encouraged imprudent risk-taking that caused instability in the very system the safety net was supposed to protect.



Because the government safety net subsidizes risk-taking, investors who feel protected by the government may be less likely to demand higher yields as compensation for assuming greater risks. Likewise, creditors may feel less urgency for monitoring firms implicitly protected. Excessive risk-taking means firms are more likely to experience distress and may require bailouts to stay solvent. Additional bailouts may erode market discipline further.



Resolution plans or corporate "living wills" may be an important method of establishing credibility against bailouts. The government safety net may then be a less attractive option in times of financial distress.
What Is Financial Economics?  

Financial economics is a branch of economics that analyzes the use and distribution of resources in markets. Financial decisions must often take into account future events, whether those be related to individual stocks, portfolios, or the market as a whole.





Key Takeaways

Financial economics analyzes the use and distribution of resources in markets.It employs economic theory to evaluate how time, risk, opportunity costs, and information can create incentives or disincentives for a particular decision.Financial economics often involves the creation of sophisticated models to test the variables affecting a particular decision.


   How Financial Economics Works  

Making financial decisions is not always a straightforward process. Time, risk (uncertainty), opportunity costs, and information can create incentives or disincentives. Financial economics employs economic theory to evaluate how certain things impact decision making, providing investors with the instruments to make the right calls.



Financial economics usually involves the creation of sophisticated models to test the variables affecting a particular decision. Often, these models assume that individuals or institutions making decisions act rationally, though this is not necessarily the case. The irrational behavior of parties has to be taken into account in financial economics as a potential risk factor.



This branch of economics builds heavily on microeconomics and basic accounting concepts. It is a quantitative discipline that uses econometrics as well as other mathematical tools.






Financial economics necessitates familiarity with basic probability and statistics since these are the standard tools used to measure and evaluate risk. 



Financial economics studies fair value, risk and returns, and the financing of securities and assets. Numerous monetary factors are taken into account, too, including interest rates and inflation.


   Financial Economics vs. Traditional Economics  

Traditional economics focuses on exchanges in which money is one—but only one—of the items traded. In contrast, financial economics concentrates on exchanges in which money of one type or another is likely to appear on both sides of a trade. 



The financial economist can be distinguished from traditional economists by their focus on monetary activities in which time, uncertainty, options and information play roles. 


   Financial Economics Methods  

There are many angles to the concept of financial economics. Two of the most prominent are:


  Discounting  

Decision making over time recognizes the fact that the value of $1 in 10 years' time is less than the value of $1 now. Therefore, the $1 at 10 years must be discounted to allow for risk, inflation, and the simple fact that it is in the future. Failure to discount appropriately can lead to problems, such as underfunded pension schemes.  


  Risk Management and Diversification  

Advertisements for stock market-based financial products must remind potential buyers that the value of investments may fall as well as rise.



Financial institutions are always looking for ways of insuring, or hedging, this risk. It is sometimes possible to hold two highly risky assets but for the overall risk to be low: if share A only performs badly when share B performs well (and vice versa) then the two shares perform a perfect hedge.



An important part of finance is working out the total risk of a portfolio of risky assets, since the total risk may be less than the risk of the individual components.
What Is Financial Engineering?  

Financial engineering is the use of mathematical techniques to solve financial problems. Financial engineering uses tools and knowledge from the fields of computer science, statistics, economics, and applied mathematics to address current financial issues as well as to devise new and innovative financial products.



Financial engineering is sometimes referred to as quantitative analysis and is used by regular commercial banks, investment banks, insurance agencies, and hedge funds.





Key Takeaways

Financial engineering is the use of mathematical techniques to solve financial problems.Financial engineers test and issue new investment tools and methods of analysis.They work with insurance companies, asset management firms, hedge funds, and banks.Financial engineering led to an explosion in derivatives trading and speculation in the financial markets.It has revolutionized financial markets, but it also played a role in the 2008 financial crisis.


   How Financial Engineering Is Used  

The financial industry is always coming up with new and innovative investment tools and products for investors and companies. Most of the products have been developed through techniques in the field of financial engineering. Using mathematical modeling and computer science, financial engineers are able to test and issue new tools such as new methods of investment analysis, new debt offerings, new investments, new trading strategies, new financial models, etc.



Financial engineers run quantitative risk models to predict how an investment tool will perform and whether a new offering in the financial sector would be viable and profitable in the long run, and what types of risks are presented in each product offering given the volatility of the markets. Financial engineers work with insurance companies, asset management firms, hedge funds, and banks. Within these companies, financial engineers work in proprietary trading, risk management, portfolio management, derivatives and options pricing, structured products, and corporate finance departments.


   Types of Financial Engineering  
  Derivatives Trading  

While financial engineering uses stochastics, simulations and analytics to design and implement new financial processes to solve problems in finance, the field also creates new strategies that companies can take advantage of to maximize corporate profits. For example, financial engineering has led to the explosion of derivative trading in the financial markets.



Since the Cboe Options Exchange was formed in 1973 and two of the first financial engineers, Fischer Black and Myron Scholes, published their option pricing model, trading in options and other derivatives has grown dramatically. Through the regular options strategy where one can either buy a call or put depending on whether they are bullish or bearish, financial engineering has created new strategies within the options spectrum, providing more possibilities to hedge or make profits.



Examples of options strategies born out of financial engineering efforts include Married Put, Protective Collar, Long Straddle, Short Strangles, Butterfly Spreads, etc.


  Speculation  

The field of financial engineering has also introduced speculative vehicles in the markets. For example, instruments such as the Credit Default Swap (CDS) were initially created in the late 90s to provide insurance against defaults on bond payments, such as municipal bonds. However, these derivative products drew the attention of investment banks and speculators who realized they could make money from the monthly premium payments associated with CDS by betting with them.



In effect, the seller or issuer of a CDS, usually a bank, would receive monthly premium payments from the buyers of the swap. The value of a CDS is based on the survival of a company—the swap buyers are betting on the company going bankrupt and the sellers are insuring the buyers against any negative event. As long as the company remains in good financial standing, the issuing bank will keep getting paid monthly. If the company goes under, the CDS buyers will cash in on the credit event.


   Criticism of Financial Engineering  

Although financial engineering has revolutionized the financial markets, it played a role in the 2008 financial crisis. As the number of defaults on subprime mortgage payments increased, more credit events were triggered. Credit Default Swap (CDS) issuers, that is banks, could not make the payments on these swaps since the defaults were happening almost at the same time.



Many corporate buyers that had taken out CDSs on mortgage-backed securities (MBS) that they were heavily invested in, soon realized that the CDSs held were worthless. To reflect the loss of value, they reduced the value of assets on their balance sheets, which led to more failures on a corporate level, and a subsequent economic recession.



Due to the 2008 global recession brought on by engineered structured products, financial engineering is considered to be a controversial field. However, it is apparent that this quantitative study has greatly improved the financial markets and processes by introducing innovation, rigor, and efficiency to the markets and industry.
What Is Financial Exposure?  

Financial exposure is the amount an investor stands to lose in an investment should the investment fail. For example, the financial exposure involved in purchasing a car would be the initial investment amount minus the insured portion. Knowing and understanding financial exposure, which is an alternative name for risk, is a crucial part of the investment process.





Key Takeaways

Financial exposure refers to the risk inherent in an investment, indicating the amount of money an investor stands to lose.Experienced investors usually seek to optimally limit their financial exposure which helps maximize profits.Asset allocation and portfolio diversification are broadly used strategies for managing financial exposure.


   Understanding Financial Exposure  

Investors are always seeking to limit their financial exposure while trying to maximize profits, which helps to maintain a balance of risk and reward.



For instance, if 100 shares of stock purchased at $10 a share appreciated to $20, selling 50 shares would eliminate the financial exposure. The original purchase cost the investor $1,000. As the shares appreciate, selling 50 shares at $20 returns the investor's initial stake.



This method is what is meant by "taking money off the table." It is also sometimes colloquially referred to as "playing with the house's money."



The only risk going forward would be for the profit made as the investor has already recouped the principal amount. Conversely, if the stock decreased from the original purchase price of $10 to $5 per share, the investor would have lost half the original principal amount.



Financial exposure applies not only to investing in the stock market but exists whenever an individual stands to lose any of the principal value spent. Purchasing a home is an excellent example of financial exposure. If the value of real estate declines and the homeowner sells at a lower price than the original purchase price, the homeowner recognizes a loss on the investment.


   Reducing Financial Exposure  

The simplest way to minimize financial exposure is to put money into principal-protected investments with little to no risk. Certificates of deposit (CDs) or savings accounts are two ways to reduce financial exposure drastically. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) guarantees both the investment in CDs and the savings account up to the qualified coverage amounts of $250,000.



However, with no risk, an investment provides little return. Also, if there is little financial exposure, this leaves a conservative investor vulnerable to other risks such as inflation.



Another way to reduce financial exposure is to diversify among many investments and asset classes. To build a less volatile portfolio, an investor should have a combination of stocks, bonds, real estate, and other various asset classes.



Within equities, there should be further diversification among sectors, market capitalizations, and exposure to domestic and international markets. When an investor diversifies their portfolio successfully among many asset classes, it should reduce overall volatility. If the market turns bearish, non-correlating asset classes will minimize the downside.


  Hedging  

Hedging is another way to reduce financial exposure. There are many ways to hedge a portfolio or an investment. Airlines purchase crude oil futures contracts at current prices in anticipation of future passenger load as a hedge.



Later, if oil prices skyrocket and cause the airline industry to raise ticket prices and shrink margins, those hedged Airlines may be able to maintain lower ticket prices and grab market share from the competition.



An investor can hedge in the stock market by using options, inverse exchange-traded funds, or bear-oriented funds. Gold is one of the most common hedges, and it typically appreciates with an inflating dollar or volatile markets.




What Is an Example of Financial Exposure?
Financial exposure is the potential loss of the total amount invested. For example, if an individual invests $2,000 into a stock, their financial exposure is $2,000, and if the stock drops, they could lose the entire $2,000 value.




How Do You Limit Your Financial Exposure?
One of the best ways to limit your financial exposure is to diversify your portfolio. Rather than having your investments concentrated in one stock, invest in multiple stocks; rather than having your investments in one sector, invest in multiple sectors, and rather than having your investments be in only one type of security, invest in multiple securities, such as stocks, bonds, real estate, and art.




What Is Hedging?
Hedging is a strategy used to reduce financial exposure by taking the opposite position in a security one has invested in. For example, if you expect the price of oil to rise, you will purchase oil futures (go long); however, just in case oil prices fall, you hedge your financial exposure by selling oil futures (go short). So if oil prices do fall and you were wrong, you will lose money on your long oil futures but make money on your short oil futures, reducing the money you lost.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors must consistently manage risk and reward. The higher the risk, generally the upside potential is greater, but so are the chances for losses. Understanding one's financial exposure when picking investments is critical to success. Investors can take actions to mitigate financial exposure, such as through diversification and hedging, ensuring that their losses are minimal.
What Is a Financial Guarantee?  

A financial guarantee is an agreement that guarantees a debt will be repaid to a lender by another party if the borrower defaults. Essentially, a third party acting as a guarantor promises to assume responsibility for a debt should the borrower be unable to keep up on its payments to the creditor.



Guarantees can also come in the form of a security deposit or collateral. The types vary, ranging from corporate guarantees to personal ones.





Key Takeaways

Financial guarantees act like insurance policies, guaranteeing a form of debt will be paid if the borrower defaults.Guarantees can be financial contracts, where a guarantor agrees to assume financial responsibility if the debtor defaults.Other guarantees involve security deposits or collateral that can be liquidated if the debtor stops paying for any reason.Guarantees may be issued by banks and insurance companies.Financial guarantees can result in a higher credit rating for the lender and better interest rates for the borrower.


   Understanding Financial Guarantees  

Some financial agreements may require the use of a financial guarantee before they can be executed. In many cases, a guarantee is a legal contract that promises repayment of a debt to a lender. This agreement takes place when a guarantor agrees to take on the financial responsibility if the original debtor defaults on their financial obligation or goes insolvent. All three parties must sign the agreement in order for it to go into effect.



Guarantees may take on the form of a security deposit. Common in the banking and lending industries, this is a form of collateral provided by the debtor that can be liquidated if the debtor defaults. For instance, a secured credit card requires the borrower—usually someone with no credit history—to put down a cash deposit for the amount of the credit line.



Financial guarantees act just like insurance and are very important in the financial industry. They allow certain financial transactions, especially those that wouldn't normally take place, to go through, permitting, for instance, high-risk borrowers to take out loans and other forms of credit. In short, they mitigate the risk associated with lending to high-risk borrowers and extending credit during times of financial uncertainty.



Guarantees are important because they make lending more affordable. Lenders can offer their borrowers better interest rates and can get a better credit rating in the market. They also put investors at ease, making them feel more comfortable because they know their investments and returns are safe.


   Special Considerations  

A financial guarantee doesn't always cover the entire liability. For instance, a guarantor may only guarantee the repayment of interest or principal, but not both.



Sometimes, multiple companies sign on as a party to a financial guarantee. In these cases, each guarantor is usually responsible for only a pro-rata portion of the issue. In other cases, however, guarantors may be responsible for the other guarantors' portions if they default on their responsibilities.



Financial guarantees may cut down the risk of default in most cases but that doesn't mean they're fool-proof. We saw this during the fallout after the financial crisis of 2007-2008.



Most bonds are backed by a financial guarantee firm, also referred to as a monoline insurer, against default. The global financial crisis hit financial guarantee firms particularly hard. It left numerous financial guarantors with billions of dollars of obligations to repay on mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) that defaulted, causing financial guarantee firms to have their credit ratings slashed.


   Types of Financial Guarantees  

As noted above, guarantees may come in the form of a contract or may require the debtor to put up some form of collateral in order to access credit. This acts as an insurance policy, which guarantees payment for both corporations and personal lending. Here are some of the most common types of both.


  Corporate Financial Guarantees  

A financial guarantee in the corporate world is a non-cancellable indemnity. This is a bond backed by an insurer or other secure financial institution. It gives investors a guarantee that principal and interest payments will be made. 



Many insurance companies specialize in financial guarantees and similar products used by debt issuers as a way of attracting investors. As noted above, the guarantee gives investors comfort that the investment will be repaid if the securities issuer can't fulfill the contractual obligation to make timely payments. It also can result in a better credit rating, due to the outside insurance, which lowers the cost of financing for issuers.



A letter of intent (LOI) is also a financial guarantee. This is a commitment that states that one party will do business with another. It clearly lays out the financial obligations of each party but may not necessarily be a binding agreement.



LOIs are commonly used in the shipping industry, where the recipient's bank provides a guarantee that it will pay the shipping company once the goods are received.


  Personal Financial Guarantees  

Lenders may require financial guarantees from certain borrowers before they can access credit. For example, lenders may require college students to get a guarantee from their parents or another party before they issue student loans. Other banks require a cash security deposit or form of collateral before they give out any credit.






Don't confuse a guarantor with a cosigner. A cosigner's responsibility for a debt occurs at the same time as the original borrower, while the guarantor's obligation only kicks in when the borrower defaults.


   Example of a Financial Guarantee  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how financial guarantees work. Let's assume that XYZ Company has a subsidiary named ABC Company. ABC Company wants to build a new manufacturing facility and needs to borrow $20 million to proceed.



If banks determine that company ABC has potential credit deficiencies, they may ask XYZ Company to become a guarantor for the loan. That means that if ABC defaults, XYZ Company must repay the loan using funds from other lines of business.
What Is Financial Health?  

Financial health is a term used to describe the state of one's personal monetary affairs. There are many dimensions to financial health, including the amount of savings you have, how much you’re putting away for retirement, and how much of your income you are spending on fixed or non-discretionary expenses.





Key Takeaways

The state and stability of an individual's personal finances and financial affairs are called their financial health.Typical signs of strong financial health include a steady flow of income, rare changes in expenses, strong returns on investments, and a cash balance that is growing.To improve your financial health, you need to assess your current net worth, create a budget you can stick to, build an emergency fund, and pay down your debts.


   Understanding Financial Health  

Financial experts have devised rough guidelines for each indicator of financial health, but each person's situation is different. For this reason, it is worthwhile to spend time developing your own financial plan to ensure that you are on track to reach your goals and that you’re not putting yourself at undue financial risk if the unexpected occurs.


   Measure Your Financial Health  

To get a better grasp of your financial health, it might help to ask yourself a few key questions—consider this a self-assessment of your financial health:



How prepared are you for unexpected events? Do you have an emergency fund?What is your net worth? Is it positive or negative?Do you have the things you need in life? How about the things you want?What percent of your debt would you consider high interest, such as credit cards? Is it more than 50%?Are you actively saving for retirement? Do you feel you’re on track to meet your long-term goal? Do you have enough insurance coverage—whether it be health or life?


   How Financial Health Is Determined  

An individual’s financial health can be measured in a number of ways. A person’s savings and overall net worth represent the monetary resources at their disposal for current or future use. These can be affected by debt, such as credit cards, mortgages, and auto and student loans. Financial health is not a static figure. It changes based on an individual’s liquidity and assets, as well as the fluctuation of the price of goods and services.



For example, an individual’s salary might remain constant while the costs for gasoline, food, mortgages, and college tuition increase. Despite the good state of their initial financial health, the person may lose ground and lapse into decline if they do not keep pace with rising costs of goods.



Typical signs of strong financial health include a steady flow of income, rare changes in expenses, strong returns on investments that have been made, and a cash balance that is growing and is on track to continue to grow.


   Improving Your Financial Health  

To improve your financial health you must first take a hard, realistic look at where you’re currently at. Calculate your net worth and figure out where you stand. This includes taking everything you own, such as retirement accounts, vehicles, and other assets and subtracting any and all debts.


  Budgeting  

Then you need to create a budget. With your budget, it’s not enough just to plan for where you’ll be spending, but it’s also important to take a hard and close look at where you already spend. Are there areas where you could cut back? Recurring subscriptions that you don’t really need—such as cable? It’s fortuitous to understand what your “needs” are versus what your “wants” are.



Use spreadsheets or mobile apps to help set up a budget. Or, use the time-tested envelope method, which has you create an envelope for each budget item, such as groceries, and keeping the allocated cash in the respective envelope.



One of the major keys to a budget, and maintaining your financial health, is to stick to your budget regardless of whether you start making more money or bringing in more income. Lifestyle creep, which includes spending more money as you make more money, is detrimental to your financial health. 


  Emergency Fund  

Building an emergency fund can materially boost your financial health. The fund is meant to be money that is saved and readily available for emergencies, such as car repairs or job loss. The goal should be to have three to six months’ worth of living expenses in your energy fund.


  Debt  

Pay down your debt. Use either the avalanche or snowball methods. The avalanche method suggests paying as much as possible toward the highest interest debt while paying the minimum on all others. The snowball, meanwhile, suggests taking the smallest debt balance first and then work your way up to the largest debt. There are pros and cons of each; pick the one that works the best for your debt load and your money-handling preferences.


   Rules and Tips for Financial Health  

When it comes to effective personal finance—keeping your financial health in tip-top shape isn’t always easy. We get caught up with living life. However, here are a few quick rules and tips that you can follow to either improve or keep you in good financial health.



Automate your bill pay and savings—that is, set up automatic transfers to a savings account and auto-pay all your bills.
Always look for free checking and free accounts.
Shop around for insurance, cable or and other recurring expenses. This includes if you already have these items.
Use a budgeting method, such as 50/30/20, which says you should be spending 50% on needs, 30% on wants and saving 20% of your income. This 20% could include debt reduction if you have high-interest debts.
Try to limit spending on housing (rent or mortgage) to not more than 40% of your income.
Invest early and often. That is, try to put 10-15% of your income directly into a retirement account.


   Business Financial Health  

The financial health of businesses can be gauged by comparable factors to assess the viability of a company as a going concern. For instance, if a company has revenue coming in and cash in the bank, yet is spending its resources on new investments in production equipment, office space, new hires, and other business services, it may raise questions about the long-term financial health and survivability of the company.



If more money is spent that does not contribute to the overall stability and potential growth of the business, it can lead to a decline that makes it difficult to pay regular expenses such as utilities and employee salaries. This may force businesses to freeze or cut salaries in order to give the company the ability to continue operations.
What Is Financial Inclusion?  

Financial inclusion refers to efforts to make financial products and services accessible and affordable to all individuals and businesses, regardless of their personal net worth or company size. Financial inclusion strives to remove the barriers that exclude people from participating in the financial sector and using these services to improve their lives. It is also called inclusive finance.





Key Takeaways

Financial inclusion is an effort to make everyday financial services available to more of the world's population at a reasonable cost.Financial inclusion may refer to geographical regions, consumers of a specific gender, consumers of a specific age, or other marginalized groups.Financial inclusion may leads to greater overall innovation, economic growth, and consumer knowledge.Advancements in fintech, such as digital transactions, are making financial inclusion easier to achieve.


   How Financial Inclusion Works  

As the World Bank notes on its website, financial inclusion "facilitates day-to-day living, and helps families and businesses plan for everything from long-term goals to unexpected emergencies." What's more, it adds, "As accountholders, people are more likely to use other financial services, such as savings, credit, and insurance, start and expand businesses, invest in education or health, manage risk, and weather financial shocks, all of which can improve the overall quality of their lives."



While the barriers to financial inclusion have been a longtime problem, a number of forces are now helping broaden access to the kinds of financial services that many affluent consumers take for granted.



For its part, the financial industry is continually coming up with new ways to provide products and services to the global population, and often turn a profit in the process. The increasing use of financial technology (or fintech), for example, has provided innovative tools to address the problem of inaccessibility to financial services and devised new ways for individuals and organizations to obtain the services they need at reasonable costs.






Financial inclusion can incorporate accessibility across a plethora of social constructs such as age, gender, race, geographical region, disability, or socioeconomic standing.


   Areas of Financial Inclusion  

Financial inclusion can mean a lot of things. In general, financial inclusion may refer to but isn't necessarily limited to the following financial, economic, or entrepreneurial concepts.


  Financial Education and Literacy  

Financial education and financial literacy refers to providing financial education and programs that equip individuals with essential financial knowledge and skills. This empowers them to make informed decisions, budget effectively, and understand the benefits of using formal financial services instead of relying on informal or potentially exploitative alternatives. In some cases, individuals simply did not have appropriate educational access to learn basic financial literacy concepts.


  Affordable and Accessible Banking Services  

Offering affordable and accessible banking services ensures that unbanked and underbanked individuals can participate in the formal financial system. Offering no-frills savings accounts and low-cost transaction accounts enables financial inclusion at the grassroots level. This promotes financial saving and enforces financial security (both conceptually and physically).


  Gender Disparities  

According to Women's World Banking, 31% of omen are more likely than men to have an inactive bank account. By focusing on gender-specific financial inclusion initiatives, financial inclusion can help empower women economically and close the gender gap in financial services. These efforts involve tailored financial products, financial literacy programs, and initiatives to promote women's entrepreneurship.


  Inclusive Credit Scoring  

Traditional credit scoring metrics may alienate or discriminate against those with limited credit history. Financial inclusion strives to explore alternative credit scoring methods that consider non-traditional data sources can extend credit access to those with limited credit history. Including factors like utility bill payments or rental history in credit assessments enables more individuals to access credit and other financial services, further promoting financial and economic opportunities.


  Consumer Protection  

Financial inclusion also entails protecting customers within business. Financial inclusion strives to implement protection regulations safeguards to uphold the interests of financially vulnerable individuals. Strong consumer protection frameworks ensure fair treatment, transparent pricing, and ethical conduct by financial institutions, fostering trust and confidence in formal financial services. Financial inclusion aims to ensure those who may be uneducated or uninformed about financial matters may still have confidence in the financial system.


   Importance of Financial Inclusion  

There are very broad and general reasons why financial inclusion is important. Some of the key reasons include:



Financial inclusion reduces poverty and inequality. Financial inclusion provides opportunities for marginalized and low-income individuals to access formal financial services, such as savings, credit, and insurance. By empowering them with the tools to manage their finances and invest in income-generating activities, financial inclusion can help lift people out of poverty and reduce economic disparities.
Financial inclusion promotes economic growth. A general argument is that when more people have access to financial services, they can participate actively in the economy. Increased financial inclusion leads to higher levels of savings, investment, and entrepreneurship, fostering economic growth and stability in both local communities and national economies.
Financial inclusion promotes small businesses. Small businesses often face challenges in accessing credit from traditional banking sources. Financial inclusion through innovative lending models and online platforms can provide much-needed funding for entrepreneurs to grow their businesses.
Financial inclusion empowers otherwise marginalized demographics. For example, financial inclusion initiatives targeted at women can promote gender equality and women's economic empowerment. By providing access to financial services, women gain more control over their finances, which can lead to improved educational opportunities, better health outcomes, and increased decision-making power within households.
Financial inclusion promotes innovation. Financial inclusion drives innovation in the financial sector, leading to the development of new technologies and fintech solutions that cater to the needs of underserved populations. These innovations can benefit the broader financial ecosystem and lead to advancements in financial services.
Financial inclusion may foster digital inclusion. As technology plays a significant role in financial inclusion, promoting access to digital financial services also contributes to digital inclusion, ensuring that more people can participate in the digital economy.






Be mindful that financial inclusion often requires an upfront investment; the true return on investment may be complicated to calculate.


   Financial Inclusion and Technology  

There are countless ways technology can and is playing a major role in enhancing financial inclusion. Here are some ways we can use modern innovations to better serve the world with financial services.


  Mobile Banking  

Mobile banking applications offer a wide range of services, including checking account balances, transferring funds, paying bills, and even applying for loans. These apps are user-friendly and accessible 24/7, enabling individuals to conduct financial transactions conveniently from their smartphones, without the need to visit physical bank branches.


  Digital Payments  

In 2021, the FDIC found 46.4% of all U.S. households were using nonbank online payment services. Online payment systems provide various options for making cashless transactions. Mobile wallets allow users to store funds digitally and make payments using their mobile phones, while contactless payment methods such as Near Field Communication (NFCs) and QR codes enable swift and secure payments in physical retail settings. Both solutions reduce the risk of theft or loss associated with carrying cash.


  Agent Banking  

Agent banking models use technology to equip banking agents with mobile devices and software. Agents act as intermediaries, representing financial institutions in remote areas where brick-and-mortar branches are impractical. They offer services such as account opening, deposits, withdrawals, and fund transfers to individuals who may not have easy access to traditional banks.


  Online Lending Platforms  

Fintech lending platforms connect borrowers and lenders directly through online platforms. Borrowers can apply for loans, and lenders can assess their creditworthiness based on data analytics and alternative credit scoring. This streamlines the lending process and extends credit access to individuals and businesses underserved by traditional banks or those who would have otherwise been excluded from securing traditional credit. For example, LendingClub boasts that more than 4.7 million members have used their services to achieve their financial goals.


  Blockchain and Cryptocurrency  

Blockchain technology provides a decentralized and immutable ledger for secure financial transactions. Cryptocurrencies enable individuals without traditional bank accounts to participate in the digital economy, offering potential alternatives to traditional banking systems. Consider developing country implementations of these solutions to promote transaction speed, counter weak national currencies, and promote financial system accessibility.


  Financial Education Apps  

Financial education apps and online platforms offer interactive and engaging content to improve financial literacy. Users can access educational modules, budgeting tools, and investment insights to enhance their understanding of financial concepts and make better financial decisions. Consider how Mint by Intuit had been downloaded over 10 million times from the Google Play store as of July 2023.


  Crowdfunding  

Similar to peer-to-peer lending, crowdfunding allows geographically-separated individuals to still commune and support a single cause through donation or equity contributions. Crowdfunding platforms allow individuals, startups, and social impact projects to raise funds from a diverse pool of investors. This democratized fundraising approach expands access to capital for underserved entrepreneurs and impactful initiatives. As of July 2023, GoFundMe has helped raise over $9 billion.






Peer-to-peer lending has become particularly important in developing countries, where people may not have access to traditional bank financing.


   Challenges of Financial Inclusion  

There are perpetual and significant headwinds when striving for financial inclusion. First, there is a major hurdle regarding a lack of awareness and knowledge about formal financial services. Rural and marginalized areas may simply not know what services or concepts exist, while some communities may have distrust in formal financial systems. Plus, cultural and social norms and traditions may influence financial behaviors and decisions.



Policy and regulatory barriers can deter financial institutions from serving low-income customers and entering underserved markets. Socioeconomic disparities and gender inequalities can hinder financial inclusion, with women and marginalized groups potentially facing greater barriers to access and control over financial resources.



It can be very difficult to solve a problem that can't be appropriately measured. Inadequate data and market information on unbanked and underbanked populations can hinder the development of targeted and effective financial inclusion strategies. In addition, geopolitical and conflict-related challenges can disrupt financial infrastructure and stability, further limiting access to financial services in specific physical regions.



Last, data privacy and security concerns may deter individuals from adopting digital financial services, especially in regions with inadequate data protection frameworks. In some cases, consumers may knowingly or unknowingly elect to financially exclude themselves based on the choices they decide. For example, those not trusting in digital services financially exclude themselves from many opportunities in exchange for greater control and comfort over their personal information.




How Does Financial Inclusion Benefit the Economy?
Financial inclusion contributes to economic growth by stimulating entrepreneurship, increasing savings, and expanding investment opportunities. It boosts consumer spending and business development, leading to job creation and improved productivity. A financially inclusive economy also attracts more foreign investment and helps achieve sustainable development goals.




What Role Do Governments Play in Promoting Financial Inclusion?
Governments play a pivotal role in promoting financial inclusion through policy and regulatory frameworks. They can implement measures to reduce barriers, encourage financial institutions to serve underserved populations, and invest in financial literacy programs and digital infrastructure.




What Are the Risks Associated With Financial Inclusion?
Some risks associated with financial inclusion include over-indebtedness, potential exploitation by unscrupulous lenders, and data privacy concerns with the use of digital financial services.




What Are the Future Trends and Innovations in Financial Inclusion?
The future of financial inclusion is likely to be shaped by advancements in fintech, such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, and digital currencies. Additionally, greater emphasis on data privacy and security, along with regulatory developments, will influence the trajectory of financial inclusion initiatives worldwid


   The Bottom Line  

Financial inclusion refers to the process of ensuring that all individuals, especially the underserved and marginalized populations, have access to affordable and appropriate financial services. It aims to empower people with tools like savings accounts, credit, insurance, and digital payment options, enabling them to participate in the formal financial system, manage their finances, and build economic resilience.
What Is Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE)?  

Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE) is a movement of people devoted to a program of extreme savings and investment that aims to allow them to retire far earlier than traditional budgets and retirement plans would permit.



The 1992 best-selling book Your Money or Your Life by Vicki Robin and Joe Dominguez popularized many of the concepts used by people who are part of this movement. The origins of the term and acronym FIRE are unknown, but the term came to embody a core premise of the book: People should evaluate every expense in terms of the number of working hours it took to pay for it.





Key Takeaways

Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE) is a financial movement defined by frugality and extreme savings and investment.By saving up to 70% of their annual income, FIRE proponents aim to retire early and live off small withdrawals from their accumulated funds.Typically, FIRE followers withdraw 3% to 4% of their savings annually to cover living expenses in retirement.Detailed planning, economic discipline, and wise investment are key components in achieving a FIRE retirement.












Katie Kerpel / Investopedia


   What Is the Purpose of FIRE?  

The FIRE movement takes direct aim at the conventional retirement age of 65, and the industry that has grown up to encourage people to plan for it. By dedicating a majority of their income to savings, followers of the FIRE movement hope to be able to quit their jobs and live solely off small withdrawals from their portfolios decades before they reach age 65.



In recent years, many people—millennials in particular—have embraced pursuing a FIRE retirement. Proponents of the extreme-saving lifestyle remain in the workforce for several years, saving up to 70% of their yearly income. When their savings reach approximately 30 times their yearly expenses, or roughly $1 million, they may quit their day jobs or retire from work altogether.



To cover their living expenses after retiring at a young age, FIRE devotees make small withdrawals from their savings, typically around 3% to 4% of the balance yearly. Depending on the size of their savings and their desired lifestyle, this requires extreme diligence to monitor expenses and dedication to the maintenance and reallocation of their investments.



Several FIRE retirement variations that dictate the lifestyle that the FIRE movement’s devotees are willing and able to maintain have evolved within it.



Fat FIRE—This is for the individual with a traditional lifestyle who aims to save substantially more than the average worker but doesn’t want to reduce their current standard of living. It generally takes a high salary and aggressive savings and investment strategies for it to work.
Lean FIRE—This requires stringent adherence to minimalist living and extreme savings, necessitating a far more restricted lifestyle. Many Lean FIRE adherents live on $25,000 or less per year.
Barista FIRE—This is for people who want to exist between the two choices above. They quit their traditional 9-to-5 jobs but use a combination of part-time work and savings to live a less-than-minimalist lifestyle. The former lets them obtain health coverage, while the latter prevents them from dipping into their retirement funds.


   Who Is FIRE Designed for?  

Most people think that FIRE is meant for people who can pull in a substantial income, generally in the six figures. And indeed, if your goal is to retire in your 30s or 40s, that probably is the case. However, there is plenty for everyone to learn from the principles of the movement that can help people save for their retirement and even achieve an early one, if not quite as early as 40.



And remember, the first part of FIRE stands for financial independence, something that, if achieved, can allow you to—instead of retire—work at something you love rather than something you have to do. Author Robin says in the book that FIRE is not just about retiring early; instead, it teaches you how to consume less while living better.


  Detailed Planning  

It is important for everyone to plan for their retirement. Yet, according to a May 2021 report—the latest available—from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in 2020, one in four Americans had no retirement savings, while 36% who did have savings felt that their retirement plans were not on track. The FIRE movement stresses the importance of having a detailed plan and sticking to it, principles that will aid anyone in saving for retirement and maintaining a decent emergency fund.


  Economic Discipline  

To achieve a FIRE retirement, you have to maximize your income while minimizing your expenses. Retiring by age 40 requires you to go to extremes to succeed, but everyone can benefit from making and sticking to a budget while doing all they can to earn as much money as possible, whether it’s by getting a better job, adding a second one, or creating additional revenue streams through sideline businesses or owning rental property.


  Wise Investment  

It is difficult to achieve a secure retirement without investing in a retirement savings plan. FIRE adherents invest larger portions of their income than the average person will want to. But the principle of setting aside a set percentage of your income every month for investment—and starting to do that as early as possible—will allow you to grow your retirement savings to a point where they can assure you financial stability in your later years.




What Does FIRE Really Mean?
The acronym FIRE stands for Financial Independence, Retire Early, a term for financial independence concepts and methods that can be used to fund an early retirement.




How Does FIRE Work?
Followers of FIRE plan to retire much earlier than the traditional retirement age of 65 by dedicating up to 70% of their income to savings while still in the full-time workforce. When their savings reach approximately 30 times their yearly expenses, or roughly $1 million, they may quit their day jobs or completely retire from any form of employment.




What Are Some FIRE Variations?
Within the FIRE movement are several variations. Fat FIRE is a more easygoing attempt to save more while giving up less. Lean FIRE requires devotion to minimalist living. Barista FIRE is for those who want to quit the nine-to-five rat race and are willing to cut back their spending while working only part-time to do so.



Correction—Nov. 13, 2022: A previous version of this article inaccurately credited the term "Financial Independence, Retire Early" (FIRE) to Vicki Robinson and Joe Dominguez and their popular book, Your Money or Your Life, first published in 1992. The article was updated to include further context on the origins of the term.
What Is the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)?  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is an independent, nongovernmental organization that writes and enforces the rules governing registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States.



Its stated mission is "to safeguard the investing public against fraud and bad practices." It is considered a self-regulatory organization.



FINRA was created as the result of the consolidation of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and the member regulation, enforcement, and arbitration operations of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 2007. The consolidation was meant to do away with overlapping or redundant regulation and reduce the cost and complexity of compliance.





Key Takeaways

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) writes and enforces rules that govern registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States.FINRA also administers the qualifying exams for securities professionals.FINRA provides resources, such as BrokerCheck, that help to protect investors.The general criticism of all self-regulatory agencies, including FINRA, is that they do just enough to maintain the public's trust.FINRA's monthly report of disciplinary activity refers only to formal actions and leaves out informal ones such as cautionary letters to firms or individuals.


   Understanding FINRA  
  Oversight Role  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the single largest independent regulatory body for securities firms operating in the United States. It oversees more than 3,400 brokerage firms, 152,000 branch offices, and nearly 617,550 registered securities representatives, as of 2020. FINRA has 19 offices across the United States and approximately 3,600 employees.



FINRA regulates the trading of equities, corporate bonds, securities futures, and options. It has also been authorized by Congress to protect the interests of investors.



In addition to overseeing securities firms and their brokers, FINRA administers the qualifying exams that securities professionals must pass to sell securities or supervise others who do. Those include, for example, the Series 7 General Securities Representative Qualification Examination and the Series 3 National Commodities Futures Examination.


  Rules Enforcement  

In its enforcement capacity, FINRA has the power to take disciplinary actions against registered individuals or firms that violate its rules.



In 2020, it initiated 808 disciplinary actions, levied fines totaling $57 million, and ordered restitution of $25.2 million to investors. It also expelled two member firms and suspended another two, while barring 246 individuals from the securities business and suspending another 375.



Also in 2020, it referred 970 fraud and insider trading cases to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other government agencies for prosecution.



For investors who are shopping for a broker or want to check up on their current one, FINRA maintains BrokerCheck, a searchable database of brokers, investment advisors, and financial advisors. BrokerCheck includes certifications, education, and any enforcement actions. It draws from FINRA's Central Registration Depository (CRD) database, which contains the records of individuals and firms in the securities business in the United States.






The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has the power to fine or ban brokers and brokerage firms that violate its rules.


   Benefits of FINRA  

FINRA's main benefit for investors is protection from potential abuses and unethical conduct within the financial industry. FINRA resources (such as the aforementioned BrokerCheck) allow investors to determine if someone claiming to be a broker is actually a member in good standing.



By banning brokers who violate its rules of conduct, FINRA stops many financial crimes from taking place.



FINRA's commitment to, and responsibility for, these functions was made clear by the combining of the NASD and the NYSE's regulation operations into one organization.



The SEC approved the consolidation of these two organizations in July 2007. In announcing its formation, FINRA described a broad mandate that included responsibility for "rule writing, firm examination, enforcement and arbitration and mediation functions, along with all functions that were previously overseen solely by NASD, including market regulation under contract for Nasdaq, the American Stock Exchange, the International Securities Exchange, and the Chicago Climate Exchange."



The American Stock Exchange was acquired by the NYSE in 2008. The NYSE was acquired five years later by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). The Chicago Climate Exchange, a market for trading greenhouse gas emissions allowances, was shut down after the purchase by ICE of its parent company Climate Exchange Plc in 2010.






While FINRA is a private, not-for-profit, regulatory organization, its creation was approved by the SEC in 2007.


   Criticism of FINRA  

FINRA faces much of the same type of criticism that is often applied to any self-regulatory organization. Critics, such as Senator Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Cotton of Arkansas, claim that FINRA does not do enough to protect investors.



In particular, an academic study by Egan, Matvos, and Seru showed that there were issues with repeat offenders. It found that financial advisors with past histories of misconduct were several times more likely to commit offenses in the future. FINRA may have been too restrained in exercising its powers.



The general criticism of self-regulatory agencies such as FINRA is that they do just enough to maintain the public's trust. In this view, self-regulatory agencies have an inherent conflict of interest.



While members are interested in keeping the public's trust, that interest only goes so far. Members need to weed out the worst offenders, but they don't want the spotlight on themselves.



For example, it might be possible to rank all members for integrity. Yet, that would necessarily result in about half of all members being ranked as below-average. Unsurprisingly, self-regulatory agencies rarely rank their members.




What's FINRA?
FINRA is the Independent Financial Industry Regulatory Association. It creates and enforces the rules that govern U.S. registered brokers and broker-dealers. It was formed in 2007.




How Does FINRA Discipline Offenders?
A disciplinary action can be formal or informal. Formal actions can involve a fine, a fine and order for restitution, suspension, or expulsion from the industry. Informal actions can include cautionary letters and orders to fix a particular problem.




Does FINRA Provide Services to Investors?
Yes. Beyond its regulatory services, FINRA's Investor Education Foundation provides investors with a variety of personal finance and investment information, courses, research, and tools (like BrokerCheck and Fund Analyzer). These can help investors better understand the roles that finance and investing can play in their lives.
What Is the Financial Information eXchange (FIX)?  

The Financial Information eXchange (FIX) is a vendor-neutral electronic communications protocol for the international real-time exchange of securities transaction information. The protocol is used by the FIX community, which includes nearly 300 member firms including all major investment banks.



The FIX has become the de-facto messaging standard for pre-trade, trade, and post-trade communication, as well as for U.S. regulatory reporting. It is compatible with almost every commonly used network technology. FIX Protocol, Ltd. owns and maintains the FIX system. The company was formed entirely to fulfill that purpose and to ensure the system remains in the public domain.





Key Takeaways

The Financial Information eXchange (FIX) is an information and data protocol used to disseminate price and trade information among investment banks and broker-dealers.The FIX Trading Community is the non-profit entity created to ensure FIX continues in the public domain.The FIX is the standard for front-office messaging.


   Understanding the Financial Information eXchange (FIX)  

The FIX's communications include texting and email, securities trade allocations, news, order submissions and changes, trade advertising, and execution reporting. Mostly used for business-to-business (B2B) interactions, it is designed to improve business messages and transaction flow.



The FIX achieves this goal by minimizing redundancy and reducing time spent on telephone communications, written messages, transactions, and documentation. The benefits are particularly obvious to funds, investment managers, and investment banking firms. FIX systems transfer accurate and timely financial information concerning securities trades through and across security exchange houses.



Introduced in 1992 for equity trading between Salomon Brothers and Fidelity Investments, the FIX protocol was implemented to provide for more efficient and accountable transactions and record-keeping, replacing a system that was handled mostly over the phone. Under the old system, indications of interest were often lost "on hold" or routed to the wrong trader.



The FIX has since gone on to become the standard electronic protocol for pre-trade, trade, and post-trade communication in equity markets and is increasingly being used in other markets, too.






The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) is the standard for back office messaging, while the FIX is the standard for front office messaging.


   Financial Information eXchange (FIX) Users  

The FIX is popular among both the buy-side (institutions) as well as the sell-side (brokers/dealers) of the financial markets. Users include mutual funds, investment banks, brokers, stock and futures exchanges, and other electronic communication networks (ECNs). It is mainly used for equity transactions, although it can handle bond, foreign exchange, and derivatives transactions.



The FIX Trading Community member firms maintain and continue to develop the FIX messaging standard. Community members include several leading financial institutions around the globe. Work done by these member firms ensures the standard continues to evolve to meet new and emerging trading requirements.



Their actions also promote the adoption of FIX use worldwide. The FIX protocol itself is a non-proprietary, free, and open standard that is constantly being developed by its member firms.


   What's Next for the FIX?  

The FIX is an ever-changing entity and seeks to stay current with changes in the industry and in technology. In recent years, members have been discussing current issues and challenges, which include cybersecurity, digital currencies and blockchain, execution transparency, and performance improvements.



Any firm considering using the FIX may wish to download the FIX implementation guide from the FIX Trading Community website.
What Is a Financial Institution (FI)?  

A financial institution (FI) is a company engaged in the business of dealing with financial and monetary transactions such as deposits, loans, investments, and currency exchange. Financial institutions include a broad range of business operations within the financial services sector, including banks, insurance companies, brokerage firms, and investment dealers.



Virtually everyone living in a developed economy has an ongoing or at least periodic need for a financial institution's services.





Key Takeaways


A financial institution (FI) is a company engaged in the business of dealing with financial and monetary transactions such as deposits, loans, investments, and currency exchange.
Financial institutions are vital to a functioning capitalist economy in matching people seeking funds with those who can lend or invest it.
Financial institutions encompass a broad range of business operations within the financial services sector including banks, insurance companies, brokerage firms, and investment dealers.
Financial institutions vary by size, scope, and geography.













Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Financial Institutions (FIs)  

Financial institutions often match savers' or investors' funds with those seeking funds, such as borrowers or businesses seeking to trade shares of ownership for funds. Typically, this leads to future payments from the borrower or business to the saver or investor. The tools for matching all of these parties up include products such as loans, and markets, such as a stock exchange.



At the most basic level, financial institutions allow people to access the money they need. For example, although banks do many things, their primary role is to take in funds—called deposits—from those with money, pool the deposits, and lend the money to others who need funds. Banks are intermediaries between depositors (who lend money to the bank) and borrowers (who the bank lends money to).



This works well because while some depositors need their money at any given moment, most do not. So banks can use deposits to make long-term loans. This applies to almost every entity and individual in a capitalist system: individuals and households, financial and nonfinancial firms, and national and local governments.






Without financial institutions, businesses could not grow. And households could only buy goods, education, and housing that the families have cash for today.



Financial institutions serve most people in some way as a critical part of any economy—whether in banking, insurance, or securities markets. Individuals and companies rely on financial institutions for transactions and investing. For example, the health of a nation's banking system is a linchpin of economic stability. Loss of confidence in a financial institution can easily lead to a bank run.


   The Function of Financial Institutions in Capital Markets  

Capital markets are important for functioning capitalist economies because they channel savings and investments between suppliers and those in need. Suppliers are people or institutions with capital to lend or invest. Suppliers typically include banks and investors. Those seeking capital are businesses, governments, and individuals.



Financial institutions play an important role in capital markets, directing capital to where it is most useful. For example, a bank takes in deposits from customers and lends the money to borrowers, ensuring capital markets' efficient function.


   Regulation  

Governments oversee and regulate banks and financial institutions because the institutions play an integral economic role. Bankruptcies of financial institutions, for instance, can create panic. Federal and state agencies can regulate financial institutions. Sometimes, multiple agencies regulate the same institution.


  Federal Depository Regulators  

Federal depository regulators oversee commercial banks, thrifts (savings associations), and credit unions accepting customer deposits.



U.S. Federal Reserve (The Fed): Regulator of Federal Reserve System member state banks, foreign banking organizations operating in the United States, and financial holding companies.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC):  The OCC is responsible for seeing that national banks and federal savings associations operate safely, provide equal access to financial services, treat customers fairly, and comply with applicable laws and regulations. It also regulates U.S. federal branches of foreign banks and federally chartered thrift institutions.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC): The FDIC regulates federally insured depository institutions, state banks that aren't members of the Federal Reserve System, and state-chartered thrift institutions.
National Credit Union Administration (NCUA): NCUA supervises and insures federally chartered or insured credit unions.






The FDIC insures deposits in state-chartered banks and federal savings associations if a bank fails. The FDIC insures regular deposit accounts of up to $250,000 per depositor per institution. Offering this insurance reassures individuals and businesses regarding the safety of their finances with financial institutions. Like the FDIC, the NCUA insures deposit amounts of up to $250,000.


  Federal Securities Markets Regulators  

Two federal institutions regulate products, markets, and market participants for securities such as stocks, bonds, and derivatives.



Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): The SEC regulates securities exchanges, broker-dealers, and corporations selling securities to the public; investment funds, including mutual funds; investment advisers, including hedge funds with assets over $150 million; and investment companies.
Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): The CFTC regulates futures exchanges, futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators, commodity trading advisors, derivatives, clearing organizations, and designated contract markets.


  Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) Regulators  

These dedicated regulators exclusively oversee government-sponsored enterprises, which are quasi-governmental entities established to enhance the flow of credit to specific sectors of the U.S. economy.



Federal Housing Finance Agency: The FHFA supervises, regulates, and performs oversight of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Farm Credit Administration: This agency regulates Farm Credit System institutions and Farmer Mac, credit sources for eligible persons in agriculture and rural America.


  Consumer Protection Regulator  

Currently, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is the only national consumer entity tasked with exclusively regulating consumer products. CFPB's purview includes nonbank mortgage-related firms, private student lenders, payday lenders, and other large “consumer financial entities,” as determined by the CFPB. CFPB is the rulemaking consumer protection authority for all banks and has supervisory authority for banks with more than $10 billion in assets.


  State Regulators  

States may regulate financial institutions in addition to or instead of federal regulators. For example, there is minimal federal oversight of the insurance industry. Each state government has a department that licenses and regulates insurance companies and any company selling insurance products. States may also regulate banking, securities, and consumer protections in addition to federal regulators who work in those areas.


   Types of Financial Institutions  

Financial institutions offer various products and services for individual and commercial clients. The specific services offered vary widely between different types of financial institutions. Here are some of the types consumers are most likely to use:


  Banks, Credit Unions, and Savings & Loans  

These financial institutions accept deposits and offers checking and savings account services; make business, personal, and mortgage loans; and provides basic financial products like certificates of deposit (CDs). They may also act as payment agents via credit cards, wire transfers, and currency exchange.



These types of financial institution can include:



Commercial or private banksSavings and loans associationsCredit unionsForeign banksSavings banks, industrial institutions, thrifts


  Investment Companies, Advisors, and Brokers  

Investment companies issue and invest in securities (stocks, bonds, mutual funds and ETFs or exchange-traded funds). Mutual funds are one example of a product offered by an investment company, where many investors' money is pooled and invested in stocks, bonds, money market instruments, other securities, or even cash in an ongoing manner.



Other examples of investment-related financial institutions include investment advisors and brokers. Brokers accept and carry out orders to buy and sell investments (such as securities) for customers.


  Insurance Companies  

Among the most familiar non-bank financial institutions are insurance companies. Providing insurance for individuals or corporations is one of the oldest financial services. Protection of assets and protection against financial risk, secured through insurance products, is an essential service that facilitates individual and corporate investments that fuel economic growth.



Insurance is primarily regulated at the state level, but the U.S. Treasury's Federal Insurance Office (FIO) does monitor the industry and plays an advisory role.




Why Are Financial Institutions Important?
Financial institutions are essential because they provide a marketplace for money and assets so that capital can be efficiently allocated to where it is most useful. For example, a bank takes in customer deposits and lends the money to borrowers. Without the bank as an intermediary, any individual is unlikely to find a qualified borrower or know how to service the loan. Via the bank, the depositor can earn interest as a result. Likewise, investment banks find investors to market a company's shares or bonds to.




What Are the Different Types of Financial Institutions?
The most common types of financial institutions include banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and investment companies. These entities offer various products and services for individual and commercial clients, such as deposits, loans, investments, and currency exchange.




Which Agency Oversees Banking Operations in the United States?
Several agencies oversee banking operations in the U.S., including the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).




What's the Difference Between a Commercial and Investment Bank?
A commercial bank, where most people do their banking, is a type of financial institution that accepts deposits, offers checking account services, makes business, personal, and mortgage loans, and offers basic financial products like certificates of deposit (CDs) and savings accounts to individuals and small businesses. Investment banks specialize in providing services designed to facilitate business operations. This might include raising money through financing and equity offerings, including initial public offerings (IPOs). They also commonly offer brokerage services for investors, act as market makers for trading exchanges, and manage mergers, acquisitions, and other corporate restructurings.




Which Agency Regulates Investment Banking Firms?
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) oversees the operations of investment banks as these banks deal with securities.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial institutions help keep capitalist economies running by matching people who need funds with those who can lend or invest it. They offer a wide range of business operations within the financial services sector including banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and brokerage firms. Regulatory agencies such as the OCC, the SEC, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve oversee the operations of financial institutions in the United States.
What Is a Financial Instrument?  

Financial instruments are assets that can be traded, or they can also be seen as packages of capital that may be traded. Most types of financial instruments provide efficient flow and transfer of capital throughout the world’s investors. These assets can be in the form of cash, a contractual right to deliver or receive cash or another type of financial instrument, or evidence of one’s ownership in some entity.



Examples of financial instruments include stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), mutual funds, loans, and derivatives contracts, among others.





Key Takeaways

A financial instrument is a real or virtual document representing a legal agreement involving any kind of monetary value. Financial instruments may be divided into two types: cash instruments and derivative instruments.Financial instruments may also be divided according to an asset class, which depends on whether they are debt-based or equity-based.Foreign exchange instruments comprise a third, unique type of financial instrument.












Madelyn Goodnight / Investopedia


   Understanding Financial Instruments  

Financial instruments can be real or virtual documents representing a legal agreement involving any kind of monetary value. Equity-based financial instruments represent ownership of an asset. Debt-based financial instruments represent a loan made by an investor to the owner of the asset.



Foreign exchange instruments comprise a third, unique type of financial instrument. Different subcategories of each instrument type exist, such as preferred share equity and common share equity.






International Accounting Standards (IAS) define financial instruments as “any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.”


   Types of Financial Instruments  

Financial instruments may be divided into two types: cash instruments and derivative instruments.


  Cash Instruments  

The values of cash instruments are directly influenced and determined by the markets. These can be securities that are easily transferable. Stocks and bonds are common examples of such instruments.
Cash instruments may also be deposits and loans agreed upon by borrowers and lenders. Checks are an example of a cash instrument because they transmit payment from one bank account to another.


  Derivative Instruments  

The value and characteristics of derivative instruments are based on the vehicle’s underlying components, such as assets, interest rates, or indices.
An equity options contract—such as a call option on a particular stock, for example—is a derivative because it derives its value from the underlying shares. The call option gives the right, but not the obligation, to buy shares of the stock at a specified price and by a certain date. As the price of the underlying stock rises and falls, so does the value of the option, although not necessarily by the same percentage.
There can be over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives or exchange-traded derivatives. OTC is a market or process whereby securities—which are not listed on formal exchanges—are priced and traded.


   Types of Asset Classes of Financial Instruments  

Financial instruments may also be divided according to an asset class, which depends on whether they are debt-based or equity-based.


  Debt-Based Financial Instruments  

Debt-based instruments are essentially loans made by an investor to the owner of the asset. Short-term debt-based financial instruments last for one year or less. Securities of this kind come in the form of Treasury bills (T-bills) and commercial paper. Bank deposits and certificates of deposit (CDs) are also technically debt-based instruments that credit depositors with interest payments.



Exchange-traded derivatives exist for short-term, debt-based financial instruments, such as short-dated interest rate futures. OTC derivatives also exist, such as forward rate agreements (FRAs).



Long-term debt-based financial instruments last for more than a year. Long-term debt securities are typically issued as bonds or mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Exchange-traded derivatives on these instruments are traded in the form of fixed-income futures and options. OTC derivatives on long-term debts include interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and long-dated interest rate options.


  Equity-Based Financial Instruments  

Equity-based instruments represent ownership of an asset. Securities that trade under the banner of equity-based financial instruments are most often stocks, which can be either common stock or preferred shares. ETFs and mutual funds may also be equity-based instruments.



Exchange-traded derivatives in this category include stock options and equity futures.


  Foreign Exchange Instruments  

Foreign exchange (forex, or FX) instruments include derivatives such as forwards, futures, and options on currency pairs, as well as contracts for difference (CFDs). Currency swaps are another common form of forex instrument. In addition, forex traders may engage in spot transactions for the immediate conversion of one currency into another.




What Are Some Examples of Financial Instruments?
Financial instruments come in many forms and types. What makes them financial instruments is that they confer a financial obligation or right to the holder. Common examples of financial instruments include stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, real estate investment trusts (REITs), bonds, derivatives contracts (such as options, futures, and swaps), checks, certificates of deposit (CDs), bank deposits, and loans.




Are Commodities Financial Instruments?
While commodities themselves, such as precious metals, energy products, raw materials, or agricultural products, are traded on global markets, they do not typically meet the definition of a financial instrument. That’s because they do not confer a claim or obligation over something else. But commodities derivatives are financial instruments, They include futures, forwards, and options contracts that use a commodity as the underlying asset.




Are Insurance Policies Financial Instruments?
An insurance policy is a legally binding contract established with the insurance company and policy owner that provides monetary benefits if certain conditions are met (e.g., death in the case of life insurance). If the insurer is a mutual company, the policy may also confer ownership and a claim to dividends. Insurance policies also have a specified value in terms of both the death benefit and living benefits (e.g., cash value) for permanent policies.Insurance policies are not considered securities, but one could possibly view them as an alternative type of financial instrument because they confer a claim and certain rights to the policyholder and obligations to the insurer.


   The Bottom Line  

A financial instrument is effectively a monetary contract (real or virtual) that confers a right or claim against some counterparty in the form of a payment (checks, bearer instruments), equity ownership or dividends (stocks), debt (bonds, loans, deposit accounts), currency (forex), or derivatives (futures, forwards, options, and swaps). Financial instruments can be segmented by asset class and as cash-based, securities, or derivatives.



Depending on their type, financial instruments may be exchangeable on listed or OTC markets.
What Is a Financial Intermediary?  

A financial intermediary is an entity that acts as the middleman between two parties in a financial transaction, such as a commercial bank, investment bank, mutual fund, or pension fund. Financial intermediaries offer a number of benefits to the average consumer, including safety, liquidity, and economies of scale involved in banking and asset management. Although in certain areas, such as investing, advances in technology threaten to eliminate the financial intermediary, disintermediation is much less of a threat in other areas of finance, including banking and insurance.





Key Takeaways

Financial intermediaries serve as middlemen for financial transactions, generally between banks or funds.These intermediaries help create efficient markets and lower the cost of doing business.Intermediaries can provide leasing or factoring services, but do not accept deposits from the public.Financial intermediaries offer the benefit of pooling risk, reducing cost, and providing economies of scale, among others. 


   How a Financial Intermediary Works  

A non-bank financial intermediary does not accept deposits from the general public. The intermediary may provide factoring, leasing, insurance plans, or other financial services. Many intermediaries take part in securities exchanges and utilize long-term plans for managing and growing their funds. The overall economic stability of a country may be shown through the activities of financial intermediaries and the growth of the financial services industry.



Financial intermediaries move funds from parties with excess capital to parties needing funds. The process creates efficient markets and lowers the cost of conducting business. For example, a financial advisor connects with clients through purchasing insurance, stocks, bonds, real estate, and other assets.



Banks connect borrowers and lenders by providing capital from other financial institutions and from the Federal Reserve. Insurance companies collect premiums for policies and provide policy benefits. A pension fund collects funds on behalf of members and distributes payments to pensioners.


   Types of Financial Intermediaries  

Mutual funds provide active management of capital pooled by shareholders. The fund manager connects with shareholders through purchasing stock in companies he anticipates may outperform the market. By doing so, the manager provides shareholders with assets, companies with capital, and the market with liquidity.


   Benefits of Financial Intermediaries  

Through a financial intermediary, savers can pool their funds, enabling them to make large investments, which in turn benefits the entity in which they are investing. At the same time, financial intermediaries pool risk by spreading funds across a diverse range of investments and loans. Loans benefit households and countries by enabling them to spend more money than they have at the current time. 



Financial intermediaries also provide the benefit of reducing costs on several fronts. For instance, they have access to economies of scale to expertly evaluate the credit profile of potential borrowers and keep records and profiles cost-effectively. Last, they reduce the costs of the many financial transactions an individual investor would otherwise have to make if the financial intermediary did not exist.


   Example of a Financial Intermediary  

In July 2016, the European Commission took on two new financial instruments for European Structural and Investment (ESI) fund investments. The goal was to create easier access to funding for startups and urban development project promoters. Loans, equity, guarantees, and other financial instruments attract greater public and private funding sources that may be reinvested over many cycles as compared to receiving grants.



One of the instruments, a co-investment facility, was to provide funding for startups to develop their business models and attract additional financial support through a collective investment plan managed by one main financial intermediary. The European Commission projected the total public and private resource investment at approximately €15 million (approximately $17.75 million) per small- and medium-sized enterprise.
What Is Financial Literacy?  










Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin



Financial literacy is the ability to understand and effectively use various financial skills, including personal financial management, budgeting, and investing. When you are financially literate, you have the foundation of a relationship with money, and it is a lifelong journey of learning. The earlier you start, the better off you will be, because education is the key to success when it comes to money.





Key Takeaways

The term “financial literacy” refers to a variety of important financial skills and concepts.People who are financially literate are generally less vulnerable to financial fraud.A strong foundation of financial literacy can help support various life goals, such as saving for education or retirement, using debt responsibly, and running a business.Key aspects to financial literacy include knowing how to create a budget, plan for retirement, manage debt, and track personal spending.Financial literacy can be obtained through reading books, listening to podcasts, subscribing to financial content, or talking to a financial professional.


   Understanding Financial Literacy  

From about 2000 to 2022, financial products and services have become increasingly widespread throughout society. Whereas earlier generations of U.S. residents may have purchased goods primarily in cash, various credit products are popular today, such as credit and debit cards and electronic transfers. A 2021 survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco revealed that 28% of all payments were via credit card, with only 20% being made in cash.



Given the importance of finance in modern society, lacking financial literacy can be very damaging to an individual’s long-term financial success. Even so, research shows that financial illiteracy is very common, with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) attributing it to 66% of Americans.



Being financially illiterate can lead to a number of pitfalls, such as being more likely to accumulate unsustainable debt burdens, either through poor spending decisions or a lack of long-term preparation. This, in turn, can lead to poor credit, bankruptcy, housing foreclosure, and other negative consequences.



Thankfully, there are now more resources than ever for those wishing to educate themselves about the world of finance. One such example is the U.S. government-sponsored Financial Literacy and Education Commission, which offers a range of free learning resources.






Financial literacy can help protect individuals from becoming victims of financial fraud, a type of crime that is becoming more commonplace.


   Scope of Financial Literacy  

Although many skills might fall under the umbrella of financial literacy, popular examples include household budgeting, learning how to manage and pay off debts, and evaluating the tradeoffs between different credit and investment products. These skills often require at least a working knowledge of key financial concepts, such as compound interest and the time value of money.



Other products, such as mortgages, student loans, health insurance, and self-directed investment accounts, have also grown in importance. This has made it even more imperative for individuals to understand how to use them responsibly.



Financial literacy can cover short-term financial strategy as well as long-term financial strategy, and which strategy you take will depend on several factors, such as your age, time horizon, and risk tolerance. Financial literacy encompasses knowing how investment decisions made today will impact your tax liabilities in the future.



This also includes knowing which investment vehicles are best to use when saving, whether for a financial goal like buying a home or for retirement. This is not to add the novelties in finance such as e-wallets, digital money, buy now/pay later, P2P lending, and other new financial products that can be convenient and cost-effective but require potential consumers to be educated to assess them adequately to their advantage.


   Why Financial Literacy Matters  

From day-to-day expenses to long-term budget forecasting, financial literacy is crucial for managing these factors. It is important to plan and save enough to provide adequate income in retirement while avoiding high levels of debt that might result in bankruptcy, defaults, and foreclosures.





Note

If you are a younger individual, retirement may seem years away. While it is a ways in the future, it is also one of the best goals to start saving for, because the earlier you start, the more you’ll have compounded down the line. One investment vehicle to start with is an employer-sponsored retirement account, such as a 401(k).



In its Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households in 2020 report, the U.S. Federal Reserve System Board of Governors found that many Americans are unprepared for retirement. More than one-fourth indicated that they have no retirement savings, and fewer than four in 10 of those not yet retired felt that their retirement savings are on track. Among those who have self-directed retirement savings, more than 60% admitted to feeling low levels of confidence in making retirement decisions.



Low financial literacy has left millennials—the largest share of the American workforce—unprepared for a severe financial crisis, according to research by the TIAA Institute. Even among those who report having a high knowledge of personal finance, only 19% answered questions about fundamental financial concepts correctly. Forty-three percent report using expensive alternative financial services, such as payday loans and pawnshops. More than half lack an emergency fund to cover three months’ expenses, and 37% are financially fragile (defined as unable or unlikely to be able to come up with $2,000 within a month in the event of an emergency).



Millennials also carry large amounts of student loan and mortgage debt—in fact, 44% of them say they have too much debt.



Though these may seem like individual problems, they have a wider effect on the entire population than previously believed. All one needs is to look at the financial crisis of 2008 to see the financial impact on the entire economy that arose from a lack of understanding of mortgage products (creating a vulnerability to predatory lending). Financial literacy is an issue with broad implications for economic health.


   Benefits of Financial Literacy  

Holistically, the benefit of financial literacy is to empower individuals to make smarter decisions. More specifically, financial literacy is important for a number of reasons.



Financial literacy can prevent devastating mistakes: Floating rate loans may have different interest rates each month, while traditional individual retirement account (IRA) contributions can’t be withdrawn until retirement. Seemingly innocent financial decisions may have long-term implications that cost individuals money or impact life plans. Financial literacy helps individuals avoid making mistakes with their personal finances.
Financial literacy prepares people for emergencies: Financial literacy topics such as saving or emergency preparedness get individuals ready for the uncertain. Though losing a job or having a major unexpected expense are always financially impactful, an individual can cushion the blow by implementing their financial literacy in advance by being ready for emergencies.
Financial literacy can help individuals reach their goals: By better understanding how to budget and save money, individuals can create plans that set expectations, hold them accountable to their finances, and set a course for achieving seemingly unachievable goals. Though someone may not be able to afford a dream today, they can always make a plan to better increase their odds of making it happen.
Financial literacy invokes confidence: Imagine making a life-changing decision without all the information you need to make the best decision. By being armed with the appropriate knowledge about finances, individuals can approach major life choices with greater confidence realizing that they are less likely to be surprised or negatively impacted by unforeseen outcomes.


   Strategies to Improve Financial Literacy Skills  

Developing financial literacy to improve your personal finances involves learning and practicing a variety of skills related to budgeting, managing, and paying off debts, and understanding credit and investment products. The good news is that, no matter where you are in life and financially, it’s never too late to start practicing good financial habits.



Here are several practical strategies to consider.


  Create a Budget  

Track how much money you receive each month against how much you spend on an Excel sheet, on paper, or with a budgeting app. Your budget should include income (paychecks, investments, alimony), fixed expenses (rent/mortgage payments, utilities, loan payments), discretionary spending (nonessentials such as eating out, shopping, and travel), and savings.


  Pay Yourself First  

To build savings, this reverse budgeting strategy involves choosing a savings goal, such as paying for higher education, deciding how much you want to contribute toward it each month, and setting that amount aside before you divvy up the rest of your expenses.


  Pay Bills Promptly  

Stay on top of monthly bills, making sure that payments consistently arrive on time. Consider taking advantage of automatic debits from a checking account or bill-pay apps and sign up for payment reminders (by email, phone, or text).


  Get Your Credit Report  

Once a year, consumers can request a free credit report from the three major credit bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion—through the federally created website AnnualCreditReport.com. Review these reports and dispute any errors by informing the credit bureau of inaccuracies. Because you can get three of them, consider spacing out your requests throughout the year to monitor yourself regularly.






In a 2021 survey by the Federal Reserve, 22% of adults in the United States reported not being OK financially and not living comfortably financially.


  Check Your Credit Score  

Having a good credit score helps you obtain the best interest rates on loans and credit cards, among other benefits. Monitor your score via a free credit monitoring service (or, if you can afford to and want to add an extra layer of protection for your information, use one of the best credit monitoring services). In addition, be aware of the financial decisions that can raise or lower your scores, such as credit inquiries and credit utilization ratios.


  Manage Debt  

Use your budget to stay on top of debt by reducing spending and increasing repayment. Develop a debt reduction plan, such as paying down the loan with the highest interest rate first. If your debt is excessive, contact lenders to renegotiate repayment, consolidate loans, or find a debt counseling program.


  Invest in Your Future  

If your employer offers a 401(k) retirement savings account, be sure to sign up and contribute the maximum to receive the employer match. Consider opening an individual retirement account (IRA) and creating a diversified investment portfolio of stocks, fixed income, and commodities. If necessary, seek financial advice from professional advisors to help you determine how much money you will need to retire comfortably and develop strategies to reach your goal.


   Example of Financial Literacy  

Emma is a high school teacher who tries to inform her students about financial literacy through her curriculum. She educates them on the basics of a variety of financial topics, such as personal budgeting, debt management, education and retirement saving, insurance, investing, and even tax planning. Emma’s students can and will use these concepts later in life for things like renting an apartment, getting a first job, or even just paying for fun activities such as going to the movies.



Understanding concepts such as interest rates, opportunity costs, debt management, compound interest, and budgeting, for example, could help her students manage the student loans that they might rely on to fund their college education and keep them from amassing dangerous levels of debt and endangering their credit scores. Similarly, she expects that certain topics, such as income taxes and retirement planning, will eventually prove useful to all students, no matter what they end up doing after high school.




Why Is Financial Literacy Important?
Being financially literate from a young age gives an individual the tools and resources they need to be financially secure later in life. The lack of financial literacy can lead to a number of pitfalls, such as accumulating unsustainable debt burdens, either through poor spending decisions or a lack of long-term preparation. This, in turn, can lead to poor credit, bankruptcy, housing foreclosure, or other negative consequences.




How Do I Become Financially Literate?
Becoming financially literate involves learning and practicing a variety of skills related to budgeting, managing and paying off debts, and understanding credit and investment products. Basic steps to improve your personal finances include creating a budget, keeping track of expenses, being diligent about timely payments, being prudent about saving money, periodically checking your credit report, and investing for your future.




What Are Some Popular Personal Budget Rules?
Two commonly used personal budgeting methods are the 50/20/30 and 70/20/10 rules, and their simplicity is what makes them popular. The former entails dividing your after-tax, take-home income pay into three areas: needs (50%), savings (20%), and wants (30%). The 70/20/10 rule also follows a similar blueprint, recommending that your after-tax, take-home income be divided into segments that cater to expenses (70%), savings or reducing debt (20%), and investments and charitable donations (10%).




What Are the Principles of Financial Literacy?
There are five broad principles of financial literacy. Though other models may list different key components, the overarching goal of financial literacy is to educate individuals on how to earn, spend, save, borrow, and protect their money.




What Are Some Examples of Financial Literacy?
As a high school student transitions to college, they may be faced with the task of deciding which school to attend and how to finance their education. This may including how much money they should be saving from their after-school job, how the terms of their loan will work, and what opportunity costs exist throughout their decision-making process.In this example, the student will make more financially responsible decisions if they are more financially literate. Financial literacy in this example extends to savings, employment, budgeting, loans, and financial planning. Using financial literacy and making smart decisions, the student can set themselves up for long-term success.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial literacy is the knowledge of how to make smart decisions with money. This includes preparing a budget, knowing how much to save, deciding favorable loan terms, understanding impacts to credit, and distinguishing different vehicles used for retirement. These skills help individuals make smarter decisions and act more responsibly with their personal finances.
What Are Financial Markets?  

Financial markets refer broadly to any marketplace where the trading of securities occurs, including the stock market, bond market, forex market, and derivatives market, among others. Financial markets are vital to the smooth operation of capitalist economies.





Key Takeaways

Financial markets refer broadly to any marketplace where the trading of securities occurs.There are many kinds of financial markets, including (but not limited to) forex, money, stock, and bond markets.These markets may include assets or securities that are either listed on regulated exchanges or else trade over-the-counter (OTC).Financial markets trade in all types of securities and are critical to the smooth operation of a capitalist society.When financial markets fail, economic disruption including recession and unemployment can result.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Financial Markets  

Financial markets play a vital role in facilitating the smooth operation of capitalist economies by allocating resources and creating liquidity for businesses and entrepreneurs. The markets make it easy for buyers and sellers to trade their financial holdings. Financial markets create securities products that provide a return for those who have excess funds (Investors/lenders) and make these funds available to those who need additional money (borrowers). 



The stock market is just one type of financial market. Financial markets are made by buying and selling numerous types of financial instruments including equities, bonds, currencies, and derivatives. Financial markets rely heavily on informational transparency to ensure that the markets set prices that are efficient and appropriate. The market prices of securities may not be indicative of their intrinsic value because of macroeconomic forces like taxes.



Some financial markets are small with little activity, and others, like the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), trade trillions of dollars of securities daily. The equities (stock) market is a financial market that enables investors to buy and sell shares of publicly traded companies. The primary stock market is where new issues of stocks, called initial public offerings (IPOs), are sold. Any subsequent trading of stocks occurs in the secondary market, where investors buy and sell securities that they already own.






Prices of securities traded in the financial markets may not necessarily reflect their true intrinsic value.






   Types of Financial Markets  
  Stock Markets  

Perhaps the most ubiquitous of financial markets are stock markets. These are venues where companies list their shares and they are bought and sold by traders and investors. Stock markets, or equities markets, are used by companies to raise capital via an initial public offering (IPO), with shares subsequently traded among various buyers and sellers in what is known as a secondary market.



Stocks may be traded on listed exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or Nasdaq, or else over-the-counter (OTC). Most trading in stocks is done via regulated exchanges, and these play an important role in the economy as both a gauge of the overall health of the economy as well as providing capital gains and dividend income to investors, including those with retirement accounts such as IRAs and 401(k) plans.



Typical participants in a stock market include (both retail and institutional) investors and traders, as well as market makers (MMs) and specialists who maintain liquidity and provide two-sided markets. Brokers are third parties that facilitate trades between buyers and sellers but who do not take an actual position in a stock.


  Over-the-Counter Markets  

An over-the-counter (OTC) market is a decentralized market—meaning it does not have physical locations, and trading is conducted electronically—in which market participants trade securities directly between two parties without a broker. While OTC markets may handle trading in certain stocks (e.g., smaller or riskier companies that do not meet the listing criteria of exchanges), most stock trading is done via exchanges. Certain derivatives markets, however, are exclusively OTC, and so they make up an important segment of the financial markets. Broadly speaking, OTC markets and the transactions that occur on them are far less regulated, less liquid, and more opaque.


  Bond Markets  

A bond is a security in which an investor loans money for a defined period at a pre-established interest rate. You may think of a bond as an agreement between the lender and borrower that contains the details of the loan and its payments. Bonds are issued by corporations as well as by municipalities, states, and sovereign governments to finance projects and operations. The bond market sells securities such as notes and bills issued by the United States Treasury, for example. The bond market also is called the debt, credit, or fixed-income market.


  Money Markets  

Typically the money markets trade in products with highly liquid short-term maturities (of less than one year) and are characterized by a high degree of safety and a relatively low return in interest. At the wholesale level, the money markets involve large-volume trades between institutions and traders. At the retail level, they include money market mutual funds bought by individual investors and money market accounts opened by bank customers. Individuals may also invest in the money markets by buying short-term certificates of deposit (CDs), municipal notes, or U.S. Treasury bills, among other examples.


  Derivatives Markets  

A derivative is a contract between two or more parties whose value is based on an agreed-upon underlying financial asset (like a security) or set of assets (like an index). Derivatives are secondary securities whose value is solely derived from the value of the primary security that they are linked to. In and of itself a derivative is worthless. Rather than trading stocks directly, a derivatives market trades in futures and options contracts, and other advanced financial products, that derive their value from underlying instruments like bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates, market indexes, and stocks.



Futures markets are where futures contracts are listed and traded. Unlike forwards, which trade OTC, futures markets utilize standardized contract specifications, are well-regulated, and utilize clearinghouses to settle and confirm trades. Options markets, such as the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), similarly list and regulate options contracts. Both futures and options exchanges may list contracts on various asset classes, such as equities, fixed-income securities, commodities, and so on.


  Forex Market  

The forex (foreign exchange) market is the market in which participants can buy, sell, hedge, and speculate on the exchange rates between currency pairs. The forex market is the most liquid market in the world, as cash is the most liquid of assets. The currency market handles more than $7.5 trillion in daily transactions, which is more than the futures and equity markets combined.



As with the OTC markets, the forex market is also decentralized and consists of a global network of computers and brokers from around the world. The forex market is made up of banks, commercial companies, central banks, investment management firms, hedge funds, and retail forex brokers and investors. 


  Commodities Markets  

Commodities markets are venues where producers and consumers meet to exchange physical commodities such as agricultural products (e.g., corn, livestock, soybeans), energy products (oil, gas, carbon credits), precious metals (gold, silver, platinum), or "soft" commodities (such as cotton, coffee, and sugar). These are known as spot commodity markets, where physical goods are exchanged for money.



The bulk of trading in these commodities, however, takes place on derivatives markets that utilize spot commodities as the underlying assets. Forwards, futures, and options on commodities are exchanged both OTC and on listed exchanges around the world such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE).


  Cryptocurrency Markets  

The past several years have seen the introduction and rise of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, decentralized digital assets that are based on blockchain technology. Today, thousands of cryptocurrency tokens are available and trade globally across a patchwork of independent online crypto exchanges. These exchanges host digital wallets for traders to swap one cryptocurrency for another, or for fiat monies such as dollars or euros.



Because the majority of crypto exchanges are centralized platforms, users are susceptible to hacks or fraud. Decentralized exchanges are also available that operate without any central authority. These exchanges allow direct peer-to-peer (P2P) trading of digital currencies without the need for an actual exchange authority to facilitate the transactions. Futures and options trading are also available on major cryptocurrencies.


   Examples of Financial Markets  

The above sections make clear that the "financial markets" are broad in scope and scale. To give two more concrete examples, we will consider the role of stock markets in bringing a company to IPO, and the role of the OTC derivatives market in the 2008-09 financial crisis.


  Stock Markets and IPOs  

When a company establishes itself, it will need access to capital from investors. As the company grows it often finds itself in need of access to much larger amounts of capital than it can get from ongoing operations or a traditional bank loan. Firms can raise this size of capital by selling shares to the public through an initial public offering (IPO). This changes the status of the company from a "private" firm whose shares are held by a few shareholders to a publicly-traded company whose shares will be subsequently held by numerous members of the general public.



The IPO also offers early investors in the company an opportunity to cash out part of their stake, often reaping very handsome rewards in the process. Initially, the price of the IPO is usually set by the underwriters through their pre-marketing process.



Once the company's shares are listed on a stock exchange and trading in it commences, the price of these shares will fluctuate as investors and traders assess and reassess their intrinsic value and the supply and demand for those shares at any moment in time.


  OTC Derivatives and the 2008 Financial Crisis: MBS and CDOs  

While the 2008-09 financial crisis was caused and made worse by several factors, one factor that has been widely identified is the market for mortgage-backed securities (MBS). These are a type of OTC derivatives where cash flows from individual mortgages are bundled, sliced up, and sold to investors. The crisis was the result of a sequence of events, each with its own trigger and culminating in the near-collapse of the banking system. It has been argued that the seeds of the crisis were sown as far back as the 1970s with the Community Development Act, which required banks to loosen their credit requirements for lower-income consumers, creating a market for subprime mortgages.



The amount of subprime mortgage debt, which was guaranteed by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, continued to expand into the early 2000s, when the Federal Reserve Board began to cut interest rates drastically to avoid a recession. The combination of loose credit requirements and cheap money spurred a housing boom, which drove speculation, pushing up housing prices and creating a real estate bubble. In the meantime, the investment banks, looking for easy profits in the wake of the dotcom bust and the 2001 recession, created a type of MBS called collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) from the mortgages purchased on the secondary market.



Because subprime mortgages were bundled with prime mortgages, there was no way for investors to understand the risks associated with the product. When the market for CDOs began to heat up, the housing bubble that had been building for several years had finally burst. As housing prices fell, subprime borrowers began to default on loans that were worth more than their homes, accelerating the decline in prices.



When investors realized the MBS and CDOs were worthless due to the toxic debt they represented, they attempted to unload the obligations. However, there was no market for the CDOs. The subsequent cascade of subprime lender failures created liquidity contagion that reached the upper tiers of the banking system. Two major investment banks, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, collapsed under the weight of their exposure to subprime debt, and more than 450 banks failed over the next five years. Several of the major banks were on the brink of failure and were rescued by a taxpayer-funded bailout.


   Financial Markets FAQs  


What Are the Different Types of Financial Markets?
Some examples of financial markets and their roles include the stock market, the bond market, forex, commodities, and the real estate market, among several others. Financial markets can also be broken down into capital markets, money markets, primary vs. secondary markets, and listed vs. OTC markets.




How Do Financial Markets Work?
Despite covering many different asset classes and having various structures and regulations, all financial markets work essentially by bringing together buyers and sellers in some asset or contract and allowing them to trade with one another. This is often done through an auction or price-discovery mechanism.




What Are the Main Functions of Financial Markets?
Financial markets exist for several reasons, but the most fundamental function is to allow for the efficient allocation of capital and assets in a financial economy. By allowing a free market for the flow of capital, financial obligations, and money the financial markets make the global economy run more smoothly while also allowing investors to participate in capital gains over time.




Why Are Financial Markets Important?
Without financial markets, capital could not be allocated efficiently, and economic activity such as commerce and trade, investments, and growth opportunities would be greatly diminished.




Who Are the Main Participants in Financial Markets?
Firms use stock and bond markets to raise capital from investors. Speculators look to various asset classes to make directional bets on future prices, while hedgers use derivatives markets to mitigate various risks, and arbitrageurs seek to take advantage of mispricings or anomalies observed across various markets. Brokers often act as mediators that bring buyers and sellers together, earning a commission or fee for their services.
What Is Financial Modeling?  

Financial modeling is the process of creating a summary of a company's expenses and earnings in the form of a spreadsheet that can be used to calculate the impact of a future event or decision.



A financial model has many uses for company executives. Financial analysts most often use it to analyze and anticipate how a company's stock performance might be affected by future events or executive decisions.





Key Takeaways

Financial modeling is a numerical representation of some or all aspects of a company's operations.Financial models are used to estimate the valuation of a business or to compare companies to their industry competitors. Various models exist that may produce different results. A model is only as good as the inputs and assumptions that go into it.


   Understanding Financial Modeling  

Financial modeling is a representation in numbers of a company's operations in the past, present, and the forecasted future. Such models are intended to be used as decision-making tools. Company executives might use them to estimate the costs and project the profits of a proposed new project.



Financial analysts use them to explain or anticipate the impact of events on a company's stock, from internal factors such as a change of strategy or business model to external factors such as a change in economic policy or regulation.



Financial models are used to estimate the valuation of a business or to compare businesses to their peers in the industry. They also are used in strategic planning to test various scenarios, calculate the cost of new projects, decide on budgets, and allocate corporate resources.



Examples of financial models may include discounted cash flow analysis, sensitivity analysis, or in-depth appraisal.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Real-World Example  

The best financial models provide users with a set of basic assumptions. For example, one commonly forecasted line item is sales growth. Sales growth is recorded as the increase (or decrease) in gross sales in the most recent quarter compared to the previous quarter. These are the only two inputs a financial model needs to calculate sales growth.



The financial modeler creates one cell for the prior year's sales, cell A, and one cell for the current year's sales, cell B. The third cell, cell C, is used for a formula that divides the difference between cells A and B by cell A. This is the growth formula. Cell C, the formula, is hard-coded into the model. Cells A and B are input cells that can be changed by the user.



In this case, the purpose of the model is to estimate sales growth if a certain action is taken or a possible event occurs.



Of course, this is just one real-world example of financial modeling. Ultimately, a stock analyst is interested in potential growth. Any factor that affects or might affect that growth can be modeled.



Also, comparisons among companies are important in concluding a stock purchase. Multiple models help an investor decide among various competitors in an industry.




What Is Financial Modeling Used For?
A financial model is used for decision-making and financial analysis by people inside and outside of companies. Some of the reasons a firm might create a financial model include the need to raise capital, grow the business organically, sell or divest business units, allocate capital, budget, forecast, or value a business.




What Information Should Be Included in a Financial Model?
To create a useful model that's easy to understand, you should include sections on assumptions and drivers, an income statement, a balance sheet, a cash flow statement, supporting schedules, valuations, sensitivity analysis, charts, and graphs.




What Types of Businesses Use Financial Modeling?
Professionals in a variety of businesses rely on financial modeling. Here are just a few examples: Bankers use it in sales and trading, equity research, and both commercial and investment banking, public accountants use it for due diligence and valuations, and institutions apply financial models in private equity, portfolio management, and research.




How Is a Financial Model Validated?
Errors in financial modeling can cause expensive mistakes. For this reason, a financial model may be sent to an outside party to validate the information it contains. Banks and other financial institutions, project promoters, corporations seeking funds, equity houses, and others may request model validation to reassure the end-user that the calculations and assumptions within the model are correct and that the results produced by the model are reliable.
What Is Financial Performance?  

Financial performance is a subjective measure of how well a firm can use assets from its primary mode of business and generate revenues. The term is also used as a general measure of a firm's overall financial health over a given period.



Analysts and investors use financial performance to compare similar firms across the same industry or to compare industries or sectors in aggregate.





Key Takeaways

The financial performance tells investors about the general well-being of a firm. It's a snapshot of its economic health and the job its management is doing.A key document in reporting corporate financial performance is Form 10-K, which all public companies are required to publish annually.Financial statements used in evaluating overall financial performance include the balance sheet, the income statement, and the statement of cash flows.Financial performance indicators are quantifiable metrics used to measure how well a company is doing.No single measure should be used to define the financial performance of a firm.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Financial Performance  

There are many stakeholders in a company, including trade creditors, bondholders, investors, employees, and management. Each group has an interest in tracking the financial performance of a company. The financial performance identifies how well a company generates revenues and manages its assets, liabilities, and the financial interests of its stakeholders and stockholders.



There are many ways to measure financial performance, but all measures should be taken in aggregate. Line items, such as revenue from operations, operating income, or cash flow from operations can be used, as well as total unit sales. Furthermore, the analyst or investor may wish to look deeper into financial statements and seek out margin growth rates or any declining debt. Six Sigma methods focus on this aspect.


   Recording Financial Performance  

A key document in reporting corporate financial performance, one heavily relied on by research analysts, is Form 10-K. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires all public companies to file and publish this annual document. Its purpose is to provide stakeholders with accurate and reliable data and information that provide an overview of the company's financial health.



Independent accountants audit the information in a 10-K, and company management signs it and other disclosure documents. As a result, the 10K represents the most comprehensive source of information on financial performance made available to investors annually.



A company's Form 10-K has to be accessible to the public. Anyone who wishes to examine one can go to the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) database. You can search by company name, ticker symbol, or SEC Central Index Key (CIK). Many companies also post their 10-Ks on their websites, in an "Investor Relations" section.






Although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably, a company's Form 10-K is not the same as its annual report. Both include information about the company and its financial performance over the last year. But the annual report is more of a polished publication, lavishly illustrated and describing various projects and initiatives the company undertakes. The 10-K lacks such photos and graphics but generally goes into more financial details and calculations.


   Financial Statements  

Included in the 10K are three financial statements: the balance sheet, the income statement, and the cash flow statement.


  Balance Sheet  

The balance sheet is a snapshot of the finances of an organization as of a particular date. It provides an overview of how well the company manages its assets and liabilities. Analysts can find information about long-term vs. short-term debt on the balance sheet. They can also find information about what kind of assets the company owns and what percentage of assets are financed with liabilities vs. stockholders' equity.


  Income Statement  

The income statement provides a summary of operations for the entire year. The income statement starts with sales or revenues and ends with net income. Also referred to as the profit and loss statement, the income statement provides the gross profit margin, the cost of goods sold, operating profit margin, and net profit margin. It also provides an overview of the number of shares outstanding, as well as a comparison against the performance of the prior year.


  Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement is a combination of both the income statement and the balance sheet. For some analysts, the cash flow statement is the most important financial statement because it provides a reconciliation between net income and cash flow. This is where analysts see how much the company spent on stock repurchases, dividends, and capital expenditures. It also provides the source and uses of cash flow from operations, investing, and financing.






Other specialized financial performance indicators are more specific to certain industries. For example, companies whose sales of goods and services vary depending on the time of the year might use seasonality as a metric, measuring how a certain period or season affects the figures and outcomes.


   Example of Financial Performance  

As an example of financial performance analysis, let's look at the Coca-Cola Company's year-over-year performance in 2019 and 2020.










Comparing Coca-Cola's Performance




($ in millions except per-share data)
 2019
2020


Net operating revenues
 $37,266
 $33,014


Gross profit
$22,647
$19,581


Consolidated net income
 $ 8,985
 $ 7,768


Basic net income per share
 $ 2.09
 $ 1.80


Cash dividends
  $ 1.60
 $ 1.64


Total assets
 $86,381
 $87,296


Long-term debt
 $27,516
$40,125


Other liabilities
$ 8,510
$ 9,453



Source: Coca-Cola 2020 Annual Report



Coca-Cola's performance was not great in 2020. Net revenues declined 11% from the previous year. Gross profit and income per share fell 14%.



The company attributed its performance to the problems caused by the coronavirus pandemic, along with "a currency headwind" (a reference to the fact that it's a global company, with many operations and markets overseas). Coca-Cola derives more than a third of its revenue from non-retail channels, like restaurants and concession stands. So the shuttering of public venues and the stay-at-home mandates hurt its sales.




Why Is Financial Performance Important?
A company's financial performance tells investors about its general well-being. It's a snapshot of its economic health and the job its management is doing—providing insight into the future: whether its operations and profits are on track to grow and the outlook for its stock.




What Are Financial Performance Indicators?
Financial performance indicators, also known as key performance indicators (KPIs), are quantifiable measurements used to determine, track, and project the economic well-being of a business. They act as tools for both corporate insiders (like management and board members) and outsiders (like research analysts and investors) to analyze how well the company is doing—especially regarding competitors—and identify where strengths and weaknesses lie.The most widely used financial performance indicators include:Gross profit /gross profit margin: the amount of revenue made from sales after subtracting production costs, and the percentage amount a company earns per dollar of salesNet profit/net profit margin: the amount of revenue from sales after subtracting all related business expenses and taxes, and the related ratio of earnings per dollar of salesWorking capital: immediately available or highly liquid funds, used to finance day-to-day operationsOperating cash flow: the amount of money being generated by regular business operationsCurrent ratio: a measure of solvency—the total assets divided by total liabilitiesDebt-to-equity ratio: a company’s total liabilities divided by its shareholder equityQuick ratio: another solvency measure, that calculates the percentage of very liquid current assets (cash, securities, accounts receivables) against total liabilitiesInventory turnover: how much inventory is sold within a certain period, and how often the entire inventory was soldReturn on equity: net income divided by shareholder equity (a company’s assets minus its debts)




What Is a Financial Performance Analysis?
Financial analysis refers to the process of studying and assessing a company’s financial statements—a collection of data and figures organized according to recognized accounting principles. The aim is to understand the company's business model, the profitability (or loss) of its operations, and how it's spending, investing, and generally using its money—summarizing the company by the numbers, so to speak.A financial performance analysis examines the company at a specific period in time—usually, the most recent fiscal quarter or year. The balance sheet, the income statement, and the cash flow statement are three of the most significant financial statements used in performance analysis.Financial performance analysis can focus on different areas. Types of analysis can include a specific examination of a firm:Working capital: the difference between a company’s current assets, such as cash, accounts receivable (customers’ unpaid bills), and inventories of raw materials and finished goods, and its current liabilities Financial structure: the mix of debt and equity that a company uses to finance its operations Activity analysis: the factors involved in the cost and pricing of goods and services Profitability analysis: how much money the business clears, after expenses and taxes




How Can I Improve My Financial Performance?
A company's financial performance can be improved in several ways. Of course, trying to identify any roadblocks or friction points—and the source of these problems—is the first step. Other strategies include:Improving cash flow: keep better track of income/outgoes, step up collection of accounts receivable, adjust payment options and prices if necessarySelling unwanted/unused assetsRevamping budgetsReducing expensesConsolidating or refinancing current debt; applying for government loans or grantsAnalyzing financial statements and performance indicators, ideally with a professional's help




What Are the Types of Financial Statements?
While there are many types of financial statements, the big three are:Balance sheet, which lists a business’ assets/revenues, liabilities/obligations, and owners’ equity at a specific point in time.Income statement, which summarizes results from business operations—revenues, expenses, and profits or losses during a specific period.The cash flow statement complements the balance sheet and income statement. Categorized into operating, investing, and financing activities, it captures how funds are employed—literally, how the cash flows—throughout the business.


   The Bottom Line  

The financial performance of a company is based on numbers. But in the end, it imparts an impression about the company and its soundness. A financial analysis of a company's financial statements, summarized in annual reports and Form K-10s—is essential for any serious investor seeking to understand and value a company properly. 



However, it's also important to realize that financial performance reflects the past, and is never an exact indicator of the future. Nor does it exist in a vacuum. Those evaluating a company's financial performance should always consider it in light of other, comparable businesses; the overall industry; and the company's history.
What Is a Financial Plan?  

A financial plan is a document that details a person’s current financial circumstances and their short- and long-term monetary goals. It includes strategies to achieve those goals.



A financial plan can help you to establish and plan for fundamental needs, such as managing life's risks (e.g., those involving health or disability), income and spending, and debt reduction.



It can provide financial guidance so that you're prepared to meet your obligations and objectives. It can also help you track your progress throughout the years toward financial well-being.



Financial planning involves a thorough evaluation of one’s money situation (income, spending, debt, and saving) and expectations for the future. It can be created independently or with the help of a certified financial planner.





Key Takeaways

A financial plan documents an individual’s short- and long-term financial goals and includes a strategy to achieve them.The plan should be comprehensive and highly customized.It should reflect an individual’s personal and family financial needs, investment risk tolerance, and plan for saving and investing.Planning in finance starts with a calculation of one’s current net worth and cash flow.A solid financial plan provides guidance over time and serves as a way to track progress toward your goals.







The Fundamentals of Financial Plans


   Understanding a Financial Plan  

Whether you’re going it alone or with a financial planner, the first step in creating a financial plan is to understand how important it can be to your financial future. It can provide the guidance that assures your financial success.



Start your planning effort by gathering information from your various financial accounts into a document or spreadsheet.



Then make some basic calculations that establish where you stand financially.



You may complete the following steps as an individual or a couple:


  Calculate Net Worth  

To calculate your current net worth, subtract the total for your liabilities from the total for your assets. Begin by listing and adding up all of the following:



Your assets: An asset is property of value that you own. Assets may include a home, a car, cash in the bank, money invested in a 401(k) plan, and other investments accounts.
Your liabilities: A liability is something you owe. Liabilities may include outstanding bills, credit card debt, student debt, a mortgage, and a car loan.


  Determine Cash Flow  

Cash flow is the money you take in measured against the money you spend. To create a financial plan, you must know your income as well as how and when your money is spent.



Documenting your personal cash flow will help you determine how much you need every month for necessities, how much is available for saving and investing, and where you can cut back on spending.



One way to get this done is to review your checking account and credit card statements. Collectively, they should provide a fairly complete history of your income and spending in a wide range of spending categories.



For example, document how much you’ve paid during the year for housing expenses like rent or mortgage payments, utilities, and credit card interest.



Other categories include food, household (including clothing), transportation, medical insurance, and non-covered medical expenses. Still others can include your spending on miscellaneous entertainment, dining out, and vacation travel.



Once you add up all these numbers for a year and divide by 12, you’ll know what your monthly cash flow has been (and where you can improve it).






When establishing your cash flow history, don’t overlook cash withdrawals that may have been used on sundries, from take-out, to shampoo, to sodas. ATM withdrawals can also highlight where you might cut unnecessary spending.


  Establish Your Goals  

A major part of a financial plan is a person’s clearly defined goals. These may include funding a college education for the children, buying a larger home, starting a business, retiring on time, or leaving a legacy.



No one can tell you how to prioritize these goals. However, a professional financial planner should be able to help finalize a detailed savings plan and specific investing that can help you reach them one by one.






The main elements of a financial plan include a retirement strategy, a risk management plan, a long-term investment plan, a tax reduction strategy, and an estate plan.


   Benefits of a Financial Plan  

A financial plan involves a thorough examination of your income and spending. It can improve your understanding of your financial circumstances at all times.It establishes important short- and long-term financial goals.It clarifies the actions required of you to achieve your various financial goals.A financial plan can focus your attention on important immediate steps, such as reducing debt and building your savings for emergencies.It enhances the probability that you'll achieve financial milestones and overall financial success (however you define it).It can guide your efforts over time and provide a means to monitor your progress.It can keep you out of financial trouble and reduce the stress and worry you may have experienced in the past.





Reasons for a Financial Plan

Financial planning is a smart way to keep your financial house in order. It's a money tool for everyone, regardless of age, earnings, net worth, or financial dreams. It offers individuals a way to document their personal goals and corresponding financial goals. It can keep people on track to meet ongoing financial needs and major financial goals.


   When to Create a Financial Plan  

A financial plan is always an advantage for those who want to make sure that they manage their finances in ways that are best-suited for them. You can create one at any time, whether you've just joined the workforce or have been working for years.



Beyond that, here are some particular instances that call for the creation and use of a financial plan. They can also serve as signals to adjust existing plans.



A new job that results in added income, new expenses, or new opportunitiesAn income change that can affect your ability to pay expenses, pay off debt, or saveMajor life events such as marriage, children, or divorce that can change financial objectives and spending needsHealth adversities that result in re-directing income and spending away from existing goalsAn income windfall, such as an inheritance or insurance payment, that can affect efforts to reach your financial goals (such as providing more money for investing and debt reduction)


   How to Create a Financial Plan  

Certain steps are needed to create a financial plan. In addition to calculating your net worth, determining your cash flow, and establishing financial goals, as outlined above, here are additional plan elements/steps to include.


  Do It Yourself or Get Professional Help  

Decide whether you'll create your financial plan on your own or with the help of a licensed financial planner. While you can certainly build a financial plan, a financial pro can help ensure that your plan covers all the essentials.


  Build an Emergency Cash Fund  

Based on what your cash flow allows, start setting aside enough money in a liquid account to cover all your expenses for at least 6 months (preferably, for twelve) if you find yourself without income due to unexpected events.


  Plan to Reduce Debt and Manage Expenses  

If you have debt, the faster and more effectively that you can eliminate it, the better for the growth of your savings, your standard of living, and the achievement of specific financial objectives.



Make it a habit to cut expenses whenever possible so that you can add to your savings. In addition, stay on top of expenses that you know you'll have, such as taxes, so you always meet those obligations on time.


  Manage Potential Risks  

Your financial well-being can be affected when accidents, health problems, or the death of loved ones strike. Plan to put into place the appropriate insurance coverage that will protect your financial security at such times. This coverage can include home, property, health, auto, disability, personal liability, and life insurance.


  Plan to Invest  

Take part in a retirement plan at work that automatically deducts contributions from your paycheck. And plan to maximize your tax-advantaged investing with a personal IRA if and when your income allows.



Also, consider how you might allocate any other available income to a taxable investment account that can add to your net worth over time. Your plan for investing should take into account your investment risk tolerance and future income needs.


  Include a Tax Strategy  

Address the goal of reducing your income taxes with tax deductions, tax credits, tax loss harvesting, and any other opportunities that are legally available to taxpayers.


  Consider an Estate Plan  

It's important to make arrangements for the benefit and protection of your heirs with an estate plan. The details will depend on your stage in life and whether you're married, have children, or have other legacy goals.


  Monitor and Adjust Your Financial Plan  

Revisit your plan at least yearly (on your own or with a financial professional) and more often if a change in circumstances affects your financial situation. Keep it working efficiently and effectively by adjusting it as needed.




What Is the Purpose of a Financial Plan?
A financial plan should help you make the best use of your money and achieve long-term financial goals, such as sending your children to college, buying a bigger home, leaving a legacy, or enjoying a comfortable retirement.




How Do I Write a Financial Plan?
You can write a financial plan yourself or enlist the help of a professional financial planner. The first step is to calculate your net worth and identify your spending habits. Once this has been documented, you need to consider longer-term objectives and decide on the ways to achieve them.




What Are the Key Components of a Financial Plan?
Financial plans aren't one-size-fits-all, although the good ones tend to focus on the same things. After calculating your net worth and spending habits, you’ll explore your financial goals and ways to achieve them. Usually, this involves some form of budgeting, saving, and investing each month. To ensure that you live comfortably and financially stress-free for the rest of your life, the areas to focus on include an emergency savings plan, a retirement plan, risk management, a long-term investment strategy, and a tax minimization plan.


   The Bottom Line  

A financial plan is an essential planning tool for your financial well-being, now and into the future. It involves setting down the current state of your finances, your various financial goals, and methods that can help you achieve them.



It's never too early or late to create a financial plan. And no matter the amount of money that you have, a financial plan can help you to determine the best way to put it to work so that you can meet your financial needs through all of your life stages.
What Is a Financial Planner?  

A financial planner works with clients to help them manage their money and reach their long-term financial goals.



A financial planner needs a thorough knowledge of personal finance, taxes, budgeting, and investing. They may specialize in tax planning, asset allocation, risk management, retirement planning, or estate planning, Many draw their clients from a particular population such as young professionals or retirees.



Financial planners advise and assist clients on a variety of matters, from investing and saving for retirement to funding a college education or a new business while preserving wealth.





Key Takeaways

Financial planners work with individuals, families, and even corporations to help them effectively manage their current money needs and long-term financial goals.Some financial planners may hold the “CFP®” professional designation to establish their professional qualifications.Financial planning includes help with budgeting, investing, saving for retirement, tax planning, insurance coverage, and more.


   Understanding the Role of a Financial Planner  

The Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards (CFP Board) describes financial planning as “a collaborative process that helps maximize a client’s potential for meeting life goals through financial advice that integrates relevant elements of the client’s personal and financial circumstances.”



While some financial planners specialize in one area—such as retirement savings—many offer a holistic approach that takes the client’s overall well-being into consideration. They may address the financial implications of family, career, education, and physical health.


  The Fiduciary Financial Planner  

Financial planners are considered fiduciaries. This means that they are legally bound to act in a client’s best interests and can’t accept payments from any third parties when recommending specific financial products to their clients.



The titles used by financial planners can vary. Registered investment advisors (RIAs), for example, are fiduciaries under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who advise high-net-worth individuals on investments. They are regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or state securities regulators.



An effective financial planner must have sufficient education, training, and experience to recommend specific financial products to their clients. As evidence of these qualifications, a practitioner may earn and carry one or more professional designations, such as the certified financial planner title.


   The CFP® Designation  

The most commonly held professional designation is certified financial planner (CFP®), issued by the CFP Board, the nonprofit certifying and standards-setting organization that administers the CFP exam.



Certified financial planner is a formal credential of expertise in the areas of financial planning, taxes, insurance, estate planning, and retirement. The designation is awarded to individuals who successfully complete the CFP® Board’s initial exams, then engage in ongoing annual education programs to maintain their skills and certification.



A CFP® may do much more than simply advise clients on available investments. They may assist their clients with budgeting, retirement planning, education savings, insurance coverage, or tax optimization strategy.


   Fee-Based vs. Commission-Based Financial Planners  

Financial advisors, including financial planners, generally fall into one of two categories: fee-based and commission-based.



Fee-based financial advisors charge a flat rate by the hour, by the project, or by assets under management (AUM). Their income comes primarily from fees paid by their clients. However, fee-based advisors may also earn income through commissions for selling certain financial products. Fee-only advisors, on the other hand, earn income only through fees paid by their clients.


  Commission-Based Advisors  

Commission-based financial advisors earn income by selling financial products and opening accounts on their clients’ behalf. The commissions are payments made by companies whose products and services are recommended by the advisor. Commission-based advisors can also earn money by opening accounts for clients.






Commission-based financial planners can have an incentive to direct clients to investment products from which they receive payment. Fee-only planners have no such temptation.


   Choosing the Right Financial Planner  

It’s a good idea to interview at least three financial planners so you can choose the one who is best for you. Be sure to get answers to the following questions:



What are your credentials?Can you provide references?What (and how) do you charge?What is your area of expertise?Will you act as my fiduciary?What services can I expect?How will we settle disputes?



To check the status of a CFP®, visit the CFP Board website.




What Do Financial Planners Do?
A financial planner helps clients manage their current money needs and reach their long-term financial goals. Their focus may be broad or narrow. Some help clients with many aspects of their financial lives, including savings, investments, insurance, retirement savings, college savings, taxes, and estate planning. Others have a narrow focus, such as retirement or estate planning.Some financial planners sell investments, insurance, and other financial products. Others help their clients create an investing plan and leave the clients to make the specific decisions.




How Much Does a Financial Planner Charge?
A 2021 AdvisoryHQ study found that hourly rates for financial advisors typically range from $120 to $300. The per-project cost ranges from $275 to $4,500 or more, depending on the complexity of the job. For example, college planning “package deals” average from $275 to $1,500. Comprehensive financial planning costs $2,000 to $4,500.Commission-based financial planners earn money when their clients buy financial products that the advisor recommends. Fee-only financial planners don’t receive commissions for products sold. Instead, they charge by the hour, by the project, or by assets under management (AUM).




What Is the Difference Between a Financial Planner and a Financial Advisor?
Every financial planner is a financial advisor, but not every financial advisor is a financial planner. A financial planner helps clients (individuals, families, and businesses) create programs to reach their long-term financial goals. They may offer broad financial advice or specialize in an area such as investments, taxes, retirement, or estate planning.On the other hand, “financial advisor” is a broad term that refers to nearly any professional who advises people on their finances, including certified financial planners. They may help manage their clients’ money, manage investments, buy and sell stocks and funds on the client’s behalf, and help with estate and tax planning.
What Is Financial Risk?  

Financial risk is the possibility of losing money on an investment or business venture. Some more common and distinct financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk.



Financial risk is a type of danger that can result in the loss of capital to interested parties. For governments, this can mean they are unable to control monetary policy and default on bonds or other debt issues. Corporations also face the possibility of default on debt they undertake but may also experience failure in an undertaking the causes a financial burden on the business.





Key Takeaways

Financial risk generally relates to the odds of losing money.The financial risk most commonly referred to is the possibility that a company's cash flow will prove inadequate to meet its obligations.Financial risk can also apply to a government that defaults on its bonds.Credit risk, liquidity risk, asset-backed risk, foreign investment risk, equity risk, and currency risk are all common forms of financial risk.Investors can use a number of financial risk ratios to assess a company's prospects.


   Understanding Financial Risks for Businesses  

Financial markets face financial risk due to various macroeconomic forces, changes to the market interest rate, and the possibility of default by sectors or large corporations. Individuals face financial risk when they make decisions that may jeopardize their income or ability to pay a debt they have assumed.



Financial risks are everywhere and come in many shapes and sizes, affecting nearly everyone. You should be aware of the presence of financial risks. Knowing the dangers and how to protect yourself will not eliminate the risk, but it can mitigate their harm and reduce the chances of a negative outcome.



It is expensive to build a business from the ground up. At some point in any company's life the business may need to seek outside capital to grow. This need for funding creates a financial risk to both the business and to any investors or stakeholders invested in the company.



Credit risk—also known as default risk—is the danger associated with borrowing money. Should the borrower become unable to repay the loan, they will default. Investors affected by credit risk suffer from decreased income from loan repayments, as well as lost principal and interest. Creditors may also experience a rise in costs for the collection of debt.



When only one or a handful of companies are struggling it is known as a specific risk. This danger, related to a company or small group of companies, includes issues related to capital structure, financial transactions, and exposure to default. The term is typically used to reflect an investor's uncertainty about collecting returns and the accompanying potential for monetary loss.



Businesses can experience operational risk when they have poor management or flawed financial reasoning. Based on internal factors, this is the risk of failing to succeed in its undertakings.






Many analysis identify at least five types of financial risk: market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk.


   How Governments Offset Financial Risk  

Financial risk also refers to the possibility of a government losing control of its monetary policy and being unable or unwilling to control inflation and defaulting on its bonds or other debt issues.



Governments issue debt in the form of bonds and notes to fund wars, build bridges and other infrastructure and pay for their general day-to-day operations. The U.S. government's debt—known as Treasury bonds—is considered one of the safest investments in the world.



The list of governments that have defaulted on debt they issued includes Russia, Argentina, Greece, and Venezuela. Sometimes these entities only delay debt payments or pay less than the agreed-upon amount; either way, it causes financial risk to investors and other stakeholders.


   The Impact of Financial Risks on Markets  

Several types of financial risk are tied to financial markets. As mentioned earlier, many circumstances can impact the financial market. As demonstrated during the 2007 to 2008 global financial crisis, when a critical sector of the market struggles it can impact the monetary wellbeing of the entire marketplace. During this time, businesses closed, investors lost fortunes, and governments were forced to rethink their monetary policy. However, many other events also impact the market.



Volatility brings uncertainty about the fair value of market assets. Seen as a statistical measure, volatility reflects the confidence of the stakeholders that market returns match the actual valuation of individual assets and the marketplace as a whole. Measured as implied volatility (IV) and represented by a percentage, this statistical value indicates the bullish or bearish—market on the rise versus the market in decline—view of investments. Volatility or equity risk can cause abrupt price swings in shares of stock. 



Default and changes in the market interest rate can also pose a financial risk. Defaults happen mainly in the debt or bond market as companies or other issuers fail to pay their debt obligations, harming investors. Changes in the market interest rate can push individual securities into being unprofitable for investors, forcing them into lower-paying debt securities or facing negative returns.



Asset-backed risk is the chance that asset-backed securities—pools of various types of loans—may become volatile if the underlying securities also change in value. Sub-categories of asset-backed risk involve the borrower paying off a debt early, thus ending the income stream from repayments and significant changes in interest rates.






In 2021, the U.S. high yield default rate finished at a record low 0.5%. 2022 and 2023 projections by Fitch Solutions anticipates continual lower than average default rates.


   How Financial Risks Impact Individuals  

Individuals can face financial risk when they make poor decisions. This hazard can have wide-ranging causes from taking an unnecessary day off of work to investing in highly speculative investments. Every undertaking has exposure to pure risk—dangers that cannot be controlled, but some are done without fully realizing the consequences.



Liquidity risk comes in two flavors for investors to fear. The first involves securities and assets that cannot be purchased or sold quickly enough to cut losses in a volatile market. Known as market liquidity risk this is a situation where there are few buyers but many sellers. The second risk is funding or cash flow liquidity risk. Funding liquidity risk is the possibility that a corporation will not have the capital to pay its debt, forcing it to default, and harming stakeholders.



Speculative risk is one where a profit or gain has an uncertain chance of success. Perhaps the investor did not conduct proper research before investing, reached too far for gains, or invested too large of a portion of their net worth into a single investment.



Investors holding foreign currencies are exposed to currency risk because different factors, such as interest rate changes and monetary policy changes, can alter the calculated worth or the value of their money. Meanwhile, changes in prices because of market differences, political changes, natural calamities, diplomatic changes, or economic conflicts may cause volatile foreign investment conditions that may expose businesses and individuals to foreign investment risk.


   Pros and Cons of Financial Risk  

Financial risk, in itself, is not inherently good or bad but only exists to different degrees. Of course, "risk" by its very nature has a negative connotation, and financial risk is no exception. A risk can spread from one business to affect an entire sector, market, or even the world. Risk can stem from uncontrollable outside sources or forces, and it is often difficult to overcome.



While it isn't exactly a positive attribute, understanding the possibility of financial risk can lead to better, more informed business or investment decisions. Assessing the degree of financial risk associated with a security or asset helps determine or set that investment's value. Risk is the flip side of the reward.



One could argue that no progress or growth can occur, be it in a business or a portfolio, without assuming some risk. Finally, while financial risk usually cannot be controlled, exposure to it can be limited or managed.




Financial Risk

Pros

Encourages more informed decisions
Helps assess value (risk-reward ratio)
Can be identified using analysis tools



Cons

Can arise from uncontrollable or unpredictable outside forces
Risks can be difficult to overcome
Ability to spread and affect entire sectors or markets





   Tools to Control Financial Risk  

Luckily there are many tools available to individuals, businesses, and governments that allow them to calculate the amount of financial risk they are taking on.



The most common methods that investment professionals use to analyze risks associated with long-term investments—or the stock market as a whole—include:



Fundamental analysis, the process of measuring a security's intrinsic value by evaluating all aspects of the underlying business including the firm's assets and its earnings.
Technical analysis, the process of evaluating securities through statistics and looking at historical returns, trade volume, share prices, and other performance data.
Quantitative analysis, the evaluation of the historical performance of a company using specific financial ratio calculations.



For example, when evaluating businesses, the debt-to-capital ratio measures the proportion of debt used given the total capital structure of the company. A high proportion of debt indicates a risky investment. Another ratio, the capital expenditure ratio, divides cash flow from operations by capital expenditures to see how much money a company will have left to keep the business running after it services its debt.



In terms of action, professional money managers, traders, individual investors, and corporate investment officers use hedging techniques to reduce their exposure to various risks. Hedging against investment risk means strategically using instruments—such as options contracts—to offset the chance of any adverse price movements. In other words, you hedge one investment by making another.






Statistical and numerical analysis are great tools for identifying potential risk, but prior financial history is not indicative of a company's future performance. Make sure to analyze trends over a long period of time to better understand whether fluctuations (or lack thereof) are progress towards a financial goal or inconsistent operating activity.


   Real-World Example of Financial Risk  

Bloomberg and other financial commentators point to the June 2018 closure of retailer Toys "R" Us as proof of the immense financial risk associated with debt-heavy buyouts and capital structures, which inherently heighten the risk for creditors and investors.



In September 2017, Toys "R'" Us announced it had voluntarily filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In a statement released alongside the announcement, the company's chair and CEO said the company was working with debtholders and other creditors to restructure the $5 billion of long-term debt on its balance sheet.



As reported in an article by CNN Money, much of this financial risk reportedly stemmed from a 2005 US $6.6 billion leveraged buyout (LBO) of Toys "R" Us by mammoth investment firms Bain Capital, KKR & Co., and Vornado Realty Trust. The purchase, which took the company private, left it with $5.3 billion in debt secured by its assets and it never really recovered, saddled as it was by $400 million worth of interest payments annually.



The Morgan-led syndicate commitment didn't work. In March 2018, after a disappointing holiday season, Toys "R" Us announced that it would be liquidating all of its 735 U.S. locations to offset the strain of dwindling revenue and cash amid looming financial obligations. Reports at the time also noted that Toys "R" Us was having difficulty selling many of the properties, an example of the liquidity risk that can be associated with real estate.



In November 2018, the hedge funds and Toys "R" Us' debt holders Solus Alternative Asset Management and Angelo Gordon took control of the bankrupt company and talked about reviving the chain. In February 2019, The Associated Press reported that a new company staffed with ex-Toys "R" Us execs, Tru Kids Brands, would relaunch the brand with new stores later in the year.



In late 2019, Tru Kids Brands opened two new stores—one in Paramus, New Jersey, and the other in Houston, Texas. Most recently, Macy's has partnered with WHP Global to bring back the Toys "R" Us brand. In 2022, Macy's plans to roll out approximately 400 physical toy store storefronts within existing Macy's locations.




How Do You Identify Financial Risks?
Identifying financial risks involves considering the risk factors a company faces. This entails reviewing corporate balance sheets and statements of financial positions, understanding weaknesses within the company's operating plan, and comparing metrics to other companies within the same industry. There are several statistical analysis techniques used to identify the risk areas of a company.




How Do You Handle Financial Risk?
Financial risk can often be mitigated, although it may be difficult or unnecessarily expensive for some to completely eliminate the risk. Financial risk can be neutralized by holding the right amount of insurance, diversifying your investments, holding sufficient funds for emergencies, and maintaining different income streams.




Why Is Financial Risk Important?
Understanding, measuring, and mitigating financial risk is critical for the long-term success of an organization. Financial risk may prevent a company from successfully accomplishing its finance-related objectives like paying loans on time, carrying a healthy amount of debt, or delivering goods on time. By understanding what causes financial risk and putting measures in place to prevent it, a company will likely experience stronger operating performance and yield better returns.




Is Financial Risk Systematic or Unsystematic?
Financial risk does impact every company. However, financial risk heavily depends on the operations and capital structure of an organization. Therefore, financial risk is an example of unsystematic risk because it is specific to each individual company.


   The Bottom Line  

Financial risk naturally occurs across businesses, markets, governments, and individual finance. These entities trade the opportunity to make profits and yield gains for the chance that they may lose money or face detrimental circumstances. These entities can use fundamental, technical, and quantitative analysis to not only forecast risk but make plans to reduce or mitigate it.
What Is a Financial Risk Manager (FRM)?  

Financial Risk Manager (FRM) is a professional designation issued by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP).



The GARP FRM accreditation is globally recognized as the premier certification for financial risk professionals dealing in financial markets. To earn the FRM certification, candidates must pass two rigorous exams and also work two years in the field of risk management.



FRMs possess specialized knowledge in assessing risk and typically work for major banks, insurance companies, accounting firms, regulatory agencies, and asset management firms.





Key Takeaways

Financial Risk Managers (FRM) are accredited by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP).FRMs specialize in assessing risk for major banks, insurance companies, accounting firms, regulatory agencies, and asset management firms.FRM certification requires passing a two-part exam and completing two years of work experience in financial risk management.Benefits of earning the FRM certification include professional recognition (FRM is the global standard in the field), boosting job prospects, commanding a higher income, and becoming a better overall risk manager.The CFA is a tougher designation to acquire overall, but FRM is a more specialized certification.


   Understanding Financial Risk Managers (FRMs)  

An FRM identifies threats to assets, earning capacity, or the success of an organization. FRMs may work in financial services, banking, loan origination, trading, or marketing. Many specialize in areas like credit or market risk.



FRMs determine risk by analyzing financial markets and the global environment to predict changes or trends. It is also the FRM's role to develop strategies to counteract the effects of potential risks.






Financial risk managers (FRMs) are required to be accredited by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP).


   The Financial Risk Manager (FRM) Program  

The FRM exam covers the application of risk management tools and techniques to the investment management process.



To receive the FRM designation, candidates must successfully complete a comprehensive, two-part exam and complete two years of work experience in financial risk management.



Professionals who hold the FRM designation can participate in optional continued professional development. The FRM program follows the major strategic disciplines of risk management: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, and investment management. The exam is recognized in over 90 countries and is designed to measure a financial risk manager's ability to manage risk in a global environment.



The questions are practical and related to real-world work experiences. Candidates are expected to understand risk management concepts and approaches as they would apply to a risk manager's day-to-day activities.



Part 1 of the FRM exam is 100 questions that focus on the following four topics (weight as such):



Foundations of risk management (20%)Quantitative analysis (20%)Financial markets and products (30%)Valuation and risk models (30%)



Part 2 of the exam consists of 80 questions from the following topics (weighted as follows):



Market risk measurement and management (20%)Credit risk measurement and management (20%)Operational risk and resiliency (20%)Liquidity and treasury risk measurement and management (15%)Risk management and investment management (15%)Current issues in financial markets (10%)





$134,180

The median annual salary of financial managers and FRMs in 2020, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.


  Industry Outlook for Financial Risk Managers (FRMs)  

In 2018, the median pay for financial managers including FRMs was $127,990 per year, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.



Employment of FRMs is expected to grow much quicker than the average for all occupations at 16% from 2018 to 2028. The Bureau states that "the core functions of financial managers, including risk management and cash management, are expected to be in high demand over the next decade."



Naturally, the vast majority of FRMs are employed in the financial services industry. But the demand for good risk management teams is high in all areas of the economy; from healthcare and engineering to technology and natural resources.



According to GARP, these are the top 10 companies employing the most FRMs:



ICBC Bank of ChinaHSBCAgricultural Bank of ChinaCitigroup KPMGDeutsche BankCredit SuisseUBSPwC


   FRM vs. CFA  

The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation is one of the most recognized financial designations in the world. Where FRM is considered the "gold standard" of financial risk managers, the CFA has the same level of reputation among financial analysts.



Since both the CFA and FRM seek to certify professionals in the financial industry, they're often compared with one another.



The basic difference between the two is this: FRM is a more specialized designation than the CFA Charter. The CFA covers a wide range of topics related primarily to investment management, including financial analysis, corporate finance, equities, bonds, derivatives, and portfolio management.



The FRM, on the other hand, focuses primarily on managing exposure to a variety of risks including operational risk, credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk.



Ther FRM and CFA also have different requirements.



To earn your FRM certification, you must:



Pass both Part 1 and Part 2 of the FRM examsHave two years worth of professional financial risk experience



To earn your CFA Charter, you must:



Have a bachelor's degree (or be in the final year of your bachelor's program) in order to start the CFA Program Pass Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 of the CFA examsBecome a member of the CFA Institute Have 4,000 hours worth of experience in an investment-related role


   Advantages of the FRM Designation  

There are several advantages to earning the FRM certification.



First, there is the reputational aspect that comes with the program. It is widely regarded as the risk management industry's leading designation. Thus, it is a strong indication of ability and experience within the field. In other words, the FRM carries significant weight with employers and colleagues.



Given how rapidly financial markets are changing, the demand for risk management experts will likely only grow over time.



The second benefit is the obvious educational one. As mentioned earlier, the FRM certification provides professionals with a thorough understanding of risk management. In practical terms, that means knowing how to anticipate, respond, and adapt to critical risks.


   FRM FAQs  
  Is CFA Better or FRM?  

That largely depends on your career path. Generally speaking, FRMs are meant for managerial roles that focus specifically on risk (i.e., credit risk manager, regulatory risk manager, operational risk manager, etc.). On the other hand, CFA Charterholders are primarily investment management professionals (i.e., investment analyst, portfolio manager, financial adviser, etc.).


  Is FRM Tougher Than CFA?  

FRM exams are tough, but not as difficult as the CFA exams.



The pass rates for FRM Part 1 usually fall in the range of 40% and 50%. For Part 2, they range between 50% and 60%.



For the CFA exams, historical pass rates for Level 1 and Level 2 are generally in the range of 40% and 50%. Level 3 pass rates are usually in the ballpark of 50%. It's this combination of lower pass rates and one more exam that makes the CFA tougher than the FRM.


  How Much Does the FRM Cost?  

The FRM charges a one-time enrollment fee of $400 to first-time FRM candidates.



From there, standard registration is $750 for Part1 and another $750 for Part 2. If you register early, however, candidates are able to get a discounted rate of $550 for Part 1 and $550 for Part 2.


   The Bottom Line  

FRM is the leading professional certification for risk managers and widely recognized as the global standard for financial risk. The current demand for expert financial risk managers is high and should only continue to grow over time.



While the CFA is generally regarded as more prestigious and tougher to attain, FRM's big advantage lies in its highly specialized focus on risk. For professionals looking to differentiate themselves, boost job prospects, and command better pay specifically within the risk management field, the FRM is second to none.
What Is the Financial Sector?  

The financial sector is a section of the economy made up of firms and institutions that provide financial services to commercial and retail customers. This sector comprises a broad range of industries including banks, investment companies, insurance companies, and real estate firms.





Key Takeaways

The financial sector is a section of the economy made up of firms and institutions that provide financial services to commercial and retail customers.A strong financial sector is a sign of a healthy economy.The financial sector generates a good portion of its revenue from loans and mortgages and thrives in a low-interest-rate environment.The sector is comprised of many different industries including banks, investment companies, insurance companies, and real estate firms.


   Understanding the Financial Sector  

A large portion of this sector generates revenue from mortgages and loans, which gain value as interest rates drop. The health of the economy depends, in large part, on the strength of its financial sector. The stronger it is, the healthier the economy. A weak financial sector typically means the economy is weakening.



Many people equate the financial sector with Wall Street and the exchanges that operate on it. But there's much more to it than that. The financial sector is one of the most important parts of many developed economies. It is made up of brokers, financial institutions, and money markets—all of which provide the services needed to help keep Main Street functioning every day.



In order for an economy to remain stable, it needs to have a healthy financial sector. This sector advances loans for businesses so they can expand, grants mortgages to homeowners, and issues insurance policies to protect people, companies, and their assets. It also helps build up savings for retirement and employs millions of people.



The financial sector generates a good portion of its revenue from loans and mortgages. These gain value in an environment where interest rates drop. When rates are low, the economic conditions open up the doors for more capital projects and investment. When this happens, the financial sector benefits, meaning more economic growth.


  Financial Sector Makeup  

As mentioned above, the financial sector is made up of many different industries ranging from banks, investment houses, insurance companies, real estate brokers, consumer finance companies, mortgage lenders, and real estate investment trusts (REITs).



The financial sector is one of the largest portions of the S&P 500. The largest companies within the financial sector are some of the most recognizable banking institutions in the world, including the following:



JPMorgan Chase (JPM)Wells Fargo (WFC)Bank of America (BAC)Citigroup (C)



While these large companies dominate the sector, there are other, smaller companies that participate in the sector as well. Insurers are also a major industry within the financial sector, being made up of such companies as American International Group (AIG) and Chubb (CB).


  Investing in the Financial Sector  

Economists often tie the overall health of the economy with the health of the financial sector. If financial companies are weak, this is a detriment to the average consumer. Financial companies provide loans for businesses, mortgages to homeowners, and insurance to consumers. If these activities are restricted, it stunts growth in both small businesses and real estate.



Financial stocks are very popular investments to own within a portfolio. Most companies within the sector issue dividends and are judged on the overall strength of their financial health. During the financial crisis of 2007-2008, the financial sector was one of the hardest hit, with companies like Lehman Brothers filing for bankruptcy. After an influx of government regulation and restructuring, the financial sector is considerably stronger.






Financial ETFs, such as the Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF)—the largest financial ETF—can provide investors with broad exposure to the sector.



As of the close of trading on Sept. 29, 2020, the financial sector had a combined market capitalization of $5.59 trillion. The sector has underperformed the S&P 500 index in the trailing 12 months (TTM), where the S&P 500 is up 14.3% while the S&P 500 Financials Sector has fallen 13.7%.


   Special Considerations  

Some of the positive factors that affect the financial sector include:



Moderately rising interest rates. As rates rise, financial services companies can earn more on the money they have and on credit they issue to their customers. 
Reducing regulation. Whenever the government decides to cut back on red tape, members of the financial sector will benefit. This means it could lessen the burden while increasing profits.
Lower consumer debt levels. as consumers decrease their debt loads, they lessen the risk of defaults. This lighter load also means they may have a tolerance for more debt, further increasing profitability.



Conversely, investors should consider some of the negative factors that affect this sector as well:



Rapid interest rate increases. If rates rise too quickly, demand for credit such as mortgages could drop, which could negatively affect certain parts of the financial sector. 
Yield curve flattening. If the spread between long- and short-term interest rates drop too far, the financial sector could start to struggle.
More legislation. Government regulation can have a big impact on the financial sector. While it may help protect consumers, more red tape can bog down a business that operates in financial services.
What Is Financial Statement Analysis?  

Financial statement analysis is the process of analyzing a company’s financial statements for decision-making purposes. External stakeholders use it to understand the overall health of an organization and to evaluate financial performance and business value. Internal constituents use it as a monitoring tool for managing the finances.





Key Takeaways

Financial statement analysis is used by internal and external stakeholders to evaluate business performance and value.Financial accounting calls for all companies to create a balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement, which form the basis for financial statement analysis.Horizontal, vertical, and ratio analysis are three techniques that analysts use when analyzing financial statements.












Jiaqi Zhou / Investopedia


   How to Analyze Financial Statements  

The financial statements of a company record important financial data on every aspect of a business’s activities. As such, they can be evaluated on the basis of past, current, and projected performance.



In general, financial statements are centered around generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. These principles require a company to create and maintain three main financial statements: the balance sheet, the income statement, and the cash flow statement. Public companies have stricter standards for financial statement reporting. Public companies must follow GAAP, which requires accrual accounting. Private companies have greater flexibility in their financial statement preparation and have the option to use either accrual or cash accounting.



Several techniques are commonly used as part of financial statement analysis. Three of the most important techniques are horizontal analysis, vertical analysis, and ratio analysis. Horizontal analysis compares data horizontally, by analyzing values of line items across two or more years. Vertical analysis looks at the vertical effects that line items have on other parts of the business and the business’s proportions. Ratio analysis uses important ratio metrics to calculate statistical relationships.


   Types of Financial Statements  

Companies use the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement to manage the operations of their business and to provide transparency to their stakeholders. All three statements are interconnected and create different views of a company’s activities and performance.


  Balance Sheet  

The balance sheet is a report of a company’s financial worth in terms of book value. It is broken into three parts to include a company’s assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity. Short-term assets such as cash and accounts receivable can tell a lot about a company’s operational efficiency; liabilities include the company’s expense arrangements and the debt capital it is paying off; and shareholder equity includes details on equity capital investments and retained earnings from periodic net income. The balance sheet must balance assets and liabilities to equal shareholder equity. This figure is considered a company’s book value and serves as an important performance metric that increases or decreases with the financial activities of a company.


  Income Statement  

The income statement breaks down the revenue that a company earns against the expenses involved in its business to provide a bottom line, meaning the net profit or loss. The income statement is broken into three parts that help to analyze business efficiency at three different points. It begins with revenue and the direct costs associated with revenue to identify gross profit. It then moves to operating profit, which subtracts indirect expenses like marketing costs, general costs, and depreciation. Finally, after deducting interest and taxes, the net income is reached.



Basic analysis of the income statement usually involves the calculation of gross profit margin, operating profit margin, and net profit margin, which each divide profit by revenue. Profit margin helps to show where company costs are low or high at different points of the operations.


  Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement provides an overview of the company’s cash flows from operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Net income is carried over to the cash flow statement, where it is included as the top line item for operating activities. Like its title, investing activities include cash flows involved with firm-wide investments. The financing activities section includes cash flow from both debt and equity financing. The bottom line shows how much cash a company has available.


  Free Cash Flow and Other Valuation Statements  

Companies and analysts also use free cash flow statements and other valuation statements to analyze the value of a company. Free cash flow statements arrive at a net present value by discounting the free cash flow that a company is estimated to generate over time. Private companies may keep a valuation statement as they progress toward potentially going public.


   Financial Performance  

Financial statements are maintained by companies daily and used internally for business management. In general, both internal and external stakeholders use the same corporate finance methodologies for maintaining business activities and evaluating overall financial performance.



When doing comprehensive financial statement analysis, analysts typically use multiple years of data to facilitate horizontal analysis. Each financial statement is also analyzed with vertical analysis to understand how different categories of the statement are influencing results. Finally, ratio analysis can be used to isolate some performance metrics in each statement and bring together data points across statements collectively.



Below is a breakdown of some of the most common ratio metrics:



Balance sheet: This includes asset turnover, quick ratio, receivables turnover, days to sales, debt to assets, and debt to equity.
Income statement: This includes gross profit margin, operating profit margin, net profit margin, tax ratio efficiency, and interest coverage.
Cash flow: This includes cash and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). These metrics may be shown on a per-share basis.
Comprehensive: This includes return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE), along with DuPont analysis.




What are the advantages of financial statement analysis?
Financial statement analysis evaluates a company’s performance or value through a company’s balance sheet, income statement, or statement of cash flows. By using a number of techniques, such as horizontal, vertical, or ratio analysis, investors may develop a more nuanced picture of a company’s financial profile.




What are the different types of financial statement analysis?
Most often, analysts will use three main techniques for analyzing a company’s financial statements.First, horizontal analysis involves comparing historical data. Usually, the purpose of horizontal analysis is to detect growth trends across different time periods.Second, vertical analysis compares items on a financial statement in relation to each other. For instance, an expense item could be expressed as a percentage of company sales.Finally, ratio analysis, a central part of fundamental equity analysis, compares line-item data. Price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios, earnings per share, or dividend yield are examples of ratio analysis.




What is an example of financial statement analysis?
An analyst may first look at a number of ratios on a company’s income statement to determine how efficiently it generates profits and shareholder value. For instance, gross profit margin will show the difference between revenues and the cost of goods sold. If the company has a higher gross profit margin than its competitors, this may indicate a positive sign for the company. At the same time, the analyst may observe that the gross profit margin has been increasing over nine fiscal periods, applying a horizontal analysis to the company’s operating trends.
What Are Financial Statements?  

Financial statements are written records that convey the business activities and the financial performance of a company. Financial statements are often audited by government agencies, accountants, firms, etc. to ensure accuracy and for tax, financing, or investing purposes. For-profit primary financial statements include the balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flow, and statement of changes in equity. Nonprofit entities use a similar but different set of financial statements.





Key Takeaways

Financial statements are written records that convey the business activities and the financial performance of an entity. The balance sheet provides an overview of assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity as a snapshot in time.The income statement primarily focuses on a company’s revenues and expenses during a particular period. Once expenses are subtracted from revenues, the statement produces a company's profit figure called net income.The cash flow statement (CFS) measures how well a company generates cash to pay its debt obligations, fund its operating expenses, and fund investments.The statement of changes in equity records how profits are retained within a company for future growth or distributed to external parties. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Financial Statements  

Investors and financial analysts rely on financial data to analyze the performance of a company and make predictions about the future direction of the company's stock price. One of the most important resources of reliable and audited financial data is the annual report, which contains the firm's financial statements.



The financial statements are used by investors, market analysts, and creditors to evaluate a company's financial health and earnings potential. The three major financial statement reports are the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows.






Not all financial statements are created equally. The rules used by U.S. companies is called Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, while the rules often used by international companies is International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). In addition, U.S. government agencies use a different set of financial reporting rules.


   Balance Sheet  

The balance sheet provides an overview of a company's assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity as a snapshot in time. The date at the top of the balance sheet tells you when the snapshot was taken, which is generally the end of the reporting period. Below is a breakdown of the items in a balance sheet.


  Assets  

Cash and cash equivalents are liquid assets, which may include Treasury bills and certificates of deposit.
Accounts receivables are the amount of money owed to the company by its customers for the sale of its product and service.
Inventory is the goods a company has on hand, which are intended to be sold as a course of business. Inventory may include finished goods, work in progress that is not yet finished, or raw materials on hand that have yet to be worked.
Prepaid expenses are costs that have been paid in advance of when they are due. These expenses are recorded as an asset because their value of them has not yet been recognized; should the benefit not be recognized, the company would theoretically be due a refund.
Property, plant, and equipment are capital assets owned by a company for its long-term benefit. This includes buildings used for manufacturing or heavy machinery used for processing raw materials.
Investments are assets held for speculative future growth. These aren't used in operations; they are simply held for capital appreciation.
Trademarks, patents, goodwill, and other intangible assets can't physically be touched but have future economic (and often long-term benefits) for the company.


  Liabilities  

Accounts payable are the bills due as part of the normal course of operations of a business. This includes utility bills, rent invoices, and obligations to buy raw materials.
Wages payable are payments due to staff for time worked.
Notes payable are recorded debt instruments that record official debt agreements including the payment schedule and amount.
Dividends payable are dividends that have been declared to be awarded to shareholders but have not yet been paid.
Long-term debt can include a variety of obligations including sinking bond funds, mortgages, or other loans that are due in their entirety in longer than one year. Note that the short-term portion of this debt is recorded as a current liability.


  Shareholders' Equity  

Shareholders' equity is a company's total assets minus its total liabilities. Shareholders' equity (also known as stockholders' equity) represents the amount of money that would be returned to shareholders if all of the assets were liquidated and all of the company's debt was paid off.
Retained earnings are part of shareholders' equity and are the amount of net earnings that were not paid to shareholders as dividends. 


  Example of a Balance Sheet   

Below is a portion of ExxonMobil Corporation's (XOM) balance sheet for fiscal year 2021, reported as of Dec. 31, 2021.



Total assets were $338.9 billion.Total liabilities were $163.2 billion.Total equity was $175.7 billion.Total liabilities and equity were $338.9 billion, which equals the total assets for the period.












ExxonMobil


   Income Statement  

Unlike the balance sheet, the income statement covers a range of time, which is a year for annual financial statements and a quarter for quarterly financial statements. The income statement provides an overview of revenues, expenses, net income, and earnings per share.


  Revenue  

Operating revenue is the revenue earned by selling a company's products or services. The operating revenue for an auto manufacturer would be realized through the production and sale of autos. Operating revenue is generated from the core business activities of a company.



Non-operating revenue is the income earned from non-core business activities. These revenues fall outside the primary function of the business. Some non-operating revenue examples include:



Interest earned on cash in the bankRental income from a propertyIncome from strategic partnerships like royalty payment receiptsIncome from an advertisement display located on the company's property



Other income is the revenue earned from other activities. Other income could include gains from the sale of long-term assets such as land, vehicles, or a subsidiary.


  Expenses  

Primary expenses are incurred during the process of earning revenue from the primary activity of the business. Expenses include the cost of goods sold (COGS), selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A), depreciation or amortization, and research and development (R&D).



Typical expenses include employee wages, sales commissions, and utilities such as electricity and transportation.



Expenses that are linked to secondary activities include interest paid on loans or debt. Losses from the sale of an asset are also recorded as expenses.



The main purpose of the income statement is to convey details of profitability and the financial results of business activities; however, it can be very effective in showing whether sales or revenue is increasing when compared over multiple periods.



Investors can also see how well a company's management is controlling expenses to determine whether a company's efforts in reducing the cost of sales might boost profits over time.


  Example of an Income Statement  

Below is a portion of ExxonMobil Corporation's income statement for fiscal year 2021, reported as of Dec. 31, 2021.



Total revenue was $276.7 billion.Total costs were $254.4 billion.Net income or profit was $23 billion.












ExxonMobil


   Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement (CFS) measures how well a company generates cash to pay its debt obligations, fund its operating expenses, and fund investments. The cash flow statement complements the balance sheet and income statement.



The CFS allows investors to understand how a company's operations are running, where its money is coming from, and how money is being spent. The CFS also provides insight as to whether a company is on a solid financial footing.



There is no formula, per se, for calculating a cash flow statement. Instead, it contains three sections that report cash flow for the various activities for which a company uses its cash. Those three components of the CFS are listed below.


  Operating Activities   

The operating activities on the CFS include any sources and uses of cash from running the business and selling its products or services. Cash from operations includes any changes made in cash accounts receivable, depreciation, inventory, and accounts payable. These transactions also include wages, income tax payments, interest payments, rent, and cash receipts from the sale of a product or service.


  Investing Activities  

Investing activities include any sources and uses of cash from a company's investments in the long-term future of the company. A purchase or sale of an asset, loans made to vendors or received from customers, or any payments related to a merger or acquisition is included in this category.



Also, purchases of fixed assets such as property, plant, and equipment (PPE) are included in this section. In short, changes in equipment, assets, or investments relate to cash from investing.


  Financing Activities  

Cash from financing activities includes the sources of cash from investors or banks, as well as the uses of cash paid to shareholders. Financing activities include debt issuance, equity issuance, stock repurchases, loans, dividends paid, and repayments of debt.



The cash flow statement reconciles the income statement with the balance sheet in three major business activities.


  Example of a Cash Flow Statement  

Below is a portion of ExxonMobil Corporation's cash flow statement for fiscal year 2021, reported as of Dec. 31, 2021. We can see the three areas of the cash flow statement and their results.



Operating activities generated a positive cash flow of $48 billion.Investing activities generated negative cash flow or cash outflows of -$10.2 billion for the period. Additions to property, plant, and equipment made up the majority of cash outflows, which means the company invested in new fixed assets.Financing activities generated negative cash flow or cash outflows of -$35.4 billion for the period. Reductions in short-term debt and dividends paid out made up the majority of the cash outflows.












ExxonMobil


   Statement of Changes in Shareholder Equity  

The statement of changes in equity tracks total equity over time. This information ties back to a balance sheet for the same period; the ending balance on the change of equity statement is equal to the total equity reported on the balance sheet.



The formula for changes to shareholder equity will vary from company to company; in general, there are a couple of components:



Beginning equity: this is the equity at the end of the last period that simply rolls to the start of the next period.
(+) Net income: this is the amount of income the company earned in a given period. The proceeds from operations are automatically recognized as equity in the company, and this income is rolled into retained earnings at year-end.
(-) Dividends: this is the amount of money that is paid out to shareholders from profits. Instead of keeping all of a company's profits, the company may choose to give some profits away to investors.
(+/-) Other comprehensive income: this is the period-over-period change in other comprehensive income. Depending on transactions, this figure may be an addition or subtraction from equity.



In ExxonMobil's statement of changes in equity, the company also records activity for acquisitions, dispositions, amortization of stock-based awards, and other financial activity. This information is useful to analyze to determine how much money is being retained by the company for future growth as opposed to being distributed externally.















Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, ExxonMobil (2021).


   Statement of Comprehensive Income  

An often less utilized financial statement, a statement of comprehensive income summarizes standard net income while also incorporating changes in other comprehensive income (OCI). Other comprehensive income includes all unrealized gains and losses that are not reported on the income statement. This financial statement shows a company's total change in income, even gains and losses that have yet to be recorded in accordance to accounting rules.



Examples of transactions that are reported on the statement of comprehensive income include:



Net income (from the statement of income).Unrealized gains or losses from debt securitiesUnrealized gains or losses from derivative instrumentsUnrealized translation adjustments due to foreign currencyUnrealized gains or losses from retirement programs



In the example below, ExxonMobil has over $2 billion of net unrecognized income. Instead of reporting just $23.5 billion of net income, ExxonMobil reports nearly $26 billion of total income when considering other comprehensive income.















Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Exxon Mobil 2021.


   Nonprofit Financial Statements  

Nonprofit organizations record financial transactions across a similar set of financial statements. However, due to the differences between a for-profit entity and a purely philanthropic entity, there are differences in the financial statements used. The standard set of financial statements used for a nonprofit entity includes:



Statement of Financial Position: this is the equivalent of a for-profit entity's balance sheet. The largest difference is nonprofit entities do not have equity positions; any residual balances after all assets have been liquidated and liabilities have been satisfied are called "net assets"Statement of Activities: this is the equivalent of a for-profit entity's statement of income. This report tracks the changes in operation over time including the reporting of donations, grants, event revenue, and expenses to make everything happen.Statement of Functional Expenses: this is specific to non-profit entities. The statement of functional expenses reports expenses by entity function (often broken into administrative, program, or fundraising expenses). This information is distributed to the public to explain what proportion of company-wide expenses are related directly to the mission.Statement of Cash Flow: this is the equivalent of a for-profit entity's statement of cash flow. Though the accounts listed may vary due to the different nature of a nonprofit organization, the statement is still divided into operating, investing, and financing activities.






The purpose of an external auditor is to assess whether an entity's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with prevailing accounting rules and whether there are any material misstatements impacting the validity of results.


   Limitations of Financial Statements  

Although financial statements provide a wealth of information on a company, they do have limitations. The statements are open to interpretation, and as a result, investors often draw vastly different conclusions about a company's financial performance.



For example, some investors might want stock repurchases while other investors might prefer to see that money invested in long-term assets. A company's debt level might be fine for one investor while another might have concerns about the level of debt for the company.



When analyzing financial statements, it's important to compare multiple periods to determine if there are any trends as well as compare the company's results to its peers in the same industry.



Last, financial statements are only as reliable as the information being fed into the reports. Too often, it's been documented that fraudulent financial activity or poor control oversight have led to misstated financial statements intended to mislead users. Even when analyzing audited financial statements, there is a level of trust that users must place in the validity of the report and the figures being shown.




What Are the Main Types of Financial Statements?
The three main types of financial statements are the balance sheet, the income statement, and the cash flow statement. These three statements together show the assets and liabilities of a business, its revenues and costs, as well as its cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities.




What Are the Main Items Shown in Financial Statements?
Depending on the corporation, the line items in a financial statement will differ; however, the most common line items are revenues, costs of goods sold, taxes, cash, marketable securities, inventory, short-term debt, long-term debt, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and cash flows from investing, operating, and financing activities.




What Are the Benefits of Financial Statements?
Financial statements show how a business operates. It provides insight into how much and how a business generates revenues, what the cost of doing business is, how efficiently it manages its cash, and what its assets and liabilities are. Financial statements provide all the detail on how well or poorly a company manages itself.




How Do You Read Financial Statements?
Financial statements are read in several different ways. First, financial statements can be compared to prior periods to better understand changes over time. For example, comparative income statements report what a company's income was last year and what a company's income is this year. Noting the year-over-year change informs users of the financial statements of a company's health.Financial statements are also read by comparing the results to competitors or other industry participants. By comparing financial statements to other companies, analysts can get a better sense of which companies are performing the best and which are lagging behind the rest of the industry.




What Is GAAP?
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) are the set of rules by which United States companies must prepare their financial statements. It is the guidelines that explain how to record transactions, when to recognize revenue, and when expenses must be recognized. International companies may use a similar but different set of rules called International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).


   The Bottom Line  

Financial statements are the ticket to the external evaluation of a company's financial performance. The balance sheet reports a company's financial health through its liquidity and solvency, while the income statement reports a company's profitability. A statement of cash flow ties these two together by tracking sources and uses of cash. Together, financial statements communicate how a company is doing over time and against its competitors.
What Is Financial Structure?  

Financial structure refers to the mix of debt and equity that a company uses to finance its operations. This composition directly affects the risk and value of the associated business. The financial managers of the business have the responsibility of deciding the best mixture of debt and equity for optimizing the financial structure.



In general, the financial structure of a company can also be referred to as the capital structure. In some cases, evaluating the financial structure may also include the decision between managing a private or public business and the capital opportunities that come with each.


   Understanding Financial Structure  

Companies have several choices when it comes to setting up the business structure of their business. Companies can be either private or public. In each case, the framework for managing the capital structure is primarily the same but the financing options differ greatly.






Overall, the financial structure of a business is centered around debt and equity.



Debt capital is received from credit investors and paid back over time with some form of interest. Equity capital is raised from shareholders giving them ownership in the business for their investment and a return on their equity that can come in the form of market value gains or distributions. Each business has a different mix of debt and equity depending on its needs, expenses, and investor demand.


   Private versus Public  

Private and public companies have the same framework for developing their structure but several differences that distinguish the two. Both types of companies can issue equity. Private equity is created and offered using the same concepts as public equity but private equity is only available to select investors rather than the public market on a stock exchange. As such the equity fundraising process is much different than a formal initial public offering (IPO). Private companies can also go through multiple rounds of equity financing over time which affects their market valuation. Companies that mature and choose to issue shares in the public market do so through the support of an investment bank that helps them to pre-market the offering and value the initial shares. All shareholders are converted to public shareholders after an IPO and the market capitalization of the company is then valued based on shares outstanding times market price.



Debt capital follows similar processes in the credit market with private debt primarily only offered to select investors. In general, public companies are more closely followed by rating agencies with public ratings helping to classify debt investments for investors and the market at large. The debt obligations of a company take priority over equity for both private and public companies. Even though this helps debt to come with lower risks, private market companies can still usually expect to pay higher levels of interest because their businesses and cash flows are less established which increases risk.


   Debt versus Equity  

In building the financial structure of a company, financial managers can choose between either debt or equity. Investor demand for both classes of capital can heavily influence a company’s financial structure. Ultimately, financial management seeks to finance the company at the lowest rate possible, reducing its capital obligations and allowing for greater capital investment in the business.



Overall, financial managers consider and evaluate the capital structure by seeking to optimize the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). WACC is a calculation that derives the average percentage of payout required by the company to its investors for all of its capital. A simplified determination of WACC is calculated by using a weighted average methodology that combines the payout rates of all of the company’s debt and equity capital.


   Metrics for Analyzing Financial Structure  

The key metrics for analyzing the financial structure are primarily the same for both private and public companies. Public companies are required to file public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which provides transparency for investors in analyzing financial structure. Private companies typically only provide financial statement reporting to their investors which makes their financial reporting more difficult to analyze.



Data for calculating capital structure metrics usually come from the balance sheet. A primary metric used in evaluating financial structure is a debt to total capital. This provides quick insight on how much of the company’s capital is debt and how much is equity. Debt may include all of the liabilities on a company’s balance sheet or just long-term debt. Equity is found in the shareholders’ equity portion of the balance sheet. Overall, the higher the debt to capital ratio the more a company is relying on debt.



Debt to equity is also used to identify capital structuring. The more debt a company has the higher this ratio will be and vice versa.





Key Takeaways

Financial structure refers to the mix of debt and equity that a company uses to finance its operations. It can also be known as capital structure.Private and public companies use the same framework for developing their financial structure but there are several differences between the two.Financial managers use the weighted average cost of capital as the basis for managing the mix of debt and equity.Debt to capital and debt to equity are two key ratios that are used to gain insight into a company’s capital structure.
What Is a Financial System?  

A financial system is a set of institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, and stock exchanges, that permit the exchange of funds. Financial systems exist on firm, regional, and global levels. Borrowers, lenders, and investors exchange current funds to finance projects, either for consumption or productive investments, and to pursue a return on their financial assets. The financial system also includes sets of rules and practices that borrowers and lenders use to decide which projects get financed, who finances projects, and terms of financial deals.





Key Takeaways

A financial system is the set of global, regional, or firm-specific institutions and practices used to facilitate the exchange of funds.Financial systems can be organized using market principles, central planning, or a hybrid of both.Institutions within a financial system include everything from banks to stock exchanges and government treasuries.


   Understanding the Financial System  

Like any other industry, the financial system can be organized using markets, central planning, or some mix of both.



Financial markets involve borrowers, lenders, and investors negotiating loans and other transactions. In these markets, the economic good traded on both sides is usually some form of money: current money (cash), claims on future money (credit), or claims on the future income potential or value of real assets (equity). These also include derivative instruments. Derivative instruments, such as commodity futures or stock options, are financial instruments that are dependent on an underlying real or financial asset's performance. In financial markets, these are all traded among borrowers, lenders, and investors according to the normal laws of supply and demand.



In a centrally planned financial system (e.g., a single firm or a command economy), the financing of consumption and investment plans is not decided by counterparties in a transaction but directly by a manager or central planner. Which projects receive funds, whose projects receive funds, and who funds them is determined by the planner, whether that means a business manager or a party boss.



Most financial systems contain elements of both give-and-take markets and top-down central planning. For example, a business firm is a centrally planned financial system with respect to its internal financial decisions; however, it typically operates within a broader market interacting with external lenders and investors to carry out its long term plans.



At the same time, all modern financial markets operate within some kind of government regulatory framework that sets limits on what types of transactions are allowed. Financial systems are often strictly regulated because they directly influence decisions over real assets, economic performance, and consumer protection.


   Financial Market Components  

Multiple components make up the financial system at different levels. The firm's financial system is the set of implemented procedures that track the financial activities of the company. Within a firm, the financial system encompasses all aspects of finances, including accounting measures, revenue and expense schedules, wages, and balance sheet verification.



On a regional scale, the financial system is the system that enables lenders and borrowers to exchange funds. Regional financial systems include banks and other institutions, such as securities exchanges and financial clearinghouses.



The global financial system is basically a broader regional system that encompasses all financial institutions, borrowers, and lenders within the global economy. In a global view, financial systems include the International Monetary Fund, central banks, government treasuries and monetary authorities, the World Bank, and major private international banks.
What Is Financial Technology (Fintech)?  

Financial technology (better known as fintech) is used to describe new technology that seeks to improve and automate the delivery and use of financial services. ​​​At its core, fintech is utilized to help companies, business owners, and consumers better manage their financial operations, processes, and lives. It is composed of specialized software and algorithms that are used on computers and smartphones. Fintech, the word, is a shortened combination of “financial technology.”



When fintech emerged in the 21st century, the term was initially applied to the technology employed at the backend systems of established financial institutions, such as banks. From 2018 or so to 2022, there was a shift to consumer-oriented services. Fintech now includes different sectors and industries such as education, retail banking, fundraising and nonprofit, and investment management, to name a few.



Fintech also includes the development and use of cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin. While that segment of fintech may see the most headlines, the big money still lies in the traditional global banking industry and its multitrillion-dollar market capitalization.





Key Takeaways

Fintech refers to the integration of technology into offerings by financial services companies to improve their use and delivery to consumers.It primarily works by unbundling offerings by such firms and creating new markets for them.Companies in the finance industry that use fintech have expanded financial inclusion and use technology to cut down on operational costs.Fintech funding is on the rise, but regulatory problems exist.Examples of fintech applications include robo-advisors, payment apps, peer-to-peer (P2P) lending apps, investment apps, and crypto apps, among others.












Paige McLaughlin / Investopedia


   Understanding Fintech  

Broadly, the term “financial technology” can apply to any innovation in how people transact business, from the invention of digital money to double-entry bookkeeping. Since the internet revolution, financial technology has grown explosively.



You likely use some element of fintech on a daily basis. Some examples include transferring money from your debit account to your checking account via your iPhone, sending money to a friend through Venmo, or managing investments through an online broker. According to EY’s 2019 Global FinTech Adoption Index, two-thirds of consumers utilize at least two or more fintech services, and those consumers are increasingly aware of fintech as a part of their daily lives.


   Fintech in Practice  

The most talked-about (and most funded) fintech startups share the same characteristic: They are designed to challenge, and eventually take over, traditional financial services providers by being more nimble, serving an underserved segment of the population, or providing faster or better service.



For example, financial company Affirm seeks to cut credit card companies out of the online shopping process by offering a way for consumers to secure immediate, short-term loans for purchases. While rates can be high, Affirm claims to offer a way for consumers with poor or no credit a way to secure credit and build their credit history.



Similarly, Better Mortgage seeks to streamline the home mortgage process with a digital-only offering that can reward users with a verified pre-approval letter within 24 hours of applying. GreenSky seeks to link home improvement borrowers with banks by helping consumers avoid lenders and save on interest by offering zero-interest promotional periods.



For consumers with poor or no credit, Tala offers consumers in the developing world microloans by doing a deep data dig on their smartphones for their transaction history and seemingly unrelated things, such as what mobile games they play. Tala seeks to give such consumers better options than local banks, unregulated lenders, and other microfinance institutions.



In short, if you have ever wondered why some aspect of your financial life was so unpleasant (such as applying for a mortgage with a traditional lender) or felt like it wasn’t quite the right fit, fintech probably has (or seeks to have) a solution for you.  


   Fintech’s Expanding Horizons  

In its most basic form, fintech unbundles financial services into individual offerings that are often easier to use. The combination of streamlined offerings with technology allows fintech companies to be more efficient and cut down on costs associated with each transaction.



If one word can describe how many fintech innovations have affected traditional trading, banking, financial advice, and products, it’s “disruption”—a word you have likely heard in commonplace conversations or the media. Financial products and services that were once the realm of branches, salespeople, and desktops are now more commonly found on mobile devices.



For example, the mobile-only stock trading app Robinhood charges no fees for trades, and peer-to-peer (P2P) lending sites like Prosper Marketplace, LendingClub, and OnDeck promise to reduce rates by opening up competition for loans to broad market forces. Business loan providers such as Kabbage, Lendio, Accion, and Funding Circle (among others) offer startup and established businesses easy, fast platforms to secure working capital. Oscar, an online insurance startup, received $165 million in funding in March 2018. Such significant funding rounds are not unusual and occur globally for fintech startups.



This shift to a digital-first mindset has pushed several traditional institutions to invest heavily in similar products. For example, investment bank Goldman Sachs launched consumer lending platform Marcus in 2016 in an effort to enter the fintech space.



That said, many tech-savvy industry watchers warn that keeping apace of fintech-inspired innovations requires more than just ramped-up tech spending. Rather, competing with lighter-on-their-feet startups requires a significant change in thinking, processes, decision making, and even overall corporate structure.


   Fintech and New Technologies  

New technologies, such as machine learning/artificial intelligence (AI), predictive behavioral analytics, and data-driven marketing, will take the guesswork and habit out of financial decisions. “Learning” apps will not only learn the habits of users but also engage users in learning games to make their automatic, unconscious spending and saving decisions better.



Fintech is also a keen adapter of automated customer service technology, utilizing chatbots and AI interfaces to assist customers with basic tasks and keep down staffing costs. Fintech is also being leveraged to fight fraud by leveraging information about payment history to flag transactions that are outside the norm.


   Fintech Landscape  

Since the mid-2010s, fintech has exploded, with startups receiving billions in venture funding (some of which have become unicorns) and incumbent financial firms either snatching up new ventures or building out their own fintech offerings.



North America still produces most of the fintech startups, with Asia a relatively close second, followed by Europe. Some of the most active areas of fintech innovation include or revolve around the following areas (among others):



Cryptocurrency (Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.), digital tokens (e.g., non-fungible tokens, or NFTs), and digital cash. These often rely on blockchain technology, which is a distributed ledger technology (DLT) that maintains records on a network of computers but has no central ledger. Blockchain also allows for so-called smart contracts, which utilize code to automatically execute contracts between parties such as buyers and sellers.
Open banking, which is a concept that proposes that all people should have access to bank data to build applications that create a connected network of financial institutions and third-party providers. An example is the all-in-one money management tool Mint.
Insurtech, which seeks to use technology to simplify and streamline the insurance industry.
Regtech, which seeks to help financial service firms meet industry compliance rules, especially those covering Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer protocols that fight fraud.
Robo-advisors, such as Betterment, utilize algorithms to automate investment advice to lower its cost and increase accessibility. This is one of the most common areas where fintech is known and used.
Unbanked/underbanked services that seek to serve disadvantaged or low-income individuals who are ignored or underserved by traditional banks or mainstream financial services companies. These applications promote financial inclusion.
Cybersecurity. Given the proliferation of cybercrime and the decentralized storage of data, cybersecurity and fintech are intertwined.
AI chatbots, which rose to popularity in 2022, are another example of fintech’s rising presence in day-to-day usage.


   Fintech Users  

There are four broad categories of users for fintech:



Business-to-business (B2B) for banks
Clients of B2B banks
Business-to-consumer (B2C) for small businesses
Consumers



Trends toward mobile banking, increased information, data, more accurate analytics, and decentralization of access will create opportunities for all four groups to interact in unprecedented ways.



As for consumers, the younger you are, the more likely it will be that you are aware of and can accurately describe what fintech is. Consumer-oriented fintech is mostly targeted toward Gen Z and millennials, given the huge size and rising earning potential of these generations.



When it comes to businesses, before the adoption of fintech, a business owner or startup would have gone to a bank to secure financing or startup capital. If they intended to accept credit card payments, they would have to establish a relationship with a credit provider and even install infrastructure, such as a landline-connected card reader. Now, with mobile technology, those hurdles are a thing of the past.


   Regulation and Fintech  

Financial services are among the most heavily regulated sectors in the world. As such, regulation has emerged as the number one concern among governments as fintech companies take off.



According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, while fintech firms create new opportunities and capabilities for companies and consumers, they are also creating new risks to be aware of. “Data privacy and regulatory arbitrage” are the main concerns noted by the Treasury. In its most recent report in November 2022, the Treasury called for enhanced oversight of consumer financial activities, specifically when it comes to nonbank firms.



Regulation is also a problem in the emerging world of cryptocurrencies. Initial coin offerings (ICOs) are a form of fundraising that allows startups to raise capital directly from lay investors. In most countries, they are unregulated and have become fertile ground for scams and frauds. Regulatory uncertainty for ICOs has also allowed entrepreneurs to slip security tokens disguised as utility tokens past the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to avoid fees and compliance costs.



Because of the diversity of offerings in fintech and the disparate industries it touches, it is difficult to formulate a single and comprehensive approach to these problems. For the most part, governments have used existing regulations and, in some cases, customized them to regulate fintech.




What are examples of fintech?
Fintech has been applied to many areas of finance. Here are just a few examples.Robo-advisors are apps or online platforms that optimally invest your money automatically, often for little cost, and are accessible to ordinary individuals.Investment apps like Robinhood make it easy to buy and sell stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and cryptocurrency from your mobile device, often with little or no commission.Payment apps like PayPal, Venmo, Block (Square), Zelle, and Cash App make it easy to pay individuals or businesses online and in an instant.Personal finance apps such as Mint, YNAB, and Quicken Simplifi let you see all of your finances in one place, set budgets, pay bills, and so on.Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending platforms like Prosper Marketplace, LendingClub, and Upstart allow individuals and small business owners to receive loans from an array of individuals who contribute microloans directly to them.Crypto apps, including wallets, exchanges, and payment applications, allow you to hold and transact in cryptocurrencies and digital tokens like Bitcoin and non-fungible tokens (NFTs).Insurtech is the application of technology specifically to the insurance space. One example would be the use of devices that monitor your driving in order to adjust auto insurance rates.




Does fintech apply only to banking?
No. While banks and startups have created useful fintech applications around basic banking (e.g., checking and savings accounts, bank transfers, credit/debit cards, and loans), many other fintech areas that have more to do with personal finance, investing, or payments (among others) have grown in popularity.




How do fintech companies make money?
Fintechs make money in different ways depending on their specialty. Banking fintechs, for example, may generate revenue from fees, loan interest, and selling financial products. Investment apps may charge brokerage fees, utilize payment for order flow (PFOF), or collect a percentage of assets under management (AUM). Payment apps may earn interest on cash amounts and charge for features like earlier withdrawals or credit card use.
What Is the Financial Times Stock Exchange Group (FTSE)?  

The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE), now known as FTSE Russell Group, is a British financial organization that specializes in providing index offerings for the global financial markets. The London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) owns the FTSE Russell Group. In addition to the FTSE Russell Group, the LSEG also owns Borsa Italiana, Millennium IT, and other financial brands.



The indexing division of the FTSE is similar to that of Standard & Poor’s; it specializes in creating index offerings that the global financial markets can use as benchmarks. An index is comprised of a hypothetical portfolio of stock holdings, so it can act as a representation of the performance of a particular market segment—also called a benchmark.



Although the FTSE offers many indexes, its two most well-known indexes are the FTSE 100, which is comprised of the most highly capitalized blue-chip stocks listed on the London Stock Exchange, and the Russell 2000 Index, a small-cap stock market index of the smallest 2,000 stocks in the Russell 3000 Index.





Key Takeaways

The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) Group is a financial organization that specializes in the management of asset exchanges and creating index offerings for the global financial markets.The London Stock Exchange (LSE) Group currently owns FTSE.In May 2015, FTSE Group combined with Russell to form the brand name, FTSE Russell.The FTSE 100 is generally the most well-known FTSE index, but the FTSE Group manages many indexes.


   Understanding the Financial Times Stock Exchange Group (FTSE)  

The FTSE Russell Group, established in 2015 after the merger of FTSE and Russell Investments, is a U.K.-based global provider of benchmark financial indexes, market data, and analytics.



The FTSE's indexes are available across asset classes, styles, and strategies and are designed to meet the needs of a wide variety of clients, including buy-side, sell-side, custodians, asset owners, exchanges, investment consultants, and exchange-traded fund (ETF) providers.


   The FTSE 100 Index  

The FTSE 100 is very widely used in Europe. At its creation, in Jan. 1984, the index had a base level of 1,000. It has since reached highs of over 7,000. Many market analysts, traders, and investors look to the FTSE 100 as a proxy for the performance of the wider U.K. stock market, similar to the way that many U.S. investors look to the Dow Jones or the S&P 500 indexes.



The level of the FTSE 100 is calculated using the total market capitalization of the constituent companies and the index value. Total market capitalization changes alongside individual share prices of the indexed companies throughout the trading day, so the index value also changes. When the FTSE 100 is quoted up or down, it is measured against the previous day’s market close.



It is calculated continuously on every trading day—from 8:00 a.m. at the market opening until the 4:30 p.m. LSE close. A FTSE 100 decline means the value of the largest U.K.-listed companies has decreased. When the FTSE hits a new high, it means the total worth of all the indexed companies has increased.



Readjustment of the index constituents (the companies that make up the FTSE 100) happens every quarter, usually, the Wednesday following the first Friday in March, June, September, and December. Any changes to the underlying index constituents and their weighting come from the values of the companies taken at the close of business the night before the review.



As of June 26, 2023, the top five FTSE 100 holdings by market cap were:



AstraZeneca         Shell   HSBCUnilever       BP  



The FTSE 100 is often considered a leading indicator of prosperity for companies in the U.K. and the U.K. economy in general. As such, it typically draws investors looking for exposure to big U.K. companies. While several of its listings do include companies with homes outside of the U.K., it is most significantly made up of U.K. companies and impacted by U.K. daily developments.


   Other FTSE Group Indices  

As mentioned, there are a prolific number of indexes attached to the FTSE Group and the FTSE Russell brand. The FTSE Group's most popular indexes—in addition to the FTSE 100—are the FTSE 250, the FTSE 350, and the FTSE All-Share.



Some of the other popular FTSE Russell indices include:



FTSE Nasdaq 500
FTSE AIM 100
FTSE RAFI US 1000
FTSE4Good Indices
FTSE Dividend Growth
Russell Top 200
Russell 3000
Russell 2000
Russell 1000
Russell Equal Weight Indices
Russell Geographic Exposure Indices


   Investing in the FTSE  

Though you cannot directly invest in an index, you can invest in funds that track the indices. Many of these are exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that allow for easy access to the indices. Examples of funds that track these indices that you can invest in are the Vanguard FTSE 100, the Vanguard FTSE 250, the iShares 350 U.K. Equity Index Fund, the iShares Core FTSE 100, and the Vanguard FTSE U.K. All Share Index Unit Trust.




What Is the U.S. Version of the FTSE?
The "FTSE" is the Financial Times Stock Exchange in the U.K. that is a provider of different indices, its most popular being the FTSE 100, which tracks the top 100 companies by market cap in the U.K. The U.S. version of this would be the S&P 500, which tracks the top 500 U.S. companies by market cap, or the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which tracks 30 prominent U.S. companies.




Can Americans Invest in the FTSE?
Yes, Americans can invest in the FTSE. The easiest way to do this is by investing in exchange-traded funds that track these indices, such as the Vanguard FTSE 100, the Vanguard FTSE 250, the iShares 350 U.K. Equity Index Fund, and the iShares Core FTSE 100.




What Is the Difference Between a Stock Market and a Stock Exchange?
A stock exchange is a specific organization/marketplace that facilitates equity trading. For example, the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. A stock market is used as an umbrella term to refer to all of the stocks that trade in a particular country or region. Such as all of the companies that trade on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq.


   The Bottom Line  

The Financial Times Stock Exchange, now known as the FTSE Russell Group, provides a variety of indices that track different segments of the U.K. financial markets. Its most popular index, the FTSE 100, tracks the top 100 companies by market cap in the United Kingdom, similarly to how the S&P 500 works in the U.S. Investors looking to gain exposure to these indices can invest in funds that track the indices, such as the iShares Core FTSE 100.
What Is Financing?  

Financing is the process of providing funds for business activities, making purchases, or investing. Financial institutions, such as banks, are in the business of providing capital to businesses, consumers, and investors to help them achieve their goals. The use of financing is vital in any economic system, as it allows companies to purchase products out of their immediate reach.



Put differently, financing is a way to leverage the time value of money (TVM) to put future expected money flows to use for projects started today. Financing also takes advantage of the fact that some individuals in an economy will have a surplus of money that they wish to put to work to generate returns, while others demand money to undertake investment (also with the hope of generating returns), creating a market for money.





Key Takeaways

Financing is the process of funding business activities, making purchases, or investments.There are two types of financing: equity financing and debt financing.The main advantage of equity financing is that there is no obligation to repay the money acquired through it. Equity financing places no additional financial burden on the company, though the downside is quite large.Debt financing tends to be cheaper and comes with tax breaks. However, large debt burdens can lead to default and credit risk.The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) gives a clear picture of a firm's total cost of financing.


   Understanding Financing  

There are two main types of financing available for companies: debt financing and equity financing. Debt is a loan that must be paid back often with interest, but it is typically cheaper than raising capital because of tax deduction considerations. Equity does not need to be paid back, but it relinquishes ownership stakes to the shareholder. Both debt and equity have their advantages and disadvantages.






Most companies use a combination of both debt and equity to finance operations.


   Types of Financing  
  Equity Financing  

"Equity" is another word for ownership in a company. For example, the owner of a grocery store chain needs to grow operations. Instead of debt, the owner would like to sell a 10% stake in the company for $100,000, valuing the firm at $1 million. Companies like to sell equity because the investor bears all the risk; if the business fails, the investor gets nothing.



At the same time, giving up equity is giving up some control. Equity investors want to have a say in how the company is operated, especially in difficult times, and are often entitled to votes based on the number of shares held. So, in exchange for ownership, an investor gives their money to a company and receives some claim on future earnings.



Some investors are happy with growth in the form of share price appreciation; they want the share price to go up. Other investors are looking for principal protection and income in the form of regular dividends.


  Advantages of Equity Financing  

Funding your business through investors has several advantages, including the following:



The biggest advantage is that you do not have to pay back the money. If your business enters bankruptcy, your investor or investors are not creditors. They are part-owners in your company, and because of that, their money is lost along with your company.
You do not have to make monthly payments, so there is often more cash on hand for operating expenses.
Investors understand that it takes time to build a business. You will get the money you need without the pressure of having to see your product or business thriving within a short amount of time.


  Disadvantages of Equity Financing  

Similarly, there are a number of disadvantages that come with equity financing, including the following:



How do you feel about having a new partner? When you raise equity financing, it involves giving up ownership of a portion of your company. The riskier the investment, the more of a stake the investor will want. You might have to give up 50% or more of your company, and unless you later construct a deal to buy the investor's stake, that partner will take 50% of your profits indefinitely.You will also have to consult with your investors before making decisions. Your company is no longer solely yours, and if the investor has more than 50% of your company, you have a boss to whom you have to answer.


  Debt Financing  

Most people are familiar with debt as a form of financing because they have car loans or mortgages. Debt is also a common form of financing for new businesses. Debt financing must be repaid, and lenders want to be paid a rate of interest in exchange for the use of their money.



Some lenders require collateral. For example, assume the owner of the grocery store also decides that they need a new truck and must take out a loan for $40,000. The truck can serve as collateral against the loan, and the grocery store owner agrees to pay 8% interest to the lender until the loan is paid off in five years.



Debt is easier to obtain for small amounts of cash needed for specific assets, especially if the asset can be used as collateral. While debt must be paid back even in difficult times, the company retains ownership and control over business operations.


  Advantages of Debt Financing  

There are several advantages to financing your business through debt:



The lending institution has no control over how you run your company, and it has no ownership.
Once you pay back the loan, your relationship with the lender ends. That is especially important as your business becomes more valuable.
The interest you pay on debt financing is tax deductible as a business expense.
The monthly payment, as well as the breakdown of the payments, is a known expense that can be accurately included in your forecasting models.


  Disadvantages of Debt Financing  

Debt financing for your business does come with some downsides:



Adding a debt payment to your monthly expenses assumes that you will always have the capital inflow to meet all business expenses, including the debt payment. For small or early-stage companies, that is often far from certain.Small business lending can be slowed substantially during recessions. In tougher times for the economy, it's more difficult to receive debt financing unless you are overwhelmingly qualified.


   Special Considerations  

The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is the average of the costs of all types of financing, each of which is weighted by its proportionate use in a given situation. By taking a weighted average in this way, one can determine how much interest a company owes for each dollar it finances. Firms will decide the appropriate mix of debt and equity financing by optimizing the WACC of each type of capital while taking into account the risk of default or bankruptcy on one side and the amount of ownership owners are willing to give up on the other.
Because interest on the debt is typically tax deductible, and because the interest rates associated with debt is typically cheaper than the rate of return expected for equity, debt is usually preferred. However, as more debt is accumulated, the credit risk associated with that debt also increases and so equity must be added to the mix. Investors also often demand equity stakes in order to capture future profitability and growth that debt instruments do not provide.
WACC is computed by the formula:















WACC


=



(



E


V



×


R


e


)



+



(



D


V



×


R


d


×


(


1


−


T


c


)


)

















where:
















E


=


Market value of the firm’s equity
















D


=


Market value of the firm’s debt
















V


=


E


+


D
















R


e


=


Cost of equity
















R


d


=


Cost of debt
















T


c


=


Corporate tax rate







\begin{aligned}&\text{WACC} = \left ( \frac{ E }{ V} \times Re \right ) + \left ( \frac{ D }{ V} \times Rd \times ( 1 - Tc ) \right ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&E = \text{Market value of the firm's equity} \\&D = \text{Market value of the firm's debt} \\&V = E + D \\&Re = \text{Cost of equity} \\&Rd = \text{Cost of debt} \\&Tc = \text{Corporate tax rate} \\\end{aligned}


​WACC=(VE​×Re)+(VD​×Rd×(1−Tc))where:E=Market value of the firm’s equityD=Market value of the firm’s debtV=E+DRe=Cost of equityRd=Cost of debtTc=Corporate tax rate​


   Example of Financing  

Provided a company is expected to perform well, you can usually obtain debt financing at a lower effective cost. For example, if you run a small business and need $40,000 of financing, you can either take out a $40,000 bank loan at a 10% interest rate, or you can sell a 25% stake in your business to your neighbor for $40,000.



Suppose your business earns a $20,000 profit during the next year. If you took the bank loan, your interest expense (cost of debt financing) would be $4,000, leaving you with $16,000 in profit.



Conversely, had you used equity financing, you would have zero debt (and as a result, no interest expense), but would keep only 75% of your profit (the other 25% being owned by your neighbor). Therefore, your personal profit would only be $15,000, or (75% x $20,000).




Is Equity Financing Riskier Than Debt Financing?
Equity financing comes with a risk premium because if a company goes bankrupt, creditors are repaid in full before equity shareholders receive anything.




Why Would a Company Want Equity Financing?
Raising capital through selling equity shares means that the company hands over some of its ownership to those investors. Equity financing is also typically more expensive than debt. However, with equity there is no debt that needs to be repaid and the firm does not need to allocate cash to making regular interest payments. This can give new companies extra freedom to operate and expand.




Why Would a Company Want Debt Financing?
With debt, either via loan or a bond, the company has to make interest payments to creditors and ultimately return the balance of the loan. However, the company does not give up any ownership control to those lenders. Moreover, debt financing is often cheaper (due to a lower interest rate) since the creditors can claim the firm's assets if it defaults. Interest payments of debts are also often tax-deductible for the company.


   The Bottom Line  

Many businesses eventually need greater spending power in order to grow, and financing is the most common method of attaining it. There are pros and cons to both debt and equity financing, and each company should carefully weigh the costs of each before making a decision.
What Is a Finder's Fee?  

A finder's fee (also known as "referral income" or "referral fee") is a commission paid to an intermediary or the facilitator of a transaction. The finder's fee is rewarded because the intermediary discovered the deal and brought it to the attention of interested parties. The presumption is that without the intermediary, the parties never would have found the deal, and the facilitator thus warrants compensation.



Depending on the circumstance in which the deal is established or completed, the finder's fee can be paid by either the transaction's buyer or seller.





Key Takeaways

A finder's fee or referral fee is a commission paid to the person or entity that facilitated a deal by linking up a potential customer with an opportunity.A finder's fee is a reward and an incentive to motivate the facilitator of the transaction to keep providing referrals to the buyer or seller in the deal.The terms of a finder's fee can vary from deal to deal, with a payout usually representing a percentage of the completed sale; in some cases, the "fee" is just an informal gift.


   Understanding a Finder's Fee  

A finder's fee is a reward and thus a form of incentive to keep business contacts and resources communicating the needs of a company or organization to potential clientele or partners. While contracts are not required in such arrangements, structuring and agreeing to terms for finder’s fees can keep all parties in agreement on the scope of compensation that will be paid. This may be especially useful for contacts who repeatedly attract business to the company.



The terms of finder’s fees can vary greatly, with some citing 5% to 35% of the total value of the deal being used as a benchmark. It's a staple of Fundera's business model.



In many cases, the finder's fee may simply be a gift from one party to another, as no legal obligation to pay a commission exists. A finder's fee is thus different from a service charge, which is a mandatory fee paid to a person or business in exchange for completing a service.






A finder's fee is paid to an intermediary of a transaction, as an acknowledgment of the intermediary having sourced the deal and brought it to an interested party.


   Examples of Finder’s Fees  

Finder’s fees may be used to reward business contacts, who refer new clients or bring in new sales, to a company. For instance, if a contact arranges a meeting between the buyer and seller of a business, they might receive a finder’s fee for arranging the deal. This can also apply to businesses that seek and gain investors through referrals from others.



There can also be a finder's fee included in deals where a company buys select assets or materials from another company. For example, perhaps a rental car company needed more sedans to add to its fleet; a finder’s fee could be paid to the person who arranges the purchase of used sedans from a competitor or from a business that no longer needs those vehicles.



As another example, if a movie production company was in the market to acquire more cameras, lights, and other equipment, there might be a finder’s fee for the person or company that connected the company with a seller. Finder’s fees could also be offered for securing freelance professionals or contractors to complete a project.



Or consider the types of transactions that can occur with real estate. One individual could be looking to sell a property, but not have any buyers in mind until a friend discovers a potential buyer. If the transaction goes through, and the potential buyer ends up purchasing the property, the seller might give the friend a small percentage of the sale, as a reward for finding the purchaser. Similarly, real estate agents are allowed to give referral fees to other licensed professionals.
What Is FINRA BrokerCheck?  

FINRA BrokerCheck is a free, online tool that helps individuals research brokers, investment firms, and financial advisers. Investors can obtain a variety of information, including descriptions, services offered, credentials, sanctions, and registrations, that may be helpful in the selection and vetting of an individual financial advice provider or brokerage firm.



BrokerCheck is offered and administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA),  the largest non-governmental securities firm regulator in the United States. The data and information available in BrokerCheck come mainly from the Central Registration Depository (CRD), the securities industry online registration and licensing database, which provides broker and brokerage information, and the Securities and Exchange Commission's Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) database.





Key Takeaways

FINRA BrokerCheck is a free, online tool that helps individuals research brokers, investment firms, and financial advisers.The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the largest non-governmental securities firm regulator in the U.S.FINRA regulates all securities firms doing business in the United States and oversees approximately 3,500 brokerage firms, 160,000 branch offices, and 625,000 registered securities representatives.


   Understanding FINRA BrokerCheck  

FINRA BrokerCheck contains information on approximately 3,500 brokerage firms, 160,000 branch offices, and 625,000 registered securities representatives and is an explanatory tool that shows how to properly use and manage the information provided. With FINRA BrokerCheck, an investor can find a firm's history, learn of any indiscretions and locate and identify popular choices among investors.


   What Information Does FINRA BrokerCheck Provide?  

For brokers currently registered with FINRA or at some time within the last 10 years, FINRA BrokerCheck provides:



A report summary of a broker and their credentials.Broker qualifications, such as current registrations or licenses, including exams that they have passed.Registration and employment history including a list of securities firms with whom a broker is registered or was previously registered.Disclosures regarding criminal, regulatory, civil judicial, or customer complaint activity.



BrokerCheck provides information on investment firms including:



A report summary of a firm and its history.A firm profile detailing its leadership and ownership.A firm's history of acquisitions, mergers, or name changes.An operations section that includes the firm's licenses and registrations, what kind of business it engages in, and operational disclosures.A disclosures section that includes information on arbitration awards, disciplinary events, and financial matters.



BrokerCheck does not contain any information that has not been disclosed to the CRD system, personal or confidential information, or judgments or liens. For more, see the FINRA BrokerCheck informational page and FAQs.


   FINRA BrokerCheck Additional Resources  

In addition to BrokerCheck, individuals considering hiring a broker or investment adviser should search the resources of their state securities regulators, which also oversee and may require the registration of brokers or advisers. FINRA also provides two additional supplementary databases: FINRA Arbitration Awards Online and FINRA Disciplinary Actions Online.﻿




How Often Is BrokerCheck Updated?
Registered brokers and brokerage firms are required to update their professional and disciplinary information in the Central Registration Depository, CRD, within 30 days and information is available in BrokerCheck the next business day.




What If My Broker Has Complaints Listed on BrokerCheck?
Brokers are required to notify FINRA of customer complaints that allege misconduct related to the sale of financial products, even if the allegations are without merit. It is advisable to consider how many complaints the broker has received, over what period, and whether the claim alleges specific acts of misconduct by the broker, like unauthorized trading, or the unexpected failed investment product. A broker is allowed to provide comments and the investor should review those comments on the nature of the complaint. An investor can also ask the firm, broker, or the firm’s compliance department about the complaint.




How Can I Request a BrokerCheck Report?
FINRA BrokerCheck reports are free both online and by mail. FINRA will collect personal information only in those situations where a request is made that a BrokerCheck report is mailed.
What Is Fire Insurance?  

Fire insurance is a form of property insurance that covers damage and losses caused by fire. Most policies come with some form of fire protection, but homeowners may be able to purchase additional coverage in case their property is lost or damaged because of fire.



Purchasing additional fire coverage helps to cover the cost of replacement, repair, or reconstruction of property above the limit set by the property insurance policy. Fire insurance policies typically contain general exclusions such as war, nuclear risks, and similar perils. Damage caused by a fire set deliberately is also typically not covered.





Key Takeaways

Fire insurance is property insurance that covers losses or damage to a structure damaged or destroyed in a fire.Fire insurance in a standard homeowners policy may be capped at a rate that is less than the cost of the losses accrued.Fire insurance can pay the policyholder on either a replacement-cost basis or an actual cash value (ACV) basis for damages.Although many homeowners insurance policies include fire coverage, some homeowners may want more coverage.


   How Fire Insurance Works  

A standard homeowners insurance policy usually includes fire insurance. Homeowners insurance provides policyholders with coverage against loss and/or damage to their homes and possessions, also referred to as insured property. Insured property includes both the interior and exterior of the home as well as any assets that are kept on the property.



Policies may also cover injuries that someone sustains while on the property. If you have a mortgage, there’s a very good chance that your lender will require that you have homeowners insurance before you will be approved for a loan. Even if it isn’t a requirement, a homeowners insurance policy can offer beneficial protection.



You can also purchase fire insurance as a stand-alone policy. It covers a policyholder against fire loss or damage from a number of sources. This includes fires caused by electricity, such as faulty wiring and gas explosions, as well as those caused by lightning and natural disasters. A burst and overflowing water tank or pipes may also be covered by the policy.


   Example of Fire Insurance  

Most policies provide coverage regardless of whether the fire originates from inside or outside of the home. The limit of coverage depends on the cause of the fire. The policy reimburses the policyholder on either a replacement-cost basis or an actual cash value (ACV) basis for damages.



If the home is considered a total loss, the insurance company may reimburse the home’s current market value. The insurance typically provides a market value compensation for lost possessions, with the total payout capped based on the home’s overall value.



For example, if a policy insures a house for $350,000, the contents are usually covered for at least 50% to 70% of the policy value—or a range of $175,000 to $245,000. Many policies limit how much reimbursement covers luxury items such as paintings, jewelry, gold, and fur coats.


   Special Considerations  

A policyholder should check their home’s value each year to determine if they need to increase their coverage amount. Keep in mind that you cannot get insurance for more than a home’s actual value. Insurance companies may offer stand-alone policies for rare, expensive, and irreplaceable items that are otherwise not covered in standard fire insurance.



Many standard homeowners insurance policies include coverage for fire, including providing for costs related to repairing your home and even additional expenses such as for relocation.



In some cases, you may want more extensive coverage. If an insurance policy excludes coverage for fire damage, a homeowner may need to purchase separate fire insurance—especially if the property contains valuable items that cannot be covered with standard coverage. The insurance company’s liability is limited by the policy value and not by the extent of damage or loss sustained by the property owner.






Fire insurance can provide extra coverage to offset any additional costs to replace or repair property that surpasses the limit set by homeowners insurance.



Fire insurance policies provide payment for the loss of use of the property as a result of a fire. They also often provide additional living expenses if the fire caused uninhabitable conditions. Finally, they provide for damage to personal property and nearby structures. Homeowners should document the property and its contents to simplify the assessment of items damaged or lost in the event of a fire. 



A fire insurance policy includes additional coverage against smoke or water damage due to a fire and is usually effective for one year. Fire insurance policies on the verge of expiration are usually renewable by the homeowner under the same terms as the original policy.




Is fire insurance different from homeowners insurance?
Fire insurance provides coverage for costs related to a fire, whereas homeowners insurance protects against many other types of risks. A homeowners insurance policy typically includes coverage for damage caused by a fire, but a stand-alone fire insurance policy may provide more extensive coverage.




What is not covered in fire insurance?
A fire insurance policy will not cover losses related to fires set deliberately. Fire insurance also only covers losses related to a fire, so if your property suffers loss or damage from another cause, it would not be covered.




What type of property is covered by fire insurance?
Typically, any fire damage to your home or its contents will be covered by fire insurance. This includes property covered by candle fires, grease fires, electrical fires, and others.


   The Bottom Line  

For many homeowners, protection provided by a standard homeowners insurance policy will be enough to cover losses related to fires, including losses to the home structure or personal property. Consider consulting a financial advisor to see if a stand-alone fire insurance policy may be useful for your situation.
What Is a Firm?  

A firm is a for-profit business organization—such as a corporation, limited liability company (LLC), or partnership—that provides professional services. Most firms have just one location. However, a business firm consists of one or more physical establishments, in which all fall under the same ownership and use the same employer identification number (EIN).



When used in a title, "firm" is typically associated with businesses that provide professional law and accounting services, but the term may be used for a wide variety of businesses, including finance, consulting, marketing, and graphic design firms, among others.





Key Takeaways

A firm is a for-profit business, usually formed as a partnership that provides professional services, such as legal or accounting services.The theory of the firm posits that firms exist to maximize profits.Not to be confused with a firm, a company is a business that sells goods and/or services for profit and includes all business structures and trades.A business firm has one or more locations which all have the same ownership and report under the same EIN.A firm may use natural, capital, or people-related resources to generate operational success.


   Theory of the Firm  

In microeconomics, the theory of the firm attempts to explain why firms exist, why they operate and produce as they do, and how they are structured. The theory of the firm asserts that firms exist to maximize profits; however, this theory changes as the economic marketplace changes. More modern theories would distinguish between firms that work toward long-term sustainability and those that aim to produce high levels of profit in a short time.


   Firm vs. Company  

Although they appear synonymous and are often used interchangeably, there is a difference between a firm and a company. A company can be any trade or business in which goods or services are sold to produce income. Further, it encompasses all business structures, such as a sole proprietorship, partnership, and corporation. On the other hand, a firm typically excludes the sole proprietorship business; it generally refers to a for-profit business managed by two or more partners providing professional services, such as a law firm. In some cases, a firm can be a corporation.


   Types of Firms  

A firm's business activities are typically conducted under the firm's name, but the degree of legal protection—for employees or owners—depends on the type of ownership structure under which the firm was created. Some organization types, such as corporations, provide more legal protection than others. There exists the concept of the mature firm that has been firmly established. Firms can assume many different types based on their ownership structures:



A sole proprietorship or sole trader is owned by one person, who is liable for all costs and obligations, and owns all assets. Although not common under the firm umbrella, there exists some sole proprietorship businesses that operate as firms.A partnership is a business owned by two or more people; there is no limit to the number of partners that can have a stake in ownership. A partnership's owners each are liable for all business obligations, and together they own everything that belongs to the business.In a corporation, the businesses' financials are separate from the owners' financials. Owners of a corporation are not liable for any costs, lawsuits, or other obligations of the business. A corporation may be owned by individuals or by a government. Though business entities, corporations can function similarly to individuals. For example, they may take out loans, enter into contract agreements, and pay taxes. A firm that is owned by multiple people is often called a company.A financial cooperative is similar to a corporation in that its owners have limited liability, with the difference that its investors have a say in the company's operations.






Most firms will not operate as a sole proprietorship as this means the individual is personally liable for faults of the firm.


   Resources Used by Firms  

The objective of a firm to is convert inputs into outputs. For this reason, firms use a variety of resources to generate products, services, and offerings to clients. These resources may include but aren't limited to:



Natural Resources. If a firm sells products, they often utilize natural resources to build the goods and inventory to eventually convert to a finished product. These resources may be directly sourced, though may also be acquired from a third-party.Capital Resources. Firms often need upfront investment to buy the required equipment and space needed to function. There may also be ongoing capital needs prior to the firm being self-sustaining. These capital resources may be from external investors, though the long-term goal is to have these capital resources be generated by firm operations.Human Resources. The employees of a firm are the lynchpin that ensures the underlying business can operate. People's time, expertise, and networks are all resources that go into a firm to further enhance market offerings. Human resources often reference a specific department, but people resources exist throughout a company in all departments.Entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is the utilization of knowledge, expertise, and business sense to translate an idea into a financially successful operation. This includes using business, legal, and entrepreneurial resources to successfully bring a product to market and ensure the offering is well-received by markets. 


   Activities of a Firm  

The activities of a firm can often be broken down into three categories: business operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. These three categories are listed on a firm's statement of cash flow and are discussed further below.


  Business Operating Activities  

The primary activity of a company (and the primary section on a statement of cash flow) is the operating activities section. This section ties to the actual core business of the company. These activities include selling products or incurring business expenses. Most of these activities are related to the income statement, as these activities most often relate to a company's day-to-day operations and income.



In some cases, the operating activities section of a statement of cash flow is negative. If the amount is negative, that means the company is using/spending more cash than it is bringing in specific to business operations. This also means the company must rely on the other two sections to ensure enough cashflow is coming into the company to maintain operations.






A statement of cash flow will not include non-cash transactions. Be mindful that firms may have activity not impacting their bank balance but impacting their net profit.


  Investing Activities  

Investing activities are the long-term cashflow activities a company incurs to plan for the future and ensure it has the infrastructure to scale operations. Examples of investing activities include acquiring equipment, constructing office buildings, or buying heavy equipment.



Although these activities may not be required for day-to-day operations, investing activities play an integral part in a firm's long-term success. Consider a firm that makes its own goods. By investing in a corporate warehouse and robust manufacturing plant, the firm is more likely to achieve business operation success.


  Financing Activities  

The last section of activities of a firm are the financing activities. Although these are also not usually part of the day-to-day operations of a firm, the financing activities play an important in ensuring the long-term financial health of a firm.



Some financing activities are cash inflows, while other are cash outflows. For example, firms may decide to award dividends to investors funded from net income of the firm. Alternatively, firms may borrow money from lenders or issue equity to investors to raise capital to support the day-to-day operations.




Why Is a Business Sometimes Called a Firm?
The word 'firm' has Latin roots to the word "signature", indicating the word may have historically been used to describe the name of a company. In addition, the etymology of the word translates back to "a business" or "a name of a business".




What Are the 4 Types of Firms?
A firm may take a variety of legal structures including sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, or cooperatives. The rules dictating the operations and organizational structure of the company is often heavily dictated by the legal type of the firm.




What Is the Purpose of a Firm?
Though an oversimplification, the purpose of a firm is to make money. A nonprofit is often not referred to as a firm; therefore, a firm's purpose is to facilitate trade between a manufacturer or retailer with a client. A firm's purpose is to ensure a good or service is transmit to those who need it with the expectation that the firm can generate a profit along the way.


   The Bottom Line  

A firm often refers to a company that sells a service to customers, though sometimes a physical good may be transmitted as well. The ultimate goal of a firm is to make money, as a firm is often not a non-profit. The activities of a firm can usually be broken into the operating, investing, and financing aspects of the firm.
What Is First In, First Out (FIFO)?  

First In, First Out, commonly known as FIFO, is an asset-management and valuation method in which assets produced or acquired first are sold, used, or disposed of first.



For tax purposes, FIFO assumes that assets with the oldest costs are included in the income statement's cost of goods sold (COGS). The remaining inventory assets are matched to the assets that are most recently purchased or produced.





Key Takeaways

First In, First Out (FIFO) is an accounting method in which assets purchased or acquired first are disposed of first.FIFO assumes that the remaining inventory consists of items purchased last.An alternative to FIFO, LIFO is an accounting method in which assets purchased or acquired last are disposed of first.Often, in an inflationary market, lower, older costs are assigned to the cost of goods sold under the FIFO method, which results in a higher net income than if LIFO were used.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding the First In, First Out (FIFO) Method  

The FIFO method is used for cost flow assumption purposes. In manufacturing, as items progress to later development stages and as finished inventory items are sold, the associated costs with that product must be recognized as an expense.



Under FIFO, it is assumed that the cost of inventory purchased first will be recognized first. The dollar value of total inventory decreases in this process because inventory has been removed from the company’s ownership. The costs associated with the inventory may be calculated in several ways—one being the FIFO method.



Typical economic situations involve inflationary markets and rising prices. In this situation, if FIFO assigns the oldest costs to the cost of goods sold, these oldest costs will theoretically be priced lower than the most recent inventory purchased at current inflated prices.



This lower expense results in higher net income. Also, because the newest inventory was purchased at generally higher prices, the ending inventory balance is inflated.






Companies can choose which valuation method to use. Though there are financial implications of their decision, some companies may choose a method that mirrors their inventory (i.e. a grocer often sells their oldest inventory first).


   Example of FIFO  

Inventory is assigned costs as items are prepared for sale. This may occur through the purchase of the inventory or production costs, the purchase of materials, and the utilization of labor. These assigned costs are based on the order in which the product was used, and for FIFO, it is based on what arrived first.



Imagine if a company purchased 100 items for $10 each, then later purchased 100 more items for $15 each. Then, the company sold 60 items. Under the FIFO method, the cost of goods sold for each of the 60 items is $10/unit because the first goods purchased are the first goods sold. Of the 140 remaining items in inventory, the value of 40 items is $10/unit and the value of 100 items is $15/unit. This is because inventory is assigned the most recent cost under the FIFO method.



With this remaining inventory of 140 units, let's say the company sells an additional 50 items. The cost of goods sold for 40 of these items is $10, and the entire first order of 100 units has been fully sold. The other 10 units that are sold have a cost of $15 each, and the remaining 90 units in inventory are valued at $15 each (the most recent price paid).



The FIFO method follows the logic that to avoid obsolescence, a company would sell the oldest inventory items first and maintain the newest items in inventory. Although the actual inventory valuation method used does not need to follow the actual flow of inventory through a company, an entity must be able to support why it selected the use of a particular inventory valuation method.


   FIFO vs. LIFO  

The inventory valuation method opposite to FIFO is LIFO, where the last item purchased or acquired is the first item out. In inflationary economies, this results in deflated net income costs and lower ending balances in inventory when compared to FIFO.



In many ways, FIFO and LIFO are opposites. Instead of a company selling the first item in inventory, it sells the last. During periods of increasing prices, this means the inventory item sold is assessed a higher cost of good sold under LIFO. As a result, a company's expenses are usually higher in these conditions, meaning net income is lower under LIFO compared to FIFO during inflationary periods.



There are also balance sheet implications between these two valuation methods. Because more expensive inventory items are usually sold under LIFO, these more expensive inventory items are kept as inventory on the balance sheet under FIFO. Not only is net income often higher under FIFO, inventory is often larger as well.






LIFO is not permitted under International Financial Reporting Standards.


   FIFO vs. Other Valuation Methods  
  Average Cost Inventory  

The average cost inventory method assigns the same cost to each item. The average cost method is calculated by dividing the cost of goods in inventory by the total number of items available for sale. This results in net income and ending inventory balances between FIFO and LIFO.


  Specific Inventory Tracing  

Finally, specific inventory tracing is used when all components attributable to a finished product are known. If all pieces are not known, the use of FIFO, LIFO, or average cost is appropriate.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of FIFO  

Many businesses prefer the FIFO method because it is easy to understand and implement. This means that statements are more transparent, and it is harder to manipulate FIFO-based accounts to embellish the company's financials. For this reason, FIFO is required in some jurisdictions under the International Financial Reporting Standards, and it is also standard in many other jurisdictions.



Moreover, this method also follows the natural flow of inventory: most businesses prefer to sell their oldest products first, knowing that these are most likely to lose value due to long-term storage. This also means that the company's accounts will better reflect the value of current inventory since the unsold products are also the newest ones.



However, there are some disadvantages. The FIFO method can result in higher income taxes for the company, because there is a wider gap between costs and revenue. This can also result in overstating the company's profits.




Pros and Cons of FIFO Method

Pros

Easier to understand and implement.
Follows the natural flow of inventory.
Reflects the current value of inventory better than LIFO method.
Required in some jurisdictions.



Cons

Can overstate the company's profits, due to the gap between costs and revenue.
Company may end up with higher income taxes.
May not truly reflect the flow of inventory, especially for innovative industries





   Which Inventory Method Should You Use?  

In some countries, FIFO is the required accounting method for keeping track of inventory, and it is also popular in countries where it is not mandatory. Because FIFO is considered the more transparent accounting method, it is also less likely to be scrutinized by the tax authorities.



However, there are some advantages to the LIFO method. In jurisdictions that allow it, the LIFO allows companies to list their most recent costs first. Because expenses rise over time, this can result in lower corporate taxes. Because these issues are complex, it is important to raise them with an accountant before changing a company's accounting practices.




When Is First In, First Out (FIFO) Used?
The FIFO method is used for cost flow assumption purposes. In manufacturing, as items progress to later development stages and as finished inventory items are sold, the associated costs with that product must be recognized as an expense. Under FIFO, it is assumed that the cost of inventory purchased first will be recognized first which lowers the dollar value of total inventory.




What Are the Advantages of First In, First Out (FIFO)?
The obvious advantage of FIFO is that it's the most widely used method of valuing inventory globally. It is also the most accurate method of aligning the expected cost flow with the actual flow of goods which offers businesses a truer picture of inventory costs. Furthermore, it reduces the impact of inflation, assuming that the cost of purchasing newer inventory will be higher than the purchasing cost of older inventory. Finally, it reduces the obsolescence of inventory.




What Are the Other Inventory Valuation Methods?
The opposite of FIFO is LIFO (Last In, First Out), where the last item purchased or acquired is the first item out. In inflationary economies, this results in deflated net income costs and lower ending balances in inventory when compared to FIFO. Average cost inventory is another method that assigns the same cost to each item and results in net income and ending inventory balances between FIFO and LIFO. Finally, specific inventory tracing is used only when all components attributable to a finished product are known.




How Is FIFO Calculated?
FIFO is calculated by adding the cost of the earliest inventory items sold. For example, if 10 units of inventory were sold, the price of the first 10 items bought as inventory is added together. This equals the cost of goods sold. Depending on the valuation method chosen, the cost of these 10 items may be different.




Is FIFO Better Than LIFO?
For some companies, FIFO may be better than LIFO as this method may better represent the physical flow of inventory. Consider a company that has 100 units of inventory ready for sale. If the company acquires another 50 units of inventory, one may presume that the company will try to sell the older inventory items first.FIFO also has several financial advantages over LIFO. FIFO usually results in higher inventory balances on the balance sheet during inflationary periods. It also results in higher net income as the cost of goods sold is usually lower. While this may be seen as better, it may also result in a higher tax liability.


   The Bottom Line  

The First-In-First-Out, or FIFO method, is a standard accounting practice that assumes that assets are sold in the same order that they are bought. In some jurisdictions, all companies are required to use the FIFO method to account for inventory. But even where it is not required, it is a popular standard due to its ease and transparency.
What Is a First Mortgage?  

A first mortgage is a primary lien on a property. As the primary loan that pays for a property, it has priority over all other liens or claims on a property in the event of default. A first mortgage is not the mortgage on a borrower’s first home; it is the original mortgage taken on any one property. It is also called a first lien. If the home is refinanced, then the refinanced mortgage assumes the first mortgage position.





Key Takeaways

A first mortgage is a primary lien on the property that secures the mortgage.The second mortgage is money borrowed against home equity to fund other projects and expenditures.If the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of a first mortgage is greater than 80%, lenders generally require private mortgage insurance (PMI).The mortgage interest paid on a first mortgage is tax deductible, only applicable to taxpayers who itemize expenses on their tax returns.


   Understanding First Mortgages  

When an individual wants to buy a property, they may decide to finance the purchase with a loan from a lending institution called a mortgage. The lender expects the home loan or mortgage to be repaid in monthly installments, which include a portion of the principal and interest payments. The lender will have a lien on the property because the loan is secured by the home. This mortgage taken out by a homebuyer to purchase the home is known as the first mortgage.



The first mortgage is the original loan taken out on a property. The homebuyer could have multiple properties in their name; however, the original mortgages taken out to secure each of the properties comprise the first mortgage. For example, if a property owner takes out a mortgage for each of their three homes, then each of the three mortgages is the first mortgage.


  First mortgage and loan-to-value (LTV)  

The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio on a home loan is a measure of the mortgage amount versus the appraised value of the home. If the LTV of a first mortgage is greater than 80%, lenders generally require private mortgage insurance (PMI). In such a case, it sometimes can be economical for a borrower to limit the size of the first mortgage to 80% LTV and use secondary financing to borrow the remaining amount needed.



The economics of paying PMI versus taking out a second loan largely depends on the rate at which a borrower expects the value of their home to increase. PMI can be eliminated when the LTV of the first mortgage reaches 78%. However, a second lien, which typically carries a higher interest rate than a first mortgage, must be paid off. This is usually accomplished by refinancing the first mortgage for an amount equal to the remaining balance of both the first and second mortgages.


  Taxes on a first mortgage  

The mortgage interest paid on a first mortgage is tax deductible. This means that homeowners can reduce their taxable income by the amount of interest paid on the loan for the tax year. However, the mortgage interest tax deduction is only applicable to taxpayers who itemize expenses on their tax returns.


   First Mortgage Requirements  

First mortgage requirements can vary based on whether you’re choosing a conventional loan or a government-backed loan, such as a Federal Housing Administration (FHA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), or U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loan.



These requirements can affect:



Minimum credit score needed to qualifyDown payment amountsClosing costs and what percentage of the closing cost can be paid by the sellerLoan repayment termsInterest rates



The type of property can also matter when getting a first mortgage. FHA loans, for example, allow you to purchase a one- to four-unit home with just 3.5% down and a credit score as low as 580. But the property itself must meet certain standards to qualify for the loan.





Important

Poor credit is not necessarily an absolute roadblock to getting a first mortgage, but it can affect the loan terms that you qualify for and the interest rates that you pay.


   First Mortgage vs. Second Mortgage  

The term first mortgage leads one to understand that there could be other mortgages on a property. A homeowner could take out another mortgage, such as a second mortgage, while the original and first mortgage is still in effect.



A first mortgage represents the primary debt owed on a property, which serves as collateral for the loan. A second mortgage is a junior lien that you take out against your home when you still have a first mortgage outstanding.



Second mortgages are subordinate to first mortgages. So if you sell the home, for example, any proceeds would go toward paying off the first mortgage, then the second mortgage. Common examples of second mortgages include home equity loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs). You may take out one of these second mortgage loans if you wish to borrow against the accumulated equity in your home.









First Mortgage vs. Second Mortgage




First Mortgage
Second Mortgage


May have fixed or variable rates
Home equity loans often have fixed rates, while home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) tend to have variable rates


Home serves as collateral for the loan
Home serves as collateral for the loan


Primary lien, meaning lienholders get paid first
Secondary lien, meaning lienholders are paid after primary lienholders


Loan limits are determined by the type of loan and borrower eligibility
Loan limits may range from 75% to 100% of the equity in the home


Subject to private mortgage insurance (PMI), depending on the loan type and down payment
PMI doesn’t generally apply, though taking out a home equity loan or a HELOC might affect PMI requirements on a first mortgage








Note

Your ability to qualify for a second mortgage home equity loan or home equity line of credit (HELOC) can depend on your credit scores, income, and how much equity you’ve accrued in the home.


   Example of a First Mortgage  

Here's an example of how a first mortgage loan works and what the addition of a second mortgage loan can mean. Assume a homebuyer secures a $250,000 first mortgage on a home property and, after several years, obtains a second mortgage for $30,000 on the same property.



The borrower defaults on his payments after he has already repaid $50,000 of the original loan amount, and his property is foreclosed and sold to cover the loan. Given that the first mortgage is senior to the second mortgage, if the proceeds from the sale of the property add up to $210,000, then the first mortgage lender will receive the balance owed, which is $200,000.



The second mortgage lender will then receive whatever is left—in this case, $10,000. And because a first mortgage is a primary claim that takes precedence over secondary claims, second mortgages usually command higher interest rates than first mortgages do.





Tip

If you’re struggling with mortgage payments, then a loan modification, short sale, or deed in lieu of foreclosure are some of the options for managing first and second mortgage debt.




Can I Have Two Mortgages at the Same Time?
It's possible to have two mortgages at the same time. A first mortgage can go toward purchasing a home, either as a primary residence or as an investment property. A second mortgage or home equity loan can go toward making upgrades or improvements to the property.




Is a Second Mortgage Superior to a First Mortgage?
First mortgages take precedence over second mortgages for repayment if the borrower defaults. This means that second mortgages are subordinate, not superior, to first mortgages on a home.




What Is the Downside to a Second Mortgage?
Second mortgages increase a homeowner's monthly financial obligations. They can also increase the risk of default if the homeowner is unable to keep up with both the first and second mortgage payments.




Is Taking Out a Second Mortgage a Good Idea?
Taking out a second mortgage could be a good idea if you've researched borrowing options and you understand what you can afford to repay. If, however, your income is unstable or you lack sufficient emergency savings to cover mortgage payments if you lose your job or become ill and can't work, then you may want to reconsider a second mortgage loan.


   The Bottom Line  

First mortgage loans make it possible for homebuyers to purchase homes, and they take priority over any subsequent second mortgages that may be associated with the property. When applying for a first mortgage, it's important to understand the requirements to buy a house and what lenders are seeking. It's also helpful to shop around to compare mortgage rates in order to find the best possible deal on a home loan.
What Is a First Mover?  

A first mover is a service or product that gains a competitive advantage by being the first to market with a product or service. Being first typically enables a company to establish strong brand recognition and customer loyalty before competitors enter the arena. Other advantages include additional time to perfect its product or service and setting the market price for the new item.



First movers in an industry are almost always followed by competitors that attempt to capitalize on the first mover's success and gain market share. Most often, the first mover has established sufficient market share and a solid enough customer base that it maintains the majority of the market.





Key Takeaways

A first mover is a company that gains a competitive advantage by being the first to bring a new product or service to the market.First movers typically establish strong brand recognition and customer loyalty.The advantages of first movers include time to develop economies of scale—cost-efficient ways of producing or delivering a product.The disadvantages of first movers include the risk of products being copied or improved upon by the competition.Amazon and eBay are examples of companies that enjoy first-mover status.


   Examples of First Movers  

Businesses with a first-mover advantage include innovators, Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN) and eBay (NASDAQ: EBAY). Amazon created the first online bookstore, which was immensely successful. By the time other retailers established an online bookstore presence, Amazon had achieved significant brand recognition and parlayed its first-mover advantage into marketing a range of additional, unrelated products. According to Forbes's "The World's Most Innovative Companies" 2019 ranking, Amazon ranks second. It has annual revenues of $280 billion and, through the end of 2019, had a 20% annual sales growth rate.



eBay built the first meaningful online auction website in 1995 and continues to be a popular shopping site worldwide. It ranked 43rd on the Forbes list of innovative companies. The company generates $287 billion in annual revenues, with a 2.8% annual sales growth rate.


   Advantages of First Movers  

Being the first to develop and market a product comes with many prime advantages that strengthen a company's position in the marketplace. For example, a first-mover often gains exclusive agreements with suppliers, sets industry standards, and develops strong relationships with retailers. Other advantages include



Brand name recognition is the main first-mover advantage. Not only does it engender loyalty among existing customers, but it also draws new customers to a company's product, even after other companies have entered the market. Brand name recognition also positions companies to diversify offerings and services. Examples of dominant brand name recognition of a first-mover include soft drink colossus Coca-Cola (NYSE: KO), auto-additive giant STP (NYSE: ENR), and boxed-cereal titan Kellogg (NYSE: K).
Economies of scale, particularly those regarding manufacturing or technology-based products, is a massive advantage for first movers. The first mover in an industry has a longer learning curve, which frequently enables it to establish a more cost-efficient means of producing or delivering a product before it competes with other businesses.
Switching costs let a first-mover build a strong business foundation. Once a customer has purchased the first mover's product, switching to a rival product may be cost-prohibitive. For example, a company using the Windows operating system likely would not change to another operating system, because of the costs associated with retraining employees, among other costs. 


   Disadvantages of First Movers  

Despite the many advantages associated with being a first mover, there are also disadvantages. For example, other businesses can copy and improve upon a first mover's products, thereby capturing the first mover's share of the market.






It costs approximately 60% to 75% less to replicate a product than it costs to create a new product.



Also, often in the race to be the first to market, a company may forsake key product features to expedite production. If the market responds unfavorably, then later entrants could capitalize on the first mover's failure to produce a product that aligns with consumer interests; and the cost to create versus the cost to imitate is significantly disproportionate.
What Is a First Notice of Loss (FNOL)?  

The first notice of loss (FONL) is the initial report made to an insurance provider following loss, theft, or damage of an insured asset.



The first notice of loss (FNOL), also known as the first notification of loss, is normally the first step in the formal claims process lifecycle.





Key Takeaways

When someone has a loss, theft, or damage to an insured asset, the first notice of loss (FONL) is the initial report made to an insurance provider. The first notice of loss is different than an official filing, which usually occurs after the first notice of loss is recorded by an insurance company. Specific information must be provided in the first notice of loss report including, but not limited to, date and time of theft or damage, police report (if one was filed), location of the incident, and a personal or eye-witness account of the loss. 


   How a First Notice of Loss (FNOL) Works  

First notice of loss usually comes before any formal, official claim is filed. There is typically a process consumers and companies follow when making first notice of loss. The insurance claims process involves a series of procedures from the time the insurer is alerted to when a settlement is made.



First notice of loss starts the wheel of the claims cycle and is when the policyholder notifies the insurer of an unfortunate event. In the case of auto insurance, a driver informs the insurance company of a crash that occurred involving a vehicle.



The driver is matched with a claims adjuster whose role is to determine fault and the amount of settlement. The adjuster determines the nature and severity of the damage to the policyholder’s car. Their assessment relies on the police report, the other driver’s testimony, any witness account of the incident, a medical examiner’s report, and the damage done to the insured car.


   What Is Required for a FNOL  

A first notice of loss usually requires the insured to provide the following: policy number, date and time of theft or damage, location of the incident, police report number, and personal account of how the incident happened.






In the case of auto damage claims, the insured also has to provide information on the other party’s insurance details in the First Notice of Loss.



In addition to this information provided, the claims adjuster also uses accounts of the other driver and available witnesses and may visit the scene of the accident to determine fault.



If the policyholder is deemed to be at fault, the insurance company covers the cost of repairs and bodily harm for both parties. The policyholder’s premium cost will also go up if renewing the policy for another term.


   Outcomes Following the FNOL  

A lot of unfavorable outcomes can result in the claims process. The adjuster may receive different accounts of how and when the event happened, resulting in an unfair settlement judgment.



Medical bills may be duplicated, resulting in the insurer paying out more to the insured, which in turn results in the insured reaching their policy limits sooner.



From FNOL to the final settlements step, there could be a lag of time of weeks as the adjuster may have to do some traveling to investigate the event and causes. If the insurance company is not diligent, it may pay on a fraudulent claim.


   Technology and the FNOL  

To solve the problems and challenges apparent in a claims system, a group of companies are implementing technology-driven products to enhance the operations of the insurance sector. This group, known as insurtech, is creating apps and tools that result in consistency, efficiency, and accuracy for both the insurer and the insured while reducing the cost of claims.



For example, insurance companies are implementing telematics technology into their claims processes. When a crash occurs, the telematics box of a car immediately notifies the insurer of the event.



The box incorporates GPS technology and records the date, time, and location of the occurrence, and relays it to the insurance company. The insurer treats the information received from the telematics device as its first notice of loss.



This way, the adjuster is confident that the information received is accurate and consistent with similar accounts of the event. The possibility of a fraudulent claim can also be easily verified using a telematics tool.


   Special Considerations  

Some insurers are relying on the use of predictive modeling techniques with big data to determine the risk level of a claim and how it should be treated. This analytics tool ensures that less time and fewer mistakes occur during the settlement process. The risk of a fraudulent claim is also analyzed with this technique, preventing the insurer from making any payments to such claims.



Insurance dashboards simplify the claims process for both the insurer and the policyholder, as FNOL can be initiated through the dashboard. Pictures and other important documents with the information required by the adjuster can be uploaded using the dashboard. This saves both parties time and resources in mailing documents (insured) and traveling to the location of the damaged asset to conduct an inspection (insurer).
What Is the First World?  

“First world,” a term developed during the Cold War in the 1950s, originally referred to a country that was aligned with the United States and other Western nations in opposition to what was then the Soviet Union and its allies.



Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the term’s meaning has largely evolved. Currently, it describes a developed and industrialized country characterized by political and economic stability, democracy, the rule of law, a capitalist economy, and a high standard of living.





Key Takeaways

The term “first world” originally applied to countries that were aligned with the United States and other Western nations in opposition to the former Soviet Union.First world countries are often characterized by prosperity, democracy, and stability—both political and economic.A high literacy rate, free enterprise, and the rule of law are other common characteristics of first world countries.Some critics argue that the concept of dividing nations into three worlds represents an antiquated perspective.Many first world countries have certain demographics that are in extreme poverty, which is more representative of developing countries; other countries with third world status are quite prosperous.


   Understanding the First World  

Examples of first world countries include the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan. Several Western European nations qualify as well, especially Great Britain, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the Scandinavian countries.



The ways that first world countries are defined can vary. For example, a first world nation might be described as aligned or amicable with Western countries or those in the Northern Hemisphere, highly industrialized, possessing a low poverty rate, and/or high accessibility to modern resources and infrastructure.



Various metrics have been used to define first world nations, including gross domestic product (GDP), gross national product (GNP), mortality rates, and literacy rates. The Human Development Index is also an indicator of which countries might be categorized as having first world status.



Economically speaking, first world countries tend to have stable currencies and robust financial markets, making them attractive to investors from all around the world. While they may not be purely capitalist, first world nations’ economies tend to be characterized by free markets, private enterprise, and private ownership of property.






Under the original Cold War alliance designations, the first world consisted of the U.S., Western Europe, and their allies. The second world was the so-called Communist Bloc: the Soviet Union, China, Cuba, etc. The remaining nations, which didn’t align with either group, were assigned to the third world—most of Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. However, this definition includes many countries that are economically stable, which does not fit the contemporary definition of a third world country.


   Criticism of the First World Designation  

Controversy exists around the use of the term “first world” to describe democratic countries in comparison with developing nations and those with political regimes that do not align with Western nations’. There is a tendency toward using the phrase as a way to rank some nations above others in terms of geopolitical significance. Such references can lead to divisive tension in international relations, especially as developing nations seek to negotiate with so-called first world countries or appeal to the international community for support of their causes.



It is not uncommon for first world nations to press for international policies, especially economic ones, that will favor their industries and trade to protect or enhance their wealth and stability. This can include efforts to influence decisions made in such forums as the United Nations or the World Trade Organization (WTO).



Designation as a first world nation does not necessarily mean a country has local access to certain luxuries or resources that are in demand. For example, oil production is a staple industry in many countries that historically have not been regarded as first world nations. Brazil, for instance, contributes substantial amounts of oil to the overall world supply, along with other forms of production; however, the country is recognized as a developing, industrialized state rather than as a first world nation.






In contemporary parlance, “developed” or “industrialized” nation is considered a preferable term to “first world country.”


   An Antiquated Model  

There is an argument to be made that the model of dividing nations into first, second, or third worlds represents an archaic and antiquated perspective.



Since the end of the Cold War, the United States has become one of the world’s superpowers, and an increasing number of countries have embraced or are in the process of adopting American-style democracy and capitalism. These countries are neither abysmally poor nor exceedingly rich; rule of law and democracy are their defining features. As such, it would be counterintuitive to describe them with the pejorative term of “third world.” Examples of these types of countries include Brazil and India.



The original definition of “first world” as a country aligned with the United States has also led to some odd classifications of quite prosperous and advanced nations. Oil-rich Saudi Arabia, which has a higher per capita income than first world country Turkey, is still often technically slotted as a second or third world nation, for example—or at least, denied the first world designation.



Then there is the increasing problem of wealth inequality. The high per capita income associated with the first world often belies an extremely uneven distribution of wealth in these nations. Several first world countries have poverty-stricken regions where conditions are comparable to those in developing countries. For example, residents of Appalachia and other rural areas of the United States often lack resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living. Even certain sections of large cities, such as the South Side of Chicago or northern Milwaukee’s 53206 neighborhood, feature impoverished conditions.




What is the first world?
While highly subjective, “first world” is a term that consists of countries that may have the following characteristics: stable democracies, high standards of living, capitalist economies, and economic stability. Other measures that may be used to indicate first world countries include gross domestic product (GDP) or literacy rates. Broadly speaking, countries that may be considered first world include the United States, Japan, Canada, and Australia, among others.




What defines a first world country?
There is no universal way to define a first world country. They are often characterized as industrialized and democratic nations. These features are typically accompanied by stable currencies, sound financial markets, and modern infrastructure. Due to these factors, first world countries often attract foreign direct investment and capital inflows.




Why is the term ‘first world’ contentious?
“First world” is a problematic term because it is outdated. First coined during the Cold War, it referred to countries that were allies of the United States—mostly other westernized countries, as opposed to countries that aligned with the former Soviet Union. Because the economic indicators used to define the first world vary by their perspective, the first world can represent an opaque concept of a country’s economic stature. For instance, despite Saudi Arabia having per capita income that is nearly equal to Portugal’s, it is often considered a second world nation.


   The Bottom Line  

First world nations are those described as highly-developed industrialized, technologically-advanced, educated, and wealthy. In contrast to developing (second world) and less-developed (third world) countries, the first world is seen to enjoy many benefits such as a relatively high quality of life and prosperity. The phrase "first-world country" was popularized in the 1950s and 1960s during the Cold War to describe developed countries considered to have the power to influence international politics through their economic, technological, and military strength. The term was not explicitly political; it described a grouping based on aggregate wealth or perceived power rather than an ideological outlook. First world countries included Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, and the United States, among others. Today, the term has fallen somewhat out of favor, as critics argue it is an outmoded model for understanding national development.
What Is a Fiscal Deficit?  

A fiscal deficit is a shortfall in a government's income compared with its spending. A government that has a fiscal deficit is spending beyond its means.



A fiscal deficit is calculated as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP), or simply as total dollars spent in excess of income. In either case, the income figure includes only taxes and other revenues and excludes money borrowed to make up the shortfall.



A fiscal deficit is different from fiscal debt. The latter is the total debt accumulated over years of deficit spending. It is also different from fiscal imbalance which is a measure of future difference between future debt obligations and revenue streams.





Key Takeaways

A government creates a fiscal deficit by spending more money than it takes in from taxes and other revenues excluding debt.The gap between income and spending is closed by government borrowing.The U.S. government has had a fiscal deficit in most of the years since World War II.


   Understanding the Fiscal Deficit  

A fiscal deficit is not universally regarded as a negative event. For example, the influential economist John Maynard Keynes argued that deficit spending and the debts incurred to sustain that spending can help countries climb out of economic recession.



Fiscal conservatives generally argue against deficits and in favor of a balanced budget policy.



In the United States, fiscal deficits have been occurring regularly since the nation declared independence. Alexander Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury, proposed issuing bonds to pay off the debts incurred by the states during the Revolutionary War.


  Record Fiscal Deficits  

At the height of the Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt made a virtue of necessity and issued the first U.S. Savings Bonds to encourage Americans to save more and, not incidentally, finance government spending.



In fact, President Roosevelt holds the record for the fastest-growing U.S. fiscal deficits. The New Deal policies designed to pull America out of the Great Depression, combined with the need to finance the country's entry into World War II, drove the federal deficit from 4.5% of GDP in 1932 to 26.8% in 1943.﻿﻿



After the war, the federal deficit was reduced and a surplus of $4 billion was established by 1947 under President Harry S. Truman.﻿﻿






The 2020 fiscal deficit of the United States was $3.1 trillion, roughly three times the size of the 2019 deficit.﻿﻿



In 2009, President Barack Obama increased the deficit to more than $1 trillion to finance the government stimulus programs designed to fight off the Great Recession.﻿﻿ That was a record dollar number but actually was only 9.7% of GDP, far under the numbers reached in the 1940s.﻿﻿



In 2020, under President Donald Trump, the deficit reached $3.1 trillion for the entire fiscal year due to a combination of tax cuts and increased spending amid the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent economic fallout.﻿﻿


  Rare Fiscal Surpluses  

Since World War II, the U.S. government has run at a fiscal deficit in most years.



As noted, President Truman produced a surplus in 1947, followed by two more in 1948 and 1951. President Dwight Eisenhower's government had small deficits for several years before producing small surpluses in 1956, 1957, and 1960. President Richard M. Nixon had just one, in 1969.



The next federal surplus did not occur until 1998 when President Bill Clinton reached a landmark budget deal with Congress that resulted in a $70 billion surplus. The surplus grew to $236 billion in 2000. President George W. Bush benefited from a $128 billion carryover of the Clinton surplus in 2001.
What Is the Fiscal Multiplier?  

The fiscal multiplier measures the effect that increases in fiscal spending will have on a nation's economic output, or gross domestic product (GDP). In general, economists define fiscal multipliers as the ratio of a change in output to a change in tax revenue or government spending. Fiscal multipliers are important because they can help guide a government's policies during an economic crisis and help set the stage for economic recovery.





Key Takeaways

The fiscal multiplier measures the effect that increases in fiscal spending will have on a nation's economic output or gross domestic product (GDP).At the core of fiscal multiplier theory lies the idea of marginal propensity to consume (MPC), which quantifies the increase in consumer spending, as opposed to saving, due to an increase in the income of an individual, household, or society.Evidence suggests that lower-income households have a higher MPC than do higher-income households.


   Understanding the Fiscal Multiplier  

The fiscal multiplier is a Keynesian idea first proposed by John Maynard Keynes's student Richard Kahn in a 1931 paper and is depicted as a ratio to show the causality between the controlled variable (changes in fiscal policy) and the outcome (GDP).﻿﻿ At the core of fiscal multiplier theory lies the idea of marginal propensity to consume (MPC), which quantifies the increase in consumer spending, as opposed to saving, due to an increase in the income of an individual, household, or society.



Fiscal multiplier theory posits that as long as a country's overall MPC is greater than zero, then an initial infusion of government spending should lead to a disproportionately larger increase in national income. The fiscal multiplier expresses how much greater or, if stimulus turns out to be counterproductive, smaller the overall gain in national income is when compared with the amount of extra spending. The formula for the fiscal multiplier is as follows:



﻿















Fiscal Multiplier


=




1




1


−


MPC


















where:
















MPC


=


marginal propensity to consume








\begin{aligned} &\text{Fiscal Multiplier} = \frac { 1 }{ 1 - \text{MPC} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{MPC} = \text{marginal propensity to consume} \\ \end{aligned}


​Fiscal Multiplier=1−MPC1​where:MPC=marginal propensity to consume​﻿


   Example of Fiscal Multiplier  

Let's say that a national government enacts a $1 billion fiscal stimulus and that its consumers' MPC is 0.75. Consumers who receive the initial $1 billion will save $250 million and spend $750 million, effectively initiating another, smaller round of stimulus. The recipients of that $750 million will spend $562.5 million, and so on. 



The total change in national income is the initial increase in government, or "autonomous," spending times the fiscal multiplier. Since the marginal propensity to consume is 0.75, the fiscal multiplier would be four. Keynesian theory would thus predict an overall boost to the national income of $4 billion as a result of the initial $1 billion fiscal stimulus.






In addition to the fiscal multiplier, economists use other multipliers to study the behavior of the economy, including the earnings multiplier and the investment multiplier.


   The Fiscal Multiplier in the Real World  

Empirical evidence suggests that the actual relationship between spending and growth is messier than theory would suggest. Not all members of society have the same MPC. For instance, lower-income households tend to spend a much greater share of a windfall than higher-income ones. MPC also depends on the form in which fiscal stimulus is received. Different policies can, therefore, have drastically different fiscal multipliers.



In 2009, Mark Zandi, then chief economist of Moody's, estimated the following fiscal multipliers for different policy options, expressed as the one-year dollar increase in real GDP per dollar increase in spending or decrease in federal tax revenue:﻿﻿









Tax cuts
 


Nonrefundable lump-sum tax rebate
1.01


Refundable lump-sum tax rebate
1.22


Temporary tax cuts
 


Payroll tax holiday
1.29


Across-the-board tax cut
1.02


Accelerated depreciation
0.25


Permanent tax cuts
 


Extend alternative minimum tax patch
0.51


Make Bush income tax cuts permanent
0.32


Make dividend and capital gains tax cuts permanent
0.37


Cut corporate tax rate
0.32


Spending increases
 


Extend unemployment insurance benefits
1.61


Temporarily increase food stamps
1.74


Temporary federal financing of work-share programs
1.69


Issue general aid to state governments
1.41


Increase infrastructure spending
1.57






By far the most effective policy options, according to this analysis, are temporarily increasing food stamps (1.74), temporary federal financing of work-share programs (1.69), and extending unemployment insurance benefits (1.61).﻿﻿ These policies target groups with low incomes and, as a result, high marginal propensities to consume. Permanent tax cuts benefiting mostly higher-income households, by contrast, have fiscal multipliers below 1: for every dollar "spent" (given up in tax revenue), only a few cents are added to real GDP. 


   Special Considerations  

The idea of the fiscal multiplier has seen its influence on policy wax and wane. Keynesian theory was extremely influential in the 1960s, but a period of stagflation, which Keynesians were largely unable to explain, caused faith in fiscal stimulus to wane. Beginning in the 1970s, many policymakers began to favor monetarist policies, believing that regulating the money supply was at least as effective as government spending.



Following the 2008 financial crisis, however, the fiscal multiplier has regained some of its lost popularity. The U.S., which invested heavily in fiscal stimulus, saw a quicker and sturdier recovery than Europe, where bailouts were preconditioned on fiscal austerity.
What Is Fiscal Policy?  

Fiscal policy refers to the use of government spending and tax policies to influence economic conditions, especially macroeconomic conditions. These include aggregate demand for goods and services, employment, inflation, and economic growth.



During a recession, the government may lower tax rates or increase spending to encourage demand and spur economic activity. Conversely, to combat inflation, it may raise rates or cut spending to cool down the economy.



Fiscal policy is often contrasted with monetary policy, which is enacted by central bankers and not elected government officials.





Key Takeaways

Fiscal policy refers to the use of government spending and tax policies to influence economic conditions.Fiscal policy is largely based on ideas from British economist John Maynard Keynes.Keynes argued that governments could stabilize the business cycle and regulate economic output rather than let markets right themselves alone.An expansionary fiscal policy lowers tax rates or increases spending to increase aggregate demand and fuel economic growth.A contractionary fiscal policy raises rates or cuts spending to prevent or reduce inflation.


   Understanding Fiscal Policy  

U.S. fiscal policy is largely based on the ideas of British economist John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946). He argued that economic recessions are due to a deficiency in the consumer spending and business investment components of aggregate demand.



Keynes believed that governments could stabilize the business cycle and regulate economic output by adjusting spending and tax policies to make up for the shortfalls of the private sector.



His theories were developed in response to the Great Depression, which defied classical economics' assumptions that economic swings were self-correcting. Keynes' ideas were highly influential and led to the New Deal in the U.S., which involved massive spending on public works projects and social welfare programs.



In Keynesian economics, aggregate demand or spending is what drives the performance and growth of the economy. Aggregate demand is made up of consumer spending, business investment spending, net government spending, and net exports.


  Variable Private Sector Behavior  

According to Keynesian economists, the private sector components of aggregate demand are too variable and too dependent on psychological and emotional factors to maintain sustained growth in the economy.



Pessimism, fear, and uncertainty among consumers and businesses can lead to economic recessions and depressions. What's more, excessive public sector exuberance during good times can lead to an overheated economy and inflation.



However, Keynesians believe that government taxation and spending can be managed rationally and used to counteract the excesses and deficiencies of private sector consumption and investment spending in order to stabilize the economy.


  Corrective Government Fiscal Action  

When private sector spending decreases, the government can spend more and/or tax less in order to directly increase aggregate demand. When the private sector is overly optimistic and spends too much, too fast on consumption and new investment projects, the government can spend less and/or tax more in order to decrease aggregate demand. 



This means that to help stabilize the economy, the government should run large budget deficits during economic downturns and run budget surpluses when the economy is growing. These are known as expansionary or contractionary fiscal policies, respectively.  





Fiscal Policy Example

During the Great Depression of the 1930s, U.S. unemployment rose to 25% and millions stood in bread lines for food. The misery seemed endless. President Franklin D. Roosevelt decided to put an expansionary fiscal policy to work. He launched his New Deal soon after taking office. It created new government agencies, the WPA jobs program, and the Social Security program, which exists to this day. These spending efforts, combined with his continued expansionary policy spending during World War II, pulled the country out of the Depression.


   Types of Fiscal Policies  
  Expansionary Policy and Tools  

To illustrate how the government can use fiscal policy to affect the economy, consider an economy that's experiencing a recession. The government might issue tax stimulus rebates to increase aggregate demand and fuel economic growth. 



The logic behind this approach is that when people pay lower taxes, they have more money to spend or invest, which fuels higher demand. That demand leads firms to hire more, decreasing unemployment, and causing fierce competition for labor. In turn, this serves to raise wages and provide consumers with more income to spend and invest. It's a virtuous cycle or positive feedback loop. 



Alternately, rather than lowering taxes, the government may seek economic expansion by increasing spending (without corresponding tax increases). Building more highways, for example, could increase employment, pushing up demand and growth.



Expansionary fiscal policy is usually characterized by deficit spending. Deficit spending occurs when government expenditures exceed receipts from taxes and other sources. In practice, deficit spending tends to result from a combination of tax cuts and higher spending.


  Contractionary Policy and Tools  

In the face of mounting inflation and other expansionary symptoms, a government can pursue contractionary fiscal policy, perhaps even to the extent of inducing a brief recession in order to restore balance to the economic cycle.



The government does this by increasing taxes, reducing public spending, and cutting public sector pay or jobs.



Where expansionary fiscal policy involves spending deficits, contractionary fiscal policy is characterized by budget surpluses. This policy is rarely used, however, as it is hugely unpopular politically.



Public policymakers thus face differing incentives relating to whether to engage in expansionary or contractionary fiscal policy. Therefore, the preferred tool for reining in unsustainable growth is usually a contractionary monetary policy. Monetary policy involves the Federal Reserve raising interest rates and restraining the supply of money and credit in order to rein in inflation.






The two major fiscal policy tools that the U.S. government uses to influence the nation's economic activity are tax rates and government spending.


   Downside of Expansionary Policy  

Mounting deficits are among the complaints lodged against expansionary fiscal policy. Critics complain that a flood of government red ink can weigh on growth and eventually create the need for damaging austerity.



Many economists simply dispute the effectiveness of expansionary fiscal policies. They argue that government spending too easily crowds out investment by the private sector.



Expansionary policy is also popular—to a dangerous degree, say some economists. Fiscal stimulus is politically difficult to reverse. Whether it has the desired macroeconomic effects or not, voters like low taxes and public spending.



Due to the political incentives faced by policymakers, there tends to be a consistent bias toward engaging in more-or-less constant deficit spending that can be in part rationalized as good for the economy. 



Eventually, economic expansion can get out of hand. Rising wages lead to inflation and asset bubbles begin to form. High inflation and the risk of widespread defaults when debt bubbles burst can badly damage the economy. This risk, in turn, leads governments (or their central banks) to reverse course and attempt to contract the economy.


   Fiscal Policy vs. Monetary Policy  

Fiscal policy is the responsibility of the government. It involves spurring or slowing economic activity using taxes and government spending.



Monetary policy is the domain of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and refers to actions taken to increase or decrease liquidity through the nation's money supply. According to the Federal Reserve Board, these actions are intended to "promote maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates—the economic goals the Congress has instructed the Federal Reserve to pursue."



The monetary policy tools that the Fed uses to increase or decrease liquidity (and affect consumer spending and borrowing) include:



Buying or selling securities on the open market
Lending to depository institutions through its discount window
Raising or lowering the discount rate
Raising or lowering the federal funds rate
Establishing reserve requirements for banks
Engaging in central bank liquidity swaps
Financing through overnight repurchase agreements




Who Handles Fiscal Policy?
In the United States, fiscal policy is directed by both the executive and legislative branches. In the executive branch, the two most influential offices in this regard belong to the President and the Secretary of the Treasury, although contemporary presidents often rely on a Council of Economic Advisers as well.In the legislative branch, the U.S. Congress authorizes taxes, passes laws, and appropriations spending for any fiscal policy measures through its power of the purse. This process involves participation, deliberation, and approval from both the House of Representatives and the Senate.




What Are the Main Tools of Fiscal Policy?
Fiscal policy tools are used by governments to influence the economy. These primarily include changes to levels of taxation and government spending. To stimulate growth, taxes are lowered and spending is increased. This often involves borrowing by issuing government debt. To cool down an overheating economy, taxes may be raised and spending decreased.




How Does Fiscal Policy Affect People?
Often, the effects of fiscal policy aren't felt equally by everyone. Depending on the political orientations and goals of the policymakers, a tax cut could affect only the middle class, which is typically the largest economic group. In times of economic decline and rising taxation, this same group may have to pay more taxes than the wealthier upper class.Similarly, when a government decides to adjust its spending, its policy may affect only a specific group of people. A decision to build a new bridge, for example, will give work and more income to hundreds of construction workers. A decision to spend money on building a new space shuttle, on the other hand, benefits only a small, specialized pool of experts and firms, which would not do much to increase aggregate employment levels.




Should the Government Be Getting Involved With the Economy?
One of the biggest obstacles facing policymakers is deciding how much direct involvement the government should have in the economy and individuals' economic lives. Indeed, there have been various degrees of interference by the government over the history of the United States. For the most part, it is accepted that a certain degree of government involvement is necessary to sustain a vibrant economy, on which the economic well-being of the population depends.


   The Bottom Line  

Fiscal policy is directed by the U.S. government with the goal of maintaining a healthy economy. The tools used to promote beneficial economic activity are adjustments to tax rates and government spending.



When economic activity slows or deteriorates, the government may try to improve it by reducing taxes or increasing its spending on various government programs.



When the economy is overly active and inflation threatens, it may increase taxes or reduce spending. However, neither is palatable to politicians seeking to stay in office. Thus, at such times, the government looks to the Fed to take monetary policy action to reduce inflation.
What Is a Fiscal Year (FY)?  

A fiscal year is a one-year period that companies and governments use for financial reporting and budgeting. A fiscal year is most commonly used for accounting purposes to prepare financial statements. Although a fiscal year can start on Jan. 1 and end on Dec. 31, not all fiscal years correspond with the calendar year. For example, universities often begin and end their fiscal years according to the school year.





Key Takeaways

A fiscal year is a twelve-month period chosen by a company to report its financial information.Financial reports, external audits, and federal tax filings are based on a company's fiscal year.Companies may choose to report their financial information on a non-calendar fiscal year based on the specific nature and revenue cycle of its business.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Fiscal Year (FY)  

A fiscal year is a period of time lasting one year but not necessarily starting at the beginning of the calendar year. Countries, companies, and organizations can start and end their fiscal years differently, depending on their accounting and external audit practices.



Knowing a company's fiscal year is important to corporations and their investors because it allows them to accurately measure revenue and earnings year-over-year. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows companies to be either calendar year or fiscal year taxpayers.



The U.S. federal government's fiscal year runs from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30. The fiscal year for many nonprofit organizations runs from July 1 to June 30. Fiscal years that vary from a calendar year are typically chosen due to the specific nature of the business. For example, nonprofit organizations typically align their year with the timing of grant awards.



Fiscal years are referenced by their end date or end year. For example, to reference a nonprofit organization's fiscal year, you may say, "FY 2020" or "fiscal year ending June 30, 2020." Similarly, if you referred to government spending that occurred on Nov. 15, 2019, you would label that as an expenditure for the fiscal year 2020.



According to the IRS, a fiscal year consists of 12 consecutive months ending on the last day of any month except December. Alternatively, instead of observing a 12-month fiscal year, U.S. taxpayers may observe a 52- to 53-week fiscal year. In this case, the fiscal year would end on the same day of the week each year, whichever happens to be the closest to a certain date–such as the nearest Saturday to Dec. 31. This system automatically results in some 52-week fiscal years and some 53-week fiscal years.






Fiscal years are commonly referred to when discussing budgets and are a convenient time period to reference and review a company's or government's financial performance.


   IRS Requirements for Fiscal Years  

The default IRS system is based on the calendar year, so fiscal-year taxpayers have to make some adjustments to the deadlines for filing certain forms and making payments. While most taxpayers must file by April 15 following the year for which they are filing, fiscal-year taxpayers must file by the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of their fiscal year. For example, a business observing a fiscal year from June 1 to May 31 must submit its tax return by Sept. 15.



In the United States, eligible businesses can adopt a fiscal year for tax reporting purposes simply by submitting their first income tax return observing that fiscal tax year. At any time, these businesses may elect to change to a calendar year. However, companies that want to change from a calendar year to a fiscal year must get special permission from the IRS or meet one of the criteria outlined on Form 1128, Application to Adopt, Change, or Retain a Tax Year.


   Examples of Fiscal Years for Corporations  

Investors might ask, "What fiscal year is it?" and it can vary from company to company. Below are 10-K reports from popular companies with fiscal years that don't follow the calendar. A 10-K is an annual report of financial performance that is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Apple Inc. (AAPL) ends its fiscal year on the last Saturday of September; in 2020, this fell on the 26th.















Apple Fiscal Year Example.



Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) ends its fiscal year on the last day of June every year.















Microsoft Fiscal Year Example.



Macy's Inc. (M) ends its fiscal year on the fifth Saturday of the new calendar year; in 2021, this date fell on Jan. 30. Many retailers generate a large chunk of their earnings around the holidays, which could explain why Macy's chooses this end date.















Macy's Fiscal Year Example.




Is a Fiscal Year the Same as a Calendar Year?
Not necessarily. A fiscal year spans twelve months and corresponds with a company’s financial reporting periods. Sometimes, a fiscal year may differ from a calendar year. Fiscal years are an important concern for accounting purposes because they are involved in federal tax filings, budgeting, and financial statements. 




What Is an Example of a Fiscal Year?
Consider the fiscal year for the U.S. government, which begins on October 1st and ends on September 30th. Companies that rely on contracts from the government may also structure their fiscal years to end in late September. This is because often budgeting planning from the government will be disclosed and new projects finalized. Conversely, many tech companies experience strong sales volumes during the early months of the year, which can explain why in many cases, their fiscal years will end in late June.




Why Use a Fiscal Year Instead of a Calendar Year?
For companies that operate on a seasonal basis, using a fiscal year may be beneficial. This is because it may provide a more accurate reflection of the company’s operations, allowing for revenues and expenses to better align. For instance, it is common for retail companies to end their fiscal year on Jan. 31, after the holiday season has ended. Walmart and Target are two primary examples of companies that use this fiscal year.
What Is Fiscal Year-End?  

The term "fiscal year-end" refers to the completion of any one-year or 12-month accounting period other than a typical calendar year. A fiscal year is often the period used for calculating annual financial statements. A company's fiscal year may differ from the calendar year, and may not close on December 31 due to the nature of a company's needs.



Once companies choose its fiscal year-end—typically when they are first incorporating or forming their company—it is required to stick with it year to year. This allows accounting data to be consistent in terms of time frames.





Key Takeaways

Fiscal year-end refers to the completion of a one-year, or 12-month, accounting period.If a company has a fiscal year-end that is the same as the calendar year-end, it means that the fiscal year ends on Dec. 31.Companies have the ability to choose the best fiscal year-end for themselves, designed with the needs of the company in mind.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Fiscal Year-End  

Every year, public companies are required to publish financial statements for review by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These documents also give investors an update on company performance compared to previous years and provide analysts with a way to understand business operations. Financial statements are published after each company's fiscal year-end, which may vary from company to company.


   Fiscal Year-End vs. Calendar Year-End  

If a company has a fiscal year-end that is the same as the calendar year-end, it means that the fiscal year ends on Dec. 31. However, companies have the ability to choose the best fiscal year-end for themselves, designed with the needs of the company in mind. Companies that operate on a non-calendar business cycle or have a supplier base that does so may choose a fiscal year-end date that more appropriately coincides with their business operations.



For example, many retail companies have a fiscal year that differs from the calendar year due to the heavy sales cycle during the holiday season. Because Dec. 31 coincides with heavy shopping by consumers, a retail firm may have a hard time producing annual financial statements and counting inventories at that same time as manpower and resources are dedicated to the sales floor.



In this case, the firm may choose an alternate fiscal year-end date, such as Jan. 31 rather than Dec. 31. As another example, the best time for a luxury resort to report earnings is probably after vacation season, so it may choose a fiscal year-end of Sept. 30.



Whatever fiscal year-end date is determined, companies must make a decision when they file for incorporation, as their fiscal year-end date cannot be changed every year. It is also important to note that the timing of a company's fiscal year does not change the due date on taxes.



For example, taxes, which are based on a calendar year-end, are still often due on April 15, regardless of a company's fiscal year-end. Thus, in many cases, a Dec. 31 fiscal year-end date is more conducive for calculating taxes due.






While many companies have a fiscal year-end on the last day of December, others vary based on the industry of which they are part or some other business needs.


   Special Considerations  

Analysts rely on comparative data to identify trends and create forecasts. As such, analysts must be careful to compare two companies over the same time period. If comparing two companies with different fiscal years, analysts must adjust the data to ensure the information for both firms covers the same time frame so as not to skew the comparison one way or another. This is especially the case for companies that do business in seasonal industries.
What Is the Fisher Effect?  

The Fisher Effect is an economic theory created by economist Irving Fisher that describes the relationship between inflation and both real and nominal interest rates. The Fisher Effect states that the real interest rate equals the nominal interest rate minus the expected inflation rate. Therefore, real interest rates fall as inflation increases, unless nominal rates increase at the same rate as inflation.





Key Takeaways

The Fisher Effect is an economic theory created by economist Irving Fisher that describes the relationship between inflation and both real and nominal interest rates.The Fisher Effect states that the real interest rate equals the nominal interest rate minus the expected inflation rate. The Fisher Effect has been extended to the analysis of the money supply and international currency trading.When the real interest rate is positive, it means the lender or investor is able to beat inflation. When the real interest rate is negative, it means the rate being charged on a loan or paid on a savings account is not beating inflation. 


   Understanding the Fisher Effect  

Fisher's equation reflects that the real interest rate can be taken by subtracting the expected inflation rate from the nominal interest rate. In this equation, all the provided rates are compounded.



The Fisher Effect can be seen each time you go to the bank; the interest rate an investor has on a savings account is really the nominal interest rate. For example, if the nominal interest rate on a savings account is 4% and the expected rate of inflation is 3%, then the money in the savings account is really growing at 1%. The smaller the real interest rate, the longer it will take for savings deposits to grow substantially when observed from a purchasing power perspective.






Countries will closely monitor the Consumer Price Index (CPI) when determining inflationary measures.


   Nominal Interest Rates and Real Interest Rates  

Nominal interest rates reflect the financial return an individual gets when they deposit money. For example, a nominal interest rate of 10% per year means that an individual will receive an additional 10% of their deposited money in the bank.



Unlike the nominal interest rate, the real interest rate considers purchasing power in the equation.



In the Fisher Effect, the nominal interest rate is the provided actual interest rate that reflects the monetary growth padded over time to a particular amount of money or currency owed to a financial lender. Real interest rate is the amount that mirrors the purchasing power of the borrowed money as it grows over time.


   Importance in Money Supply  

The Fisher Effect is more than just an equation: It shows how the money supply affects the nominal interest rate and inflation rate in tandem. For example, if a change in a central bank's monetary policy would push the country's inflation rate to rise by 10 percentage points, then the nominal interest rate of the same economy would follow suit and increase by 10 percentage points as well.



In this light, it may be assumed that a change in the money supply will not affect the real interest rate as the real interest rate is the result of inflation and the nominal rate. It will, however, directly reflect changes in the nominal interest rate.






When a country has a higher nominal interest rate than a different country, the first country's currency should see depreciation against the second currency, as the first currency will also be experiencing a period of increased inflation.


   The International Fisher Effect (IFE)  

The International Fisher Effect (IFE) is an exchange-rate model that extends the standard Fisher Effect and is used in forex trading and analysis. It is based on present and future risk-free nominal interest rates rather than pure inflation, and it is used to predict and understand the present and future spot currency price movements. For this model to work in its purest form, it is assumed that the risk-free aspects of capital must be allowed to free float between nations that comprise a particular currency pair.



The IFE was primarily used in periods of monetary policy where interest rates were adjusted more frequently and in larger amounts. With electronic trading and the advent of the retail arbitrage trader, the inconsistencies between spot exchange rates are more visible and thus the inconsistency is more quickly noticed and the trade becomes too crowded to be significantly profitable.



However, the IFE, as well as additional methods of trade confirmation can be incorrectly assessed. In this case, even though there may not be an empirical advantage to a trade, there may be a psychological one if the spot predictions have been incorrectly assessed and acted upon.




What Are the Main Causes of Inflation?
There are many causes of inflation but some of the most common ones are when prices rise due to an increase in the cost of production. For example, if a company receives goods from a different country and the cost of oil rises, those goods become more expensive because they now cost the company more to receive. Demand will also determine inflation. If many people rush to buy the same item or service, the price will rise. In the 2021/2022 environment, inflation was mostly driven by fiscal policy.




How Do You Profit From Inflation?
There are two schools of thought when it comes to inflation: those who beat inflation, and those who simply match it. Looking to match inflation is possible as a retail investor by investing in asset classes that are more likely to do well during such periods. Two common classes are real estate and commodities. A fixed mortgage will do well in an inflationary environment as it devalues the payments required. More commonly, an investor will place their money in inflation-indexed bonds, such as Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS). Those looking to actively beat inflation could consider value stocks and other companies that are easily able to pass on inflated costs to their consumers.




How Do You Find the Real Interest Rate?
The real interest rate is essentially the nominal interest rate minus the inflation rate. So if the nominal rate is 6% and inflation is 4%, the real interest rate is 2%. This interest rate can be calculated using currently available information, but some businesses will plan for future interest rate and inflation environments so they know how to adjust their pricing in the event of an increase or decrease in inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

The Fisher Effect is a theory describing the relationship between both real and nominal interest rates, and inflation. The theory states that the nominal rate will adjust to reflect the changes in the inflation rate in order for products and lending avenues to remain competitive. It is a theory that is sometimes applied to currency pairs in order to profit from price discrepancies through a trading style called arbitrage.
What Is the Fisher Transform Indicator?  

The Fisher Transform is a technical indicator created by John F. Ehlers that converts prices into a Gaussian normal distribution. The indicator highlights when prices have moved to an extreme, based on recent prices. This may help in spotting turning points in the price of an asset. It also helps show the trend and isolate the price waves within a trend.





Key Takeaways

The Fisher Transform is a technical indicator that normalizes asset prices, thus making turning points in price clearer.Some traders look for extreme readings to signal potential price reversal areas, while others watch for a change in direction of the Fisher Transform.The Fisher Transform formula is typically applied to price, but it can also be applied to other indicators.Asset prices are not normally distributed, so attempts to normalize prices via an indicator may not always provide reliable signals.


   Understanding the Fisher Transform Indicator  

The Fisher Transform enables traders to create a Gaussian normal distribution, which converts data that isn't typically normal distributed, such as market prices. In essence, the transformation makes peak swings relatively rare events to help better identify price reversals on a chart.



This technical indicator is commonly used by traders looking for leading signals, rather than lagging indicators. The Fisher Transform can also be applied to other technical indicators, such as the relative strength index (RSI) or moving average convergence divergence (MACD).















TradingView.


   The Fisher Transform Formula  

﻿















Fisher Transform


=




1




2




∗


ln



(




1


+


X




1


−


X




)

















where:
















ln


 is the natural logarithm
















X


=


transformation of price to a level between -1 and 1








\begin{aligned} &\text{Fisher Transform} = \frac{1}{2}*\ln \left( \frac{1+X}{1-X} \right)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\ln \text{ is the natural logarithm}\\ &X = \text{transformation of price to a level between -1 and 1}\\ \end{aligned}


​Fisher Transform=21​∗ln(1−X1+X​)where:ln is the natural logarithmX=transformation of price to a level between -1 and 1​﻿


   How to Calculate the Fisher Transform  

Choose a lookback period, such as nine periods. This is how many periods the Fisher Transform is applied to.Convert the prices of these periods to values between -1 and +1 and input for X, completing the calculations within the formula's brackets.Multiply by the natural log.Multiply the result by 0.5.Repeat the calculation as each near period ends, converting the most recent price to a value between -1 and +1 based on the most recent nine-period prices.Calculated values are added/subtracted from the prior calculated value.


   The Fisher Transform Indicator Trading Applications  

The Fisher Transform indicator is unbounded, which means extremes can occur for a long time. An extreme is based on the historical readings for the asset in question. For some assets, a high reading may be seven or eight, while a low reading may be -4. For another asset, these values may differ.



An extreme reading indicates the possibility of a reversal. This should be confirmed by the Fisher Transform changing direction. For example, following a strong price rise and the Fisher Transform reaching an extremely high level, when the Fisher Transform starts to head lower that could signal the price is going to drop, or has already started dropping.



The Fisher Transform frequently has a signal line attached to it. This is a moving average (MA) of the Fisher Transform value, so it moves slightly slower than the Fisher Transform line. When the Fisher Transform crosses the trigger line, it is used by some traders as a trade signal. For example, when the Fisher Transform drops below the signal line after hitting an extreme high, that could be used as a signal to sell a current long position.



As with many indicators, the Fisher will provide lots of trade signals, plenty of which are not profitable to follow. Therefore, some traders prefer to use the indicator in conjunction with trend analysis. For example, when the price is rising overall, use the Fisher Transform for buy and sell signals, but not for short-sell signals. Meanwhile, during a downtrend, use it for short-sell signals and ideas on when to cover.


   The Fisher Transform Indicator vs. Bollinger Bands®  

These two indicators look very different on a chart, yet both are based on a distribution of asset prices.



Bollinger Bands® use a normal distribution in that they use standard deviation to show when the price may be overextended. Fisher Transform, on the other hand, uses a Gaussian normal distribution. The Fisher Transform appears as a separate indicator on a price chart, while Bollinger Bands® are overlayed over the price.


   Limitations of the Fisher Transform Indicator  

The indicator can be rather noisy at times, even though its intent is to make turning points easier to identify. Extreme readings are not always followed by a price reversal; sometimes the price just moves sideways or reverses only a small amount.



What qualifies as extreme can also be hard to judge, since the levels tend to vary over time. Four may be a high level for years, but then readings of eight may start to frequently appear.



Looking at all changes in direction on the Fisher Transform can help spot short-term changes in price direction. However, the signal may come too late to capitalize, as many of these price moves may be short-lived.



Asset prices are not normally distributed, therefore attempts to normalize prices could be inherently flawed and may not produce reliable signals.
What Is Fitch Ratings?  

Fitch Ratings is an international credit rating agency based in New York City and London. Investors use the company's ratings to determine which investments are less likely to default and yield a solid return. Fitch bases the ratings on several factors, such as what kind of debt a company holds and its sensitivity to systemic changes like interest rates.





Key Takeaways

Fitch Ratings is a credit rating agency that rates the viability of investments relative to the likelihood of default.Fitch is one of the top three credit rating agencies internationally, along with Moody's and Standard & Poor's.Fitch uses a letter system; for example, a company rated AAA is very high quality with reliable cash flows, while a company rated D has already defaulted.


   Understanding Fitch Ratings  

Fitch is one of the top three credit rating agencies in the world. The Fitch rating system is very similar to other rating agencies in that they all use a letter system.



The Fitch rating system breaks entities into two categories, investment grade, and non-investment grade. The investment grade ratings are:



AAA: companies of exceptionally high quality (established, with consistent cash flows)AA: still high quality; still has a low default risk.A: low default risk; slightly more vulnerable to business or economic factorsBBB: a low expectation of default; business or economic factors could adversely affect the company



The non-investment grade ratings are:



BB: elevated vulnerability to default risk, more susceptible to adverse shifts in business or economic conditions; still financially flexibleB: degrading financial situation; highly speculativeCCC: a real possibility of defaultCC: default is a strong probabilityC: default or default-like process has begunRD: issuer has defaulted on a paymentD: defaulted


   Fitch Ratings and Sovereign Nations  

Fitch offers sovereign credit ratings that describe each nation’s ability to meet its debt obligations. Sovereign credit ratings are available to investors to help give them insight into the level of risk associated with investing in a particular country. Countries will invite Fitch and other credit rating agencies to evaluate their economic and political environments and financial situations to determine a representative rating. It’s essential for countries to obtain the best sovereign credit rating possible, particularly in the case of developing nations, as it aids in accessing funding in international bond markets.



In 2018 Fitch awarded the United States the highest AAA long-term sovereign credit rating. On the lower end was Brazil with a BB-. However, in 2023, Fitch downgraded the U.S. to AA+, a rating between AAA and AA that signifies a slight reduction in confidence that the country can pay its debts—but the agency believes the U.S. is still a high quality investment with a low risk of defaulting.






Country ratings are important because they can influence international investor sentiments, which is why the U.S. downgrade to AA+ is significant.


   Fitch Ratings of Companies and Others  

Fitch Ratings also analyzes the issues of companies, local governments and agencies, and financial institutions for their creditworthiness. For example, the agency analyzed two of Jacksonville, Florida's special revenue bonds, awarding them an AA- investment grade rating. This means the municipality is rated between a low risk of default and a low expectation of default on its two issuances, which total more than $290 million. The bonds are intended to refund earlier bond issues and finance capital equipment and improvements in the city.



At the financial institution level, Fitch rated London-based National Westminster Bank mortgage-covered bonds at AAA, with a stable outlook. This rating is the highest available, signifying Fitch's confidence in the bank's bonds.




What Are Fitch Ratings?
Fitch Ratings are a system of creditworthiness ratings that gauge the ability of a country or business to pay off its debts.




What Does the Fitch Rating A+ Mean?
A rating of A+ means there is a low default risk and that a business or country is slightly more vulnerable to business or economic factors. The plus symbol indicates that the entity's credit rating is higher than others given the A rating but not enough to warrant an upgrade to the AA rating.




What Are Moody's and Fitch Ratings?
Moody's and Fitch Ratings are two credit rating agencies that analyze how creditworthy a company is. These ratings help investors make decisions about their investments. Both agencies provide sovereign credit ratings for countries to help international investors make investing decisions.


   The Bottom Line  

Fitch Ratings is a credit rating agency that rates institutions, corporations, and countries for their creditworthiness. The agency has been around for more than 100 years, offering insights to investors worldwide.
The five Cs of credit are important because lenders use these factors to determine whether to approve you for a financial product. Lenders also use these five Cs—character, capacity, capital, collateral, and conditions—to set your loan rates and loan terms.


   What Are the 5 Cs of Credit?  

The five Cs of credit is a system used by lenders to gauge the creditworthiness of potential borrowers. The system weighs five characteristics of the borrower and conditions of the loan, attempting to estimate the chance of default and, consequently, the risk of a financial loss for the lender. The five Cs of credit are character, capacity, capital, collateral, and conditions.





Key Takeaways

The five Cs of credit are used to convey the creditworthiness of potential borrowers, starting with the applicant’s character, which is their credit history.Capacity is the applicant’s debt-to-income (DTI) ratio.Capital is the amount of money that an applicant has.Collateral is an asset that can back or act as security for the loan.Conditions are the purpose of the loan, the amount involved, and prevailing interest rates.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding the 5 Cs of Credit  

The five-Cs-of-credit method of evaluating a borrower incorporates both qualitative and quantitative measures. Lenders may look at a borrower’s credit reports, credit scores, income statements, and other documents relevant to the borrower’s financial situation. They also consider information about the loan itself.



Each lender has its own method for analyzing a borrower’s creditworthiness. Most lenders use the five Cs—character, capacity, capital, collateral, and conditions—when analyzing individual or business credit applications.












Alison Czinkota / Investopedia


   1. Character  

Character, the first C, more specifically refers to credit history, which is a borrower’s reputation or track record for repaying debts. This information appears on the borrower’s credit reports, which are generated by the three major credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Credit reports contain detailed information about how much an applicant has borrowed in the past and whether they have repaid loans on time.



These reports also contain information on collection accounts and bankruptcies, and they retain most information for seven to 10 years. Information from these reports helps lenders evaluate the borrower’s credit risk. For example, FICO uses the information found on a consumer’s credit report to create a credit score, a tool that lenders use for a quick snapshot of creditworthiness before looking at credit reports.



FICO Scores range from 300 to 850 and are designed to help lenders predict the likelihood that an applicant will repay a loan on time. Other firms, such as VantageScore, a scoring system created by a collaboration of Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion, also provide information to lenders.



Many lenders have a minimum credit score requirement before an applicant is approved for a new loan. Minimum credit score requirements generally vary from lender to lender and from one loan product to the next. The general rule is the higher a borrower’s credit score, the higher the likelihood of being approved.



Lenders also regularly rely on credit scores to set the rates and terms of loans. The result is often more attractive loan offers for borrowers who have good to excellent credit. Given how crucial a good credit score and credit reports are to secure a loan, it’s worth considering one of the best credit monitoring services to ensure that this information stays safe.


  Improving Your 5 Cs: Character  

Prospective borrowers should ensure that credit history is correct and accurate on their credit report. Adverse, incorrect discrepancies can be detrimental to your credit history and credit score. Consider implementing automatic payments on recurring billings to ensure future obligations are paid on time. Paying monthly recurring debts and building a history of on-time payments help to build your credit score.


   2. Capacity  

Capacity measures the borrower’s ability to repay a loan by comparing income against recurring debts and assessing the borrower’s debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. Lenders calculate DTI by adding a borrower’s total monthly debt payments and dividing that by the borrower’s gross monthly income. The lower an applicant’s DTI, the better the chance of qualifying for a new loan.



Every lender is different, but many lenders prefer an applicant’s DTI to be around 36% or less before approving an application for new financing. It is worth noting that sometimes lenders are prohibited from issuing loans to consumers with higher DTIs as well.



For example, qualifying for a new mortgage typically requires a borrower have a DTI of 43% or lower to ensure that the borrower can comfortably afford the monthly payments for the new loan, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).


  Improving Your 5 Cs: Capacity  

You can improve your capacity by increasing your salary or wages or decreasing debt. A lender will likely want to see a history of stable income. Although switching jobs may result in higher pay, the lender may want to ensure that your job security is stable and that your pay will continue to be consistent.



Lenders may consider incorporating freelance, gig, or other supplemental income. However, income must often be stable and recurring for maximum consideration and benefit. Securing more stable income streams may improve your capacity.



Regarding debt, paying down balances will continue to improve your capacity. Refinancing debt to lower interest rates or lower monthly payments may temporarily alleviate pressure on your debt-to-income metrics, though these new loans may cost more in the long run. Be mindful that lenders may often be more interested in monthly payment obligations than in full debt balances. So, paying off an entire loan and eliminating that monthly obligation will improve your capacity.





Lien and Judgment Report

Lenders may also review a lien and judgments report, such as LexisNexis RiskView, to further assess a borrower’s risk before they issue a new loan approval.


   3. Capital  

Lenders also consider any capital that the borrower puts toward a potential investment. A large capital contribution by the borrower decreases the chance of default.



Borrowers who can put a down payment on a home, for example, typically find it easier to receive a mortgage—even special mortgages designed to make homeownership accessible to more people. For instance, loans guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) may require a down payment of 3.5% or higher and 90% loans by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) don't require a down payment at all. Capital contributions indicate the borrower’s level of investment, which can make lenders more comfortable about extending credit.



Down payment size can also affect the rates and terms of a borrower’s loan. Generally, larger down payments or larger capital contributions result in better rates and terms. With mortgage loans, for example, a down payment of 20% or more should help a borrower avoid the requirement to purchase additional private mortgage insurance (PMI).


  Improving Your 5 Cs: Capital  

Capital is often obtained over time, and it might take a bit more patience to build up a larger down payment on a major purchase. Depending on your purchasing time line, you may want to ensure that your down payment savings are yielding growth, such as through investments. Some investors with a long investment horizon may consider placing their capital in index funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) for potential growth at the risk of loss of capital.



Another consideration is the timing of the major purchase. It may be more advantageous to move forward with a major purchase with a lower down payment as opposed to waiting to build capital. In many situations, the value of the asset may appreciate (such as housing prices on the rise). In these cases, it would be less beneficial to spend time building capital.


   4. Collateral  

Collateral can help a borrower secure loans. It gives the lender the assurance that if the borrower defaults on the loan, the lender can get something back by repossessing the collateral. The collateral is often the object for which one is borrowing the money: Auto loans, for instance, are secured by cars, and mortgages are secured by homes.



For this reason, collateral-backed loans are sometimes referred to as secured loans or secured debt. They are generally considered to be less risky for lenders to issue. As a result, loans that are secured by some form of collateral are commonly offered with lower interest rates and better terms compared to other unsecured forms of financing.


  Improving Your 5 Cs: Collateral  

You may improve your collateral by simply entering into a specific type of loan agreement. A lender will often place a lien on specific types of assets to ensure that they have the right to recover losses in the event of your default. This collateral agreement may be a requirement for your loan.



Some other types of loans may require external collateral. For example, private, personal loans may require placing your car as collateral. For these types of loans, ensure you have assets that you can post, and remember that the bank is only entitled to these assets if you default.


   5. Conditions  

In addition to examining income, lenders look at the general conditions relating to the loan. This may include the length of time that an applicant has been employed at their current job, how their industry is performing, and future job stability.



The conditions of the loan, such as the interest rate and the amount of principal, influence the lender’s desire to finance the borrower. Conditions can refer to how a borrower intends to use the money. Business loans that may provide future cash flow may have better conditions than a house renovation during a slumping housing environment in which the borrower has no intention of selling.



Additionally, lenders may consider conditions outside of the borrower’s control, such as the state of the economy, industry trends, or pending legislative changes. For companies trying to secure a loan, these uncontrollable conditions may be the prospects of key suppliers or customer financial security in the coming years.






Some consider the criteria that lenders use as the four Cs. Because conditions may be the same from one debtor to the next, it is sometimes excluded to emphasize the criteria most in control of a debtor.


  Improving Your 5 Cs: Conditions  

Conditions are the least likely of the five Cs to be controllable. Many conditions such as macroeconomic, global, political, or broad financial circumstances may not pertain specifically to a borrower. Instead, they may be conditions that all borrowers may face.



A borrower may be able to control some conditions. Ensure that you have a strong, solid reason for incurring debt, and be able to show how your current financial position supports it. Businesses, for example, may need to demonstrate strong prospects and healthy financial projections.




What are the 5 Cs of credit?
The five Cs of credit are character, capacity, collateral, capital, and conditions.




Why are the 5 Cs important?
Lenders use the five Cs to decide whether a loan applicant is eligible for credit and to determine related interest rates and credit limits. They help determine the riskiness of a borrower or the likelihood that the loan’s principal and interest will be repaid in a full and timely manner.




Which of the 5 Cs is the most important?
Each of the five Cs has its own value, and each should be considered important. Some lenders may carry more weight for categories than others based on prevailing circumstances.Character and capacity are often most important for determining whether a lender will extend credit. Banks utilizing debt-to-income (DTI) ratios, household income limits, credit score minimums, or other metrics will usually look at these two categories. Though the size of a down payment or collateral will help improve loan terms, these two are often not the primary factors in how a lender determines whether to expend credit.




Which of the 5 Cs refers to an individual’s credit history?
Character refers to the composition of a borrower’s financial history and financial health. Character incorporates a borrower’s payment history, credit score, credit history, and relationship with prior debtors.




What are the principles of the 5 Cs of credit that banks operate on?
The main principle behind the five Cs is to gauge the risk of extending credit to a borrower. A lender needs to evaluate who they are lending money to, why the borrower is asking for money, and the likelihood of recovering loan proceeds.Another principle of the five Cs is to determine how credit is priced. Borrowers with more favorable five Cs may get better terms, lower rates, and lower payments. Borrowers who are riskier with poorer five Cs may face unfavorable terms.A lender also relies on the five Cs to determine whether they want to conduct business with a borrower. If a borrower’s five Cs are poor, then the lender may decline to extend credit.


   The Bottom Line  

Lenders use certain criteria to evaluate borrowers prior to issuing debt. The criteria often fall into several categories, which are collectively referred to as the five Cs. To ensure the best credit terms, lenders must consider their credit character, capacity to make payments, collateral on hand, capital available for up-front deposits, and conditions prevalent in the market.
What Is the 5-Year Rule?  

Generally speaking, the 5-year rule concerns the withdrawal of funds from an Individual Retirement Account (IRA). However, several different types of 5-year rules actually exist. Two apply specifically to Roth IRAs and the waiting period before funds can be withdrawn. Another relates to the distribution schedule of funds from inherited IRAs, either Roth or traditional ones.





Key Takeaways

The 5-year rule deals with withdrawals from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs).One set of 5-year rules applies to Roth IRAs, dictating a waiting period before earnings or converted funds can be withdrawn from the account.To withdraw earnings from a Roth IRA without owing taxes or penalties, you must be at least 59½ years old and have held the account for at least five tax years.


   How the 5-Year Rule Works  

Contributions to a Roth IRA can be distributed to the original account holder at any time. However, to withdraw earnings from your Roth without owing taxes or penalties you have to be at least 59½ years old and the account has to be five years old. Even if you’re already 59½, you have to have established and held the Roth for at least five tax years. That, in a nutshell, is the 5-year rule for Roths.



The 5-year rule only limits when you can withdraw your earnings from your Roth IRA. That means the interest, dividends, capital gains, and any other income your Roth investments have accumulated. Contributions are not limited because they came from your after-tax money—you did not get a deduction when you deposited them into your Roth. Therefore, says the IRS, you can withdraw your contributions at any time and at any age you want, without any penalty or taxes.






The 5-year clock starts ticking with your first contribution to any Roth IRA. Thus, the clock rule also applies to conversions from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.



The second 5-year rule determines whether the distribution of principal from the conversion of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA is penalty-free. (You pay taxes upon conversion.) Each conversion has its own five-year period, but IRS rules stipulate the oldest conversions are withdrawn first. The order of withdrawals for Roth IRAs are contributions first, followed by conversions, and then earnings.



If you break the 5-year rule by withdrawing earnings or converting funds from a Roth IRA too soon, your withdrawal will be deemed as an unqualified distribution by the IRS. Unqualified distributions are subject to taxes at your current ordinary income tax rate, plus a 10% penalty. This can be a large additional tax: If you were in the 24% tax bracket, you would see 34% of your Roth IRA’s earnings evaporate in taxes and penalties because you withdrew the earnings before five years had passed.


   Inherited IRAs vs. Traditional IRAs vs. Roth IRAs  
  Inherited IRAs  

The 5-year rule applies to one of several options that beneficiaries have when it comes to taking distributions from an inherited IRA. Whether it's a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA, heirs are required to take annual allocations from the account, known as required minimum distributions (RMDs).



Beneficiaries who inherit an IRA can take distributions of either contributions or earnings without a penalty; however, this distribution may trigger a taxable event. Whether you'll need to pay taxes on your distribution depends upon the type of IRA you inherit and your relationship to the deceased.



For example, if you inherit a Roth IRA and take a distribution, any earnings or interest on the contribution will be subject to tax if the IRA wasn't held for five tax years by the original owner.



With the passage of the SECURE Act, starting in 2020, non-spousal beneficiaries of an IRA must withdraw all funds from the account within 10 years of the original owner's death. Before passage of the SECURE Act, beneficiaries could stretch out the distribution period and delay paying taxes on distributions, an estate planning strategy known as a stretch IRA.






SEP IRAs and Simple IRAs are classified as traditional IRAs when they are inherited. Roth IRAs will remain Roth IRAs.



Spouses, beneficiaries who are not 10 years younger than the decedent, a minor child of the plan participant, a disabled person, or a chronically ill person, however, have more flexibility under the SECURE Act; they can transfer the existing IRA into their name and defer distributions.


  Traditional IRAs  

Under the 5-year rule, the beneficiary of a traditional IRA will not face the usual 10% withdrawal penalty on any distribution, even if they make it before they are 59½. Income taxes will be due, however, on the funds, at the beneficiary's regular tax rate.



The new owner of the IRA may roll all funds over into another account under their name or cash it out in a lump sum, or do a combination. Within the five-year window, recipients may continue to contribute to the inherited IRA account. When those five years are up, however, the beneficiary would have to withdraw all assets.


  Roth IRAs   

A Roth IRA is also subject to a five-year inheritance rule. The beneficiary must liquidate the entire value of the inherited IRA by Dec. 31 of the year containing the fifth anniversary of the owner’s death.



Notably, no RMDs are required during the five-year period. For example, Ron dies in 2021, leaving his Roth IRA to his daughter Ramona. If she opts for the five-year payout, she must distribute all assets by Dec. 31, 2026.



If the beneficiary is taking distributions from an inherited Roth IRA that has existed for longer than five years, all distributions will be tax-free. Further, the tax-free distribution may be made up of earnings or principal. For beneficiaries of a fund that hasn't met that five-year mark, withdrawals of earnings are taxable, but the principal remains untaxed.


   Example of the 5-Year Rule  

For example, let's say the original IRA account holder died before reaching age 70½ but had only established the account three years ago. In this scenario, the beneficiary would need to wait two additional years before they could withdraw earnings on the Roth IRA investments without incurring taxes. This stipulation can raise some serious issues because, under the 5-year rule, all assets must be removed from an inherited IRA within five years after the original account holder's death.



Beneficiaries must explore all the options they have when it comes to taking distributions from an inherited Roth IRA and choosing the one that best suits their situation. In the above example, the beneficiary might want to opt for distributions based on their life expectancy instead of using the five-year plan.


   Special Considerations  

Roth IRAs are a type of retirement account. Using them for anything other than saving and investing for retirement tends to defeat their purpose. Instituting a rule that investors had to wait at least five years before withdrawing their earnings reinforces the principle that Roth IRAs are designed for long-term investing and should not be considered a savings account with benefits. The legislators who founded the Roth thought that the five-year wait would help deter people from misusing it.



As for the inherited IRAs, the five-year schedule is a compromise from the IRS. It understands that IRAs wouldn't be very popular if they couldn't be bequeathed and if passing them on created a tax burden for beneficiaries.



At the same time, these heirs weren't the ones who funded the account, and the IRS doesn't want to miss out on any tax revenue it's owed, especially on traditional IRAs. Hence, the IRS mandates that funds be withdrawn according to either the five-year plan or one based on the beneficiary's life expectancy.




What Is the 5-Year Rule for Roth IRA?
The 5-year rule for Roth IRAs states that you cannot withdraw the earnings from your Roth IRA account unless it has been five years since you first contributed to your account.




What Is the 5-Year Rule for Inherited IRA?
The 5-year rule applies to taking distributions from an inherited IRA. To withdraw earnings from an inherited IRA, the account must have been opened for a minimum of five years at the time of death of the original account holder.




Does the Roth 5-Year Rule Apply for Those Aged 59½ or Older?
Yes, the account must be five years old for earnings within a Roth IRA to be distributed without owing taxes or penalties even if you’re already 59½ years old.




What Are the Contribution Limits for a Roth IRA?
The contribution limit for a Roth IRA in 2021 and 2022 is $6,000. If you are aged 50 and older, you can contribute an additional $1,000.




What Is the 2 Out of 5 Year Rule?
The 2 out of 5-year rule that homeowners must have lived in their home for two out of the last five years before the date of sale in order to avoid or reduce capital gains taxes on the appreciated value of the home.
What Is a Fixed Annuity?  

A fixed annuity is a type of insurance contract that promises to pay the buyer a specific, guaranteed interest rate on their contributions to the account. By contrast, a variable annuity pays interest that can fluctuate based on the performance of an investment portfolio chosen by the account's owner. Fixed annuities are often used in retirement planning.





Key Takeaways

Fixed annuities are insurance contracts that pay a guaranteed rate of interest on the account owner's contributions.Variable annuities, by contrast, pay a rate that varies according to the performance of an investment portfolio chosen by the account owner.The earnings in a fixed annuity are tax deferred until the owner begins receiving income from the annuity.


   How a Fixed Annuity Works  

Investors can buy a fixed annuity with either a lump sum of money or a series of payments over time. The insurance company, in turn, guarantees that the account will earn a certain rate of interest. This period is known as the accumulation phase.



When the annuity owner, or annuitant, elects to begin receiving regular income from the annuity, the insurance company calculates those payments based on the amount of money in the account, the owner's age, how long the payments are to continue, and other factors. This begins the payout phase. The payout phase may continue for a specified number of years or for the rest of the owner's life.



During the accumulation phase, the account grows tax-deferred. Then the account holder annuitizes the contract, distributions are taxed based on an exclusion ratio. This is the ratio of the account holder's premium payments to the to the amount accumulated in the account that is based on gains from the interest earned during the accumulation phase. The premiums paid are excluded and the portion attributable to gains is taxed. This is often expressed as a percentage.



This situation applies to non-qualified annuities, which are those not held in a qualified retirement plan. In the case of a qualified annuity, the entire payment would be subject to taxes.


   Benefits of a Fixed Annuity  

Owners of fixed annuities can benefit from these contracts in a variety of ways.


  Predictable investment returns  

The rates on fixed annuities are derived from the yield that the life insurance company generates from its investment portfolio, which is invested primarily in high-quality corporate and government bonds. The insurance company is then responsible for paying whatever rate it has promised in the annuity contract. This contrasts with variable annuities, where the annuity owner chooses the underlying investments and therefore assumes much of the investment risk.


  Guaranteed minimum rates  

Once the initial guarantee period in the contract expires, the insurer can adjust the rate based on a stated formula or on the yield it is earning on its investment portfolio. As a measure of protection against declining interest rates, fixed annuity contracts typically include a minimum rate guarantee.


  Tax-deferred growth  

Because a fixed annuity is a tax-qualified vehicle, its earnings grow and compound tax deferred; annuity owners are taxed only when they take money from the account, either through occasional withdrawals or as regular income. ﻿﻿ This tax deferral can make a significant difference in how the account builds up over time, particularly for people in higher tax brackets. The same is true of qualified retirement accounts, such as IRAs and 401(k) plans, which also grow tax deferred.


  Guaranteed income payments  

Fixed annuities may be converted into an immediate annuity at any time the owner selects. The annuity will then generate a guaranteed income payout for a specified period of time or for the life of the annuitant.


  Relative safety of principal  

The life insurance company is responsible for the security of the money invested in the annuity and for fulfilling any promises made in the contract. Unlike most bank accounts, annuities are not federally insured. For that reason, buyers should only consider doing business with life insurance companies that earn high grades for financial strength from the major independent ratings agencies.






Annuities often have high fees, so it pays to shop around and consider other types of investments.


   Criticisms of Fixed Annuities  

Annuities, whether fixed or variable, are relatively illiquid. Fixed annuities typically allow for one withdrawal per year of up to 10% of the account value. This makes them inappropriate for money that an investor might need for a sudden financial emergency.



During the annuity's surrender period, which can run for as long as 15 years from the start of the contract, withdrawals of more than 10% are subject to a surrender charge imposed by the insurer.﻿﻿ Annuity owners who are under age 59½ may also have to pay a 10% tax penalty, in addition to regular income taxes.﻿﻿



Finally, annuities often carry high fees, compared to other types of investments. Anyone interested in an annuity should make sure they understand all of the fees involved before they commit. It also pays to shop around because fees and other terms can vary widely from one insurer to the next.
What Is a Fixed Asset?  

The term fixed asset refers to a long-term tangible piece of property or equipment that a firm owns and uses in its operations to generate income. The general assumption about fixed assets is that they are expected to last, be consumed, or be converted into cash after at least one year.



As such, companies are able to depreciate the value of these assets to account for natural wear and tear. Fixed assets most commonly appear on the balance sheet as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).





Key Takeaways:

Fixed assets are items that a company plans to use over the long term to help generate income.Fixed assets are most commonly referred to as property, plant, and equipment.Current assets are any assets that are expected to be converted to cash or used within a year.Noncurrent assets, in addition to fixed assets, include intangibles and long-term investments.Fixed assets are subject to depreciation to account for the loss in value as the assets are used, whereas intangibles are amortized.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Fixed Assets in Corporate Accounting  

A company's balance sheet statement includes its assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity. Assets are divided into current assets and noncurrent assets, the difference of which lies in their useful lives. Current assets are typically liquid, which means they can be converted into cash in less than a year. Noncurrent assets refer to assets and property owned by a business that are not easily converted to cash and include long-term investments, deferred charges, intangible assets, and fixed assets.



The term alludes to the fact that these assets won't be used up or sold within the accounting period. A fixed asset typically has a physical form and is reported on the balance sheet as PP&E. Companies purchase fixed assets for any number of reasons including:



The production or supply of goods or servicesRental to third partiesUse in an organization


   Fixed Assets and Depreciation  

Fixed assets lose value as they age. Because they provide long-term income, these assets are expensed differently than other items. Tangible assets are subject to periodic depreciation while intangible assets are subject to amortization. A certain amount of an asset's cost is expensed annually. The asset's value decreases along with its depreciation amount on the company's balance sheet. The corporation can then match the asset's cost with its long-term value.



How a business depreciates an asset can cause its book value (the asset value that appears on the balance sheet) to differ from the current market value (CMV) at which the asset could sell. Land is one fixed asset that cannot be depreciated.






A fixed asset does not necessarily have to be fixed (i.e., stationary or immobile) in all senses of the word.


   Fixed Assets on Financial Statements  

The acquisition or disposal of a fixed asset is recorded on a company's cash flow statement under the cash flow from investing activities. The purchase of fixed assets represents a cash outflow (negative) to the company while a sale is a cash inflow (positive). If the asset's value falls below its net book value, the asset is subject to an impairment write-down. This means that its recorded value on the balance sheet is adjusted downward to reflect that it is overvalued compared to the market value.



When a fixed asset reaches the end of its useful life, it is usually disposed of by selling it for a salvage value. This is the asset's estimated value if it was broken down and sold in parts. In some cases, the asset may become obsolete and will, therefore, be disposed of without receiving any payment in return. Either way, the fixed asset is written off the balance sheet as it is no longer in use by the company.






Some companies refer to their fixed assets as capital assets.


   Fixed Assets vs. Current Assets and Noncurrent Assets  

Both current assets and fixed assets appear on the balance sheet, with current assets meant to be used or converted to cash in the short term (less than one year) and fixed assets meant to be used over the longer term (more than one year). Current assets include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable (AR), inventory, and prepaid expenses. Fixed assets are depreciated, while current assets are not.



Fixed assets are a form of noncurrent assets. Other noncurrent assets include long-term investments and intangibles. Intangible assets are fixed assets to be used over the long term, but they lack physical existence. Examples of intangible assets include goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, and intellectual property. Meanwhile, long-term investments can include bond investments that will not be sold or mature within a year.


   Benefits of Fixed Assets  

Information about a corporation's assets helps create accurate financial reporting, business valuations, and thorough financial analysis. Investors and creditors use these reports to determine a company's financial health and decide whether to buy shares in or lend money to the business.



Because a company may use a range of accepted methods for recording, depreciating, and disposing of its assets, analysts need to study the notes on the corporation's financial statements to find out how the numbers are determined.



Fixed assets are particularly important to capital-intensive industries, such as manufacturing, which require large investments in PP&E. When a business is reporting persistently negative net cash flows for the purchase of fixed assets, this could be a strong indicator that the firm is in growth or investment mode.


   Examples of Fixed Assets  

Fixed assets can include buildings, computer equipment, software, furniture, land, machinery, and vehicles.



For example, if a company sells produce, the delivery trucks it owns and uses are fixed assets. If a business creates a company parking lot, the parking lot is a fixed asset. However, personal vehicles used to get to work are not considered fixed assets. Additionally, buying rock salt to melt ice in the parking lot would be considered an expense and not an asset at all.




What Is the Difference Between Fixed Assets and Current Assets?
The major difference between the two is that fixed assets are depreciated, while current assets are not. Both current and fixed assets do, however, appear on the balance sheet.Fixed assets are company-owned, long-term tangible assets, such as forms of property or equipment. These assets make up its day-to-day operations to generate income. Being fixed means they can't be consumed or converted into cash within a year. As such, they are subject to depreciation and are considered illiquid.Current assets, on the other hand, are used or converted to cash in less than one year (the short term) and are not depreciated. Current assets include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, inventory, and prepaid expenses.




What Are Examples of Fixed Assets?
Fixed assets can include buildings, computer equipment, software, furniture, land, machinery, and vehicles. For example, if a company sells produce, the delivery trucks it owns and uses are fixed assets.




What Are Other Types of Noncurrent Assets?
Other noncurrent assets include long-term investments and intangibles. Intangible assets are those that can lack physical existence but can still be used over the long term. These types of assets include goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, and intellectual property. Long-term investments can include bonds that won't be sold or mature within a year.




Is a Car a Fixed Asset?
It depends on how the car is being used. If the car is being used in a company's operations to generate income, such as a delivery vehicle, it may be considered a fixed asset. However, if the car is being used for personal use, it would not be considered a fixed asset and would not be recorded on the company's balance sheet. 




Is a Laptop a Fixed Asset?
If the laptop is being used in a company's operations to generate income, such as by an employee who uses it to perform their job, it may be considered a fixed asset. In this case, the laptop would be recorded on the company's balance sheet as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). However, if the laptop is being used for personal use, it would not be considered a fixed asset and would not be recorded on the company's balance sheet. 


   The Bottom Line  

A fixed asset is a long-term tangible property or piece of equipment that a company owns and uses in its operations to generate income. These assets are not expected to be sold or used within a year and are sometimes recorded on the balance sheet as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). Fixed assets are subject to depreciation, which accounts for their loss in value over time, whereas intangible assets are amortized. Fixed assets are often contrasted with current assets, which are expected to be converted to cash or used within a year.
What Is the Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio?  

The fixed asset turnover ratio (FAT) is, in general, used by analysts to measure operating performance. This efficiency ratio compares net sales (income statement) to fixed assets (balance sheet) and measures a company's ability to generate net sales from its fixed-asset investments, namely property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).



The fixed asset balance is used as a net of accumulated depreciation. A higher fixed asset turnover ratio indicates that a company has effectively used investments in fixed assets to generate sales.





Key Takeaways

The fixed asset turnover ratio reveals how efficient a company is at generating sales from its existing fixed assets.The fixed asset turnover ratio is calculated by dividing net sales by the average balance in fixed assets.A higher ratio implies that management is using its fixed assets more effectively.A high FAT ratio does not tell anything about a company's ability to generate solid profits or cash flows.The fixed asset turnover is similar to other turnover ratios such as the assets turnover ratio, though the fixed asset turnover ratio uses a subset of assets to compare a company's activity against.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio Formula  

The formula for the fixed asset turnover ratio is:


















FAT


=



Net Sales


Average Fixed Assets

















where:
















Net Sales


=


Gross sales, less returns, and allowances
















Average Fixed Assets


=




NABB


−


Ending Balance



2

















NABB


=


Net fixed assets’ beginning balance







\begin{aligned} &\text{FAT} = \frac { \text{Net Sales} }{ \text{Average Fixed Assets} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Net Sales} = \text{Gross sales, less returns, and allowances} \\ &\text{Average Fixed Assets} = \frac { \text{NABB} - \text{Ending Balance} }{ 2 } \\ &\text{NABB} = \text{Net fixed assets' beginning balance} \\ \end{aligned}


​FAT=Average Fixed AssetsNet Sales​where:Net Sales=Gross sales, less returns, and allowancesAverage Fixed Assets=2NABB−Ending Balance​NABB=Net fixed assets’ beginning balance​



The ratio is commonly used as a metric in manufacturing industries that make substantial purchases of PP&E in order to increase output. When a company makes such significant purchases, wise investors closely monitor this ratio in subsequent years to see if the company's new fixed assets reward it with increased sales.



Overall, investments in fixed assets tend to represent the largest component of the company’s total assets. The FAT ratio, calculated annually, is constructed to reflect how efficiently a company, or more specifically, the company’s management team, has used these substantial assets to generate revenue for the firm.


   Interpreting the Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio  

A higher turnover ratio is indicative of greater efficiency in managing fixed-asset investments, but there is not an exact number or range that dictates whether a company has been efficient at generating revenue from such investments. For this reason, it is important for analysts and investors to compare a company’s most recent ratio to both its own historical ratios and ratio values from peer companies and/or average ratios for the company's industry as a whole.



Though the FAT ratio is of significant importance in certain industries, an investor or analyst must determine whether the company under study is in the appropriate sector or industry for the ratio to be calculated before attaching much weight to it.



Fixed assets vary drastically from one company type to the next. As an example, consider the difference between an internet company and a manufacturing company. An internet company, such as Meta (formerly Facebook), has a significantly smaller fixed asset base than a manufacturing giant, such as Caterpillar. Clearly, in this example, Caterpillar’s fixed asset turnover ratio is of more relevance and should hold more weight than Meta’s FAT ratio.


   Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio vs. Asset Turnover Ratio  

The asset turnover ratio uses total assets instead of focusing only on fixed assets as done in the FAT ratio. Using total assets acts as an indicator of a number of management’s decisions on capital expenditures and other assets.



A company's asset turnover ratio will be smaller than its fixed asset turnover ratio because the denominator in the equation is larger while the numerator stays the same. It also makes conceptual sense that there is a wider gap between the amount of sales and total assets compared to the amount of sales and a subset of assets.



Manufacturing companies often favor the fixed asset turnover ratio over the asset turnover ratio because they want to get the best sense in how their capital investments are performing. Companies with fewer fixed assets such as a retailer may be less interested in the FAT compared to how other assets such as inventory are being utilized.






Because the fixed asset ratio is best used as a comparative tool, it's crucial that the same method of picking information is used across periods.


   Limitations of Using the Fixed Asset Ratio  

Companies with cyclical sales may have worse ratios in slow periods, so the ratio should be looked at during several different time periods. Additionally, management could be outsourcing production to reduce reliance on assets and improve its FAT ratio, while still struggling to maintain stable cash flows and other business fundamentals.



Companies with strong asset turnover ratios can still lose money because the amount of sales generated by fixed assets speak nothing of the company's ability to generate solid profits or healthy cash flow. The fixed asset ratio only looks at net sales and fixed assets; company-wide expenses are not factored into the equation. In addition, there are differences in the cashflow between when net sales are collected and when fixed assets are invested in.



Like other financial ratios, the fixed ratio turnover ratio is only useful as a comparative tool. For instance, a company will gain the most insight when the fixed asset ratio is compared over time to see the trend of how the company is doing. Alternatively, a company can gain insight into their competitors by evaluating how their fixed asset ratio compares to others.


   Example of Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio  

In the Q3 2022 balance sheet below, Amazon reported owning $177.2 billion of property and equipment net of depreciation as of Sept. 30, 2022. It also reported owning $160.3 billion of property and equipment as of Dec. 31, 2021. In this simplified example, we'll assume these are our starting and ending fixed asset balances. This means Amazon's average fixed assets for this example was $168.75 billion.















Amazon Balance Sheet, Q3 2022.



Shown in the image below, Amazon also reported its net income for these periods. For the fixed asset turnover ratio, it doesn't necessarily matter what prior year sales were unless we were calculating last year's ratio. To calculate this year's ratio, all we need is the current net sales for the period ending in September 2022. This is $364.8 billion.















Amazon Income Statement, Q3 2022.



To calculate the fixed asset turnover ratio for Amazon, the $364.8 billion of net sales would be divided by the $168.75 average balance of fixed assets. Therefore, the company's fixed asset turnover ratio is 2.16. This means that for this period, for every dollar of fixed assets Amazon owned, it generated $2.16 of net sales.




What Is a Good Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio?
Fixed asset turnover ratios widely vary by industry and company size. Therefore, there is no single benchmark all companies can use as their target fixed asset turnover ratio. Instead, companies should evaluate what the industry average is and what their competitor's fixed asset turnover ratios are. A good fixed asset turnover ratio will be higher than both.




Should the Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio Be High or Low?
Companies with higher fixed asset turnover ratios earn more money for every dollar they've invested in fixed assets. For most, a higher fixed asset turnover ratio is better.




What Is the Main Downside to the Fixed Asset Turnover Ratio?
The fixed asset turnover ratio does not incorporate any company expenses. Therefore, the ratio fails to tell analysts whether or not a company is even profitable. A company may be generating record levels of sales and efficiently using their fixed assets; however, the company may also have record levels of variable, administrative, or other expenses. The fixed asset turnover ratio also doesn't consider cashflow, so companies with good fixed asset turnover ratios may also be illiquid.


   The Bottom Line  

The fixed asset turnover ratio is useful in determining whether a company is efficiently using its fixed assets to drive net sales. The fixed asset turnover ratio is calculated by dividing net sales by the average balance of fixed assets of a period. Though the ratio is helpful as a comparative tool over time or against other companies, it fails to identify unprofitable companies.
What Is Fixed Capital?  

Fixed capital includes the assets and capital investments, such as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E), that are needed to start up and conduct business, even at a minimal stage. These assets are considered fixed in that they are not consumed or destroyed during the actual production of a good or service but have a reusable value. Fixed-capital investments are typically depreciated on the company's accounting statements over a long period of time—up to 20 years or more.





Key Takeaways

Fixed capital consists of assets that are not consumed or destroyed in the production of a good or service and can be used multiple times.Property, plant, and equipment are standard fixed capital items.Fixed capital assets are usually illiquid items and are depreciated over time.The opposite of fixed capital is variable capital.


   Understanding Fixed Capital  

The concept of fixed capital was first introduced in the 18th century by the political economist David Ricardo. For Ricardo, fixed capital referred to any kind of physical asset that is not used up in the production of a product. This was opposed to Ricardo's idea of circulating capital, such as raw materials, operating expenses, and labor. In Marxian economics, fixed capital is closely related to the concept of constant capital.



Fixed capital is the portion of total capital outlay of a business invested in physical assets such as factories, vehicles, and machinery that stay in the business almost permanently, or, more technically, for more than one accounting period. Fixed assets can be purchased and owned by a business, or they can be structured as a long-term lease.



On the other side of the capital equation is that which circulates, or which is consumed by a company in the process of production. This includes raw materials, labor, operating expenses, and more. Marx emphasized that the distinction between fixed and circulating capital is relative since it refers to the comparative turnover times of various types of physical capital assets.



Fixed capital also "circulates," except that the turnover time is far longer because a fixed asset may be held for several years or decades before it has yielded its value and is discarded for its salvage value. A fixed asset may be resold and reused at any time before its useful life is over, which often happens with vehicles and airplanes.



Fixed capital can be contrasted with variable capital, the cost and level of which change over time, and with the scale of a company's output. For instance, machinery used in production would be considered fixed capital, as it would remain with a company regardless of current output levels. Raw materials on the other hand would fluctuate depending on output levels.


   Fixed Capital Requirements  

The amount of fixed capital needed to set up a business is quite particular to each situation, especially from industry to industry. Some lines of business require a large number of fixed-capital assets. Common examples include industrial manufacturers, telecommunications providers, and oil exploration firms. Service-based industries, such as accounting firms, have more limited fixed capital needs. This can include office buildings, computers, networking devices, and other standard office equipment.



While production businesses often have easier access to the inventory necessary to create the goods being produced, the procurement of fixed capital can be lengthy. It may take a business a significant amount of time to generate the funds necessary for larger purchases, such as new production facilities. If a company uses financing, that may take time as well to obtain proper loans. This can increase the risk of financial losses associated with low production if a company experiences an equipment failure and does not have redundancy built in.


   Depreciation of Fixed Capital  

Fixed capital investments typically don't depreciate in the even way that is shown on income statements. Some devalue quite quickly, while others have nearly infinite usable lives. For example, a new vehicle loses significant value when it is officially transferred from the dealership to the new owner. In contrast, company-owned buildings may depreciate at a much lower rate. The depreciation method allows investors to see a rough estimate of how much value fixed-capital investments are contributing to the current performance of the company.


   Liquidity of Fixed Capital  

While fixed capital often maintains a level of value, these assets are not considered very liquid in nature. This is due to the limited market for certain items, such as manufacturing equipment, or the high price involved, and the time it takes to sell a fixed asset, which is usually lengthy.
What Is the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio?  

The fixed-charge coverage ratio (FCCR) measures a firm's ability to cover its fixed charges, such as debt payments, interest expense, and equipment lease expense. It shows how well a company's earnings can cover its fixed expenses. Banks will often look at this ratio when evaluating whether to lend money to a business.





Key Takeaways

The fixed-charge coverage ratio (FCCR) shows how well a company's earnings can be used to cover its fixed charges such as rent, utilities, and debt payments.Lenders often use the fixed-charge coverage ratio to assess a company's overall creditworthiness.A high FCCR ratio result indicates that a company can adequately cover fixed charges based on its current earnings alone.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   The Formula for the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio Is:  

﻿















F


C


C


R


=




E


B


I


T


+


F


C


B


T




F


C


B


T


+


i


















where:
















E


B


I


T


=


earnings before interest and taxes
















F


C


B


T


=


fixed charges before tax
















i


=


interest








\begin{aligned} &FCCR = \frac{EBIT + FCBT}{FCBT + i} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EBIT=\text{earnings before interest and taxes}\\ &FCBT=\text{fixed charges before tax}\\ &i=\text{interest}\\ \end{aligned}


​FCCR=FCBT+iEBIT+FCBT​where:EBIT=earnings before interest and taxesFCBT=fixed charges before taxi=interest​﻿


   How to Calculate the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio  

The calculation for determining a company's ability to cover its fixed charges starts with earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from the company's income statement and then adds back interest expense, lease expense, and other fixed charges.



Next, the adjusted EBIT is divided by the amount of fixed charges plus interest. A ratio result of 1.5, for example, shows that a company can pay its fixed charges and interest 1.5 times out of earnings.


   What Does the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio Tell You?  

The fixed-charge ratio is used by lenders looking to analyze the amount of cash flow a company has available for debt repayment. A low ratio often reveals a lack of ability to make payments on fixed charges, a scenario lenders try to avoid since it increases the risk that they will not be paid back.



To avoid this risk, many lenders use coverage ratios, including the times-interest-earned ratio (TIE) and the fixed-charge coverage ratio, to determine a company's ability to take on and pay for additional debt. A company that can cover its fixed charges at a faster rate than its peers is not only more efficient but more profitable. This is a company that wants to borrow to finance growth rather than to get through a hardship.



A company's sales and the costs related to its sales and operations make up the information shown on its income statement. Some costs are variable costs and dependent on the volume of sales over a particular time period. As sales increase, so do the variable costs. Other costs are fixed and must be paid regardless of whether or not the business has activity. These fixed costs can include items such as equipment lease payments, insurance payments, installment payments on existing debt, and preferred dividend payments.


   Example of the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio in Use  

The goal of computing the fixed-charge coverage ratio is to see how well earnings can cover fixed charges. This ratio is a lot like the TIE ratio, but it is a more conservative measure, taking additional fixed charges, including lease expenses, into consideration.



The fixed-charge coverage ratio is slightly different from the TIE, though the same interpretation can be applied. The fixed-charge coverage ratio adds lease payments to earnings before income and taxes (EBIT) and then divides by the total interest and lease expenses.



Let's say Company A records EBIT of $300,000, lease payments of $200,000, and $50,000 in interest expense. The calculation is $300,000 plus $200,000 divided by $50,000 plus $200,000, which is $500,000 divided by $250,000, or a fixed-charge coverage ratio of 2x.



The company's earnings are two times greater than its fixed costs, which is considered low. That's because the company would only be able to pay the fixed charges twice with the earnings it has, increasing the risk that it cannot make future payments. The higher this ratio is, the better.






Like the TIE, the higher the FCCR ratio, the better.


   Limitations of the Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio  

The FCCR doesn't consider rapid changes in the amount of capital for new and growing companies. The formula also doesn't consider the effects of funds taken out of earnings to pay an owner's draw or pay dividends to investors. These events affect the ratio inputs and can give a misleading conclusion unless other metrics are also considered.



For this reason, when banks evaluate a company's creditworthiness for a loan, they typically look at several other benchmarks in addition to the fixed-charge coverage ratio in order to gain a more complete view of the company's financial condition.
What Is a Fixed Cost?  

Fixed cost refers to the cost of a business expense that doesn’t change even with an increase or decrease in the number of goods and services produced or sold. Fixed costs are commonly related to recurring expenses not directly related to production, such as rent, interest payments, insurance, depreciation, and property tax.



Since fixed costs are not related to a company’s production of any goods or services, they are generally indirect. Shutdown points tend to be applied to reduce fixed costs. These costs are among two different types of business expenses that together result in their total costs. The other is called a variable cost.





Key Takeaways

Fixed costs are expenses that a company must pay outside of its specific business activities.These costs are set over a specified period of time and do not change with production levels.Fixed costs can be direct or indirect and may influence profitability at different points on the income statement.Unlike fixed costs, variable costs are directly associated with production and may change based on output. Fixed costs can be used to calculate key metrics, including the breakeven analysis or a company's operating leverage.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Understanding Fixed Costs  

The costs associated with doing business can be broken out by indirect, direct, and capital costs on the income statement and notated as either short- or long-term liabilities on the balance sheet. Both fixed and variable costs make up the total cost structure of a company. Cost analysts evaluate both fixed and variable costs through various types of cost structure analysis. Costs are generally a key factor influencing total profitability.



Fixed costs are those that don’t change over the course of time. Also referred to as fixed expenses, they are usually established by contract agreements or schedules. These are the base costs involved in operating a business comprehensively. Once established, fixed costs do not change over the life of an agreement or cost schedule.



Fixed costs are allocated in the indirect expense section of the income statement, which leads to operating profit. Depreciation is a common fixed expense that is recorded as an indirect expense. Companies create a depreciation expense schedule for asset investments with values falling over time. For example, a company might buy machinery for a manufacturing assembly line that is expensed over time using depreciation. Another primary fixed, indirect cost is salaries for management.



Any fixed costs on the income statement are accounted for on the balance sheet and cash flow statement. Fixed costs on the balance sheet may be either short- or long-term liabilities. Finally, any cash paid for the expenses of fixed costs is shown on the cash flow statement. In general, the opportunity to lower fixed costs can benefit a company’s bottom line by reducing expenses and increasing profit.






Companies have some flexibility when it comes to breaking down costs on their financial statements, and fixed costs can be allocated throughout their income statement. The proportion of fixed versus variable costs that a company incurs (and how they're allocated) can depend on its industry.


   Fixed Cost vs. Variable Cost  

As noted above, fixed costs are any expenses that a company incurs that never change during the course of running a business. Fixed expenses are usually negotiated for a specified period but can’t decrease on a per-unit basis when they are associated with the direct cost portion of the income statement, fluctuating in the breakdown of costs of goods sold.



Unlike fixed costs, variable costs are costs directly associated with production. Therefore, they change depending on business output. These costs can increase or decrease with respect to production levels or sales. When production increases, variable costs rise. Similarly, when production drops, these expenses end up dropping. These costs also vary by industry, so it's important for anyone analyzing a company to make comparisons with those that are in the same sector.



Examples of variable costs include the cost of labor, utilities, raw materials, shipping costs, and commissions.










Differences Between Fixed Costs and Variable Costs





Fixed Costs 
Variable Costs 


Do They Change? 
No
Yes


Based on Production
No
Yes


Direct or Indirect
Indirect
Direct


Examples
Rent, interest, insurance, depreciation, property tax
Labor, utilities, raw materials, shipping, commissions





   Factors Associated with Fixed Costs  

Companies can associate fixed (and variable) expenses when analyzing costs per unit. As such, the cost of goods sold (COGS) can include both types of costs. All costs directly associated with the production of a good are summed collectively and subtracted from revenue to arrive at gross profit. Cost accounting varies for each company depending on the costs with which they work.



Economies of scale can also be a factor for companies that can produce large quantities of goods. Fixed costs can contribute to better economies of scale because they can decrease per unit when larger quantities are produced. Fixed costs that may be directly associated with production will vary by company but can include costs like direct labor and rent.






Another type of expense is a hybrid between fixed and variable costs. Semi-variable costs are composed of both fixed and variable components, which means they are fixed for a certain level of production. After this threshold, the costs become variable. Some of the most common examples of semi-variable costs include repairs and electricity.


   Special Considerations  

Fixed expenses can be used to calculate several key metrics, including a company’s breakeven point and operating leverage.


  Breakeven Analysis  

A breakeven analysis involves using both fixed and variable costs to identify a production level in which revenue equals costs. This can be an important part of cost structure analysis. A company’s breakeven production quantity is calculated by:















Breakeven Point


=



Fixed Costs



SPPU


−


VCPU


















where:
















SPPU


=


Sales price per unit
















VCPU


=


Variable cost per unit







\begin{aligned}&\text{Breakeven Point} = \frac{ \text{Fixed Costs} }{ \text{SPPU} - \text{VCPU} } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{SPPU} = \text{Sales price per unit} \\&\text{VCPU} = \text{Variable cost per unit} \\\end{aligned}


​Breakeven Point=SPPU−VCPUFixed Costs​where:SPPU=Sales price per unitVCPU=Variable cost per unit​
A company’s breakeven analysis can be important for decisions on fixed and variable costs. The breakeven analysis also influences the price at which a company chooses to sell its products.


  Operating Leverage  

Operating leverage is another cost structure metric used in cost structure management. The proportion of fixed to variable costs influences a company’s operating leverage. Higher fixed costs help operating leverage to increase. You can calculate operating leverage using the following formula:















Operating Leverage


=




Q


×


(


P


−


V


)




(


Q


×


(


P


−


V


)


)


−


F


















where:
















Q


=


Number of units
















P


=


Price per unit
















V


=


Variable cost per unit
















F


=


Fixed costs







\begin{aligned}&\text{Operating Leverage} = \frac{ \text{Q} \times ( \text{P} - \text{V} ) }{ ( \text{Q} \times ( \text{P} - \text{V} ) ) - \text{F} } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{Q} = \text{Number of units} \\&\text{P} = \text{Price per unit} \\&\text{V} = \text{Variable cost per unit} \\&\text{F} = \text{Fixed costs} \\\end{aligned}


​Operating Leverage=(Q×(P−V))−FQ×(P−V)​where:Q=Number of unitsP=Price per unitV=Variable cost per unitF=Fixed costs​
Companies can produce more profit per additional unit produced with higher operating leverage.


   Cost Structure Management and Ratios  

In addition to financial statement reporting, most companies closely follow their cost structures through independent cost structure statements and dashboards.
Independent cost structure analysis helps a company fully understand its fixed and variable costs and how they affect different parts of the business, as well as the total business overall. Many companies have cost analysts dedicated solely to monitoring and analyzing the fixed and variable costs of a business.
The fixed charge coverage ratio, on the other hand, is a type of solvency metric that helps analyze a company’s ability to pay its fixed-charge obligations. The fixed-charge coverage ratio is calculated from the following equation:

















EBIT


+


Fixed Charges Before Tax




Fixed Charges Before Tax


+


Interest









\begin{aligned}&\frac{ \text{EBIT} + \text{Fixed Charges Before Tax} }{ \text{Fixed Charges Before Tax} + \text{Interest} } \\\end{aligned}


​Fixed Charges Before Tax+InterestEBIT+Fixed Charges Before Tax​​






The fixed cost ratio is a simple ratio that divides fixed costs by net sales to understand the proportion of fixed costs involved in production.


   Examples of Fixed Costs  

Fixed costs include any number of expenses, including rental and lease payments, certain salaries, insurance, property taxes, interest expenses, depreciation, and some utilities.



For instance, someone who starts a new business would likely begin with fixed expenses for rent and management salaries. All types of companies have fixed-cost agreements that they monitor regularly. While these fixed costs may change over time, the change is not related to production levels. Instead, changes can stem from new contractual agreements or schedules.




Are All Fixed Costs Considered Sunk Costs?
All sunk costs are fixed costs in financial accounting, but not all fixed costs are considered to be sunk. The defining characteristic of sunk costs is that they cannot be recovered.It’s easy to imagine a scenario where fixed costs are not sunk. For example, equipment might be resold or returned at the purchase price.Individuals and businesses both incur sunk costs. For example, someone might drive to the store to buy a television, only to decide upon arrival to not make the purchase. The gasoline used in the drive is, however, a sunk cost—the customer cannot demand that the gas station or the electronics store compensate them for the mileage.




How Are Fixed Costs Treated in Accounting?
Fixed costs are associated with the basic operating and overhead costs of a business. Fixed costs are considered indirect costs of production, which means that they are not costs incurred directly by the production process, such as parts needed for assembly. However, they do factor into total production costs. As a result, fixed costs are depreciated over time instead of being expensed.




How Do Fixed Costs Differ From Variable Costs?
Unlike fixed costs, variable costs are directly related to the cost of production of goods or services. Variable costs are commonly designated as the cost of goods sold (COGS), whereas fixed costs are not usually included in COGS. Fluctuations in sales and production levels can affect variable costs if factors such as sales commissions are included in per-unit production costs. Meanwhile, fixed costs must still be paid even if production slows down significantly.


   The Bottom Line  

Fixed costs are one of two types of business expenses. The other is variable costs. Fixed costs are expenses that a company pays that do not change with production levels. Rent is one example. Unlike fixed costs, variable costs (e.g., shipping) change based on the production levels of a company.
What Is a Fixed Exchange Rate?  

A fixed exchange rate is a regime applied by a government or central bank that ties the country's official currency exchange rate to another country's currency or the price of gold. The purpose of a fixed exchange rate system is to keep a currency's value within a narrow band.





Key Takeaways

The purpose of a fixed exchange rate system is to keep a currency's value within a narrow band.Fixed exchange rates provide greater certainty for exporters and importers and help the government maintain low inflation.Many industrialized nations began using the floating exchange rate system in the early 1970s.﻿﻿












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Fixed Exchange Rate  

Fixed rates provide greater certainty for exporters and importers. Fixed rates also help the government maintain low inflation, which, in the long run, keep interest rates down and stimulates trade and investment. 



Most major industrialized nations have had floating exchange rate systems, where the going price on the foreign exchange market (forex) sets its currency price. This practice began for these nations in the early 1970s while developing economies continue with fixed-rate systems.﻿﻿


  Bretton Woods  

From the end of World War II to the early 1970s, the Bretton Woods Agreement meant that the exchange rates of participating nations were pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar, which was fixed to the price of gold.﻿﻿



When the United States' postwar balance of payments surplus turned to a deficit in the 1950s and 1960s, the periodic exchange rate adjustments permitted under the agreement ultimately proved insufficient. In 1973, President Richard Nixon removed the United States from the gold standard, ushering in the era of floating rates.﻿﻿﻿


  The Beginnings of the Monetary Union  

The European exchange rate mechanism (ERM) was established in 1979 as a precursor to monetary union and the introduction of the euro. Member nations, including Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Italy, agreed to maintain their currency rates within plus or minus 2.25% of a central point.﻿﻿



The United Kingdom joined in October 1990 at an excessively strong conversion rate and was forced to withdraw two years later.﻿﻿ The original members of the euro converted from their home currencies at their then-current ERM central rate as of Jan. 1, 1999.﻿﻿ The euro itself trades freely against other major currencies while the currencies of countries hoping to join trade in a managed float known as ERM II.﻿﻿


  Disadvantages of Fixed Exchange Rates  

Developing economies often use a fixed-rate system to limit speculation and provide a stable system. A stable system allows importers, exporters, and investors to plan without worrying about currency moves.



However, a fixed-rate system limits a central bank's ability to adjust interest rates as needed for economic growth. A fixed-rate system also prevents market adjustments when a currency becomes over or undervalued. Effective management of a fixed-rate system also requires a large pool of reserves to support the currency when it is under pressure.



An unrealistic official exchange rate can also lead to the development of a parallel, unofficial, or dual, exchange rate. A large gap between official and unofficial rates can divert hard currency away from the central bank, which can lead to forex shortages and periodic large devaluations. These can be more disruptive to an economy than the periodic adjustment of a floating exchange rate regime.


   Real-World Example of a Fixed Exchange Rate  
  Problems of a Fixed Exchange Rate Regime  

In 2018, according to BBC News, Iran set a fixed exchange rate of 42,000 rials to the dollar, after losing 8% against the dollar in a single day. The government decided to remove the discrepancy between the rate traders used—60,000 rials—and the official rate, which, at the time, was 37,000.﻿﻿﻿
What Is Fixed Income?  

Fixed income broadly refers to those types of investment security that pay investors fixed interest or dividend payments until their maturity date. At maturity, investors are repaid the principal amount they had invested. Government and corporate bonds are the most common types of fixed-income products.



Unlike equities that may pay out no cash flows to investors, or variable-income securities, where payments can change based on some underlying measure—such as short-term interest rates—the payments of a fixed-income security are known in advance and remain fixed throughout.



In addition to purchasing fixed-income securities directly, there are several fixed-income exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and mutual funds available to investors.





Key Takeaways

Fixed income is a class of assets and securities that pay out a set level of cash flows to investors, typically in the form of fixed interest or dividends.Government and corporate bonds are the most common types of fixed-income products.They are known as fixed-income because they pay a fixed interest rate credited to investors.At maturity for many fixed income securities, investors are repaid the principal amount they had invested in addition to the interest they have received.In the event of a company's bankruptcy, fixed-income investors are often paid before common stockholders.


   Understanding Fixed Income  










Investopedia / Mira Norian



Companies and governments issue debt securities to raise money to fund day-to-day operations and finance large projects. For investors, fixed-income instruments pay a set interest rate return in exchange for investors lending their money. At the maturity date, investors are repaid the original amount they had invested—known as the principal.



For example, a company might issue a 5% bond with a $1,000 face or par value that matures in five years. The investor buys the bond for $1,000 and will not be paid back until the end of the five years. Over the course of the five years, the company pays interest payments—called coupon payments—based on a rate of 5% per year. As a result, the investor is paid $50 per year for five years. At the end of the five years, the investor is repaid the $1,000 invested initially on the maturity date. Investors may also find fixed-income investments that pay coupon payments monthly, quarterly, or semiannually.



Fixed-income securities are recommended for conservative investors seeking a diversified portfolio. The percentage of the portfolio dedicated to fixed income depends on the investor's investment style. There is also an opportunity to diversify the portfolio with a mix of fixed-income products and stocks creating a portfolio that might have 50% in fixed-income products and 50% in stocks.



Treasury bonds and bills, municipal bonds, corporate bonds, and certificates of deposit (CDs) are all examples of fixed-income products. Bonds trade over-the-counter (OTC) on the bond market and secondary market.


   Types of Fixed Income Products  

As stated earlier, the most common example of a fixed-income security is a government or corporate bond. The most common government securities are those issued by the U.S. government and are generally referred to as Treasury securities. Fixed-income securities are offered by non-U.S. governments and corporations as well.



Here are the most common types of fixed income products:



Treasury bills (T-bills) are short-term fixed-income securities that mature within one year that do not pay coupon returns. Investors buy the bill at a price less than its face value and investors earn that difference at maturity.
Treasury notes (T-notes) come in maturities between two and 10 years, pay a fixed interest rate, and are sold in multiples of $100. At the end of maturity, investors are repaid the principal but earn semiannual interest payments until maturity.
Treasury bonds (T-bonds) are similar to the T-note except that it matures in 20 or 30 years. Treasury bonds can be purchased in multiples of $100.
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) protect investors from inflation. The principal amount of a TIPS bond adjusts with inflation and deflation.
A municipal bond is similar to a Treasury since it is government-issued, except it is issued and backed by a state, municipality, or county, instead of the federal government, and is used to raise capital to finance local expenditures. Muni bonds can have tax-free benefits to investors as well.
Corporate bonds come in various types, and the price and interest rate offered largely depend on the company’s financial stability and its creditworthiness. Bonds with higher credit ratings typically pay lower coupon rates.
Junk bonds—also called high-yield bonds—are corporate issues that pay a greater coupon due to the higher risk of default. Default is when a company fails to pay back the principal and interest on a bond or debt security.
A certificate of deposit (CD) is a fixed income vehicle offered by financial institutions with maturities of less than five years. The rate is higher than a typical saving account, and CDs carry FDIC or National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) protection.






Traditional portfolio theory claims that an efficient investment strategy attempting to balance risk and returns should diversify in stocks and bonds. Stocks tend to be riskier with higher potential returns, while fixed income securities are safer with usually lower returns.


   How to Invest in Fixed Income  

Investors looking to add fixed-income securities to their portfolios have several options. Today, most brokers offer customers direct access to a range of bond markets from Treasuries to corporate bonds to munis. For those who do not want to select individual bonds, Fixed-income mutual funds (bond funds) give exposure to various bonds and debt instruments. These funds allow the investor to have an income stream with the professional management of the portfolio. Fixed income ETFs work much like a mutual fund, but may be more accessible and more cost-effective to individual investors. These ETFs may target specific credit ratings, durations, or other factors. ETFs also carry a professional management expense.



Fixed-income investing is generally a conservative strategy where returns are generated from low-risk securities that pay predictable interest. Since the risk is lower, the interest coupon payments are also, usually, lower as well. Building a fixed income portfolio may include investing in bonds, bond mutual funds, and certificates of deposit (CDs). One such strategy using fixed income products is called the laddering strategy.



A laddering strategy offers steady interest income through the investment in a series of short-term bonds. As bonds mature, the portfolio manager reinvests the returned principal into new short-term bonds extending the ladder. This method allows the investor to have access to ready capital and avoid losing out on rising market interest rates.



For example, a $60,000 investment could be divided into one-year, two-year, and three-year bonds. The investor divides the $60,000 principle into three equal portions, investing $20,000 into each of the three bonds. When the one-year bond matures, the $20,000 principal will be rolled into a bond maturing one year after the original three-year holding. When the second bond matures those funds roll into a bond that extends the ladder for another year. In this way, the investor has a steady return of interest income and can take advantage of any higher interest rates.


   Advantages of Fixed Income  
  Income Generation  

Fixed-income investments offer investors a steady stream of income over the life of the bond or debt instrument while simultaneously offering the issuer much-needed access to capital or money. Steady income lets investors plan for spending, a reason these are popular products in retirement portfolios.


  Relatively Less Volatile  

The interest payments from fixed-income products can also help investors stabilize the risk-return in their investment portfolio—known as the market risk. For investors holding stocks, prices can fluctuate resulting in large gains or losses. The steady and stable interest payments from fixed-income products can partly offset losses from the decline in stock prices. As a result, these safe investments help to diversify the risk of an investment portfolio.


  Guarantees  

Also, fixed-income investments in the form of Treasury bonds (T-bonds) have the backing of the U.S. government.



Corporate bonds, while not insured are backed by the financial viability of the underlying company. Should a company declare bankruptcy or liquidation, bondholders have a higher claim on company assets than do common shareholders. Moreover, bond investments held at brokerage firms are backed by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)  up to $500,000 coverage for cash and securities held by the firm. Fixed income CDs have Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) protection up to $250,000 per individual.






Fixed rates are great to reduce risk, but once you're locked in, you can't increase the rate. During inflationary periods, fixed income securities are less favorable as the rate you've locked into in the past is likely less than the current rate of return for new bond issuances.


   Risks Associated With Fixed Income  

Although there are many benefits to fixed income products, as with all investments, there are several risks investors should be aware of before purchasing them.


  Credit and Default Risk  

As mentioned earlier, Treasuries and CDs have protection through the government and FDIC. Corporate debt, while less secure still ranks higher for repayment than do shareholders. When choosing an investment take care to look at the credit rating of the bond and the underlying company. Bonds with ratings below BBB are of low quality and consider junk bonds.



The credit risk linked to a corporation can have varying effects on the valuations of the fixed-income instrument leading up to its maturity. If a company is struggling, the prices of its bonds on the secondary market might decline in value. If an investor tries to sell a bond of a struggling company, the bond might sell for less than the face or par value. Also, the bond may become difficult for investors to sell in the open market at a fair price or at all because there's no demand for it.



The prices of bonds can increase and decrease over the life of the bond. If the investor holds the bond until its maturity, the price movements are immaterial since the investor will be paid the face value of the bond upon maturity. However, if the bondholder sells the bond before its maturity through a broker or financial institution, the investor will receive the current market price at the time of the sale. The selling price could result in a gain or loss on the investment depending on the underlying corporation, the coupon interest rate, and the current market interest rate.


  Interest Rate Risk  

Fixed-income investors might face interest rate risk. This risk happens in an environment where market interest rates are rising, and the rate paid by the bond falls behind. In this case, the bond would lose value in the secondary bond market. Also, the investor's capital is tied up in the investment, and they cannot put it to work earning higher income without taking an initial loss.



For example, if an investor purchased a two-year bond paying 2.5% per year and interest rates for 2-year bonds jumped to 5%, the investor is locked in at 2.5%. For better or worse, investors holding fixed-income products receive their fixed rate regardless of where interest rates move in the market.


  Inflationary Risks  

Inflationary risk is also a danger to fixed-income investors. The pace at which prices rise in the economy is called inflation. If prices rise or inflation increases, it eats into the gains of fixed-income securities. For example, if fixed-rate debt security pays a 2% return and inflation rises by 1.5%, the investor loses out, earning only a 0.5% return in real terms.




Fixed Income Pros and Cons

Pros

Steady income stream of fixed returns
More stable returns than stocks
Higher claim to the assets in bankruptcies
Government and FDIC backing on some



Cons

Returns are often lower than other investments
Credit and default risk exposure
Susceptible to interest rate risk
Sensitive to Inflationary risk









Some government bonds like Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) are indexed to changes in the inflation rate and protect investors accordingly.


   Fixed Income Analysis: What to Consider  

When deciding which of these financial products to invest in, investors perform fixed income analysis. The techniques below are used to evaluate which investments make best sense for the investor's risk appetite and expected returns.



Fixed income analysis often begins with risk. All investments have a relationship between its risk and its return; all else equal, an investment's returns should be higher when the investment is riskier. Therefore, fixed income analysis not only assesses whether an investor is comfortable with the level of risk they are taking on but whether the level of risk is appropriate for a fixed income security's return.



For fixed income securities, risk is tied to the creditworthiness of the issuing company, length of the fixed income security, and industry in which the company participates in. For example, you'll often find the lowest return fixed income securities related to the U.S. government. Because risk of default is low, U.S. bonds are often seen as safer forms of investments. On the other hand, corporations (especially ones with cashflow problems) may post greater risk.



Some fixed income securities offer periodic payments. This allows investors to recoup funds during the duration of the investment. This also reduces risk, as not all capital needs to be returned at the end of a potentially long bond term.



Last, different fixed income securities have different features that make them more or less appealing. Some may be callable where the debtor can repay the full bond prior to maturity. Other allows for the fixed income security to be converted to common stock. It's critical to consider what features are important to you, as each favorable term likely reduces yield.


   Example of Fixed Income  

To illustrate, let's say PepsiCo (PEP) issues fixed-rate bonds for a new bottling plant in Argentina. The issued 5% bond is available at face value of $1,000 each and is due to mature in five years. The company plans to use proceeds from the new plant to repay the debt.



You purchase 10 bonds costing a total of $10,000 and will receive $500 in interest payments each year for five years (0.05 x $10,000 = $500). The interest amount is fixed and gives you a steady income. The company receives the $10,000 and uses the funds to build the overseas plant. Upon maturity in five years, the company pays back the principal amount of $10,000 to the investor who earned a total of $2,500 in interest over the five years ($500 x five years).




What Are Examples of Fixed-Income Securities?
Fixed-income securities are debt instruments that pay a fixed rate of interest. These can include bonds issued by governments or corporations, CDs, money market funds, and commercial paper. Preferred stock is sometimes considered fixed-income as well since it is a hybrid security combining features of debt and equity.




What Is the Difference Between Fixed-Income and Equity Securities?
Fixed-income securities are debt instruments that pay interest to investors along with the return of the principal amount when the bond matures. Equity, on the other hand, is issued in the form of company stock and represents a residual ownership stake in the firm, and not a debt. Equity does not have a maturation date, and while it may pay a dividend makes no guaranteed payments to investors. In general, equity is a higher-risk/higher-return security than a company's bonds.




How Does Inflation Affect Fixed Income?
Inflation will often have a negative effect on the value of fixed-income securities when it leads to higher interest rates. This is because the prices of bonds and other fixed-income securities are negatively correlated with interest rate changes.




What Is a Fixed Rate vs. Variable Rate Bond?
Fixed-rate bonds pay the same interest rate over their entire maturity. These can be contrasted with floating or variable rate bonds, which periodically reset the interest rate paid based on prevailing rates in the market.


   The Bottom Line  

Fixed income refers to debt investments that pay a fixed rate of interest, along with the return of the principal loaned upon maturity. These include different types of bonds and certificates of deposit. Fixed income as an asset class is generally less volatile than equity (stocks), and is considered to be more conservative. A well-diversified portfolio should have some allocation to fixed income that becomes increasingly larger as one's time horizon shortens (e.g. as retirement approaches).
What Is the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC)?  

The term Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC) refers to a regulatory clearing agency that deals with the confirmation, settlement, and delivery of fixed-income assets in the U.S. The agency was established in 2003 as a subsidiary of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC). It ensures the systematic and efficient settlement and clearing of U.S. government securities and mortgage-backed security (MBS) transactions in the market.





Key Takeaways

The Fixed Income Clearing Corporation is a clearinghouse for certain fixed-income securities traded in the U.S.The agency functions as a subsidiary of the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation.The FICC was established in 2003 as a result of the merger of the Government Securities Clearing Corporation and the Mortgage-Backed Security Clearing Corporation.The primary goal of the FICC is to ensure that government securities and mortgage-backed securities are settled efficiently and systematically.The FICC's two main divisions are the Government Securities Division and the Mortgage-Backed Securities Division.


   Understanding the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC)  

The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation is a financial services company. Established in 1999, it brought together the functions of two other organizations, the Depository Trust Company and the National Securities Clearing Corporation. The goal of the DTCC is to provide clearing and settlement services for the financial market.



As noted above, the FICC was established as a subsidiary of the DTCC in 2003. It was created as a result of the merger between the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC) and the Mortgage-Backed Security Clearing Corporation. The agency is registered with and regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



The role of the agency is to ensure that U.S. government-backed securities and MBS are systematically and efficiently settled. For instance, Treasury notes and bonds settle on a T+1 basis. To ensure that trades are settled consistently and efficiently, the FICC employs the services of its two clearing banks: the Bank of New York Mellon and JPMorgan Chase Bank.






According to the SEC, the FICC is the only agency that acts as a clearinghouse for U.S. government securities transactions. As such, it "substitutes itself for both sides of every transaction that it clears, guaranteeing those transactions and making itself the buyer for every seller and the seller for every buyer."


   Special Considerations  

In October 2021, the SEC announced it fined the FICC $8 million for failing to manage risk in its Government Securities Division. The SEC stated that the division lacked the appropriate risk management policies between April 2017 and November 2018. The SEC also found that the FICC didn't comply with industry rules that required it to put policies and procedures in place relating to the review of its margin coverage between 2015 and 2016.


   Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC) Structure  

The FICC is divided into two sections: the Government Securities Division (GSD) and the Mortgage-Backed Securities Division (MBSD). We've highlighted some of the most important information about both below.


  Government Securities Division (GSD)  

The GSD is responsible for handling new fixed-income issues and reselling government securities. The division provides netting for trades in U.S. government debt issues, including repurchase agreements (repos) or reverse repurchase agreement transactions (reverse repos).



Securities transactions processed by the FICC's GDS include Treasury bills, bonds, notes, zero-coupon securities, government agency securities, and inflation-indexed securities. The GSD provides real-time trade matching through an interactive platform that collects and matches securities trades, enabling participants to monitor the status of their trades in real-time.


  Mortgage-Backed Securities Division (MBSD)  

The MBS division of the FICC provides real-time automated and trade matching, trade confirmation, risk management, netting, and electronic pool notification to the MBS market.



Through the RTTM service, the MBSD immediately confirms trade executions in a legal and binding manner. A trade is deemed compared by the MBSD at the point in time at which the division makes available to the members on both sides of a transaction output indicating that their trade data have been compared. A trade compared by the MBSD constitutes a valid and binding contract, and trade settlements are guaranteed by the MBSD at the point of comparison.



Key participants in the MBS market are mortgage originators, government-sponsored enterprises, registered broker-dealers, institutional investors, investment managers, mutual funds, commercial banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions.
What Are Fixed-Income Securities?  

A fixed-income security is an investment that provides a return through fixed periodic interest payments and the eventual return of principal at maturity. Unlike variable-income securities, where payments change based on an underlying measure, such as short-term interest rates, the returns of a fixed-income security are known.





Key Takeaways

Fixed-Income securities provide investors with a stream of fixed periodic interest payments and the eventual return of principal at maturity.Bonds are the most common type of fixed-income security.Different bonds have different terms and credit ratings assigned to them based on the financial viability of the issuer.The U.S. Treasury guarantees government fixed-income securities, making these very low-risk but relatively low-return investments.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Fixed-Income Securities  

Fixed-Income securities are debt instruments that pay a fixed amount of interest, in the form of coupon payments, to investors. The interest payments are commonly distributed semiannually, and the principal is returned to the investor at maturity. Bonds are the most common form of fixed-income securities.



A bond is an investment product corporations and governments issue to raise funds to finance projects and fund operations. Corporate and government bonds have various maturities and face values. The face value is the amount the investor will receive when the bond matures. Corporate and government bonds trade on major exchanges and usually are listed with $1,000 face values, also known as the par value.






Companies raise capital by issuing fixed-income products to investors.


   Credit Rating of Fixed-Income Securities  

Bonds are assigned different credit ratings based on the financial viability of the issuer. Credit ratings are part of a grading system performed by credit-rating agencies. These agencies measure the creditworthiness of corporate and government bonds and the entity's ability to repay these loans. Credit ratings are helpful to investors because they define the risks involved in investing.



Bonds can either be investment-grade or non-investment-grade bonds. Investment grade bonds are issued by stable companies with a low risk of default and, therefore, have lower interest rates than non-investment grade bonds. Non-investment grade bonds, also known as junk bonds or high-yield bonds, have lower credit ratings due to a probability of default by the issuer. Investors receive a higher interest rate from investing in junk bonds for assuming the higher risk of these debt securities.


   Types of Fixed-Income Securities  
  Treasury Notes  

Treasury notes (T-notes) are issued by the U.S. Treasury and are intermediate-term bonds that mature in two, three, five, or ten years. T-Notes usually have a face value of $1,000 and pay semiannual interest payments at fixed coupon rates or interest rates. The interest payment and principal repayment of all Treasurys are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, which issues these bonds to pay debts.


  Treasury Bond  

The U.S. Treasury also issues Treasury bonds (T-bond) which mature in 30 years. Treasury bonds typically have par values of $10,000 and are sold on auction on the website TreasuryDirect.


  Treasury Bills  

Short-term fixed-income securities include Treasury bills. The T-bill matures within one year from issuance and doesn't pay interest. Instead, investors buy the security at a lower price than its face value or a discount. When the bill matures, investors receive the face value amount. The interest earned or return on the investment is the difference between the purchase price and the face value amount of the bill.


  Municipal Bond  

A municipal bond is issued by states, cities, and counties to fund capital projects, such as roads, schools, and hospitals, commonly sold with a $5,000 face value. The interest earned from these bonds is exempt from federal income tax. The interest earned on a "muni" bond may be exempt from state and local taxes if the investor resides in the state where the bond is issued. The muni bond has several maturity dates in which a portion of the principal comes due in intervals until the entire principal is repaid.


  Certificate of Deposit  

A bank issues a certificate of deposit (CD). In return for depositing money with the bank for a predetermined period, the bank pays interest to the account holder. CDs have maturities of less than five years and typically pay lower rates than bonds but higher rates than traditional savings accounts. A CD carries Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance up to $250,000 per account holder.


  Corporate Bonds  

Corporate bonds are debt securities issued by companies to raise funds. Unlike company stocks, bond investors have no voting rights or equity in the company. Bonds are classified based on their maturity period. Short-term bonds are held for less than three years, medium-term for four to ten years, and long-term for more than ten years. Bonds are classified as investment or non-investment grade depending on the company's credit rating.


  Preferred Stock  

Companies issue preferred stock that provides investors with a fixed dividend, set as a dollar amount or percentage of share value on a predetermined schedule. Interest rates and inflation influence the price of preferred shares, and shares have higher yields than most bonds due to their longer duration.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fixed-Income Securities  
  Advantages  

Fixed-income securities provide steady interest income to investors, reduce risk in an investment portfolio and protect against volatility or fluctuations in the market. Equities are traditionally more volatile than bonds so investors may allocate a portion of their portfolios to fixed-income investments to reduce their risk level. Fixed-income securities are also available in mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



The prices of bonds and fixed-income securities increase and decrease. Although the interest payments of fixed-income securities are steady, their prices are not guaranteed to remain stable throughout the life of the holding. If investors sell a fixed-income security before maturity, gains or losses are based on the difference between the purchase price and the sale price.



The U.S. Treasury guarantees government fixed-income securities, considered safe-haven investments. Corporate bonds depend on the financial viability of a company and have a higher risk of default than government bonds. However, corporate bonds are more likely to be repaid if a company declares bankruptcy since bondholders will be repaid before common stockholders.


  Disadvantages  

Fixed-income securities commonly have low returns and slow capital appreciation or price increases. The initial principal amount is often inaccessible, particularly with long-term bonds with maturities greater than ten years.



Fixed-income securities provide a fixed interest payment regardless of where market interest rates move. An investor that purchased a bond paying 2% per year will lose income if market interest rates rise above 4%. Inflation may erode the return on fixed-rate securities if the inflation rate is higher than the interest rate of the fixed-income instrument.



All bonds have credit or default risk since the securities are tied to the issuer's financial viability. Investing in international bonds can increase the risk of default if the country is economically or politically unstable.





Pros

Fixed-income securities provide steady interest income to investors throughout the life of the bond
Fixed-income securities are rated by credit rating agencies
Fixed-income securities usually have less price volatility risk
Fixed-income securities such as U.S. Treasuries are guaranteed by the government



Cons

The issuer can default on making the interest payments or paying back the principal
Fixed-income securities typically pay a lower rate of return than other investments
Inflation risk can be an issue if prices rise by a faster rate than the interest rate on the fixed-income security
Market interest rates may rise higher than the rate on a fixed-income security





   Real-World Example  

Treasury bonds are long-term bonds with a maturity of 30 years. T-Bonds provide semiannual interest payments and usually have $1,000 face values. A 30-year Treasury bond was issued on February 15, 2023, with a rate of 3.625%. Investors are paid $36.25 on their $1,000 investment each year. The $1,000 principal is repaid in 30 years.



A 10-year Treasury note was issued on February 15, 2023, with a rate of 3.5%. The bond also pays semiannual interest payments at fixed coupon rates and usually has a $1,000 face value. Each bond would pay $35.00 per year until maturity.




How Can You Invest in Fixed Income Securities?
Investors can purchase U.S. government fixed-income instruments through TreasuryDirect.Corporate bonds or bond funds can be purchased through a financial broker. Certificates of Deposit are purchased through financial brokers or banks.




What Are the Risks of Investing in Fixed Income Instruments?
Fixed income instruments require investors to commit their money for an extended period, sometimes up to thirty years. As market conditions change, the market interest rate may exceed the fixed income rate of the security, causing a loss to the investment. Inflationary pressures can also affect the market value of fixed-income securities.




What Does It Mean to Default on a Fixed-Income Security?
Default is the failure to make required interest or principal repayments on a debt, whether that debt is a loan or a security. Individuals, businesses, and even countries can default on their debt obligations. 


   The Bottom Line  

A fixed-income security is an investment that provides a steady interest income stream for a certain period. Types include government bonds, corporate bonds, or fixed-income ETFs. Fixed-income securities are rated by credit agencies that assess the default risk for investors. These investments typically pay a lower rate of return than other investments.
What Is a Fixed Interest Rate?  

A fixed interest rate is an unchanging rate charged on a liability, such as a loan or a mortgage. It might apply during the entire term of the loan or for just part of the term, but it remains the same throughout a set period. Mortgages can have multiple interest-rate options, including one that combines a fixed rate for some portion of the term and an adjustable rate for the balance. These are referred to as hybrids.





Key Takeaways

A fixed interest rate avoids the risk that a mortgage or loan payment can significantly increase over time.Fixed interest rates can be higher than variable rates.Borrowers are more likely to opt for fixed-rate loans during periods of low interest rates.


   How Fixed Interest Rates Work  

A fixed interest rate is attractive to borrowers who don’t want their interest rates fluctuating over the term of their loans, potentially increasing their interest expenses and, by extension, their mortgage payments. This type of rate avoids the risk that comes with a floating or variable interest rate, in which the rate payable on a debt obligation can vary depending on a benchmark interest rate or index, sometimes unexpectedly.



Borrowers are more likely to opt for fixed interest rates when the interest rate environment is low when locking in the rate is particularly beneficial. The opportunity cost is still much less than during periods of high interest rates if interest rates end up going lower.



Fixed rates are typically higher than adjustable rates. Loans with adjustable or variable rates usually offer lower introductory or teaser rates than fixed-rate loans, making these loans more appealing than fixed-rate loans when interest rates are high.



The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) provides a range of interest rates borrowers can expect at any given time depending on their location. The rates are updated biweekly, and consumers can input information such as their credit score, down payment, and loan type to get a closer idea of what fixed interest rate they might pay at any given time and weigh this against an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM).






The interest rate on a fixed-rate loan remains the same during the life of the loan. Because the borrower's payments stay the same, it's easier to budget for the future.


   How to Calculate Fixed Interest Costs  

Calculating fixed interest costs for a loan is relatively simple. You just need to know:



The loan amount
The interest rate
The loan repayment period



Remember that your credit scores and income can influence the rates you pay for loans, regardless of whether you choose a fixed- or variable-rate option.






Online loan calculators can help you quickly and easily calculate fixed interest rate costs for personal loans, mortgages, and other lines of credit.


   Fixed vs. Variable Interest Rates  

Variable interest rates on ARMs change periodically. A borrower typically receives an introductory rate for a set period of time—often for one, three, or five years. The rate adjusts on a periodic basis after that point. Such adjustments don’t occur with a fixed-rate loan that’s not designated as a hybrid.



In our example, a bank gives a borrower a 3.5% introductory rate on a $300,000, 30-year mortgage with a 5/1 hybrid ARM. Their monthly payments are $1,347 during the first five years of the loan, but those payments will increase or decrease when the rate adjusts based on the interest rate set by the Federal Reserve or another benchmark index.



If the rate adjusts to 6%, the borrower’s monthly payment would increase by $452 to $1,799, which might be hard to manage. But the monthly payments would fall to $1,265 if the rate dropped to 3%.



If, on the other hand, the 3.5% rate were fixed, the borrower would face the same $1,347 payment every month for 30 years. The monthly bills might vary as property taxes change or the homeowners insurance premiums adjust, but the mortgage payment remains the same.






Fixed-rate loans can be counted on, whereas there’s always a bit of uncertainty associated with variable interest rates.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fixed Interest Rates  

Fixed interest rates can offer both pros and cons for borrowers. Looking at the advantages and disadvantages side by side can help decide whether to choose a fixed- or variable-rate loan product.


  Advantages  

Fixed interest rates provide consumers with some degree of predictability. This means that your monthly loan or mortgage payments remain the same for the lifetime of the loan. Even if conditions change and rates go up, your rate remains the same. As such, you won't have to budget for increases in your payments later on down the road.



When interest rates are low or near historic lows, a loan that comes with a fixed interest rate can become more attractive. Taking out a loan with adjustable or variable rates probably won't be a good option, especially since there's a risk that rates may go up in the future.



A fixed interest rate on a mortgage, loan, or line of credit makes it easier to calculate the lifetime cost of borrowing because the rate doesn't change. This allows you to budget for other expenses, including any extras like vacations or a new car. It also gives you the opportunity to plan for any savings.


  Disadvantages  

Fixed interest rates tend to be higher than adjustable rates. Depending on the overall interest rate environment, it is highly possible that a loan with a fixed rate may carry a higher interest rate than an adjustable-rate loan.



You'll also want to consider declining rates when it comes to fixed interest rates. That's because if interest rates decline, you could be locked into a loan with a higher rate, whereas a variable-rate loan would keep pace with its benchmark rate.



Refinancing is another drawback. When you refinance your loan from one fixed-rate product to another of the same type or to a variable-rate loan, you could save money when rates drop. But it can be time-consuming, and closing costs can be high.





Pros

Offer predictability
More attractive when interest rates are low
Easier to calculate long-term costs of borrowing



Cons

May be higher than adjustable rates
If rates decline, you may pay more for your loan
Refinancing to a lower rate can be time-consuming and expensive





   Example of Fixed Interest Rate  

Let's take a look at a couple of examples to show how fixed interest rates work.



Assume that you're taking out a $30,000 debt consolidation loan to be repaid over 60 months at 5% interest. Your estimated monthly payment would be $566 and your total interest paid would be $3,968.22. This assumes you don't repay the loan early by increasing your monthly payment amount or making lump-sum payments toward the principal.



Here's another example. Say you get a $300,000 30-year mortgage at 3.5%. Your monthly payments would be $1,347 and your total mortgage costs with interest included would come to $484,968.




How Do Fixed Interest Rates Work?
Fixed interest rates remain constant throughout the lifetime of the loan. This means that when you borrow from your lender, the interest rate doesn't rise or fall but remains the same until your debt is paid off. You do run the risk of losing out when interest rates start to drop but you won't be affected if rates start to rise. Having a fixed interest rate on your loan means you'll know exactly how much you'll pay each month, so there are no surprises. As such, you can plan and budget for your other expenses accordingly.




What's the Difference Between Fixed and Variable Interest Rates?
Fixed interest rates remain constant throughout the lifetime of the debt. This means they aren't susceptible to changes in the economy. So if you have a mortgage with a fixed rate of 6%, it will never change until you pay off the debt. Variable interest rates, on the other hand, are privy to change based on the interest rate environment. When interest rates drop or rise, the rate on your loan will follow suit. So your loan may be come cheaper or more expensive depending on if rates drop or rise.




What's the Benefit of a Fixed Interest Loan?
There are a few benefits to taking out a loan with a fixed interest rate. Fixed rates provide some degree of predictability. Because your interest rate is locked in, you know exactly how much you'll have to pay each month. This allows you to budget for other expenses. You also benefit during low interest rate environments because you lock your rate for the life of the debt.


   The Bottom Line  

If you've ever taken out a loan, you know that you can't avoid paying interest. But understanding how they work can certainly help you save some money. They come in many different shapes and sizes, including fixed interest rates. This type of interest rate is locked in for the entire life of your debt, whether that's a car loan, line of credit, or mortgage. Unlike variable rates, which change according to the interest rate environment, you'll know how much you have to pay each month and your interest rate will never change until you either pay off the debt or you refinance.
What Is a Fixed-Rate Mortgage?  

The term fixed-rate mortgage refers to a home loan that has a fixed interest rate for the entire term of the loan. This means that the mortgage carries a constant interest rate from beginning to end. Fixed-rate mortgages are popular products for consumers who want to know how much they have to pay every month. Fixed-rate mortgages may be open or closed with specific terms of 15 or 30 years or they may run for a length of time agreed upon by the lender and borrower.





Key Takeaways

A fixed-rate mortgage is a home loan with a fixed interest rate for the entire term of the loan.Once locked in, the interest rate does not fluctuate with market conditions.Borrowers who want predictability and/or who tend to hold property for the long term tend to prefer fixed-rate mortgages.


   How a Fixed-Rate Mortgage Works  

Several kinds of mortgage products are available on the market, but they boil down to two basic categories: variable-rate loans and fixed-rate loans. With variable-rate loans, the interest rate is set above a certain benchmark. It then fluctuates, which means it changes at certain periods.



Fixed-rate mortgages carry the same interest rate throughout the entire length of the loan. Unlike variable- and adjustable-rate mortgages, fixed-rate mortgages don’t fluctuate with the market. So the interest rate in a fixed-rate mortgage stays the same regardless of where interest rates go—up or down.



Most mortgagors who purchase a home for the long term end up locking in an interest rate with a fixed-rate mortgage. They prefer these mortgage products because they’re more predictable. In short, borrowers know how much they’ll be expected to pay each month, so there are no surprises.



The mortgage term is basically the life span of the loan—that is, how long you have to make payments on it. In the United States, terms can range anywhere from 10 to 30 years for fixed-rate mortgages; 10, 15, 20, and 30 years are the usual increments. Of all the term options, the most popular is 30 years, followed by 15 years.






An open fixed-rate mortgage allows borrowers to pay down the principal balance before the loan's maturity date without any additional fees and charges. Borrowers must pay additional fees if they pay off a closed mortgage before it matures.


   How to Calculate Fixed-Rate Mortgage Costs  

The actual amount of interest that borrowers pay with fixed-rate mortgages varies based on how long the loan is amortized. That is the period for which the payments are spread out. While the interest rate on the mortgage and the amounts of the monthly payments themselves don’t change, the way that your money is applied does. Mortgagors pay more toward interest in the initial stages of repayment; later on, their payments are going more into the loan principal.



So, the mortgage term comes into play when calculating mortgage costs. The basic rule of thumb: The longer the term, the more interest that you pay. Someone with a 15-year term, for example, will pay less in interest than someone with a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage.



Crunching the numbers can be a bit complicated: To determine exactly what a particular fixed-rate mortgage costs—or to compare two different mortgages—it’s simplest to use a mortgage calculator.



You plug in a few details—typically, home price, down payment, loan terms, and interest rate—push the button, and get your monthly payments. Some calculators break those down, showing what goes to interest, principal, and even (if you so designate) property taxes. They’ll also show you an overall amortization schedule, which illustrates how those amounts change over time.






The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is the product of choice for nearly 90% of today’s homeowners.


  For the Math-Minded  

If you’re into crunching numbers, there’s a standard formula to calculate your monthly mortgage payment by hand.













Where:



M = Monthly paymentP = Principal loan amount (the amount that you borrow)i = Monthly interest raten = Number of months required to repay the loan



​So, to solve for the monthly mortgage payment (M), you plug in the principal (P), the monthly interest rate (i), and the number of months (n).



If you want to calculate the mortgage interest alone, here’s a fast formula for that:












   Fixed-Rate Mortgages vs. Adjustable-Rate Mortgages (ARMs)  

Adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) are something of a hybrid between fixed- and variable-rate loans. They have both fixed- and variable-rate components and are also usually issued as amortized loans with steady installment payments over the life of the loan. They require a fixed rate of interest in the first few years of the loan, followed by variable-rate interest after that.



Amortization schedules can be slightly more complex since rates for a portion of these loans are variable. Thus, investors can expect to have varying payment amounts rather than consistent payments with a fixed-rate loan.



ARMs are generally favored by people who don’t mind the unpredictability of rising and falling interest rates. Borrowers who know that they either will refinance or won’t hold the property for a long period of time also tend to prefer ARMs. These borrowers typically bet on rates to fall in the future. If rates do fall, then a borrower’s interest decreases over time.






   Fixed-Rate Amortized vs. Non-Amortized Mortgages  

Most amortized loans come with fixed interest rates, although there are cases where non-amortizing loans have fixed rates, too.


  Amortized Loans  

Amortized fixed-rate mortgage loans are among the most common types of mortgages offered by lenders. These loans have fixed rates of interest over the life of the loan and steady installment payments. A fixed-rate amortizing mortgage loan requires a basis amortization schedule to be generated by the lender.



You can easily calculate an amortization schedule with a fixed-rate interest when a loan is issued. That’s because the interest rate in a fixed-rate mortgage doesn’t change for every installment payment. This allows a lender to create a payment schedule with constant payments over the life of the loan.



As the loan matures, the amortization schedule requires the borrower to pay more principal and less interest with each payment. This differs from a variable-rate mortgage, where a borrower has to contend with varying loan payment amounts that fluctuate with interest rate movements.


  Non-Amortized Loans  

Fixed-rate mortgages can also be issued as non-amortized loans. These are usually referred to as balloon payment loans or interest-only loans. Lenders have some flexibility in how they can structure these alternative loans with fixed interest rates.



A common structuring for balloon payment loans is to charge borrowers annual deferred interest. This requires interest to be calculated annually based on the borrower’s annual interest rate. Interest is then deferred and added to a lump sum balloon payment at the end of the loan.



In an interest-only fixed-rate loan, borrowers pay only interest in scheduled payments. These loans typically charge monthly interest based on a fixed rate. Borrowers make monthly payments of interest, with no payment of principal required until a specified date.






If you have a fixed-rate mortgage, you may be able to refinance it at the prevailing rate if it is lower. Keep in mind, though, that you may have to pay additional fees to do so.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fixed-Rate Mortgages  

Varying benefits and risks are involved for both borrowers and lenders in fixed-rate mortgage loans. What may be a benefit for one is often a drawback for the other. The following are the most common pros and cons of fixed-rate mortgages.


  Advantages  

Many consumers prefer fixed-rate mortgages because the rate remains constant for the life of the loan. This provides them with a guarantee that the loan won't change even if interest rates go up. It also provides borrowers with predictability since they always know how much they'll have to pay. This allows them to budget for other financial obligations.



Lenders also benefit from fixed-rate products. This is especially true when interest rates drop. In environments where rates are low. lenders can profit from the higher interest payments made by borrowers on their fixed-rate home loans.


  Disadvantages  

Borrowers have no flexibility when it comes to interest rates or payments with fixed-rate mortgages. So when interest rates drop, fixed-rate borrowers end up paying more than people who have adjustable-rate mortgages.



Borrowers typically seek to lock in lower rates of interest to save money over time. When rates rise, a borrower maintains a lower payment compared to current market conditions. A lending bank, on the other hand, doesn't earn as much as it could from the prevailing higher interest rates—foregoing profits from issuing fixed-rate mortgages that could be earning higher interest over time in a variable-rate scenario.





Pros

Protects borrowers against interest rate volatility
Predictable payments for borrowers
Higher profits for lenders when rates are low



Cons

No flexibility for borrowers
Borrowers pay more when rates are low
Lenders earn less when rates are high







Why Should I Choose a Fixed-Rate Over an Adjustable-Rate Mortgage?
There are several reasons why you may want to choose a fixed-rate mortgage over an ARM. Fixed-rate loans provide with you stability and predictability. Your rate is locked in for the entire length of the loan even when rates go up. Fixed rates take the guesswork of figuring out how much you have to pay. This means you'll know exactly what your payment is, allowing you to budget for other financial obligations and for your savings.




How Would an Economic Slump Affect my Fixed-Rate Mortgage?
Interest rates tend to drop when times are tough and the economy becomes sluggish. If you already have a fixed-rate mortgage, not much will change because your interest rate remains the same throughout the lifetime of your loan. But you stand to benefit from a low rate if you're in the market for a new home (if you can afford it as the economy slows down) or if you are able to refinance with your lender.




What Are the Benefits of a Fixed-Rate Mortgage?
The main benefits of having a fixed-rate mortgage include protection against interest rate volatility and predictability. This means that your rate won't change in an environment where interest rates rise and you can plan your finances around because you'll know how much your payments are each month.


   The Bottom Line  

Most of us can't afford to pay cash for our homes, which is why we need to take out mortgages. There are so many different products on the market for homeowners, so it's important to do your research to see which one fits your needs. Fixed-rate mortgages provide you with the security of knowing that your rate won't change and how much you'll have to pay. Keep in mind that you won't benefit if rates drop, which mean you will pay more during an economic slowdown.
What Is a Fixed-Rate Payment?  

A fixed-rate payment is an installment loan with an interest rate that cannot be changed during the life of the loan. The payment amount also will remain the same, though the proportions that go toward paying off the interest and paying off the principal will vary.﻿﻿ A fixed-rate payment is sometimes referred to as a “vanilla wafer” payment, presumably because it is very predictable and contains no surprises.





Key Takeaways

In a fixed-rate payment, the total amount due remains the same throughout the life of the loan, although the proportion that goes to interest and principal varies.The fixed-rate payment most often refers to mortgage loans. The borrower must decide between a fixed-rate payment and an adjustable-rate payment.Banks generally offer a variety of fixed-rate payment mortgage loans, each with a slightly different interest rate.


   How a Fixed-Rate Payment Works  

A fixed-rate payment agreement is most often used in mortgage loans. Homebuyers generally have a choice of fixed-rate mortgage loans or adjustable-rate (ARM) mortgage loans. Adjustable-rate mortgage loans are also known as floating rate loans. Homebuyers typically can decide which loan type is the better choice for them.



A bank will generally offer a variety of fixed-rate payment mortgage loans, each with a slightly different interest rate. Typically, a homebuyer can choose a 15-year term or a 30-year term.﻿﻿ Slightly lower rates are offered for veterans and for Federal Housing Authority (FHA) loans. Although loans for veterans and those available through the FHA have lower interest rates, borrowers are typically required to purchase additional mortgage insurance to protect against default.﻿﻿



Banks also offer options for adjustable-rate loans. Historically, these could have a substantially lower starting interest rate than fixed-rate payment loans. In times when interest rates were low, the homebuyer could usually get an even lower introductory rate on an adjustable-rate mortgage, offering a break on the payments in the months immediately after the purchase. When the introductory period ended, the bank raised the rate and the payment amounts as interest rates were rising. When interest rates were high, a bank was more inclined to offer the introductory rate break on fixed-rate loans, because it anticipated that rates on new loans will go lower.



However, with mortgage rates hovering below 5% since the 2008 housing crisis, the gap between fixed-rate and variable-rate loans has practically closed. As of Aug. 13, 2020, the average interest rate nationwide on a 30-year fixed mortgage was 2.96%. The rate for a comparable adjustable-rate loan was 2.9%.﻿﻿ The latter is a so-called “5/1 ARM,” meaning the rate remains fixed for at least five years. After five years, it may be adjusted upward annually.﻿﻿





0.06%

The difference between the average interest rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage and the average rate for a 30-year adjustable-rate mortgage


   Special Considerations  

The amount paid for a fixed-rate payment loan remains the same month after month, but the proportions that go to pay off principal and interest change every month. The earliest payments are made up of more interest than principal. Month by month, the amount of interest paid declines gradually while the principal paid increases. This is called loan amortization.﻿﻿


  Example of a Fixed-Rate Payment Loan  

The term is used in the home loan industry to refer to payments under a fixed-rate mortgage which are indexed on a common amortization chart. For example, the first few lines of an amortization schedule for a $250,000, 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with a 4.5% interest rate look like the table below.











Example of a Loan Amortization Schedule




Dollar Amounts
Month One
Month Two
Month Three


Total Payment
$1,266.71
$1,266.71
$1,266.71


Principal
$329.21
$330.45
$331.69


Interest
$937.50
$936.27
$935.03


Total Interest
$937.50
$1,873.77
$2,808.79


Loan Balance
$249,670.79
$249,340.34
$249,008.65






Note that the interest payment goes down from month to month, albeit slowly, while the principal payment increases slightly. The overall loan balance goes down. However, the monthly payment of $1,266.71 remains the same.
Understanding Flat  

Flat, in the securities market, is a price that is neither rising nor declining. Under fixed income terminology, a bond that is trading without accrued interest is said to be flat. In forex, flat refers to the condition of being neither long nor short in a particular currency, and is also referred to as "being square."





Key Takeaways

A trading flat generally refers to a situation in which a market or security is neither rising nor declining in price or valuation.Within the context of a securities, it refers to markets that do not provide much opportunity for profits. Traders can make profits by trading individual stocks rather than indices in such markets.In a bond market, a trading flat is when bond buyers are not responsible for accrued interest payments.In forex trading, a trading flat is when opposing positions taken by a forex trader cancel each other out leaving them with a flat book.


   Understanding Flat Stocks  

When the stock market has made little to no movement over a period of time, it is said to be a flat market. This does not mean that all publicly traded securities in the market are making no significant movements. Instead, the increasing price movement of some sector or industry stocks may be offset by an equal declining movement in the prices of securities from other sectors. Investors and traders looking for profits in a flat market are better off trading individual stocks with upward momentum, rather than trading the market indices.



Individual stocks can also be flat. For example, if a stock over the last month has been trading around $30, it can be thought of as trading flat. Writing covered calls is a good strategy to profit from a stock that stays flat or goes down modestly.


   Understanding Flat Bonds  

A bond is trading flat if the buyer of the bond is not responsible for paying the interest that has accrued since the last payment (accrued interest is usually part of the bond purchase price). In effect, a flat bond is a bond that is trading without the accrued interest. The price of a flat bond is referred to as the flat price or clean price. Typically, flat prices are quoted so as not to misrepresent the daily increase in the dirty price (bond price plus accrued interest) since accrued interest does not change the yield to maturity (YTM) of the bond.



A bond also trades flat if interest payment on the bond is due but the issuer is in default. Bonds that are in default are to be traded flat without calculation of accrued interest and with delivery of the coupons which have not been paid by the issuers. Also, if a bond settles on the same date as the interest is paid and, therefore, no additional interest has accrued beyond the amount already paid out, the bond is said to trade flat.


   Flat Position in Forex Trading  

Being flat is a position taken by a trader in forex trading when they are unsure about the direction of currencies trading in the market. If you had no positions in the U.S. dollar or your long and short positions cancel each other out, you would be flat or have a flat book. The flat position is considered a positive position, given that although the trader is not making any profits by standing on the sidelines, they are also not making any losses.



A flat can also refer to a trade in which the currency pair has not moved significantly up or down and, therefore, has no large gain or loss attributed to the forex trading position. Since a flat price stays within the same range and hardly moves, a horizontal or sideways trend can negatively affect the trade position.
What Is a Flat Tax?  

A flat tax refers to a single tax rate being applied to every taxpayer regardless of income. Typically, a flat tax involves no deductions or exemptions. However, some politicians have proposed flat tax systems that keep certain deductions in place.



Most flat tax systems or proposals do not tax income from dividends, distributions, capital gains, or other investments.





Key Takeaways


A flat tax applies the same rate to every taxpayer regardless of their income, allowing for no deductions or exemptions.
The opposite of a flat tax would be a progressive tax, the rates of which rise as a taxpayer's income rises.
Fans of the flat tax note that it makes filing easier, and that it encourages people to earn more because they won't be penalized with a higher tax bill.
Flat tax critics argue that the system effectively penalizes lower-income earners, since they shoulder a greater tax burden.
U.S. payroll taxes are a type of flat tax.




   Understanding a Flat Tax  

Supporters of a flat tax system suggest that it gives taxpayers an incentive to earn more because they will not be penalized by higher rates (as with a progressive system where income falls into progressively higher tax brackets). Also, they argue that a flat tax system makes filing tax returns easier.



Critics of flat taxes argue that such a system places an unfair burden on low-wage earners as it lowers tax rates on the wealthy. Some critics believe a progressive tax system is fairer than a flat tax system.


   Flat Tax vs. Regressive and Progressive Taxes  
  Regressive Tax  

While a flat tax imposes the same tax percentage on all individuals regardless of income, many see it as a regressive tax. A regressive tax is one that imposes a greater tax burden on those with lower income than on those with higher income.



The tax is seen as regressive because a larger portion of a lower-income individual's total funds goes to the tax. While the higher-income taxpayer pays the same percentage, their greater amount of income/funds means the financial burden is easier to bear. They have enough income to offset the tax load more easily than those with lower incomes.



A sales tax is an example of a flat tax that is considered regressive. For example, imagine two people each buy $100 worth of T-shirts and pay a 7% sales tax. Although the tax rate is the same, the individual with less money spends a larger portion of it on the tax than the person with more money.


  Progressive Tax  

Progressive tax rates, in contrast, affect a larger percentage of income for high-wage earners and a lower percentage of income for low-wage earners. In the United States, the income tax system is a progressive one and currently has seven income tax brackets with corresponding rates of 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%.



To illustrate, for tax year 2022, individuals earning $10,275 or less in taxable income paid only a 10% tax on that amount. Those individuals earning over $539,900 pay up to 37% on a portion of their earnings (the top rate reached as taxes are levied progressively on income in all of the preceding six brackets).



For tax year 2023, those figures are $11,000 and $578,125, respectively. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) adjusts income tax brackets annually to account for inflation.


   Real-World Examples of Flat Tax  

Russia was the largest nation in the world to use a flat tax, imposing a 13% flat tax on personal income. In 2021, the nation moved to a progressive tax to boost tax revenue. Other countries that have used a flat tax system include Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. However, both Latvia and Lithuania have now changed to a progressive tax system.



Greenland uses a flat tax system that can be adjusted annually. For individuals, the current rates are 36%, 42%, or 44%, depending on the municipality.



In the United States, the payroll tax is a type of flat tax. The IRS levies a payroll tax, specifically the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax of 15.3% on all wage-earning taxpayers. Proceeds go to maintain the country's Social Security and Medicare programs. Employees and employers split the tax evenly. Workers pay 7.65% of the FICA tax, while their companies also pay 7.65% of the tax. Self-employed individuals pay the full amount (15.30%) on their own.



This tax is considered flat because it imposes the same percentage on all wage-earners, regardless of their income tax bracket. However, the Social Security tax comes with an income cap. For tax year 2022, only earnings of $147,000 and below were subject to the Social Security tax. For tax year 2023, that cap rises to $160,200.




How Does a Flat Tax Work?
A flat tax imposes the same tax rate on all individuals, regardless of their income levels. For example, a sales tax is considered a flat tax.




Is a Flat Tax Considered Good or Bad for Those With Lower Incomes?
Generally, a flat tax is seen by critics as unfair when comparing lower-income individuals and higher-income individuals. That's because the same tax rate applied to both ends up taking a greater proportion of total money from those with a smaller amount of funds than those with a larger amount.




Does the U.S. Have a Flat Tax Income Tax System?
No, the U.S. has a progressive income tax system. That is, a person's total income is fit into various tax brackets from low income to higher income, each with a different tax rate (also low to higher). That person then pays the rates applicable to their income in those brackets. So, for example, someone who earns $45,000 in 2023 will pay a total tax of 10% on the first $11,000 of their income (.10 x $11,000 = $1,100) and 12% on the remaining $34,000 (.12 x $34,000 = $4080) for a total of $5180 in tax. That amount works out to an effective tax rate of 11.51%The 10% and 12% tax brackets are the first two brackets of a total of seven. Those single filers with higher incomes would also pay the rates on each bracket that their income falls within, starting with the 10% and progressing upward as applicable, up to a top rate of 37% for income that falls into the bracket of income over $578,125.


   The Bottom Line  

A flat tax is a tax that applies the same rate to all income levels. For example, the sales tax is a flat tax. It is considered by critics to be more burdensome on individuals and families with lower income.



Rather than a flat tax for income tax, the U.S. uses a progressive tax system. It places less of a tax burden on low- and middle-income taxpayers. Higher-income individuals and families pay a larger share of taxes.
What Is the Flat Yield Curve?  

The flat yield curve is a yield curve in which there is little difference between short-term and long-term rates for bonds of the same credit quality. This type of yield curve flattening is often seen during transitions between normal and inverted curves. The difference between a flat yield curve and a normal yield curve is that a normal yield curve slopes upward.


   Understanding the Flat Yield Curve  

When short and long-term bonds offer equivalent yields, there is usually little benefit in holding the longer-term instrument; the investor does not gain any excess compensation for the risks associated with holding longer-term securities. If the yield curve is flattening, it indicates the yield spread between long-term and short-term bonds is decreasing. For example, a flat yield curve on U.S. Treasury bonds is one in which the yield on a two-year bond is 5% and the yield on a 30-year bond is 5.1%.



A flattening yield curve may be a result of long-term interest rates falling more than short-term interest rates or short-term rates increasing more than long-term rates. A flat yield curve is typically an indication that investors and traders are worried about the macroeconomic outlook. One reason the yield curve may flatten is market participants may be expecting inflation to decrease or the Federal Reserve to raise the federal funds rate in the near term.



For example, if the Federal Reserve increases its short-term target over a specified period, long-term interest rates may remain stable or rise. However, short-term interest rates would rise. Consequently, the slope of the yield curve would flatten as short-term rates increase more than long-term rates.





Key Takeaways

A flattening yield curve is when short-term and long-terms bonds see no discernible change in rates. This makes long-term bonds less attractive to investors.Such a curve can be considered a psychological marker, one that could mean investors are losing faith in a long-term market's growth potential.One way to combat a flattening yield curve is to use what's called a Barbell strategy, balancing a portfolio between long-term and short-term bonds. This strategy works best when the bonds are "laddered," or staggered at certain intervals.


   Special Consideration: The Barbell Strategy  

The barbell strategy may benefit investors in a flattening yield curve environment or if the Federal Reserve is looking to raise the federal funds rate. However, the barbell strategy may underperform when the yield curve steepens. The barbell strategy is an investment strategy that could be used in fixed-income investing and trading. In a barbell strategy, half of a portfolio is comprised of long-term bonds, while the rest is comprised of short-term bonds.



For example, assume the yield spread is 8%, and an investor believes the yield curve will flatten. The investor could allocate half of the fixed-income portfolio to U.S. Treasury 10-year notes and the other half to U.S. Treasury two-year notes. Therefore, the investor has some flexibility and could react to changes in the bond markets. However, the portfolio may experience a significant fall if there is a meteoric increase in long-term rates, which is due to the duration of long-term bonds.
What Is a Flexible Manufacturing System (FMS)?  

A flexible manufacturing system (FMS) is a production method that is designed to easily adapt to changes in the type and quantity of the product being manufactured. Machines and computerized systems can be configured to manufacture a variety of parts and handle changing levels of production.





Key Takeaways

A flexible manufacturing system (FMS) is designed up front to be readily adapted to changes in the type and quantity of goods being produced.Production in an FMS is largely automated, reducing overall labor costs.An FMS system is, however, more expensive to design and put in place than a fixed system, and it requires skilled technicians.


   Understanding a Flexible Manufacturing System (FMS)  

A flexible manufacturing system (FMS) can improve efficiency and reduce production costs, which are crucial concerns in the process of business development. Flexible manufacturing also can be a key component of a make-to-order strategy that allows customized products and keeps inventories low. Such flexibility can come with higher up-front costs. Purchasing and installing the specialized equipment that allows for such customization may be costly compared with more traditional systems.



The concept of flexible manufacturing was developed by Jerome H. Lemelson (1923–1997), an American industrial engineer and inventor who filed a number of related patents in the early 1950s. His original design was a robot-based system that could weld, rivet, convey, and inspect manufactured goods.



Lemelson did not build his system; indeed, when he posited it, the ability to build it was still out of reach. Eventually, however, it became possible to build one, and the FMS debuted on factory floors in the United States and Europe in the late 1960s and started to proliferate in the 1970s.



An FMS may include a configuration of interconnected workstations with computer terminals that process the end-to-end creation of a product. Functions may include loading and unloading, machining and assembly, storing, quality testing, and data processing. The system can be programmed to run a batch of one set of products in a particular quantity and then automatically switch over to another set of products in another quantity.






Flexible manufacturing can be a key component of a make-to-order strategy that allows buyers to order customized products.


   Pros and Cons of an FMS  

The main benefit is the enhancement of production efficiency. Downtime is reduced because the production line does not have to be shut down to set up for a different product.



The disadvantages of an FMS include its higher up-front costs and the greater time required to design the system specifications for a variety of future needs. Specialized technicians needed to run, monitor, and maintain the FMS also add expense. However, advocates of FMS maintain that the increase in automation typically results in a net reduction in labor costs.




How is a flexible management system (FMS) set up?
An FMS may be set up in a number of ways. After all, its main lure is its adaptability. One configuration might involve interconnected computer workstations that process the end-to-end creation of a product. This starts with loading/unloading functions and proceeds to machining and assembly, storing, quality testing, and data processing. The FMS programming can automatically switch from one set of products in a certain amount to another set in a different amount.




What are the benefits and drawbacks of an FMS?
The main benefit of an FMS is that it makes production more efficient. Delays are reduced, as production doesn’t have to be shut down to set up for a different product.Drawbacks include higher up-front costs and the greater time required to design the system specifications for a variety of future needs. There is also an additional cost for the specialized technicians who work the FMS.Nevertheless, the system’s automation generally leads to an overall reduction in labor costs.




Who invented the FMS?
Jerome H. Lemelson (1923–1997), an American industrial engineer and inventor, is credited with developing the concept of flexible manufacturing. His initial design featured a robot-based system that could weld, rivet, convey, and inspect manufactured goods. Systems based on his design began showing up on factory floors in the United States and Europe in the late 1960s, becoming even more popular in the 1970s.
What Is a Flexible Spending Account (FSA)?  

A flexible spending account (FSA) is a type of savings account that provides the account holder with specific tax advantages. An FSA is sometimes called a “flexible spending arrangement” and can be established by an employer for employees.



The account allows you to contribute a portion of your regular earnings before tax; employers also can contribute to employees’ FSAs. Distributions from the account must be used to reimburse the employee for qualified expenses related to medical and dental services.



Another type of FSA is a dependent-care flexible spending account, which is used to pay for childcare expenses for children age 12 and under and also can be used to pay for the care of qualifying adults, including a spouse, who can't care for themselves and meet specific Internal Revenue Service (IRS) guidelines. A dependent-care FSA has different maximum contribution rules than a medical-related FSA.





Key Takeaways

An FSA is a type of savings account that allows employees to contribute a portion of their regular earnings to pay for health-related costs.Funds contributed to the account are deducted from earnings and aren't subject to income and payroll taxes.Funds withdrawn from an FSA to pay qualified medical expenses aren't subject to tax.The money in an FSA must be used by the end of the plan year, but employers can offer a grace period of up to 2 1/2 months, through March 15 of the following year.


   How a Flexible Spending Account (FSA) Works  

One of the key benefits of a flexible spending account is that the funds contributed to the account are deducted from your earnings before taxes, lowering your taxable income. As a result, regular contributions to an FSA can reduce your annual tax liability.



The IRS limits how much can be contributed to an FSA each year. For medical expense FSA accounts, the annual contribution limit per employee is $3,050 for 2023.



If you are married, your spouse also can put aside up to the annual contribution limit through their employer. Employers can choose to contribute to an FSA, but they don't have to—if they do, their contribution doesn't reduce the amount that you are permitted to contribute. You aren't taxed on employer contributions.



For 2023, the contribution limit for a dependent-care FSA is $5,000 for joint and individual tax returns and $2,500 for married taxpayers filing separately.






The IRS in 2021 released guidance that allowed employers more flexibility for benefit plans during the COVID-19 crisis, including special provisions for health Flexible Spending Arrangements (FSAs). Most of these provisions ended at the beginning of 2023 except for some carryover periods for leftover funds that extend into the first half of the year.


   Pros and Cons of Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs)  

Besides their tax benefits, FSAs offer several advantages for account holders, but they don't cover all manner of medical or dental expenses. Here are some of their pros and cons.


  Pros  

Reimburse medical care payments: The pretax funds contributed to an FSA can be used for this purpose, which is defined to include amounts paid for the diagnoses, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or ailments affecting any structure of the body.
Pay spouses' and dependents' qualified medical expenses: FSA owners can use the account to cover these, along with their own medical costs.
Cover many medical equipment purchases: Diagnostic devices, bandages, and crutches, are covered by FSAs. Expenditures for prescription medications, including over-the-counter (OTC) drugs for which you had a prescription, as well as insulin, can be reimbursed with FSA funds.
Reimburse amounts paid for insurance plan deductibles: FSAs are allowed to be used for this purpose, as well as to pay back the account holder for co-payments for medical services.



The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act enacted in 2020 expanded reimbursable qualified medical expenses for 2020 and later years to include the cost of over-the-counter drugs without a doctor’s prescription. The act also permitted the use of FSA funds to reimburse the costs of menstrual care products. Both these CARES provisions are permanent.


  Cons  

Some procedures or health-related expenses aren't covered: Expenses for surgery for cosmetic purposes and for items or services that are just beneficial for general health, such as gym memberships, aren't reimbursable.
Funds have a "use it or lose it" provision: Generally, you must use the money in an FSA within the plan year. But your employer may offer one of two options: a "grace period" of up to 2 1/2 more months to use the money in your FSA, or let you to carry over up to $610 per year to use in the following year, as of Jan. 1, 2023.
Can't be used to pay for insurance premiums: Although FSAs can cover the costs of insurance deductibles they can't be used to pay for insurance coverage.






Taxpayers in September 2021 were notified by the IRS that at-home COVID-19 tests and personal protective equipment such as face masks and hand sanitizer were considered eligible medical expenses that can be paid for or reimbursed by FSAs, health savings accounts (HSAs), and health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs). This remained in force in early 2023.


   Special Considerations  

When the year ends or the grace period expires, any funds that remain in your FSA are lost. Thus, you should carefully calibrate the amount of money you plan to put into your account and how you intend to spend it over the course of the year.


  How Limited Purpose FSAs Work  

A different type of FSA—a "limited purpose flexible spending arrangement" (LPFSA)—refers to a savings plan that can be used with a health savings account (HSA), which isn't allowed for a standard FSA. Contributions are made using pretax earnings.



A limited-purpose FSA is more restrictive because the arrangement is reserved for paying dental and vision expenses and sometimes other costs incurred in a high-deductible health plan (HDHP) after the plan holder meets the deductible.




How Much Should I Contribute to My FSA?
No specific amount is correct for everyone, and FSA elections vary depending on each indidvidual's particular situation. Make your election by carefully examining your expected out-of-pocket healthcare expenses for the coming year.




What If My Spouse is Enrolled In a Different Health Insurance Plan?
You can use funds from your healthcare FSA to pay for eligible medical costs for both your spouse and tax dependents, regardless of the medical insurance in which they are enrolled. To use funds for your dependents, they must be claimed on your tax return, and dependents can't file their own return.




Can I Use an FSA with a Health Insurance Marketplace High-Deductible Plan?
No, you can’t use an FSA with a Marketplace plan. Instead, you can set up a similar product, called a Health Savings Account (HSA). These let you to set aside money on a pretax basis to pay some health expenses if you have this type of health insurance.


   The Bottom Line  

A flexible spending account (FSA) lets you set aside a portion of your earnings before tax for medical and dental expenses. It's established by an employer for employees. Employers also can contribute to employees’ FSAs. Distributions from the account must be used to reimburse the employee for qualified expenses related to medical and dental services. Another type of FSA is available for dependents' care.



There's a maximum contribution limit for individuals each year, and most of the money must be spent in the calendar year it's saved, so FSA account holders need to carefully plan their contribution amounts to avoid losing unused funds.
What Is a Flip?  

A flip generally refers to a dramatic directional change in the positioning of investments, for instance from long to short. Depending on the context or kind of investment, the word 'flip' can have different meanings. At least four different examples exist including technical trading; real-estate investment; initial public offering (IPO) investing; and professional fund management.





Key Takeaways

"Flip" is a term that can have multiple meanings in the investment world.Technical traders may flip direction and change their trades based on price action.Real estate investors may flip a house after owning it for only a short time.IPO investors may buy a new stock shortly after issuance and hope to sell it at a substantial gain in a relatively short period.Macro fund investors may flip from one asset class to another based on rising evidence of secular trend change.


   Understanding Flips  

A flip, or reversal of one's position in the market, can be an effective way to generate profits from a new technical trend. Often, the notion of a flip is thought of as a short-term strategy, but this is not necessarily the case. Below, we look more closely at different uses of the term 'flip' in finance.



Technical Trading: In technical trading, an investor can flip their position from net long to net short or vice versa based on price action. They might do this to benefit from a new trend, but the duration of that trend may only last a couple of weeks or over a year depending on the trader and their strategies. In the context of technical trading, a flip is commonly associated with a shift from having more long positions to having more short positions or vice versa. In a net long, to net short flip, an investor could sell put options at various strike prices on their underlying holdings to benefit from falling prices. In the opposite scenario, an investor would increase their long positions in a security betting on price increases. These strategies allow traders to profit from price reversals occurring from a security investment over time.
Real Estate Investment: Broadly, the term flip can also refer to a real estate investing strategy in which the investor may acquire or control assets for a short time, add improvement of some kind to the assets, and then sell, or flip, the assets for a profit. In residential house flipping, an investor attempts to buy a home at the lowest possible price. This investor often has the intention and the ability to renovate the home to increase its value. After renovations are complete, the investor relists the home for a higher price and sells it, retaining the difference for a profit.
IPO: Initial Public Offering (IPO) investing has a similar dynamic. An investor buys a security at what they expect is the best IPO price, whether before, at, or sometime after the actual IPO sale announcement, but when the buyer sells it depends on the kind of investment strategy and philosophy they have. Company owners expect to be able to hold on to their pre-IPO-issued shares and have no plan to sell quickly. Usually, they expect to build the share value substantially over a period of years. But others who were not able to buy as company insiders or accredited investors instead look for the fastest period of appreciation they can get from their investments. These investors may specifically try to buy an IPO stock as low as they can and hold it until the stock has increased by 40 to 50 percent or more in a matter of weeks or months. They take profit and look for the next IPO to flip.
Investment Management: Among macro funds that seek to follow broad market trends, flipping may also occasionally be used. If a macro fund manager believes potential losses are high in a certain sector they may choose to flip those assets to a more profitable sector. This type of flipping can also be used by investors who take a macroeconomic approach to manage their portfolios. Flipping from at-risk sectors to sectors with greater return opportunities can be important in mitigating certain systemic or idiosyncratic risks.
What Is the Float?  

In financial terms, the float is money within the banking system that is briefly counted twice due to time gaps in registering a deposit or withdrawal. These time gaps are usually due to the delay in processing paper checks. A bank credits a customer’s account as soon as a check is deposited. However, it takes some time to receive a check from the payer’s bank and record it. Until the check clears the account it is drawn on, the amount it is written for "exists" in two different places, appearing in the accounts of both the recipient’s and payer’s banks.





Key Takeaways

The float is essentially double-counted money: a paid sum which, due to delays in processing, appears simultaneously in the accounts of the payer and the payee.Individuals and companies alike can use float to their advantage, gaining time or earning interest before payment clears their bank.Playing with float can spill into the realm of wire fraud or mail fraud if it involves the use of others' funds.


   Understanding the Float  

The Federal Reserve (The Fed) defines two types of float. Holdover float results from delays at the processing institution, typically due to the weekend and seasonal backlogs. Transportation float occurs due to inclement weather and air traffic delays and is, therefore, highest in the winter months.﻿﻿



The Fed—which processes one-third of all checks in the United States—observes that although the amount of float fluctuates randomly, there are definite weekly and seasonal trends. For example, float usually increases on a Tuesday due to a backlog of checks over the weekend and during the months of December and January because of higher check volume during the holiday season.﻿﻿



The Federal Reserve uses these trends to forecast float levels, which are then used in the actual day-to-day implementation of monetary policy.﻿﻿


  How to Calculate Float  

The formula to calculate float is:



Float = firm's available balance – firm's book balance



The float represents the net effect of checks in the process of clearing. A common measure of a float is the average daily float, calculated by dividing the total value of checks in the collection process during a specified period by the number of days in the period. The total value of checks in the collection process is calculated by multiplying the amount of float by the number of days it is outstanding.



For example, a company with $15,000 of float outstanding for the first 14 days of the month, and $19,000 for the last 17 days of the month will calculate its average daily float as:



[($15,000 x 14) + ($19,000 x 17)] ÷ 31= ($210,000 + $323,000) ÷ 31= $533,000 ÷ 31= $17,193.55


  The Uses of Float  

Individuals often use float to their advantage. For example, Amanda has a credit card payment for $500 due April 1. On March 23, she writes and mails a check-in that amount, even though she doesn't have $500 in her bank account. However, she knows that her paycheck will be deposited in her checking account by March 25—and she counts on the fact that the credit card company probably won't receive and present her check for payment until April 1. She has $500 worth of float—the time between the writing of her check and the time her check clears—for those days.



If she were tech-savvy, she could essentially do the same thing by going online on March 23 and scheduling an electronic payment on the credit card company's website for April 1, again counting for her bank to have posted her paycheck by March 25.


  The Future of Float  

Technological advances have spurred the adoption of measures that substantially speed up payment and hence reduce float. These measures include the widespread use of electronic payments and electronic funds transfers, the direct deposit of employee paychecks by companies, and the scanning and electronic presentation of checks—instead of their physical transfer.



As a result, float in the United States declined from a record daily average of $6.6 billion in the late 1970s—when it spiked due to high inflation and high-interest rates—to only $774 million in 2000, according to the Federal Reserve.﻿﻿



The steady decline in the number of checks written each year, combined with the rapid adoption of innovative and convenient payment services, may make float a thing of the past.


   Real World Example of Float  

Large companies and financial institutions also often "play the float" with larger sums for-profit—namely, the interest income they earn on an amount by speeding up its deposit into their accounts or slowing down a presentation for payment. Such moves are not illegal, either for individuals or for institutions, if the money involved is all their own. However, playing with float can spill into the realm of wire fraud or mail fraud if it involves the use of others' funds. In 1985, the brokerage firm E.F. Hutton & Company (now defunct) pleaded guilty to 2,000 charges for deliberately and systematically overdrawing some accounts to fund other accounts. The firm was writing checks on money it did not have to profit from the float—in effect, getting millions in loans from the banks without the banks' knowledge and without paying fees or interest. It was, in essence, a floating scheme, executed on a grandiose scale for years.



Since the float is essentially double-counted money, it can distort the measurement of a nation’s money supply by briefly inflating the amount of money in the banking system.
What Is a Floating Charge?  

A floating charge, also known as a floating lien, is a security interest or lien over a group of non-constant assets that may change in quantity and value.



Companies will use floating charges as a means of securing a loan. Typically, a loan might be secured by fixed assets such as property or equipment. However, with a floating charge, the underlying assets are usually current assets or short-term assets that can change in value.





Key Takeaways

A floating charge is a security interest or lien over a group of non-constant assets that change in quantity and value.A floating charge is used as a means to secure a loan for a company.The assets used in a floating charge are usually short-term current assets that the company consumes within one year.


   Understanding a Floating Charge  

Floating charges allow business owners to access capital secured with dynamic or circulating assets. The assets backing the floating charge are short-term current assets, usually consumed by a company within one year. The floating charge is secured by the current assets while allowing the company to use those assets to run its business operations.



Current assets are those business possessions that the firm can quickly liquidate for cash and include the accounts receivable, inventory, and marketable securities, among other items. For example, if inventory is used as collateral for a loan, the company can still sell, restock, and change the value and quantity of its inventory. In other words, the value of the inventory changes over time or floats in value and quantity.






A floating charge is helpful to companies because it allows them to finance their operations by using current assets such as inventory.


   Crystallization of Floating to Fixed Charges  

Crystallization is the process by which a floating charge converts into a fixed charge. If a company fails to repay the loan or enters liquidation, the floating charge becomes crystallized or frozen into a fixed charge. With a fixed charge, the assets become fixed by the lender so the company cannot use the assets or sell them.



Crystallization can also happen if a company ends operations or if the borrower and lender go to court and the court appoints a receiver. Once crystallized, the now-fixed rate security cannot be sold, and the lender may take possession of it.



Typically, fixed charges are secured by tangible assets, such as buildings or equipment. For example, if a company takes out a mortgage on a building, the mortgage is a fixed charge, and the business cannot sell, transfer or dispose of the underlying asset—the building—until it repays the loan or meets other conditions outlined in the mortgage contract.


   Floating Charge Example  

Macy's Inc. is one of the largest department stores in the U.S. Let's say the company has entered into a loan with a bank using its inventory as collateral. The lender has ownership of the inventory, or a floating charge, as stipulated within the terms of the loan.



Below is a copy of Macy's balance sheet for the quarter ending November 3, 2018.















Macy's balance Sheet Nov 3, 2018.
 Investopedia



November 3, 2018, the company's inventories, highlighted in green, had a value of $7.147 billion.However, in the previous quarter ending February 3, the value was $5.178 billion.We can see that inventory values fluctuate with each period because the total quantities and values change.The assets being secured for the loan are allowed to float or vary in price and quantity.
What Is a Floating Exchange Rate?  

A floating exchange rate is a regime where the currency price of a nation is set by the forex market based on supply and demand relative to other currencies. This is in contrast to a fixed exchange rate, in which the government entirely or predominantly determines the rate.





Key Takeaways

A floating exchange rate is one that is determined by supply and demand in the open market.A floating exchange rate doesn't mean countries don't try to intervene and manipulate their currency's price, since governments and central banks regularly attempt to keep their currency price favorable for international trade.A fixed exchange is another currency model, and this is where a currency is pegged or held at the same value relative to another currency.Floating exchange rates became more popular after the failure of the gold standard and the Bretton Woods agreement.







Floating Exchange Rate 












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   How a Floating Exchange Rate Works  

Floating exchange rate systems mean long-term currency price changes reflect relative economic strength and interest rate differentials between countries.



Short-term moves in a floating exchange rate currency reflect speculation, rumors, disasters, and everyday supply and demand for the currency. If supply outstrips demand that currency will fall, and if demand outstrips supply that currency will rise.



Extreme short-term moves can result in intervention by central banks, even in a floating rate environment. Because of this, while most major global currencies are considered floating, central banks and governments may step in if a nation's currency becomes too high or too low.



A currency that is too high or too low could affect the nation's economy negatively, affecting trade and the ability to pay debts. The government or central bank will attempt to implement measures to move their currency to a more favorable price.






   Floating vs. Fixed Exchange Rates  

Currency prices can be determined in two ways: a floating rate or a fixed rate. As mentioned above, the floating rate is usually determined by the open market through supply and demand. Therefore, if the demand for the currency is high, the value will increase. If demand is low, this will drive that currency price lower.



A fixed or pegged rate is determined by the government through its central bank. The rate is set against another major world currency (such as the U.S. dollar, euro, or yen). To maintain its exchange rate, the government will buy and sell its own currency against the currency to which it is pegged. Some countries that choose to peg their currencies to the U.S. dollar include China and Saudi Arabia. 



The currencies of most of the world's major economies were allowed to float freely following the collapse of the Bretton Woods system between 1968 and 1973.


   History of Floating Exchange Rates via the Bretton Woods Agreement  

The Bretton Woods Conference, which established a gold standard for currencies, took place in July 1944. A total of 44 countries met, with attendees limited to the Allies in World War II. The Conference established the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, and it set out guidelines for a fixed exchange rate system.



The system established a gold price of $35 per ounce, with participating countries pegging their currency to the dollar. Adjustments of plus or minus 1% were permitted. The U.S. dollar became the reserve currency through which central banks carried out intervention to adjust or stabilize rates.



The first large crack in the system appeared in 1967, with a run on gold and an attack on the British pound that led to a 14.3% devaluation. President Richard Nixon took the United States off the gold standard in 1971.



By late 1973, the system had collapsed, and participating currencies were allowed to float freely.


   Failed Attempt to Intervene in a Currency  

In floating exchange rate systems, central banks buy or sell their local currencies to adjust the exchange rate. This can be aimed at stabilizing a volatile market or achieving a major change in the rate.



Groups of central banks, such as those of the G-7 nations (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States), often work together in coordinated interventions to increase the impact.



An intervention is often short-term and does not always succeed. A prominent example of a failed intervention took place in 1992 when financier George Soros spearheaded an attack on the British pound. The currency entered the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) in Oct. 1990; the ERM was designed to limit currency volatility as a lead-in to the euro, which was still in the planning stages.



Soros believed that the pound had entered at an excessively high rate, and he mounted a concerted attack on the currency. The Bank of England was forced to devalue the currency and withdraw from the ERM. The failed intervention cost the U.K. Treasury a reported £3.3 billion. Soros, on the other hand, made over $1 billion.



Central banks can also intervene indirectly in the currency markets by raising or lowering interest rates to impact the flow of investors' funds into the country. Since attempts to control prices within tight bands have historically failed, many nations opt to free-float their currency and then use economic tools to help nudge it in one direction or the other if it moves too far for their comfort.




What Is an Example of a Floating Exchange Rate?
An example of a floating exchange rate would be on Day 1, 1 USD is equal to 1.4 GBP. On the next day, 1 USD is equal to 1.6 GBP, and on day three, 1 USD is equal to 1.2 GBP. This shows that the value of the currencies float, meaning they change constantly due to the supply and demand of those currencies. The opposite would be a fixed currency, where 1 USD would always equal 1.4 GBP, for example.




Is the U.S. Dollar a Floating Exchange Rate?
Yes, the U.S. dollar is a floating currency, meaning that its value depends on the supply and demand of the dollar and no other factor. The value of the U.S. dollar used to be based on its store of gold, but the currency is no longer backed by gold.




What Are the Benefits of a Floating Exchange Rate?
The benefits of a floating currency/exchange rate are the lack of a need for large reserves, the lack of need for another commodity the currency would be tied to, the ability to manage inflation, and the ability to pursue internal controls, such as full employment.


   The Bottom Line  

Floating exchange rates are primarily how most currencies are valued today. This means the value of a currency is based on the supply and demand of it. This contrasts with other methods, such as the value of a currency based on the value of certain assets it holds, historically gold, or a country deciding to fix or peg its currency.
What Is a Floating Interest Rate?  

A floating interest rate is an interest rate that changes periodically. The rate of interest moves up and down, or "floats," reflecting economic or financial market conditions. Often, it moves in tandem with a particular index or benchmark, or with general market conditions.



A floating interest rate can also be referred to as an adjustable or variable interest rate because it can vary over the term of a debt obligation.





Key Takeaways

A floating interest rate changes periodically, as opposed to a fixed (or unchanging) interest rate.Floating rates are used by credit card companies and commonly seen with mortgages.Floating rates reflect the market, follow an index, or track another benchmark interest rate.Floating rates are also called variable rates.They're considered riskier than fixed rates.


   Understanding Floating Interest Rates  

A floating interest rate rises or falls with the rest of the market or along with a benchmark interest rate. The underlying benchmark interest rate or index depends on the type of loan or security, but it is often either the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the federal funds rate, or the prime rate (the interest rate financial institutions charge their most creditworthy corporate customers).



When it comes to consumer loans and other debt (e.g., mortgages, car loans, or credit cards), banks and financial institutions charge a spread over this benchmark rate, with the spread depending on several factors, such as the type of asset and the consumer’s credit rating. Thus, a floating rate might define itself as “the LIBOR plus 300 basis points" or "plus 3%."



All sorts of loans and debt instruments carry floating interest rates. But they tend to be especially common with credit cards and mortgages.






Floating interest rates may be adjusted quarterly, semiannually, or annually.


  Types of Floating-Rate Products  

Home loans that carry floating rates are known as adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs). ARMs have rates that adjust based on a preset margin (or spread) and a major mortgage index such as LIBOR, the Cost of Funds Index (COFI), or the Monthly Treasury Average (MTA). If an individual takes out an ARM with a 2% margin over the LIBOR, for example, and LIBOR is at 3% when the mortgage's rate adjusts, the mortgage rate resets to 5% (the margin plus the index).



Most credit cards charge floating or variable interest rates on unpaid balances. The credit card agreement that new cardholders receive will state that the card's annual percentage rate (APR) is based on a particular rate or index plus a certain percentage (or margin). The agreement will usually include text such as "this APR will vary with the market."






Credit card interest rates are predominantly indexed to the prime rate, a rate set by individual banks (and which can reflect the federal funds interest rate set by the Federal Reserve several times per year). Credit card companies then add to that rate a margin that varies at the card product level and according to an individual account holder's credit quality.


   Floating Interest Rate vs. Fixed Interest Rate  

A floating interest rate contrasts with a fixed interest rate. With a fixed interest rate, the rate is constant and doesn't change. It might apply to the entire term of the loan or debt obligation, or for just part of it.



Residential mortgages can be obtained with either fixed or floating interest rates. With fixed interest rates, the mortgage interest rate is static and cannot change for the duration of the mortgage agreement. With floating or variable interests rates, the mortgage interest rates can change periodically with the market.



For example, if someone takes out a fixed-rate mortgage with a 4% interest rate, the individual will pay that rate for the lifetime of the loan, and the payments will be the same throughout the loan term.



In contrast, if a borrower takes out a mortgage with a variable rate, it may start with a 4% rate and then adjust, either up or down, changing the monthly payments over the life of the loan.


   Example of a Floating Interest Rate Loan  

Herbert and Amanda are buying a house. They take out a $500,000, 30-year 7/1 ARM. This means that their loan's interest rate is fixed at, for example, 2% for seven years. At the end of that time, the mortgage resets to a floating interest rate, which changes once a year. The floating rate is pegged to the LIBOR.



In the eighth year, their interest rate rises to 4%, reflecting the LIBOR. In the ninth year, the LIBOR rate has dropped slightly, so their interest rate decreases to 3.7%. In the 10th year, the LIBOR decreases again and the couple's floating interest rate also falls again, to 3.5%. The interest the couple pays on the mortgage will continue to fluctuate annually, until the mortgage is paid off or refinanced.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Floating Rates  
  Advantages  

Floating rate mortgages tend to have lower introductory interest rates than fixed-rate mortgages, and that can make them more appealing to some borrowers.
Those who plan to sell their property and repay the loan before the rate adjusts or borrowers who expect their equity to increase quickly as home values increase may choose an ARM.
Floating interest rates may float down, thus lowering the borrower's monthly payments.


  Disadvantages  

The key disadvantage of a floating rate is that the rate may float upward and increase a borrower's monthly payments, even perhaps to the point of making those payments impossible.A floating rate loan is unpredictable, making it tough to budget cash flow and to calculate the long-term costs of borrowing.Unless you're the chair of the Fed, the forces governing the changes in rates are beyond your control.





Advisor Insight

James Di Virgilio, CIMA®, CFP®Chacon Diaz & Di Virgilio, Gainesville, FL
When it comes to long-term borrowing, it is best to stay away from a floating rate or any type of variable loan, and this is particularly true when interest rates are very low. It is important to know exactly what your debt will cost you so that you can budget accurately without any surprises.
When you choose to use a variable rate loan, you are essentially gambling that interest rates will be lower in the future. Each year, a changing interest rate environment could bring a new and potentially higher interest rate, which could significantly increase the amount of interest you will have to pay.
When rates are historically low, the odds are good that rates will increase in the future and not decrease, making a floating rate loan a poor choice. Therefore, using a fixed-rate loan, especially in a low interest rate environment, is the wisest move.




Which Is Better, a Floating or Fixed Interest Rate?
As a borrower, that depends on your financial situation and your outlook on interest rates or the economy. While a floating interest rate may save you money, it can make your financial planning and budgeting difficult because it changes. Plus, you may be forced to spend more money if it rises. So, floating interest rates pose a risk. A fixed interest rate never changes. You can plan with confidence and enjoy a greater sense of security in an increasing rate environment.




What Is n Example of a Floating Rate?
A floating rate is a certain base rate (usually tied to a benchmark rate such as the U.S. prime rate or LIBOR) plus a margin above that base. So, if a certain debt instrument has a floating rate tied to the LIBOR plus a 6% margin, and LIBOR is at 6%, then the floating rate is 12%.




Do Credit Cards Have Floating Rates?
Yes, the majority of credit cards have floating, or variable, rates. The rates typically fluctuate according to the prime rate. Then, the credit card company adds a percentage on top of that to determine the card's interest rate. For example, if the prime rate is 8% and the added amount is 12%, then the credit card rate is 20%.


   The Bottom Line  

A floating interest rate, otherwise known as a variable interest rate, changes periodically in accordance with the benchmark rate to which it's pegged. If the benchmark rate increases, the floating interest rate increases, and vice-versa.



If a floating rate drops, borrowers will save money with lower monthly payments. However, if it rises, they'll be faced with having to pay more each month than they had previously. This risk of higher borrowing costs is the floating interest rate's primary disadvantage for borrowers.
What Is a Floating Rate Fund?  

A floating rate fund is a fund that invests in financial instruments that pays a variable or floating interest rate. A floating rate fund, which can be a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund (ETF), invests in bonds and debt instruments whose interest payments fluctuate with an underlying interest rate level. Typically, a fixed-rate investment will have a stable, predictable income. However, as interest rates rise, fixed-rate investments lag behind the market since their returns remain fixed.



Floating rate funds aim to provide investors with a flexible interest income in a rising rate environment. As a result, floating-rate funds have gained in popularity as investors look to boost the yield of their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

A floating rate fund is a fund that invests in financial instruments paying a variable or floating interest rate. A floating rate fund invests in bonds and debt instruments whose interest payments fluctuate with an underlying interest rate level. Floating rate funds can include corporate bonds as well as loans made by banks to companies. These loans are sometimes repackaged and included in a fund for investors. However, the loans can carry default risk.Although floating funds offer yields in a rising rate environment since they fluctuate with rising rates, investors must weigh the risks of investing in the funds and research the fund holdings.


   How a Floating Rate Fund Works  

Although there is no formula to calculate a floating rate fund, there can be various investments that comprise a fund. Floating rate funds can include preferred stock, corporate bonds, and loans that have maturities from one month to five years. Floating rate funds can include corporate loans and mortgages as well.



Floating rate loans are loans made by banks to companies. These loans are sometimes repackaged and included in a fund for investors. Floating rate loans are similar to mortgage-backed securities, which are packaged mortgages that investors can buy into and receive an overall rate of return from the numerous mortgage rates in the fund.



Floating rate loans are considered senior debt, meaning they have a higher claim on a company's assets in the event of default. However, the term "senior" doesn't represent credit quality, only the pecking order of claiming a company's assets to pay back the loan if the company defaulted.



Floating rate funds can include floating rate bonds, which are debt instruments whereby the interest paid to an investor adjusts over time. The rate on a floating rate bond can be based on the fed funds rate, which is the rate set by the Federal Reserve Bank. However, the return on the floating rate bond is typically the fed funds rate plus a set spread added to it. As interest rates rise, so does the return on the floating rate bond fund.


   What Does a Floating Rate Fund Tell You?  

The biggest advantage of a floating rate fund is its lower degree of sensitivity to changes in interest rates, compared with a fund or instrument with a fixed payment rate or fixed bond coupon rate. Floating rate funds appeal to investors when interest rates are rising since the fund will yield a higher level of interest or coupon payments.



Floating rate funds are an attractive investment for the fixed income or conservative portion of any portfolio. A floating rate fund can hold various types of floating rate debt including bonds and loans. These funds are managed with varying objectives similar to other credit funds. Strategies can target credit quality and duration. The rates payable on a floating rate instrument held within a floating rate fund adjust with a defined interest rate level or a set of parameters.



As a result, floating rate funds are less sensitive to duration risk. Duration risk is the risk that interest rates will rise while an investor is holding a fixed income investment and thus missing out on higher rates in the market.



Income paid from a floating rate fund’s underlying investments is managed by the portfolio managers and paid to shareholders through regular distributions. Distributions may include income and capital gains. Distributions are often paid monthly, but they can also be paid quarterly, semi-annually, or annually.



Apart from their lower sensitivity to interest rate changes and the ability to reflect current interest rates, a floating rate fund enables an investor to diversify fixed-income investments, since fixed-rate instruments often comprise the majority of bond holdings for most investors. Another benefit is that a floating rate fund enables an investor to acquire a diversified bond or loan portfolio at a relatively low investment threshold, rather than to invest in individual instruments at a larger dollar amount.



In evaluating a floating rate fund, investors must ensure that the securities in the fund are adequate for their risk tolerance. Floating rate funds offer varying levels of risk across the credit quality spectrum with high yield, lower credit quality investments carrying considerably higher risks. However, along with the higher risk comes the potential for higher returns.


   Examples of Floating Rate Fund Investments  

Floating rate funds can include any type of floating rate instrument. The majority of floating rate funds typically invest in floating rate bonds or loans. Below are two popular floating rate funds.


  The iShares Floating Rate Bond ETF (FLOT)  

The FLOT seeks results that correspond to both the price and yield performance of the Barclays Capital US Floating Rate Note <5 Years Index.﻿﻿ In other words, each note has a maturity of fewer than five years, but typically the coupon rates are an aggregate of the one to three month LIBOR rate plus a spread added to it.



LIBOR represents the interest rate at which banks offer to lend funds to one another in the international interbank market for short-term loans. LIBOR is an average value of the interest rate, which is calculated from estimates submitted by the leading global banks on a daily basis



The FLOT holds investment-grade floating rate notes, which include holdings or notes from Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Inter-American Development Bank, and Morgan Stanley. The fund has an expense ratio of 0.20% and a 12-month yield of 1.89% with over $5.79 trillion in assets under management as September 2020.﻿﻿


  The iShares Short-Term Corporate Bond ETF (IGSB)  

The iShares Short-Term Corporate Bond ETF invests in corporate bonds that are investment grade and have maturities of one to three years remaining. The fund has an expense ratio of 0.06% and a 12-month yield of 2.62% with $20.2 billion in assets under management.﻿﻿


   The Difference Between Money Market Funds and Floating Rate Funds  

A money market fund is a kind of mutual fund which invests only in highly liquid cash and cash equivalent securities that have high credit ratings. Also called a money market mutual fund, these funds invest primarily in debt-based securities, which have a short-term maturity of fewer than 13 months and offer high liquidity with a very low level of risk. Money market funds typically pay a lower rate compared to floating rate funds.



However, floating rate funds carry a higher risk than their money market counterparts. Money market funds invest in high-quality securities versus floating rate funds, which can invest in below investment grade securities such as loans.


   The Limitations of Using Floating Rate Funds  

Credit risk of floating rate funds can be a concern for investors who seek yield but are hesitant to take on the added risk to achieve that yield. If U.S. Treasury yields are low, floating rate funds tend to appear more attractive than Treasuries. However, Treasuries offer safety since they're back to the U.S. government.



Floating rate funds could have holdings that include corporate bonds that are close to junk status or loans that have default risk. Although floating funds offer yields in a rising rate environment (since they fluctuate with rising rates), investors must weigh the risks of investing in the funds and research the fund holdings.



There are other short-term bond funds that primarily invest in Treasuries, but these funds might offer a fixed rate or a lower yield than floating rate funds. Investors need to weigh the risks and returns of each investment before making a decision.
What Is a Floating-Rate Note (FRN)?  

A floating-rate note (FRN) is a debt instrument with a variable interest rate. The interest rate for an FRN is tied to a benchmark rate. Benchmarks include the U.S. Treasury note rate, the Federal Reserve funds rate—known as the Fed funds rate—the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or the prime rate.



Floating rate notes or floaters can be issued by financial institutions, governments, and corporations in maturities of two-to-five years.





Key Takeaways

A floating-rate note is a bond that has a variable interest rate, vs. a fixed-rate note that has an interest rate that doesn't fluctuate.The interest rate is tied to a short-term benchmark rate, such as LIBOR or the Fed funds rate, plus a quoted spread, or rate that holds steady.Many floating-rate notes have quarterly coupons, meaning that they pay interest four times a year, but some pay monthly, semiannually, or annually.FRNs appeal to investors because they can benefit from higher interest rates since the rate on the floater adjusts periodically to current market rates.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Floating Rate Notes (FRNs)  

Floating-rate notes (FRNs) make up a significant component of the U.S. investment-grade bond market. Compared with fixed-rate debt instruments, floaters allow investors to benefit from a rise in interest rates since the rate on the floater adjusts periodically to current market rates. Floaters are usually benchmarked against short-term rates like the Fed funds rate, which is the rate the Federal Reserve Bank sets for short-term borrowing between banks.



Typically, the rate or yield paid to an investor on a bond or U.S. Treasury product rises with the length of time until maturity. The rising yield curve compensates investors for holding longer-term securities. In other words, the yield on a bond with a 10-year maturity should pay—under normal market conditions—a higher yield than a bond with a two-month maturity.



As a result, floating-rate notes usually pay a lower yield to investors than their fixed-rate counterparts because floaters are benchmarked to short-term rates. The investor gives up a portion of the yield for the security of having an investment that rises as its benchmark rate rises. However, if the rate of the short-term benchmark falls, so too does the rate on the FRN.



There's no guarantee that the FRN's rate will rise as fast as interest rates in a rising-rate environment. It all depends on the performance of the benchmark rate. As a result, an FRN bondholder can still have interest rate risk meaning the bond's rate underperforms the overall market.



Since the bond's rate can adjust to market conditions, an FRN's price tends to have less volatility or price fluctuations. Traditional fixed-rate bonds typically slide when rates rise because existing bondholders are losing out by holding a product returning a lower-rate.



FRNs avoid some of the market price volatility since there's less opportunity cost for the bondholders in a rising rate market. As with any bond, FRNs are susceptible to default risk, which occurs when the company or government can't pay back the principal or original amount that was paid by the investor.



Since floaters have variable rates, they tend to have unpredictable coupon payments. A coupon payment is the interest payment for a bond. Sometimes a floater may have a cap and a floor, which allows an investor to know the maximum and minimum interest rates paid by the note.



An FRN's interest rate can change as often or as frequently as the issuer chooses, from once a day to once a year. The reset period, which is outlined in the bond's prospectus tells the investor how often the rate adjusts. The issuer may pay interest monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually.


   Callable Floating Rate Note vs. Non-Callable Floating Rate Note  

FRNs may be issued with or without a callable option, which means the issuer has the right to return the investor's principal amount and stop making interest payments. The callable feature is known upfront and allows the issuer to pay off the bond before maturity.





Pros

Floating rate notes allow investors to benefit from rising rates as the FRN's rate adjusts to the market
FRNs are impacted less by price volatility
FRNs are available in U.S. Treasuries and corporate bonds



Cons

FRNs may still have interest rate risk if market rates rise to a greater extent than the rate resets
FRNs can have default risk if the issuing company or corporation can't pay back the principal
If market interest rates fall, the FRN rates may fall as well
FRNs typically pay a lower rate than their fixed-rate counterparts





   Example of a Floating Rate Note (FRN)  

The U.S. Treasury Department began issuing floating-rate notes in 2014. The notes have the following characteristics and requirements:



The minimum purchase amount of $100Term or maturity of two yearsAt maturity, the investor receives the face value of the notePays a variable rate benchmarked to the 13-week Treasury billPays interest or coupon payments quarterlyFRNs can be held until maturity or sold before maturityIssued electronicallyInterest income is subject to Federal income tax
What Is Floating Stock?  

Floating stock is the number of shares available for trading of a particular stock. Low float stocks are those with a low number of shares. Floating stock is calculated by subtracting closely-held shares and restricted stock from a firm’s total outstanding shares.



Closely-held shares are those owned by insiders, major shareholders, and employees. Restricted stock refers to insider shares that cannot be traded because of a temporary restriction, such as the lock-up period after an initial public offering (IPO).



A stock with a small float will generally be more volatile than a stock with a large float. This is because, with fewer shares available, it may be harder to find a buyer or seller. This results in larger spreads and often lower volume.





Key Takeaways

Floating stock refers to the number of shares a company has available to trade in the open market.To calculate a company's floating stock, subtract its restricted stock and closely held shares from its total number of outstanding shares.Floating stock will change over time as new shares may be issued, shares may be bought back, or insiders or major shareholders may buy or sell the stock.Low float stocks tend to have higher spreads and higher volatility than a comparable larger float stock.Investors can find it difficult to enter or exit positions in stocks that have a low float.


   Understanding Floating Stock  

A company may have a large number of shares outstanding, but limited floating stock. For example, assume a company has 50 million shares outstanding. Of that 50 million shares, large institutions own 35 million shares, management and insiders own 5 million, and the employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) holds 2 million shares. Floating stock is therefore only 8 million shares (50 million shares minus 42 million shares), or 16% of the outstanding shares.



The amount of a company’s floating stock may rise or fall over time. This can occur for a variety of reasons. For example, a company may sell additional shares to raise more capital, which then increases the floating stock. If restricted or closely-held shares become available, then the floating stock will also increase.



On the flip side, if a company decides to implement a share buyback, then the number of outstanding shares will decrease. In this case, the floating shares as a percentage of outstanding stock will also go down. 






A stock split will increase floating shares, while a reverse stock split decreases float.


   Why Floating Stock Is Important  

A company's float is an important number for investors because it indicates how many shares are actually available to be bought and sold by the general investing public. Low float is typically an impediment to active trading. This lack of trading activity can make it difficult for investors to enter or exit positions in stocks that have limited float.



Institutional investors will often avoid trading in companies with smaller floats because there are fewer shares to trade, thus leading to limited liquidity and wider bid-ask spreads. Instead, institutional investors (such as mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance companies) that buy large blocks of stock will look to invest in companies with a larger float. If they invest in companies with a big float, their large purchases will not impact the share price as much.


   Special Considerations  

A company is not responsible for how shares within the float are traded by the public—this is a function of the secondary market. Therefore, shares that are purchased, sold, or even shorted by investors do not affect the float because these actions do not represent a change in the number of shares available for trade. They simply represent a redistribution of shares. Similarly, the creation and trading of options on a stock do not affect the float.


   Example of Floating Stock  

As of June 2020, General Electric (GE) had 8.75 billion shares outstanding.﻿﻿ Of this, 0.13% were held by insiders. 63.61% were held by large institutions.﻿﻿ Therefore, a total of 63.7% or 5.57 billion shares were likely not available for public trading. The floating stock is therefore 3.18 billion shares (8.75 - 5.57).



It is important to note that institutions don't hold a stock forever. The institutional ownership number will change regularly, although not always by a significant percentage. Falling institutional ownership coupled with a falling share price could signal that institutions are dumping the shares. Increasing institutional ownership shows that institutions are accumulating shares.
What Is Floor Area Ratio?  

The floor area ratio is the relationship between the total amount of usable floor area that a building has, or has been permitted to have, and the total area of the lot on which the building stands. A higher ratio likely would indicate a dense or urban construction. Local governments use the floor area ratio for zoning codes.



You may determine the ratio by dividing the total or gross floor area of the building by the gross area of the lot.



﻿















Floor Area Ratio


=




Total Building Floor Area




Gross Lot Area










\begin{aligned} &\text{Floor Area Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Total Building Floor Area} }{ \text{Gross Lot Area} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Floor Area Ratio=Gross Lot AreaTotal Building Floor Area​​﻿


   What Does the Floor Area Ratio Tell You?  

The floor area ratio accounts for the entire floor area of a building, not simply the building's footprint. Excluded from the square footage calculation are unoccupied areas such as basements, parking garages, stairs, and elevator shafts.



Buildings with different numbers of stories may have the same floor-area-ratio value. Every city has a limited capacity or limited space that can be utilized safely. Any use beyond this point puts undue stress on a city. This is sometimes known as the safe load factor.



The floor area ratio is variable because population dynamics, growth patterns, and construction activities vary and because the nature of the land or space where a building is placed varies. Industrial, residential, commercial, agricultural, and nonagricultural spaces have differing safe load factors, so they typically have differing floor area ratios. In the end, local governments establish regulations and restrictions that determine the floor area ratio.



The floor area ratio is a key determining factor for development in any country. A low floor area ratio is generally a deterrent to construction. Many industries, largely the real estate industry, seek hikes in the floor area ratio to open up space and land resources to developers. An increased floor area ratio allows a developer to complete more building projects, which inevitably leads to greater sales, decreased expenditures per project, and greater supply to meet demand.





Key Takeaways

The floor area ratio is the relationship of the total usable floor area of a building relative to the total area of the lot on which the building stands.A higher ratio usually indicates a dense or highly urbanized area.floor area ratios vary based on structure type, such as industrial, residential, commercial, or agricultural.


   Example of How to Use the Floor Area Ratio  

The floor area ratio of a 1,000-square-foot building with one story situated on a 4,000-square-foot lot would be 0.25x. A two-story building on the same lot, where each floor was 500 square feet, would have the same floor-area-ratio value.Considered another way, a lot has a floor area ratio of 2.0x and the square footage is 1,000. In this scenario, a developer could construct a building that covers as much as 2,000 square feet. This could include a 1,000 square foot building with two stories. As a real-life example, consider an apartment building for sale in Charlotte, North Carolina. The asking price for the apartment complex is $3 million and spans 17,350 square feet. The entire lot is 1.81 acres or 78,843 square feet. The floor area ratio is 0.22x, or 17,350 divided by 78,843.


   The Difference Between the Floor Area Ratio and Lot Coverage  

Though the floor area ratio calculates the size of the building relative to the lot, the lot coverage takes into account the size of all buildings and structures. The lot coverage ratio includes structures such as garages, swimming pools, and sheds—including nonconforming buildings.


   Limitations of Using the Floor Area Ratio  

The impact that the floor area ratio has on land value cuts both ways. In some instances, an increased floor area ratio may make a property more valuable if, for example, an apartment complex can be built that allows for more spacious rentals or more tenants.



However, a developer who can build a larger apartment complex on one piece of land may decrease the value of an adjoining property with a high sale value bolstered by a view that is now obstructed.
What Is a Floor Trader?  

A floor trader is an exchange member who executes transactions from the floor of the exchange, exclusively for their own account. Floor traders used to use the open outcry method in the pit of a commodity or stock exchange, but now most of them use electronic trading systems and do not appear in the pit.



Floor traders fulfill an important role in commodity and stock markets by providing liquidity and narrowing bid-ask spreads. Floor traders may also be referred to as individual liquidity providers or registered competitive traders.





Key Takeaways

A floor trader is an exchange member who executes transactions from the floor of the exchange, exclusively for their own account.Floor trading has become increasingly rare as electronic trading has become faster and cheaper, with many exchanges closing their trading floors altogether.


   Understanding the Floor Trader  

Floor traders are the traders typically represented in movies when a scene of a securities exchange is shown. These traders are often depicted as being emotionally invested in the trades they are executing because they are trading with their own money. In reality, most traders are not floor traders, and floor traders are increasingly rare, primarily because most traders who use their own money have switched to electronic trading, which is not conducted in the pit.



A floor trader is required to pass a screening process before trading on an exchange. The National Futures Association requires floor trader applicants to file the following: Form 8-R completed online, fingerprint cards, proof from a contract market that the individual has been granted trading privileges, and a non-refundable application fee of $85. Other exchanges have their own screening requirements.


   Floor Traders, Market Makers, and Brokers  

Floor traders are in the pit with market makers and brokers, but they play different roles. Brokers work on behalf of clients while market makers mostly provide liquidity. Floor traders also provide liquidity, but their primary motivation is making profits with their own money. However, all parties are looking for the best order execution possible. Depending on the rules of the exchange, a floor broker may be given permission to trade for their own account in addition to that of the firm or client they represent. In this case, a person can be both a floor broker and a floor trader.


   The Future of Floor Trading  

Floor trading has become increasingly rare as electronic trading has become faster and cheaper, with many exchanges closing their trading floors altogether. The 2020 crisis has added more uncertainty to the future of floor trading. The outbreak led the New York Stock Exchange and many others to temporary close their trading floors beginning in March 2020. Many exchanges are resuming floor trading in phases, but the future of the floor trader as an occupation is anything but assured.
What Is Flotation?  

Flotation is the process of converting a private company into a public company by issuing shares available for the public to purchase. It allows companies to obtain financing externally instead of using retained earnings to fund new projects or expansion. The term "flotation" is commonly used in the United Kingdom, whereas the term "going public" is more widely used in the United States.





Key Takeaways

Flotation, also known as "going public," is the process of converting a private company into a public company by issuing shares available for the public to purchase.While flotation provides a company with new access to sources of capital, the extra expenses associated with issuing public shares must be accounted for when considering the switch from a private to a public company.Companies in mature phases of growth may decide to pursue flotation because they need additional funding for various reasons, including expansion, inventory, research and development, and new equipment. 


   Understanding Flotation  

Flotation requires careful consideration regarding timing, company structure, the company's ability to withstand public scrutiny, increased regulatory compliance costs, and the time needed to execute the flotation and attract new investors. While flotation provides access to new sources of capital, the extra expenses associated with issuing new stock must be accounted for when considering the switch from a private to a public company.



Companies in mature phases of growth may need additional funding for various reasons including expansion, inventory, research and development, and new equipment. For this reason, the time and monetary costs of becoming a company that is traded publicly are often deemed worth it.



When a company decides to pursue flotation, they typically enlist an investment bank as an underwriter. The underwriting investment bank typically leads the process for conducting an IPO and helps the company determine the amount of money it seeks to raise from the public market issuance.



The investment bank also assists in the documentation requirements for becoming a public company. The bank will develop an investment prospectus and will also market the company’s offering in a roadshow prior to the initial stock issuance. A roadshow is a sales pitch to potential investors by the underwriting firm and executive management team of the company about to go public. Gauging demand during the roadshow is an important step in determining the final IPO share price, as well as in determining the ultimate number of shares to make available for issuance.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Flotation  

When considering flotation as a means of raising capital, companies may also look to other private funding sources before deciding to become a public company. These alternative sources of funding may include small business loans, equity crowdfunding, angel investors, or investment from venture capitalists. However, when seeking additional private funding, companies will still incur legal fees and extra costs for deal structuring and accounting. 



Many private companies choose to receive private funds for the benefit of fewer transparency requirements. Private companies may also wish to remain privately funded because of the high costs associated with restructuring and an initial public offering (IPO).
What Is a Flotation Cost?  

Flotation costs are incurred by a publicly-traded company when it issues new securities and incurs expenses, such as underwriting fees, legal fees, and registration fees. Companies must consider the impact these fees will have on how much capital they can raise from a new issue. Flotation costs, expected return on equity, dividend payments, and the percentage of earnings the business expects to retain are all part of the equation to calculate a company's cost of new equity.


   The Formula for Float in New Equity Is  

The equation for calculating the flotation cost of new equity using the dividend growth rate is:



﻿




Dividend growth rate


=





D


1





P


∗



(


1


−


F


)





+


g



\text{Dividend growth rate} = \frac{D_1}{P * \left(1-F\right)} + g


Dividend growth rate=P∗(1−F)D1​​+g﻿



Where:



D1 = the dividend in the next periodP = the issue price of one share of stockF = ratio of flotation cost-to-stock issue priceg = the dividend growth rate





Key Takeaways

Flotation costs are costs a company incurs when it issues new stock.Flotation costs make new equity cost more than existing equity.Analysts argue that flotation costs are a one-time expense that should be adjusted out of future cash flows in order to not overstate the cost of capital forever.


   What Do Flotation Costs Tell You?  

Companies raise capital in two ways: debt via bonds and loans or equity. Some companies prefer issuing bonds or obtaining a loan, especially when interest rates are low and because the interest paid on many debts is tax-deductible, while equity returns are not. Other companies prefer equity because it does not need to be paid back; however, selling equity also entails giving up an ownership stake in the company.



There are flotation costs associated with issuing new equity, or newly issued common stock. These include costs such as investment banking and legal fees, accounting and audit fees, and fees paid to a stock exchange to list the company's shares. The difference between the cost of existing equity and the cost of new equity is the flotation cost.



The flotation cost is expressed as a percentage of the issue price and is incorporated into the price of new shares as a reduction. A company will often use a weighted cost of capital (WACC) calculation to determine what share of its funding should be raised from new equity and what portion from debt.


   Example of a Flotation Cost Calculation  

As an example, assume Company A needs capital and decides to raise $100 million in common stock at $10 per share to meet its capital requirements. Investment bankers receive 7% of the funds raised. Company A pays out $1 in dividends per share next year and is expected to increase dividends by 10% the following year.



Using these variables, the cost of new equity is calculated with the following equation:



($1 / ($10 * (1-7%)) + 10%



The answer is 20.7%. If the analyst assumes no flotation cost, the answer is the cost of existing equity. The cost of existing equity is calculated with the following formula:



($1 / ($10 * (1-0%)) + 10%



The answer is 20.0%. The difference between the cost of new equity and the cost of existing equity is the flotation cost, which is (20.7-20.0%) = 0.7%. In other words, the flotation costs increased the cost of the new equity issuance by 0.7%.


   Limitations of Using Flotation Costs  

Some analysts argue that including flotation costs in the company's cost of equity implies that flotation costs are an ongoing expense, and forever overstates the firm's cost of capital. In reality, a firm pays the flotation costs one time upon issuing new equity. To offset this, some analysts adjust the company's cash flows for flotation costs.
What Are Flow of Funds (FOF)?  

Flow of funds (FOF) are financial accounts that are used to track the net inflows and outflows of money to and from various sectors of a national economy. Macroeconomic data from flow of funds accounts are collected and analyzed by a country's central bank. In the United States, this data is released by the Federal Reserve Bank approximately 10 weeks after the end of each quarter.



Note that a different term "fund flows" is used to denote the amount of assets moving in and out of different types of mutual funds, e.g. among equity and fixed income funds.





Key Takeaways

Flow of funds (FOF) are national financial accounts that track the movement of money among industries or sectors of the economy.Figures measuring the scale and scope of flow of funds in a nation's economy are collected and disseminated by the central bank for economic analysis.This FOF analysis can then be used to measure economic activity and predict changes in GDP. They can also be used to help inform fiscal and monetary policy.


   Understanding Flow of Funds Accounts  

The FOF accounts are used primarily as an economy-wide performance indicator. The data from the FOF accounts can be compared to prior data to analyze the financial strength of the economy at a certain time and to see where the economy may go in the future. The accounts can also be used by governments to formulate monetary and fiscal policy.



The accounts use double-entry bookkeeping to track the changes in assets and liabilities in all sectors of the economy: households, nonprofit organizations, corporations, farms, the government (federal, state and local) and the foreign sector. A wide range of financial instruments is accounted for: Treasury assets, American deposits abroad, savings deposits, money market funds, pension funds, corporate equities and bonds, mutual fund shares, mortgages, and consumer credits are just a few examples.



The Fed's annual flow of funds data extends back to 1945, with quarterly data available from the beginning of 1952. The data provide a nuanced picture of how the size and composition of the U.S. economy have changed since World War II. 


   Flow of Funds Data  

The Fed issues reports on the financial accounts of the U.S. on a trailing quarterly basis, including data on flow of funds. The release, which the Fed labels Z.1, shows the assets and liabilities of each sector of the economy at the end of the period in question. It also shows how each sector has served as a source and use of funds. It includes a times series of outstanding debt for each sector of the economy, the derivation of net wealth in the country by asset, and the distribution of gross domestic product (GDP). Detailed statements for each account show how net capital has shifted to or from various sectors, allowing for a granular look at the movement of funds within the economy, as well as into and out of it.
What Is a Flow-Through Entity?  

A flow-through entity is a legal business entity that passes any income it makes straight to its owners, shareholders, or investors. As a result, only these individuals—and not the entity itself—are taxed on the revenues. Flow-through entities are a common device used to avoid double taxation, which happens with income from regular corporations.





Key Takeaways

A flow-through (pass-through) entity is a legal business entity that passes all its income on to the owners or investors of the business.Flow-through entities are a common device used to avoid double taxation on earnings.With flow-through entities, the income is taxed only at the owner's individual tax rate for ordinary income: The business itself pays no corporate tax.Sole proprietorships, partnerships (limited, general, and limited liability partnerships), LLCs, and S Corporations are all types of flow-through entities.One downside of flow-throughs: Owners can be taxed on income that they do not actually receive.


   Understanding a Flow-Through Entity  

Both businesses and individuals are taxable entities—that is, liable to pay taxes on the money they earn. Individuals pay income tax on their wages, and companies pay corporate tax on their revenues. But businesses that are set up as flow-throughs are not subject to corporate income tax. Instead, the income generated by a flow-through entity, aka a pass-through entity, is treated solely as income of the investors, stockholders, or owners. Any earnings directly pass, or "flow through," to the individuals, and so does the tax liability.



These individual stakeholders pay taxes on business income as though it is personal income, and it is taxed at their ordinary income rate. In addition, the owners can apply losses of the company against their personal income.



Although flow-through businesses generally face the same tax rules as C corporations for inventory accounting, depreciation, and other provisions affecting the measurement of business profits, they are in effect taxed only once. Earnings generated by C corporations, on the other hand, are subject to double taxation—income is taxed at the corporate tax rate first and then taxed again when paid out as dividends to shareholders or when shareholders realize capital gains arising from retained earnings.


   Types of Flow-Through Entities  

Flow-through entities are commonly grouped into sole proprietorships, partnerships (limited, general, and limited liability partnerships), and S Corporations, along with income trusts and limited liability companies. A sole proprietor reports all their business income on their personal income tax return. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers this form of company as a flow-through given that the business is not taxed separately.



S corporations have profits flow through to shareholders who report the income on Schedule E of their personal income tax. Although S corporation owners do not pay the Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) tax on their profits, they are required to pay themselves "reasonable compensation," which is subject to the regular Social Security tax.



In Canada, a flow-through entity includes an investment corporation, a mortgage investment corporation, a mutual fund corporation, a partnership, or a trust.






Although flow-throughs are considered non-entities for tax purposes, they are still required to file an annual K-1 statement, as regular public companies do.


   The Disadvantages of Flow-Through Entities  

One important potential downside to a business that elects to operate as a flow-through entity is that the owners will still be taxed on income that they do not directly receive. For instance, if the business does not distribute its profits to owners in the form of dividends, but plows them back into the company, the investors are still required to report their share of the profits, and could owe taxes on them.



Also, while they avoid corporate tax, some pass-through entities' owners may be subject to self-employment tax.


   Pass-Through Entity FAQs  
  Is a Flow-Through Entity the Same as a Pass-Through Entity?  

Yes, a flow-through entity is the same as a pass-through entity.


  What Is the Advantage of a Pass-Through Entity?  

When it comes to the big advantage of a pass-through entity, we have two words for you: tax treatment.



Regular incorporated businesses pay a flat corporate income tax on any profits before they distribute those earnings to stockholders and owners. These shareholders must report their dividends or other distributions on their personal tax returns. So the same dollars effectively get taxed twice.



A pass-through entity allows profits to avoid this double taxation—specifically, the initial corporate tax round. A pass-through is exempt from business taxes. It passes earnings straight through to stakeholders, who do owe taxes on it. But the money is only taxed once.



A pass-through entity also affords owners and investors an extra deduction on their personal taxes in some cases. If the business suffers a loss, that also gets passed through and can be used to reduce overall taxable income.


  What Business Entity Is Not Considered a Pass-Through Entity?  

A C Corporation is a common business entity that is not considered a pass-through entity.


  Does a Disregarded Entity Pay Taxes?  

Yes, a disregarded entity pays taxes. But since by definition it's usually a single-person business or company, it's not treated or taxed separately from its owner by the IRS. It reports its income on the owner's personal tax return.



Disregarded entities pay two types of taxes, similar to sole proprietorships:



Self-employment tax (a flat rate)Income tax (variable rate, depending on the individual owner's tax bracket)


  Is a Single-Member LLC Automatically a Disregarded Entity?  

Yes, a single-member LLC is automatically a disregarded entity. It can request to be taxed differently.


  Can a Disregarded Entity Have Employees?  

Yes, a disregarded entity can have employees. The "disregarded entity" status is recognized only for the purposes of federal income taxes; it doesn't affect employment—and in fact, a disregarded entity with workers might have to pay employment taxes. 



However, the IRS and courts have ruled that a single-member LLC, one of the most common types of disregarded entities, cannot classify an owner as both an employee and a partner.
What Is a Folio Number?  

In mutual funds, a folio number is a unique number identifying your account with the fund. Like a bank account number, the folio number can be used as a way to uniquely identify fund investors. A folio number also records items such as how much money each investor has placed with the fund, their transaction history, and contact details.



A folio number can also be used to identify journal entries or parcels of land. Different fund houses and providers of similar folio numbers will all use a slightly different method to create a number value.





Key Takeaways

A folio number is a unique identifier used to keep track of investments or pieces of property.Lawyers, bank creditors, and investors will often all use folio numbers in their businesses.Mutual funds use folio numbers to identify account holders in their investment pool.


   Understanding Folio Numbers  

The word "folio" (leaf in Latin) can mean either a single sheet of paper, or the page number printed on a single sheet of paper to identify its proper location in a larger tome. In accounting, the folio number is a way to reference a bookkeeping entry, most often numbered in chronological or sequential order. By referencing an entry's folio number, its details can be found and analyzed.



All mutual funds need some sort of record-keeping system in place. This information is necessary for ensuring each investor is returned the money they are entitled to, and for determining what fee structure applies to each investor.



While record-keeping is most often facilitated by the broker, in some cases an investor may be asked for a folio number by the fund provider to help ensure accuracy. This folio number may be present on investment statements or may be obtained through your broker. You can make numerous or multiple purchases using one folio number, but the purchases must be in the mutual fund when using the same digits.



Folio numbers are useful to bank creditors, lawyers, and regulators—their utility extends beyond just mutual funds and their unitholders. For instance, in the case of suspected fraud, investigators will reference folio numbers as they construct an audit trail to trace where certain funds or assets have flown in or out, identifying new folio numbers along the way. Folio numbers are also useful in catching duplicated ledger entries and ensuring the accuracy and fidelity of a company's financial statements.






A folio number is a unique number to identify accounts with a mutual fund, and you can get your folio number from your investment statements or through a broker.


   Special Considerations  

An investor can have multiple folio numbers kept with the same mutual fund company, but they can ask the fund company to consolidate them into a single number. This can help investors when it comes to their own personal accounting and for tax reporting purposes.



Note that the increase in electronic record-keeping further necessitates the need for effective digital tracking options, but also minimizes mistakes and allows for easier reconciliation of multiple entries.
What Is a Follow-on Offering (FPO)?  

A follow-on offering (FPO) is an issuance of stock shares following a company's initial public offering (IPO). There are two types of follow-on offerings: diluted and non-diluted. A diluted follow-on offering results in the company issuing new shares after the IPO, which causes the lowering of a company's earnings per share (EPS).



During a non-diluted follow-on offering, shares coming into the market are already existing and the EPS remains unchanged.



Any time a company plans to offer additional shares, it must register the FPO offering and provide a prospectus to regulators.





Key Takeaways

A follow-on offering (FPO) is an offering of shares after an initial public offering (IPO).Raising capital to finance debt or making growth acquisitions are some of the reasons that companies undertake follow-on offerings (FPOs).Diluted follow-on offerings (FPOs) result in lower earnings per share (EPS) because the number of shares in circulation increases, while non-diluted follow-on offerings (FPOs) result in an unchanged EPS because it involves bringing existing shares to the market.


   How a Follow-on Offering (FPO) Works  

An initial public offering (IPO) bases its price on the health and performance of the company, and the price the company hopes to achieve per share during the initial offering. The pricing of a follow-on offering is market-driven. Since the stock is already publicly-traded, investors have a chance to value the company before buying.



The price of follow-on shares is usually at a discount to the current, closing market price. Also, FPO buyers need to understand that investment banks directly working on the offering will tend to focus on marketing efforts rather than purely on valuation.



Companies perform follow-on offerings for a wide variety of reasons. In some cases, the company might simply need to raise capital to finance its debt or make acquisitions. In others, the company's investors might be interested in an offering to cash out of their holdings.



Some companies may also conduct follow-on offerings in order to raise capital to refinance debt during times of low interest rates. Investors should be cognizant of the reasons that a company has for a follow-on offering before putting their money into it.


   Types of Follow-on Offerings (FPOs)  

A follow-on offering can be either diluted or non-diluted.


  Diluted Follow-on Offering  

Diluted follow-on offerings happen when a company issues additional shares to raise funding and offer those shares to the public market. As the number of shares increases, the earnings per share (EPS) decreases. The funds raised during an FPO are most frequently allocated to reduce debt or change a company's capital structure. The infusion of cash is good for the long-term outlook of the company, and thus, it is also good for its shares.


  Non-Diluted Follow-on Offering  

Non-diluted follow-on offerings happen when holders of existing, privately-held shares bring previously issued shares to the public market for sale. Cash proceeds from non-diluted sales go directly to the shareholders placing the stock into the open market.



In many cases, these shareholders are company founders, members of the board of directors, or pre-IPO investors. Since no new shares are issued, the company's EPS remains unchanged. Non-diluted follow-on offerings are also called secondary market offerings.


   Example of a Follow-on Offering (FPO)  

A well-publicized follow-on offering was that of Alphabet Inc. subsidiary Google (GOOG), which conducted a follow-on offering in 2005. The Mountain View company's initial public offering (IPO) was conducted in 2004 using the Dutch Auction method. It raised approximately $1.67 billion at a price of $85 per share, the lower end of its estimates. In contrast, the follow-on offering conducted in 2005 raised more than $4 billion at $295, the company's share price a year later.



In early 2022, AFC Gamma, a commercial real estate company that makes loans to companies in the cannabis industry, announced that it would be conducting a follow-on offering. The company would look to offer 3 million shares of its common stock at a price of $20.50 per share. The underwriters of the offering have a 30-day period in which they can opt to buy an additional 450,000 shares.



The company estimates gross proceeds from the sale to be approximately $61.5 million. The proceeds from the sale of additional common stock will be to fund loans made to companies in the industry and for working capital needs.




Is a Follow-on Offering a Primary or Secondary Offering?
There are two types of follow-on offerings: primary and secondary. A primary follow-on offering is a direct sale of a company's shares from the company that are newly issued. A secondary follow-on offering is a public resale of existing shares from current stockholders. A primary offering is dilutive while a secondary offering is non-dilutive.




What Is the Difference Between a Follow-on Offering and an Initial Public Offering?
An initial public offering (IPO) is when a private company goes public, listing its shares on an exchange for the first time for the public to purchase. A follow-on offering is when an already existing public company (one that has completed an IPO) sells more shares to the public to raise additional capital.




What Is Follow-on Financing?
Follow-on financing is when a startup that has already raised capital raises additional capital through another round of funding. This is in the private space before the start up has gone public.
What Is a Follow-on Public Offer (FPO)?  

A follow-on public offer (FPO) is the issuance of shares to investors by a company listed on a stock exchange. A follow-on offering is an issuance of additional shares made by a company after an initial public offering (IPO).



Follow-on offerings are also known as secondary offerings.





Key Takeaways

A follow-on public offer (FPO), also known as a secondary offering, is the additional issuance of a company’s shares after its initial public offering (IPO). Companies usually announce FPOs to raise equity or reduce debt.The two main types of FPOs are dilutive, meaning new shares are added, and non-dilutive, meaning existing private shares are sold publicly.An at-the-market (ATM) offering is a type of FPO by which a company can offer secondary public shares on any given day, usually depending on the prevailing market price, to raise capital.


   How a Follow-on Public Offer (FPO) Works  

Public companies can also take advantage of an FPO through an offer document. FPOs should not be confused with IPOs, the initial public offering of equity to the public. FPOs are additional issues made after a company is established on an exchange. Proceeds from the sale go to the company issuing the stock. Similar to an IPO, companies that want to execute a follow-on public offer must fill out U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) documents.


   Types of Follow-on Public Offers (FPOs)  

There are two main types of follow-on public offers:



The first is dilutive to investors, as the company’s board of directors agrees to increase the share float level or the number of shares available. This kind of follow-on public offering seeks to raise money to reduce debt or expand the business, resulting in an increase in the number of shares outstanding.
The other type of follow-on public offer is non-dilutive. This approach is useful when directors or substantial shareholders sell off privately held shares.


  Diluted Follow-on Offering  

Diluted follow-on offerings happen when a company issues additional shares to raise funding and offer those shares to the public market. As the number of shares increase, the earnings per share (EPS) decrease. The funds raised during an FPO are most frequently allocated to reduce debt or change a company’s capital structure. The infusion of cash is good for the long-term outlook of the company, and thus, is also good for its shares.


  Non-Diluted Follow-on Offering  

Non-diluted follow-on offerings happen when holders of existing, privately held shares bring previously issued shares to the public market for sale. Cash proceeds from non-diluted sales go directly to the shareholders placing the stock into the open market.



In many cases, these shareholders are company founders, members of the board of directors, or pre-IPO investors. Since no new shares are issued, the company’s EPS remains unchanged. Non-diluted follow-on offerings are also called secondary market offerings.


  At-the-Market (ATM) Offering  

An at-the-market (ATM) offering gives the issuing company the ability to raise capital as needed. If the company is not satisfied with the available price of shares on a given day, it can refrain from offering shares. ATM offerings are sometimes referred to as controlled equity distributions because of their ability to sell shares into the secondary trading market at the current prevailing price.


   Example of a Follow-on Public Offer (FPO)  

Follow-on offerings are common in the investment world. They provide an easy way for companies to raise equity that can be used for common purposes. Companies announcing secondary offerings may see their share price fall as a result. Shareholders often react negatively to secondary offerings because they dilute existing shares, and many are introduced below market prices.



In 2015, many companies had follow-on offerings after going public less than a year prior. Shake Shack (SHAK) was one company that saw shares fall after news of a secondary offering. Shares fell 16% on news of a substantial secondary offering that came in below the existing share price.



In 2017, follow-on offerings produced $142.3 billion in equity raised for companies. There were a total of 737 FPOs in 2017. This marked a 21% jump in the number of FPOs vs. 2016. However, the value of FPOs was down 3% year over year in 2017.




What are the benefits of follow-on public offers (FPOs)?
There are several reasons why a public company will choose to raise more equity. For example, they might use the proceeds to pay off debt and improve their debt-to-value (DTV) ratio, or they can use the funds to improve the company’s growth by financing new projects.




What are the advantages of at-the-market (ATM) offerings?
At-the-market (ATM) offerings have several advantages, including minimal market impact. Businesses can raise capital quickly without having to announce the offering. ATM offerings are also typically sold for less than traditional follow-on offerings, and they require minimal management involvement.




What are the disadvantages of ATM offerings?
ATM offerings tend to be smaller than traditional follow-on offerings, so if a business is looking to raise a large amount of capital, this may not be the way. In addition, the price may fluctuate depending on the market.


   The Bottom Line  

A Follow-on Public Offer (FPO) is a process through which a publicly-traded company raises additional capital by issuing and selling new shares of its stock to the public via a stock exchange. This is typically done when the company wants to fund new projects or expansions, pay off debt, or increase its working capital. There are two main types of FPOs, dilutive and non-dilutive. The shares are offered at a fixed price to the public through a book-building process, with the proceeds going directly to the company. Existing shareholders may also participate in the FPO, either by purchasing additional shares or selling some of their existing ones. FPOs are a way for companies to tap into the capital markets and raise additional funds without taking on debt.
What Is the Food and Drug Administration?  

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is a government agency established in 1906 with the passage of the Federal Food and Drugs Act. The agency is separated into divisions that oversee a majority of the organization's obligations involving food, drugs, cosmetics, animal food, dietary supplements, medical devices, biological goods, and blood products.


   Understanding the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)  

The FDA is known for its work in regulating the development of new drugs. The FDA has developed rules regarding the clinical trials that must be done on all new medications. Pharmaceutical companies must test drugs through four phases of clinical trials before they can be marketed to individuals. In the European Union, the FDA's equivalent organization is the European Medicines Agency (EMA).





Key Takeaways

The FDA inspects and reviews production facilities that make products like food, medicine, tobacco, and other items regulated by the agency.The FDA gives approval to regulated products before they can be sold in the U.S.FDA has the power to recall products on the market, if necessary, for safety and other reasons. 



According to the FDA, as of November 2020, the agency holds responsibility for monitoring the safe consumption of medical products, food, and tobacco items worth more than $2.8 trillion. In fiscal 2020, the budget for the FDA was approximately $5.9 billion.



The FDA is relevant for investors specifically in regards to biotech and pharmaceutical companies. FDA approval can be crucial to companies that are heavily involved in developing new drugs. Without the agency’s approval, regulated products under the FDA's purview cannot be released for sale in the United States.






The FDA approves products in the biotech and pharmaceutical industries, and its approval or rejection of a product can have a financial impact.


   Ways FDA Approvals Influence Industry and the Market  

Companies that are focused on the development and sale of new drugs can be left without key products to drive their revenue if their products fail to receive approvals. The influence the FDA wields regarding drug testing can affect the stock market. The release of test data might be seen by investors as a measure for future growth for companies that manufacture and market drugs.



The FDA is responsible for inspecting and reviewing production facilities that make items that are regulated by the agency. This includes but is not limited to vaccine and drug manufacturers, blood banks, food processing facilities, dairy farms, animal feed processors, and compounding pharmacies.



The agency also inspects facilities where testing on animals and clinical trials are conducted. Inspections may be regularly scheduled visits to facilities already in use.



Imported regulated products must also be inspected by the FDA when they arrive at the border of the country. The agency publishes announcements of product recalls in collaboration with companies and local partners.



The agency conducts preapproval inspections for companies that applied to market new products. Inspections may be launched “for cause” if there is an issue reported at a facility. Such recalls can be the result of undeclared ingredients in the contents, which can pose risks for consumers with allergies. The contamination of products or the failure to handle the product according to safety parameters can also be the cause for recalls.
Footnotes to the financial statements refer to additional information that helps explain how a company arrived at its financial statement figures. They also help to explain any irregularities or perceived inconsistencies in year to year account methodologies. It functions as a supplement, providing clarity to those who require it without having the information placed in the body of the statement. Nevertheless, the information included in the footnotes is often important, and it may reveal underlying issues with a company's financial health.





Key Takeaways

Footnotes to the financial statements allow additional information and clarification to items presented in the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement.The footnotes present required disclosures, accounting methodologies used, any modifications to methodologies from previous reporting periods, and upcoming transactions that may affect future profitability.Footnotes are important for investors and other users of the financial statements as they may reveal issues with a company's financial health.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Footnotes to the Financial Statements  

Footnotes to the financial statements serve as a way for a company to provide additional explanations for various portions of their financial statements. Footnotes to the financial statements thus report the details and additional information that is left out of the main financial statements such as the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement.



This is done mainly for the sake of clarity because these notes can be quite long, and if they were included in the main text they would cloud the data reported in the financial statement. Using footnotes allows the general flow of a document to remain appropriate by providing a way for the reader to access additional information if they feel it is necessary. It allows an easily accessible place for complex definitions or calculations to be explained should a reader desire additional information.



It is important for analysts and investors to read the footnotes to the financial statements included in a company's interim and annual reports. These notes contain important information on items such as the accounting methodologies used for recording and reporting transactions, pension plan details, and stock option compensation information—all of which can have material effects on the bottom-line return that a shareholder can expect from an investment in a company. Footnotes also explain in detail why any irregular or unusual activities such as a one-time expense has occurred and what its impact may be on future profitability. These are also sometimes called explanatory notes.


   Types of Footnotes to the Financial Statements  

Footnotes may provide additional information used to clarify various points. This can include further details about items used as a reference, clarification of any applicable policies, a variety of required disclosures, or adjustments made to certain figures. While much of the information may be considered required in nature, providing all the information within the body of the statement may overwhelm the document, making it more difficult to read and interpret by those who receive them.



Importantly, a company will state the accounting methodology used, if it has changed in any meaningful way from past practice, and whether any items should be interpreted in any way other than what is conventional. For example, footnotes will explain how a company calculated its earnings per share (EPS), how it counted diluted shares, and how it counted shares outstanding.



Often, the footnotes will be used to explain how a particular value was assessed on a specific line item. This can include issues such as depreciation or any incident where an estimate of future financial outcomes had to be determined.



Footnotes may also include information regarding future activities that are anticipated to have a notable impact on the business or its activities. Often, these will refer to large-scale events, both positive and negative. For example, descriptions of upcoming new product releases may be included, as well as issues about a potential product recall.
What Is For Sale by Owner (FSBO)?  

"For sale by owner" (FSBO) indicates that a property is available for purchase directly from the owner rather than through a real estate agent or broker. Some sellers choose this option to avoid paying agent commissions. Those commissions usually total 5% to 6% of the sale price, split between the seller's agent (also known as a listing agent or broker) and the buyer's agent, if any. FSBO sales, while less expensive for the owner, have their own set of costs, as we explain here.





Key Takeaways

In traditional real estate transactions, home sellers have to pay commissions of up to 6%, split between their agent and the buyer's.Sellers go the FSBO route to avoid paying an agent of their own, although they'll often have to pay the buyer's agent (if any) a commission of 2% to 3%.In a FSBO transaction, the seller takes on the duties that a listing agent would normally perform.Other FSBO costs will usually include lawyer fees.







For Sale By Owner (FSBO)


   How For Sale by Owner (FSBO) Works  

Traditionally, real estate agents have received commissions of up to 6% for their services. Those commissions are negotiable, however, and can vary depending on the real estate market and other factors. In 2022, the average total commission was 5.32%, according to RealTrends, which has been collecting such data since 1991. The lowest average during that time, RealTrends says, was 4.94% in 2020.



In return for their commissions, real estate agents provide a variety of services. Those include:



Helping set the asking price by researching property values for similar homes in the area (called comps), based on factors such as the number of bedrooms and the home's square footage.
Staging the home for sale and offering advice on any necessary repairs.
Managing the marketing, including advertising, online listings, brochures, and flyers, as well as listing the home on the Multiple Listing Service (MLS).
Scheduling and hosting showings and appointments.
Negotiating the price and terms of the sale when an offer has been made.
Preparing the legal documents, such as the sales contract, residential property disclosure form, mineral and oil rights form, occupancy agreement, and lead-based paint disclosure. Sellers may also need to track down the property survey, permits, certificates of occupancy (COs), loan documents, utility bills, property tax bills, homeowner association covenants and agreements, and the property title.
Preparing the deed (e.g., quitclaim, warranty, or some other type of deed), and getting it signed, witnessed, and notarized.
Closing the sale. Depending on the state, the closing will take place at a title company or a real estate attorney's office.



In a FSBO (often pronounced "fizzbo"), the homeowner is responsible for setting the price, advertising and showing the home, negotiating the sale terms, and preparing the various legal forms, usually with the help of an attorney.





10%

The percentage of home sales that were FSBOs as of 2021, according to the National Association of Realtors.


   What a FSBO Costs  

A FSBO can be less expensive than a conventional real estate transaction, but it isn't free. Major costs can include attorney fees and buyer's agent commissions.


  Attorney Fees  

In a FSBO transaction, purchase contracts can be drawn up in any of several ways. Some individuals use one of the blank contracts that can be found online. Companies like ForSaleByOwner.com also offer packages of relevant documents for this purpose.



The seller can also find a local real estate attorney to write up and review the contracts. According to the real estate site Zillow.com, lawyers often charge a flat fee of $800 to $1,200 per transaction, or an hourly rate of $150 to $350, depending on the market and how much work is involved. In many states, sellers are required by law to use an attorney, even if they are selling the home on their own.



If the buyer is using an agent, that agent may also provide a contract.


  Buyer's Agent Commissions  

If the buyer brings their own real estate agent into the sale, as is common, the seller must pay that agent. The commission in that case is typically 2% to 3% of the sales price.



According to ForSaleByOwner.com, "it’s not unheard of for FSBO sellers to decline to pay the commission for buyer's agents. When this occurs, buyers generally ask for a credit to be applied to the purchasing price" to compensate their agent. In other words, the seller will end up having to pay it anyhow.



Note that if the seller does not have a real estate agent, their home will not normally be listed in any of the multiple listing services (MLS) that buyer agents commonly use to find homes for their clients. However, there are brokerages that will, for a flat fee, arrange for a listing.


   FSBO Alternatives  

Sellers who hope to avoid the roughly 6% they'd pay to use a full-service real estate agent, but who aren't comfortable doing it all on their own, have some other options.



Some real estate agents offer a more limited set of services for a flat fee. That might include, for example, an MLS listing.



Discount real estate brokers also offer a range of services, often advertising commissions as low as 1%.


   Downsides of FSBOs  

Saving thousands of dollars in commissions can be tempting. Still, it's important to remember that when a seller doesn't employ a real estate agent, they assume all the responsibilities involved in completing the transaction.



If the seller is unfamiliar with the home buying and selling process, a mistake can be costly. If they set the listing price too high, fewer buyers will consider the home and it may take much longer to sell. On the flipside, setting the price too low could prove more costly than hiring an agent in the first place.



Selling a home via FSBO can pose legal risks if the documents are not drawn up properly or if the home has issues that aren't adequately disclosed.



In addition, some real estate agents representing buyers avoid showing FSBO listings or even outright refuse to do so. They may have been burned in the past by FSBO sellers who refused to pay their commission or otherwise proved difficult to deal with.



Finally, would-be sellers need to consider the time commitment involved.




How Do Real Estate Agents Get Paid?
A real estate agent who represents a seller is paid a percentage commission based on the final sale price. If another agent represents the buyer, they are also paid a percentage commission based on that price. Both commissions are paid by the seller from the proceeds of the sale.The commissions are paid at the closing and typically add up to an average of 5% to 6% of the sale price.




What Is a Real Estate Agent vs. a Real Estate Broker?
Real estate agents and brokers can perform many of the same tasks for home sellers and buyers. The prime difference between them is that while agents have met the necessary tests to become a licensed agent in their state, brokers have taken additional training and passed the exam for a broker's license. Many brokers employ multiple agents in their offices.




How Much Does an MLS Listing Cost?
If you want to forgo the full services of a listing agent and pay only to list your home on a multiple listing service (MLS), that could cost about $100 to $500. Some real estate agencies offer a MLS listing alone for a flat fee, with additional services available a la carte. There are also online services that will simply provide an MLS listing.


   The Bottom Line  

A FSBO holds out the possibility of saving thousands of dollars in commissions. However, there are still costs involved. Before deciding, sellers need to weigh their potential savings against the services that a qualified real estate agent would provide them. They might also consider some alternatives, such as delegating at least some of the work to a flat-fee or discount broker.
What Is Forbearance?  

The term forbearance refers to the temporary postponement of loan payments, typically for a mortgage or student loan. Lenders and other creditors grant forbearance as an alternative to forcing a property into foreclosure or leaving the borrower to default.



The companies that hold loans and their insurers are often willing to negotiate forbearance agreements because the losses caused by foreclosures or defaults typically fall on them.





Key Takeaways

Forbearance is a temporary postponement of loan payments granted by a lender instead of forcing the borrower into foreclosure or default.The terms of a forbearance agreement are negotiated between the borrower and the lender.The borrower must demonstrate the need for postponing payments, such as financial difficulties brought on by a major illness or the loss of a job.


   Understanding Forbearance  

Although it is primarily used for student loans and mortgages, forbearance is an option for any loan. It gives the debtor extra time to repay what they owe. This helps struggling borrowers and benefits the lender, who frequently loses money on foreclosures and defaults after paying the fees. Loan servicers (those that collect payments but do not own loans) may be less willing to work with borrowers on forbearance relief because they do not bear as much financial risk.



The terms of a forbearance agreement are negotiated between borrowers and lenders. The chances of getting an arrangement depend partly on the likelihood that the borrower can resume monthly payments once the forbearance period is over. The lender may approve a total reduction of the borrower’s payment or only a partial reduction, depending on the extent of the borrower’s need and the lender’s confidence in the borrower’s ability to catch up at a later date.



In some cases, the lender may grant the borrower one of several options. These include:



A full moratorium on making payments for some time
Requiring the borrower to make interest payments but not pay down the principal
The borrower pays only part of the interest, with the unpaid portion added to their total debt—a process known as negative amortization.



Forbearance may be mandated by law. For example, the federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, passed and signed into law in March 2020 to address the economic fallout from COVID-19, included provisions for student loan forbearance. The law also made provisions for mortgage payment forbearance for struggling homeowners during the pandemic.






Receiving forbearance doesn't relieve you of your financial responsibility, so you must still make up for the missed payments once your agreement ends.


   How to Apply for Forbearance  

Borrowers should contact their lenders or loan servicers to apply for a student loan or mortgage forbearance. In most cases, they must demonstrate a need to put off payments, such as financial difficulties associated with a significant illness or job loss.



Since forbearance agreements are negotiated, lenders have a lot of discretion when it comes to deciding whether or not to offer help and to what extent they do. Borrowers with a consistent payment history are more likely to be successful.



For example, a borrower who worked at the same company for ten years without ever missing a mortgage payment is a good candidate following a layoff. This borrower would be particularly likely to receive forbearance if they are highly skilled and can land a comparable job within a reasonable period. A lender is less likely to grant forbearance to a laid-off borrower with a spotty employment history or a track record of missed payments.






Another forbearance option is for the lender to temporarily reduce the borrower’s interest rate.


   Forbearance for Student Loans  

Student loan forbearance was mandated a part of the CARES Act passed in March 2020. That legislation suspended federal student loan payments, set interest rates to 0%, stopped collections on defaulted loans, and also halted negative reports to credit agencies.



This forbearance relief came to an end in 2023. Student loan interest began accruing again in September, while the first student loan payments since the COVID-19 pandemic were due in October.



Forbearance should not be confused with forgiveness, though both provide relief to borrowers. Forbearance is temporary relief, while forgiveness is permanent relief. For example, the Biden administration attempted to forgive up to $20,000 in student loan debt per borrower, a student loan forgiveness plan that was blocked by the Supreme Court in June 2023.



In response, the White House introduced the Saving on a Valuable Education (SAVE) plan, a new income-driven repayment option in which an estimated one million borrowers could qualify for $0 monthly repayments. While on the surface this looks like forbearance, it is not because the loans are technically in repayment.



SAVE sets monthly repayments at 5% of discretionary income for undergraduate borrowers. It also raises the discretionary income threshold to 225% of the federal poverty line. This means a single borrower earning $32,800 per year would have a monthly student loan payment of $0, because they have no discretionary income with which to repay their student loan. For a family of four, earning less than $67,500 per year would qualify you for a $0 monthly payment.






Under SAVE, an income-driven repayment plan unveiled by the White House, an estimated one million student loan borrowers qualify for $0 monthly payments.



Although private student loans do not qualify for forbearance under current laws or federal programs, some private lenders may offer some form of forbearance on their own.


   Forbearance for Mortgages  

Mortgage forbearance assistance was extended to consumers as part of the CARES Act. COVID-19 mortgage forbearance applied to all federally backed and federally sponsored mortgages. This included loans backed by the following:



U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac



If your loan was backed by HUD/FHA, the USDA, or the VA, then the deadline for requesting an initial forbearance was extended until the COVID-19 National Emergency ended—which occurred in April 2023.



The Homeowner Assistance Fund established by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 provided nearly $10 billion for states and territories to offer relief to struggling homeowners through their housing departments. Mortgage forbearance periods through the Homeowner Assistance Fund have generally concluded, although there may still be lenders offering assistance.


   What Happens After Forbearance Ends?  

Once the forbearance period is over, the borrower is usually responsible for making up the delinquent payments. The lender often works with the borrower to devise a plan to catch up on the debt. Homeowners who received a COVID forbearance for their federally backed loan cannot be required to repay missed payments in a lump sum once the forbearance ends. Keep in mind that this may not be the case with other lenders.



Again, depending on the terms negotiated with the lender, the borrower may owe interest accrued during the forbearance period and possibly late fees.




Will Forbearance Affect Your Credit Rating?
Forbearance doesn't adversely affect your credit rating. However, missing payments before contacting the lender and setting up the forbearance terms will most likely have a negative impact. Forbearance assistance offered to mortgage borrowers affected by COVID-19 is reported by lenders to credit bureaus as required by the CARES Act. However, in certain situations, lenders are required to report your mortgage account as "current," thus protecting your credit score.




Will Forbearance Affect Refinancing?
Yes, if you are in forbearance, you are not allowed to refinance. The specific point is that any missed mortgage payments will prevent you from being eligible for refinancing with most institutions. Each individual, however, has different circumstances, and each mortgage provider has different rules. It is important to check with mortgage providers what your situation would be.




How Do I Get Out of Forbearance?
Once your forbearance period ends, you owe the amount of money that you missed. There are different options that you can choose from. Reinstatement means that you will owe the entire amount all at once. Repayment allows you to bring your mortgage up to date over time, usually 12 months. This is a repayment plan that you have agreed to with your mortgage servicer.


   The Bottom Line  

Forbearance is a temporary suspension of loan payments that normally lasts for a set period, typically in reference to student loans or mortgages. It does not mean that you stop paying your loan entirely, but rather it delays your payments. It is important to know that being granted a reprieve from paying a mortgage will not erase all of your debt. You may still need to pay the amount that was past due at the time of the grant of the reprieve and any interest that may have accrued during the suspension, depending on the issuer.



In addition, at the end of the grace period, you will again have to pay the full amount due on your mortgage when you started the suspension. If you cannot pay your loan after this temporary suspension, it will likely only worsen your situation in the future. It may be beneficial to contact your lender to discuss your options.
What Is Force Majeure?  

Force majeure is a clause that is included in contracts to remove liability for unforeseeable and unavoidable catastrophes that interrupt the expected course of events and prevent participants from fulfilling obligations. These clauses generally cover natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, and earthquakes, as well as human actions, such as armed conflict and man-made diseases.





Key Takeaways

Force majeure is a clause that is included in contracts to remove liability for unforeseeable and unavoidable catastrophes that interrupt the expected course of events and prevent participants from fulfilling obligations.These clauses generally cover both natural disasters and catastrophes created by humans.In some jurisdictions, there are three tests to determine whether a force majeure defense is applicable: The event must be unforeseeable, external, and irresistible.Questions about what is and is not foreseeable in a legal sense have been raised given the increased awareness of pandemics, asteroids, supervolcanoes, cyber threats, and nuclear warfare. Force majeure conflicts with the concept of “pacta sunt servanda,” a principle in international law that agreements must be kept and not wriggled out of.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Force Majeure  

Force majeure is a French term that literally means “greater force.” It is related to the concept of an act of God, an event for which no party can be held accountable, such as a hurricane or a tornado. However, force majeure also encompasses human actions, such as armed conflict.



Generally speaking, for events to constitute force majeure, they must be unforeseeable, external to the parties of the contract, and unavoidable. These concepts are defined and applied differently depending on the jurisdiction.



The concept of force majeure originated in French civil law and is an accepted standard in many jurisdictions that derive their legal systems from the Napoleonic Code. In common law systems, such as those of the United States and the United Kingdom, force majeure clauses are acceptable but must be more explicit about the events that would trigger the clause.






Force majeure is a contract clause that removes liability for catastrophic events, such as natural disasters and warfare.


   Force Majeure vs. Pacta Sunt Servanda  

In general, force majeure conflicts with the concept of “pacta sunt servanda” (Latin for “agreements must be kept”), a key concept in civil and international law with analogs in common law. It is not supposed to be easy to escape contractual liability, and proving that events were unforeseeable, for example, is difficult by design.



As time goes on, the world is becoming aware of natural threats that we were previously ignorant of, such as solar flares, asteroids, pandemics, and supervolcanoes. We are also developing new human threats, such as cyber, nuclear, and biological warfare capabilities. These have raised questions about what is and is not foreseeable in a legal sense.



We are also becoming increasingly aware of human agency in events that have generally been considered external or acts of God, such as climatic and seismic events. Ongoing litigation is exploring questions of whether drilling and construction projects contributed to the very natural disasters that rendered them unworkable. In short, the concepts that underpin force majeure are shifting.


   Example of Force Majeure  

An avalanche destroys a supplier’s factory in the French Alps, causing long shipment delays and leading the client to sue for damages. The supplier might employ a force majeure defense, arguing that the avalanche was an unforeseeable, external, and unavoidable event—the three tests applied by French law.



Unless the contract specifically named an avalanche as removing the supplier’s liability, the court may well decide that the supplier owes damages. French courts have deemed an event foreseeable because a similar event had occurred half a century before. Similarly, a war in a conflict-ridden zone might not be unforeseeable, nor might capital controls in a struggling economy or a flood in a frequently affected area.






If a natural or other disaster happened in a place before, even many years ago, a repeat occurrence may not be considered unforeseeable.


   Special Considerations for Force Majeure  

The International Chamber of Commerce has attempted to clarify the meaning of force majeure (although it is not included in the organization’s Incoterms​) by applying a standard of “impracticability,” meaning that it would be unreasonably burdensome and expensive, if not impossible, to carry out the terms of the contract.



The event that brings this situation about must be external to both parties, unforeseeable, and unavoidable. However, it can be very difficult to prove these conditions, and most force majeure defenses fail in international tribunals.



In any jurisdiction, contracts containing specific definitions that constitute force majeure—ideally ones that respond to local threats—hold up better under scrutiny. Even in systems based on civil law, the application of the concept can be strictly limited.




Is COVID-19 considered force majeure?
If COVID-19 made it impossible for a party to perform its contractual obligations, then, yes, it could qualify as force majeure. Emphasis should be put on the word “impossible” here. Should the party be able to perform its obligation, it would not constitute force majeure, regardless of how much more difficult or expensive honoring this commitment became in a COVID-19 environment.It’s also worth noting that COVID-19 is not necessarily an unforeseeable event any longer. Several years have passed since the outbreak was first reported, and measures have been put in place to prevent the virus from spreading. Contracting parties will be expected to do everything in their power to mitigate the effects of COVID-19. It’s also possible that contracts signed after the beginning of 2020 with force majeure clauses will stress that the COVID-19 pandemic does not apply.




What are the three elements of force majeure?
In general, for an event to trigger a force majeure clause, it must be unforeseeable, external to the parties of the contract, and serious enough that it renders it impossible for the party to perform its contractual obligations.




What are examples of force majeure?
Events that could potentially trigger a force majeure clause include war, terrorist attacks, and a pandemic, or natural disasters that fall under the “act of God” category, such as a flood, earthquake, or hurricane.


   The Bottom Line  

In theory, force majeure clauses make a lot of sense. For one, they enable parties to better manage risk and protect themselves if something unthinkable happens completely out of the blue.



The biggest issue is that these clauses, by virtue of not always being 100% clear and transparent, generally favor the big guys. Big, powerful insurance firms can use these clauses as an excuse to wriggle out of their obligations. Conversely, if an average Joe stands to benefit from a force majeure exception, they might not have the financial muscle to prove that the event in question qualifies.
What Is Forecasting?  

Forecasting is a technique that uses historical data as inputs to make informed estimates that are predictive in determining the direction of future trends.



Businesses utilize forecasting to determine how to allocate their budgets or plan for anticipated expenses for an upcoming period of time. This is typically based on the projected demand for the goods and services offered.





Key Takeaways

Forecasting involves making predictions about the future.In finance, forecasting is used by companies to estimate earnings or other data for subsequent periods.Traders and analysts use forecasts in valuation models, to time trades, and to identify trends.Forecasts are often predicated on historical data.Because the future is uncertain, forecasts must often be revised, and actual results can vary greatly.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   How Forecasting Works  

Investors utilize forecasting to determine if events affecting a company, such as sales expectations, will increase or decrease the price of shares in that company. Forecasting also provides an important benchmark for firms, which need a long-term perspective of operations.



Equity analysts use forecasting to extrapolate how trends, such as gross domestic product (GDP) or unemployment, will change in the coming quarter or year. Finally, statisticians can utilize forecasting to analyze the potential impact of a change in business operations. For instance, data may be collected regarding the impact of customer satisfaction by changing business hours or the productivity of employees upon changing certain work conditions. These analysts then come up with earnings estimates that are often aggregated into a consensus figure. If actual earnings announcements miss the estimates, it can have a large impact on a company’s stock price.



Forecasting addresses a problem or set of data. Economists make assumptions regarding the situation being analyzed that must be established before the variables of the forecasting are determined. Based on the items determined, an appropriate data set is selected and used in the manipulation of information. The data is analyzed, and the forecast is determined. Finally, a verification period occurs when the forecast is compared to the actual results to establish a more accurate model for forecasting in the future.






The further out the forecast, the higher the chance that the estimate will be inaccurate.


   Forecasting Techniques  

In general, forecasting can be approached using qualitative techniques or quantitative ones. Quantitative methods of forecasting exclude expert opinions and utilize statistical data based on quantitative information. Quantitative forecasting models include time series methods, discounting, analysis of leading or lagging indicators, and econometric modeling that may try to ascertain causal links.


  Qualitative Techniques  

Qualitative forecasting models are useful in developing forecasts with a limited scope. These models are highly reliant on expert opinions and are most beneficial in the short term. Examples of qualitative forecasting models include interviews, on-site visits, market research, polls, and surveys that may apply the Delphi method (which relies on aggregated expert opinions).



Gathering data for qualitative analysis can sometimes be difficult or time-consuming. The CEOs of large companies are often too busy to take a phone call from a retail investor or show them around a facility. However, we can still sift through news reports and the text included in companies’ filings to get a sense of managers’ records, strategies, and philosophies.


  Time Series Analysis  

A time series analysis looks at historical data and how various variables have interacted with one another in the past. These statistical relationships are then extrapolated into the future to generate forecasts along with confidence intervals to understand the likelihood of the actual outcomes falling within that scope. As with all forecasting methods, success is not guaranteed.



The Box-Jenkins Model is a technique designed to forecast data ranges based on inputs from a specified time series. It forecasts data using three principles: autoregression, differencing, and moving averages. Another method, known as rescaled range analysis, can be used to detect and evaluate the amount of persistence, randomness, or mean reversion in time series data. The rescaled range can be used to extrapolate a future value or average for the data to see if a trend is stable or likely to reverse.



Most often, time series forecasts involve trend analysis, cyclical fluctuation analysis, and issues of seasonality.


  Econometric Inference  

Another quantitative approach is to look at cross-sectional data to identify links among variables—although identifying causation is tricky and can often be spurious. This is known as econometric analysis, which often employs regression models. Techniques such as the use of instrumental variables, if available, can help one make stronger causal claims.



For instance, an analyst might look at revenue and compare it to economic indicators such as inflation and unemployment. Changes to financial or statistical data are observed to determine the relationship between multiple variables. A sales forecast may thus be based on several inputs such as aggregate demand, interest rates, market share, and advertising budget (among others).


   Choosing the Right Forecasting Method  

The right forecasting method will depend on the type and scope of the forecast. Qualitative methods are more time-consuming and costly but can make very accurate forecasts given a limited scope. For instance, they might be used to predict how well a company’s new product launch might be received by the public.



For quicker analyses that can encompass a larger scope, quantitative methods are often more useful. Looking at big data sets, statistical software packages today can crunch the numbers in a matter of minutes or seconds. However, the larger the data set and the more complex the analysis, the pricier it can be.



Thus, forecasters often make a sort of cost-benefit analysis to determine which method maximizes the chances of an accurate forecast in the most efficient way. Furthermore, combining techniques can be synergistic and improve the forecast’s reliability.




What is business forecasting?
Business forecasting tries to make informed guesses or predictions about the future state of certain business metrics such as sales growth or economy-wide predictions such as gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the next quarter. Business forecasting relies on both quantitative and qualitative techniques to improve accuracy. Managers use forecasting for internal purposes to make capital allocation decisions and determine whether to make acquisitions, expand, or divest. They also make forward-looking projections for public dissemination such as earnings guidance.




What are some limitations of forecasting?
The biggest limitation of forecasting is that it involves the future, which is fundamentally unknowable today. As a result, forecasts can only be best guesses. While there are several methods of improving the reliability of forecasts, the assumptions that go into the models, or the data that is inputted into them, has to be correct. Otherwise, the result will be garbage in, garbage out. Even if the data is good, forecasting often relies on historical data, which is not guaranteed to be valid into the future, as things can and do change over time. It is also impossible to correctly factor in unusual or one-off events like a crisis or disaster.




What are the forecasting techniques?
There are several forecasting methods that can be broadly segmented as either qualitative or quantitative. Within each category, there are several techniques at one’s disposal.Under qualitative methods, techniques may involve interviews, on-site visits, the Delphi method of pooling experts’ opinions, focus groups, and text analysis of financial documents, news items, and so forth.Under quantitative methods, techniques generally employ statistical models that look at time series or cross-sectional data, such as econometric regression analysis or causal inference (when available).


   The Bottom Line  

Forecasts help managers, analysts, and investors make informed decisions about the future. Without good forecasts, many of us would be in the dark and resort to guesses or speculation. By using qualitative and quantitative data analysis, forecasters can get a better handle of what lies ahead.



Businesses use forecasts and projections to inform managerial decisions and capital allocations. Analysts use forecasts to estimate corporate earnings for subsequent periods. Economists may make more macro-level forecasts as well, such as predicting GDP growth or changes to employment. However, since we cannot definitively know the future, and since forecasts often rely on historical data, their accuracy will always come with some room for error—and, in some cases, may end up being way off.
What Is Foreclosure?  

Foreclosure is the legal process by which a lender attempts to recover the amount owed on a defaulted loan by taking ownership of the mortgaged property and selling it. Typically, default is triggered when a borrower misses a specific number of monthly payments, but it can also happen when the borrower fails to meet other terms in the mortgage document.





Key Takeaways

Foreclosure is a legal process that allows lenders to recover the amount owed on a defaulted loan by taking ownership of and selling the mortgaged property.The foreclosure process varies by state, but in general, lenders try to work with borrowers to get them caught up on payments and avoid foreclosure.The most recent national average number of days for the foreclosure process is 857; however, the timeline varies greatly by state.


   Understanding Foreclosure  

The foreclosure process derives its legal basis from a mortgage or deed of trust contract, which gives the lender the right to use a property as collateral in case the borrower fails to uphold the terms of the mortgage document. Although the process varies by state, the foreclosure process generally begins when a borrower defaults or misses at least one mortgage payment. The lender then sends a missed-payment notice that indicates that month’s payment hasn’t been received.



If the borrower misses two payments, the lender sends a demand letter. This is more serious than a missed payment notice, but the lender still may be willing to make arrangements for the borrower to catch up on the missed payments.



The lender sends a notice of default after 90 days of missed payments. The loan is handed over to the lender’s foreclosure department, and the borrower typically has another 30 days to settle the payments and reinstate the loan (this is called the reinstatement period). At the end of the reinstatement period, the lender will begin to foreclose if the homeowner has not made up the missed payments.






A foreclosure appears on the borrower’s credit report within a month or two and stays there for seven years from the date of the first missed payment. After that, the foreclosure is deleted from the borrower’s credit report.


   The Foreclosure Process Varies by State  

Each state has laws that govern foreclosures, including the notices that a lender must post publicly, the homeowner’s options for bringing the loan current and avoiding foreclosure, and the timeline and process for selling the property.



A foreclosure—the actual act of a lender seizing a property—is typically the final step after a lengthy pre-foreclosure process. Before foreclosure, the lender may offer several alternatives to avoid foreclosure, many of which can mediate a foreclosure’s negative consequences for both the buyer and the seller.



In 22 states—including Florida, Illinois, and New York—judicial foreclosure is the norm. This is where the lender must go through the courts to get permission to foreclose by proving the borrower is delinquent. If the foreclosure is approved, the local sheriff auctions the property to the highest bidder to try to recoup what the bank is owed, or the bank becomes the owner and sells the property through the traditional route to recoup its losses.



The other 28 states—including Arizona, California, Georgia, and Texas—primarily use nonjudicial foreclosure, also called power of sale. This type of foreclosure tends to be faster than a judicial foreclosure, and it does not go through the courts unless the homeowner sues the lender.


   How Long Does Foreclosure Take?  

Properties foreclosed in the second quarter of 2021 had spent an average of 922 days in the foreclosure process, according to the U.S. Foreclosure Market Report from ATTOM Data Solutions, a property data provider. This is down slightly from the previous quarter’s average of 930 days, and up 34.5%, from 685 days, in the second quarter of 2020.



The average number of days varies by state because of differing laws and foreclosure timelines. The states with the longest average number of days for properties foreclosed in the second quarter of 2021 were:



Hawaii (3,068 days)New York (1,822 days)Indiana (1,617 days)



States with the shortest average times to foreclose during the same period were:



Wyoming (173 days)Arkansas (253 days)Tennessee (270 days)



The graph below shows the quarterly average days to foreclosure since the first quarter of 2007.












   Can You Avoid Foreclosure?  

Even if a borrower has missed a payment or two, there still may be ways to avoid foreclosure. Some alternatives include:



Reinstatement—During the reinstatement period, the borrower can pay back what they owe (including missed payments, interest, and any penalties) before a specific date to get back on track with the mortgage.
Short refinance—In a short refinance, the new loan amount is less than the outstanding balance, and the lender may forgive the difference to help the borrower avoid foreclosure.
Special forbearance—If the borrower has a temporary financial hardship, such as medical bills or a decrease in income, then the lender may agree to reduce or suspend payments for a set amount of time.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you’ve been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).


   Consequences of Foreclosure  

If a property fails to sell at a foreclosure auction, or if it otherwise never went through one, then lenders—often banks—typically take ownership of the property and may add it to an accumulated portfolio of foreclosed properties, also called real estate owned (REO).



Foreclosed properties are typically easily accessible on banks’ websites. Such properties can be attractive to real estate investors, because in some cases, banks sell them at a discount to their market value, which, in turn, negatively affects the lender.



For the borrower, a foreclosure appears on a credit report within a month or two, and it stays there for seven years from the date of the first missed payment. After seven years, the foreclosure is deleted from the borrower’s credit report.
What Are Foregone Earnings?  

Foregone earnings represent the difference between earnings actually achieved and the earnings that could have been achieved with the absence of fees, expenses, or lost time. As such, a large portion of foregone is represented by the amount that the investor spent on investment fees, which often make up a sizable percentage of investment earnings.



The assumption is that if the investor had been exposed to lower fees, they would have automatically earned a better return. The concept of foregone earnings is typically used when referring to sales charges, management fees, or total expenses paid to funds.





Key Takeaways

Foregone earnings represent the difference between an investment's actual earnings and the earnings that could have been realized had there been no fees.Foregone earnings, therefore, are the investment capital that the investor spent on investment fees.The concept of foregone earnings assumes that investors exposed to lower fees earn better returns in the market.Sales charges and operating fees, incurred by an investor in a mutual fund, are examples of investment fees that lead to foregone earnings. 


   Understanding Foregone Earnings  

Foregone earnings, as they relate to investment performance, can cause a big drag on the long-term growth of assets and investments. Fees are usually charged to investors for access to mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and other pooled investment vehicles. Mutual funds are actively managed funds, meaning they're a collection of securities bought and sold by a portfolio manager. ETFs are passively managed funds, meaning they typically track an index such as the S&P 500 and, therefore, have lower fees than mutual funds.



Something as seemingly innocent as a front-end load or a 1% management fee can cost thousands of dollars as the years pile up, thanks to the wonders of compound returns. Investors must research the costs associated with each investment to limit foregone earnings.






Foregone earnings are a type of opportunity cost, or the cost of missing out on a better choice or opportunity, thus leaving money on the table.


   Examples of Foregone Earnings: Mutual Funds  
  Sales Charges  

Sales charges can be a significant expense for investors. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) provides the following schedule, which outlines potential front-end load sales charges for investing in mutual funds. The table below shows the hypothetical breakpoints as examples where mutual fund sales charges might be reduced based on the amount of funds invested.









Possible Breakpoint Discounts


      Investment Amount
 Sales Charge




Less than $25,000
5.00%


At least $25,000 but less than $50,000
4.25%


At least $50,000 but less than $100,000
3.75%


At least $100,000 but less than $250,000
3.25%


At least $250,000 but less than $500,000
2.75%


At least $500,000 but less than $1,000,000
2.00%


$1 million or more
No sales charge






Sales charges can occur at various points in the investment process. Sales charges are commissions charged by distributors that compensate the broker for sales.



Below are three examples of the types of sales charges and when they occur:



Front-end sales charges are calculated as a percentage of the notional amount or initial investment at the time of the purchase. Typically, class A shares have front-end sales charges associated with them.
Back-end sales charges are calculated as a percentage of the notional amount at the time of selling the investment. Typically, a fund's B-shares are charged back-end sales charges.
Deferred sales charges are back-end sales charges that are reduced gradually as long as the investment remains in the fund. The charges can be reduced to zero eventually. Deferred charges are also called contingent deferred sales charges since the charge is contingent on how long the investment remains in the fund.



Individual investors are typically charged lower fees when trading with a discount broker, and many platforms may not require any sales charges to be paid. Sales charges can also often be bypassed by investing through the fund company directly.



Sales charges for transactions through intermediaries are determined by the mutual fund. Some mutual funds provide investors with a breakdown of returns with and without sales charges. For example, the ClearBridge Aggressive Growth Fund reports returns with and without sales charges. As of August 31, 2022, the Fund's average one-year return without sales charges was -25.33%. With sales charges, the return was -29.62% whereby the difference of 4.29% represents foregone earnings due to sales charges.



The above example shows how much foregone earnings can impact the return on an investment. Breakpoint discounts can significantly reduce sales charges and fees, allowing more of the investment's gains to be reinvested, or compounded, leading to better long-term returns. It's important for investors to research and perform due diligence on a mutual fund's breakpoint discounts to determine if you qualify and if so, determine the requirements.


  Fund Operating Costs  

Investors will also experience foregone earnings from mutual fund operating fees. Mutual fund operating fees typically encompass management fees, distribution fees, transaction fees, and administrative costs. A mutual fund may report a gross expense ratio and a net expense ratio that includes these fees. If a net expense ratio is quoted, then the fund has waivers and reimbursement agreements in place. Over time the fund's expense ratio typically increases to its gross expense ratio when the discounts expire.



Investors can consider management fees and gross versus net expense ratios when comparing funds for foregone earnings. Passively managed funds typically have lower expense ratios than actively managed funds. Actively managed funds require higher management fees and transactions costs.



For example, let's say you have $10,000 to invest, and one fund charges 0.5%, while the other fund charges 2%. Both funds offer exposure to a similar segment of the market. If you invested in the 2% fund, your investment return would decrease by $200 annually. Investing in the 0.5% fund only charges $50. If you chose to invest in the 2% fund, your foregone earnings from fund fees would be $150 in total.


  Redemption Fees  

Redemption fees may also be charged by mutual funds to prevent investors from short-term trading. These fees are determined by the fund company. Their timeframes for payment can range from 30 to more than a year after the initial purchase depending on the issuer. Redemption fees are paid back to the fund for trading and operational costs. Avoiding redemption fees can also be a factor helping to reduce the potential for foregone earnings.
What Is FATCA?  

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) is a law that requires U.S. citizens living at home or abroad to file annual reports on any foreign account holdings they have. The main goal of FATCA is to stop tax evasion.



The FATCA was passed in 2010 as part of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, which is designed to promote transparency in the global financial services sector. Form 8938 is used to report any foreign account holdings and there are serious penalties for not reporting them.





Key Takeaways

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) requires U.S. citizens to file annual reports on any foreign account holdings and pay any taxes owed on them with the goal of stopping tax evasion.The tax revenues brought in by the FATCA pay for the business incentives introduced in the 2010 HIRE Act.Form 8938 is used to report any foreign account holdings and there are serious penalties for not reporting them. U.S. residents who do not report their foreign account holdings over $50,000 in any given year are subject to steep penalties.Critics of FATCA claim that it places an unfair burden on foreign banks and financial institutions that are expected to report on the assets of their customers.


   Understanding FATCA  

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) was signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2010 as part of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act. HIRE was largely designed to incentivize businesses to hire unemployed workers. Unemployment rates had skyrocketed during the 2008 financial crisis.



One of the incentives offered to employers through the HIRE Act was an increase in the business tax credit for each new employee hired and retained for at least 52 weeks. Other incentives included payroll tax holiday benefits and an increase in the expense deduction limit for new equipment purchased in 2010.


  The Goal of FATCA: Preventing Tax Evasion  

FATCA seeks to eliminate tax evasion by American individuals and businesses that are investing, operating, and earning taxable income abroad.



While it is not illegal to maintain an offshore account, failure to disclose the account to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is illegal since the U.S. taxes all income and assets of its citizens on a global scale.



In fact, the FATCA was at least in part created to fund the costs of the business incentives offered in HIRE. FATCA provisions require U.S. taxpayers to report all financial assets held outside of the country annually and pay any taxes due on them. The revenue stream produced by FATCA goes toward the costs of the hiring incentives offered in the HIRE Act.



Penalties are imposed on U.S. residents who do not report foreign account holdings and financial assets that exceed $50,000 in value in any given year.


   Who Needs to Comply With FATCA?  

Form 8938 needs to be filed by any American taxpayer with financial assets totaling $50,000 or more. Those assets may be in a bank account or may be in stocks, bonds, and other financial instruments.



There are certain exceptions. One major one is an exception for assets held in a foreign branch of a U.S. institution or a U.S. branch of a foreign institution.


  Foreign Institutions  

Foreign financial institutions (FFI) and non-financial foreign entities (NFFE) are required to comply with this law by disclosing the identities of U.S. citizens with accounts and the value of the assets in those accounts to the IRS or the FATCA Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).



FFIs that do not comply with the IRS will be excluded from the U.S. market and have 30% of the amount of any withholdable payment withheld from them as a tax penalty. Withholdable payments may include income generated from the U.S. financial assets held by these banks such as interest, dividends, and periodic profits.



FFIs and NFFEs that agree to the law must annually report the name, address, and tax identification number (TIN) of each account holder that meets the criteria of a U.S. citizen as well as the account number, the account balance, and any deposits and withdrawals on the account for the year.


  Individual Taxpayers Living Abroad  

The IRS requires Form 8938 for taxpayers living abroad under the following circumstances:



"You are married filing a joint income tax return and the total value of your specified foreign financial assets is more than $400,000 on the last day of the tax year or more than $600,000 at any time during the year. These thresholds apply even if only one spouse resides abroad. Married individuals who file a joint income tax return for the tax year will file a single Form 8938 that reports all of the specified foreign financial assets in which either spouse has an interest. "You are not a married person filing a joint income tax return and the total value of your specified foreign financial assets is more than $200,000 on the last day of the tax year or more than $300,000 at any time during the year."



The reporting thresholds for foreign assets vary based on whether you file a joint income tax return and whether you live abroad. According to the IRS:



"If you are single or file separately from your spouse, you must submit a Form 8938 if you have more than $200,000 of specified foreign financial assets at the end of the year and you live abroad; or more than $50,000, if you live in the United States. If you file jointly with your spouse, these thresholds double. You are considered to live abroad if you are a U.S. citizen whose tax home is in a foreign country and you have been present in a foreign country or countries for at least 330 days out of a consecutive 12-month period."


  Individual Taxpayers Living in the U.S.  

The IRS requires Form 8938 for taxpayers living in the United States under the following circumstances:



"You are unmarried and the total value of your specified foreign financial assets is more than $50,000 on the last day of the tax year or more than $75,000 at any time during the tax year."You are married filing a joint income tax return and the total value of your specified foreign financial assets is more than $100,000 on the last day of the tax year or more than $150,000 at any time during the tax year. "You are married filing separate income tax returns and the total value of your specified foreign financial assets is more than $50,000 on the last day of the tax year or more than $75,000 at any time during the tax year. For purposes of calculating the value of your specified foreign financial assets in applying this threshold, include one-half the value of any specified foreign financial asset jointly owned with your spouse. However, report the entire value on Form 8938 if you are required to file Form 8938."


   Who Is a U.S. Person Under FATCA?  

The FATCA guidelines refer to the term ‘‘United States person’’ or USP. A USP can be any of the following:



A citizen or resident of the United StatesA domestic partnership (organized in the United States)A domestic corporation (incorporated in the United States)Any estate other than a foreign estateAny trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust, and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trustThe United States government, a State, or the District of Columbia (including any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof)A client could be considered a U.S. resident for tax purposes by virtue of the time spent in the U.S. according to the substantial presence test. The test must be applied each year that the individual is in the United States.Students (F1, OPT, J1, Q Visas) are considered non-resident aliens for up to five years and are exempted from the substantial presence test for a period of five years.Teachers and researchers (J1, Q Visas) are considered non-resident aliens for up to two years and are exempted from the substantial presence test for a period of two years.For other H1B, L1, and other visa holders, to meet the substantial presence test, a foreign person must be physically present in the United States for at least 31 days during the current year and be physically present 183 days during the three-year period that includes the current year and the two years immediately before that, counting: (i) all the days the individual was present in the current year, and (ii) 1/3 of the days the individual was present in the year before the current year, and (iii) 1/6 of the days the individual was present in the year before last.F and J student visa holders are to exclude five calendar years of presence for purposes of the substantial presence test.J non-student visa holders are to exclude two years.


   Penalties for Non-Compliance  

There are penalties for failing to file Form 8938. The IRS can impose a $10,000 failure to file penalty, an additional penalty of up to $50,000 if the guilty party continues to not file after notification by the IRS, and a 40% penalty for understating taxes attributable to non-disclosed assets.



The statute of limitations is extended to six years after an entity files its return for income over $5,000 that is not reported and is attributable to a specified foreign financial asset. Also, if a party fails to file or properly report an asset on Form 8938, the statute of limitations for the tax year is extended to three years beyond the time when the party provides the required information.



If there is a reasonable cause for the failure, the statute of limitations is extended only with regard to the item or items related to such failure and not for the entire tax return.



No penalty is imposed if the failure to disclose is found to be reasonable, although this is decided on a case-by-case basis.


   The Cost of Compliance  

Although the price to pay for not complying with FATCA is high, the compliance costs for foreign financial institutions are also high. Nigel Green, CEO of deVere Group and co-founder of the Campaign to Repeal FATCA, estimated in 20217 that 250,000 foreign financial institutions were being impacted by FATCA's reporting requirements.



One Spanish bank stated that compliance could cost one of its local bank branches $8.5 million and a global financial institution $850 million. Estimates of the costs to U.K. financial institutions ranged from $1.1 billion to $1.9 billion.


   Criticism of FATCA  

Of course, there are always critics of new tax laws. The Reuters news agency reported that FATCA drew the ire of banks and business people, who termed it "imperialist." Financial institutions objected to the fact that they were expected to report on their U.S. clients or withhold 30% of the interest, dividend, and investment payments due to those clients and send the money to the IRS.



Tax lawyers at the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich denounced FATCA as "the neutron bomb of the global economic system" and said it would deter foreign investment in U.S. markets.



Some critics argued that the cost of implementing FATCA was too great a burden on foreign financial institutions and could even cause them to divest their U.S. assets.






Foreign banks objected to the FATCA on the grounds that it is burdensome to their operations.


  The Expat View  

American Citizens Abroad proclaimed that Americans residing overseas need to have assets and bank accounts in their country of residence. If these Americans are subject to Form 8938, this amounts to discrimination against Americans residing overseas because Americans residing in the United States are not required to report their assets for tax purposes. Only their income needs to be reported since federal taxes are levied only on income and capital gains.



Overall, American Citizens Abroad was of the opinion that FATCA risked a potential loss of trillions of dollars of investment in the United States, the opportunity for American companies and financial institutions to compete in a global environment, and American citizens' ability to reside and thrive overseas.




What Is the Difference Between FATCA and FBAR?
The FBAR and FATCA reporting requirements are similar, but there are several significant differences. Some assets should be disclosed on one form but not the other, and some must be disclosed on both.The Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or FBAR, is a form required by the IRS for expatriates and other citizens with certain foreign bank accounts. FBARs also must be filed on behalf of trusts, estates, and domestic entities with interests in foreign financial accounts.FATCA applies to individual citizens, residents, and non-resident aliens.Residents and entities in U.S. territories must file FBARs but don't need to file FATCA forms.The FATCA requires disclosure of foreign stocks and securities, partnership interests, hedge funds, and other private equity funds. FBARs are required for assets held in foreign branches of U.S. banks, accounts where the owner has signatory authority, and indirect ownership interests or beneficial interests.




Is FATCA Only for U.S. Citizens?
FATCA impacts all U.S. taxpayers who have assets held abroad. That includes citizens and green card holders as well as businesses owned by U.S. citizens and anyone that spends a certain number of days per year in the U.S. and has foreign accounts. All banks worldwide are affected by FATCA if they hold the assets of U.S. taxpayers.




How Can I Avoid FATCA?
There is no way to avoid FATCA if you are an American taxpayer and have assets that are held in foreign financial institutions.Moreover, the penalties for trying to avoid it are harsh.


   The Bottom Line  

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) requires U.S. citizens living at home or abroad to file annual reports on any foreign account holdings they have. Filing is done by completing and sending in Form 8938. Depending on whether individuals live in the U.S. or live abroad, there are different filing requirements and holding thresholds. If you hold assets abroad, it's important to check if you need to file as there are high penalties for not doing so.
What Is Foreign Aid?  

The term foreign aid refers to any type of assistance that one country voluntarily transfers to another, which can take the form of a gift, grant, or loan. Most people tend to think of foreign aid as capital, but it can also be food, supplies, and services such as humanitarian aid and military assistance.



Broader definitions of aid include any assistance transferred across borders by religious organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and foundations. U.S. foreign aid usually refers to military and economic assistance provided by the federal government provides to other countries.





Key Takeaways

Foreign aid is any type of assistance that one country voluntarily transfers to another, which can take the form of a gift, grant, or loan.Countries may provide aid through capital, food, supplies, and services such as humanitarian aid and military assistance.Developed nations may provide developing nations with foreign aid after a natural disaster, times of conflict, or during an economic crisis.The United Nations requires advanced countries to spend at least 0.7% of their gross national income on international aid.The United States is the most generous, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 


   Understanding Foreign Aid  

As noted above, foreign aid is any type of assistance that one country's government provides to another nation, usually from developed to developing nations. Governments may issue aid in the form of:



Money
Food and supplies
Medical assistance including doctors and supplies
Humanitarian aid such as relief workers
Training services including agricultural training
Health care
Education
Assistance with infrastructure building
Activities related to peacebuilding



Governments may make agreements with the countries to which they provide assistance. For instance, a developed nation may agree to provide grants to those in need after a natural disaster or during times of conflict, whether they provide any type of capital or humanitarian aid. Or a government may agree to issue loans to an allied nation that experiences economic uncertainty with special repayment provisions.






Concerned about where foreign aid goes? Only a small portion of American assistance goes to federal governments, while the rest is assigned to non-profits, NGOs, and other organizations.



According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), member countries contributed a record $161.2 billion in international aid in 2020. This was divided into:



$158 billion in capital grants and loans (including $12 billion directed toward COVID-19 relief)
$1.3 billion to develop private sector vehicles for growth
$1.9 billion worth of loans and equity to private companies



The United States is the most generous, according to the OECD, providing $35.5 billion in foreign aid in 2020. The remaining countries that were among the top five donors included:



Germany: $28.4 billion The United Kingdom: $18.6 billion Japan: $16.3 billion France: $14.1 billion



The United Nations (UN) calls for economically advanced countries to spend at least 0.7% of their gross national income (GNI) on international aid. Turkey, Denmark, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom are the only countries that met or exceeded this level. The total contribution of member countries, though, averaged 0.3%—much lower than the UN target.





ODA as a Percentage of Gross National Income



According to Security Assistance Monitor, the Middle East and North African region received the most assistance, followed by the Sub-Saharan Africa region. The countries that received the most foreign aid from the U.S. for 2020 include Israel, Jordan, Egypt, Tanzania, and Uganda.






   Special Considerations  

Foreign aid estimates tend to vary, given the different agencies, funding methods, and aid categories associated with U.S. foreign assistance efforts. For instance, the Congressional Research Service (CRS)—a nonpartisan organization—the country spent $44.12 billion in foreign assistance during the 2020 fiscal year. That figure amounted to 1% of the total federal budget authority.



Aid can be provided by governments directly or through special federal agencies. For instance, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) was created in 1961 to provide civilian aid. It provides assistance with education, environment, climate change, global health, crises and conflicts, food and agriculture, water, and human rights.


   History of Foreign Aid  

Foreign aid—also commonly referred to as international aid and economic aid—isn't a new concept. The colonies were recipients of foreign military aid, particularly from France, during the American Revolution. During World War I, the U.S. government loaned the Committee for Relief in Belgium $387 million—much of which it later forgave.



U.S. foreign aid began in earnest during World War II. Before entering the war, the government began funneling funds and materials to the allied nations under the Lend-Lease program, which totaled $50.1 billion by August 1945. The United States also contributed $2.7 billion through the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), beginning in late 1943.



For the four years following 1948, the U.S. gave $13 billion in aid to countries affected by the war such as the United Kingdom, France, and West Germany through the Marshall Plan. The Mutual Security Act of 1951 authorized around $7.5 billion in foreign aid per year until 1961. The amount of aid authorized by the Mutual Security Act in 1951 was approximately 2.2% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP).
What Is the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)?  

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA, the Act) is a United States law that prohibits U.S. firms and individuals from paying bribes to foreign officials to further business deals. The FCPA contains two main articles:



The anti-bribery provisions The books, records, and internal control provisions, which speaks to accounting practices 



The FCPA applies to prohibited conduct anywhere in the world and extends to both U.S. publicly traded companies and privately held companies.





Key Takeaways

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) is a U.S. statute that prohibits firms and individuals from paying bribes to foreign officials to further business deals.Both the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) are responsible for enforcing the FCPA.Passage of the FCPA, in 1977, helped to level the playing field for American businesses in overseas markets.


   Understanding the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act targets corruption and bribery internationally. Paying foreign officials for expediting legal processes or obtaining contracts was a common business practice around the world well into the 1970s. In some countries, in fact, corporations routinely wrote-off bribes as normal business expenses when filing their tax returns. Being common, however, does not make this behavior desirable or ethical.



When the act was passed in 1977, it received substantial backing from American businesses because they could not compete fairly in overseas markets where bribery was accepted. The FCPA’s anti-bribery regime—along with the adoption of treaties like the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD), which required signatory countries to outlaw all financial crime—has helped to level the playing field abroad for U.S. businesses.


   Anti-Bribery Provisions  

The act prohibits bribery of foreign officials and intends to deter corruption and abuses of power worldwide. The FCPA contains policies for governing the actions of publicly traded companies, their directors, officers, shareholders, agents, and employees. This includes working through third parties such as consultants and partners in a joint venture (JV) with the company—meaning that the use of proxies to execute a bribe will not shield the company or individual from culpability.


   Books, Records, and Internal Control Provisions  

This section of the act outlines the accounting transparency guidelines that are meant to operate in tandem with the anti-bribery provisions. The FCPA requires companies whose securities are listed in the U.S. to meet its accounting provisions, which cite ways of recording assets that make it difficult to mask corrupt payments.



Corporations covered by the act also must devise and maintain internal controls to assure regulators that their business transactions are accounted for properly.


   Violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) are jointly responsible for enforcing the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For its part, the SEC created a special unit within its enforcement division to focus on matters that fall under the auspices of the FCPA.



Violators of the act can face substantial sanctions and penalties, and both criminal and civil actions may be charged. Punishments include fines as much as twice the amount of the benefit expected to be received from the bribery. Corporate entities found guilty of breaching the act may be forced to accept the oversight of an independent auditor to ensure future compliance. Individuals involved in breaking this law can face imprisonment for as many as five years.


   SEC Sample Rulings in the FCPA  

The SEC publishes current violations of the act, along with its enforcement actions, on the SEC website in press release format. The agency also redacts a summary list, organized by calendar year, of individuals and firms that violated the tenets of the act.



For example, in 2019, some of the SEC's rulings included actions against:



Ericsson (NASDAQ: ERIC), the Stockholm based multinational telecommunications company, agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the SEC and DOJ to resolve charges that it violated the FCPA by engaging in a large-scale bribery scheme involving the use of sham consultants to secretly funnel money to government officials in multiple countries.
Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) agreed to pay more than $24 million to settle SEC charges related to FCPA violations in Hungary, Thailand, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey, and criminal charges related to Hungary.
Tim Leissner, a former executive of Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS), agreed to a settlement with the SEC that includes a permanent bar from the securities industry for violating the FCPA by engaging in a corruption scheme, in which he obtained millions of dollars by paying unlawful bribes to various government officials to secure lucrative contracts for Goldman Sachs.
The SEC charged Walmart Inc. (NYSE: WMT) with violating the books, records, and internal accounting controls provisions of the FCPA by failing to operate a sufficient anti-corruption compliance program for more than a decade as the retailer experienced rapid international growth. Walmart agreed to pay more than $144 million to settle the SEC’s charges and approximately $138 million to resolve parallel criminal charges by the DOJ for a combined total of more than $282 million.
What Is a Foreign Currency Convertible Bond?  

A foreign currency convertible bond (FCCB) is a type of convertible bond issued in a currency different than the issuer's domestic currency. In other words, the money being raised by the issuing company is in the form of foreign currency. A convertible bond is a mix between a debt and equity instrument. It acts like a bond by making regular coupon and principal payments, but these bonds also give the bondholder the option to convert the bond into stock.





Key Takeaways

A foreign currency convertible bond (FCCB) is a type of bond that is issued in a currency other than the issuer's home currency.Convertible bonds fall in the middle of debt and equity financial instruments, both acting as a bond but allowing investors to convert the bond into stock.These kinds of bonds are often listed by large, multinational companies with offices around the world, seeking to raise money in foreign currencies.


   Understanding Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCB)  

A bond is a debt instrument that provides income to investors in the form of regularly scheduled interest payments called coupons. At the maturity date of the bond, the investors are repaid the full face value of the bond. Some corporate entities issue a type of bond known as convertible bonds.



A bondholder with a convertible bond has the option of converting the bond into a specified number of shares of the issuing company. Convertible bonds have a conversion rate at which the bonds will be converted to equity. However, if the stock price stays below the conversion price, the bond will not be converted. Thus, convertible bonds allow bondholders to participate in the appreciation of the issuer’s underlying shares. There are various types of convertible bonds, one of which is the foreign currency convertible bond.






A company may choose to issue FCCBs in the currency of a country with lower interest rates or a more stable economy than the issuer's home country.


   How Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds Work  

A foreign currency convertible bond (FCCB) is a convertible bond that is issued in a foreign currency, which means the principal repayment and periodic coupon payments will be made in a foreign currency. For example, an American listed company that issues a bond in India in rupees has, in effect, issued an FCCB.



Foreign currency convertible bonds are typically issued by multinational companies operating in a global space and looking to raise capital in foreign currencies. FCCB investors are usually hedge fund arbitrators and foreign nationals. These bonds can be issued along with a call option (whereby the right of redemption lies with the bond issuer) or put options (whereby the right of redemption lies with bondholder).


   Special Considerations  

A company may decide to raise money outside its home country to gain access to new markets for new or expansionary projects. FCCBs are generally issued by companies in the currency of those countries where interest rates are usually lower than the home country or foreign country economy is more stable than the home country economy. Due to the equity side of the bond, which adds value, the coupon payments on the bond are lower for the issuer than a straight coupon-bearing plain vanilla bond, thereby, reducing its debt-financing costs. In addition, a favorable move in the exchange rates can reduce the issuer’s cost of debt, which is the interest payment made on bonds.



Since the principal has to be repaid at maturity, an adverse movement in exchange rates in which the local currency weakens can cause cash outflows on repayment to be higher than any savings in interest rates, resulting in losses for the issuer. In addition, issuing bonds in a foreign currency exposes the issuer to any political, economic, and legal risks prevalent in the country. Furthermore, if the issuer’s stock price declines below the conversion price, FCCB investors will not convert their bonds to equity, which means the issuer will have to make the principal repayments at maturity.



An FCCB investor can purchase these bonds at a stock exchange, and has the option to convert the bond into equity or a depositary receipt after a certain period of time. Investors can participate in any price appreciation of the issuer’s stock by converting the bond to equity. Bondholders take advantage of this appreciation by means of warrants attached to the bonds, which are activated when the price of the stock reaches a certain point.
What Is a Foreign Currency Swap?  

A foreign currency swap is an agreement between two foreign parties to swap interest payments on a loan made in one currency for interest payments on a loan made in another currency.



A foreign currency swap can involve exchanging principal, as well. This would be exchanged back when the agreement ends. Usually, though, a swap involves notional principal that's just used to calculate interest and isn't actually exchanged.





Key Takeaways

A foreign currency swap is an agreement between two parties to swap interest rate payments on their respective loans in their different currencies.The agreement can also involve swapping principal amounts of loans.The two main types of swaps are fixed-for-fixed rate swaps and fixed-for-floating rate swaps.Foreign currency swaps can help companies borrow at a rate that's less expensive than that available from local financial institutions.They can also be used to hedge (or protect) the value of an existing investment against the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.


   Understanding Foreign Currency Swaps  

One purpose of engaging in a currency swap is to procure loans in foreign currency at more favorable interest rates than might be available borrowing directly in a foreign market.



During the financial crisis in 2008, the Federal Reserve allowed several developing countries that faced liquidity problems the option of a currency swap for borrowing purposes.



In a transaction arranged by investment banking firm, Salomon Brothers, the World Bank entered into the very first currency swap in 1981 with IBM. IBM swapped German Deutsche marks and Swiss francs to the World Bank for U.S. dollars.



Foreign currency swaps can be arranged for loans with maturities as long as 10 years. Currency swaps differ from interest rate swaps in that they can also involve principal exchanges.


  The Process of a Foreign Currency Swap  

In a foreign currency swap, each party to the agreement pays interest on the the other's loan principal amounts throughout the length of the agreement. When the swap is over, if principal amounts were exchanged, they are exchanged once more at the agreed upon rate (which would avoid transaction risk) or the spot rate.



Currency swaps have been tied to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). LIBOR is the average interest rate that international banks use when borrowing from one another. It has been used as a benchmark for other international borrowers.



However, in 2023, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) will officially replace LIBOR for benchmarking purposes. In fact, as of the end of 2021, no new transactions in U.S. dollars use LIBOR (although it will continue to quote rates for the benefit of already existing agreements).


   Types of Swaps  

There are two main types of currency swaps. The fixed-for-fixed rate currency swap involves exchanging fixed interest payments in one currency for fixed interest payments in another.



In the fixed-for-floating rate swap, fixed interest payments in one currency are exchanged for floating interest payments in another. In this type of swap, the principal amount of the underlying loan is not exchanged.






Foreign currency swaps are a way of getting capital where it needs to go so that economic activity can thrive. Theses swaps provide governments and businesses access to potentially lower cost borrowing. They also can help them protect their investments from the effects of exchange rate risk.


   Reasons for Using Currency Swaps  
  Decreasing Borrowing Costs  

A common reason to employ a currency swap is to secure cheaper debt. For example, say that European Company A borrows $120 million from U.S. Company B. Concurrently, U.S Company A borrows 100 million euros from European Company A.



The exchange between them is based on a $1.2 spot rate, indexed to LIBOR. The two companies make the deal because it allows them to borrow the respective currencies at a favorable rate.



If a currency swap deal involves the exchange of principal, that principal will be exchanged again at the maturity of the agreement.


  Reducing Exchange Rate Risks  

In addition, some institutions use currency swaps to reduce exposure to anticipated fluctuations in exchange rates. For instance, companies are exposed to exchange rate risks when they conduct business internationally.



Therefore, it can behoove them to hedge those risks by essentially taking opposite and simultaneous positions in the currency. U.S. Company A and Swiss Company B can take a position in each other’s currencies (Swiss francs and USD, respectively) via a currency swap for hedging purposes.



Then, they can unfold the swap later when the hedge is no longer needed. If they suffered a loss due to fluctuating exchange rates affecting their business activity, the profit on the swap can offset that.




Why Do Companies Do Foreign Currency Swaps?
Foreign currency swaps serve two essential purposes. They offer a company access to a loan in a foreign currency that can be less expensive than when obtained through a local bank. They also provide a way for a company to hedge (or protect against) risks it may face due to fluctuations in foreign exchange.




What Are the Different Types of Foreign Currency Swaps?
Foreign currency swaps can involve the exchange of fixed rate interest payments on currencies. Or, one party to the agreement may exchange a fixed rate interest payment for the floating rate interest payment of the other party. A swap agreement may also involve the exchange of the floating rate interest payments of both parties.




When Did the First Foreign Currency Swap Occur?
The first foreign currency swap is purported to have taken place in 1981 between the World Bank and IBM Corporation.
What Is a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)?  

Foreign direct investment (FDI) is an ownership stake in a foreign company or project made by an investor, company, or government from another country.



Generally, the term is used to describe a business decision to acquire a substantial stake in a foreign business or to buy it outright to expand operations to a new region. The term is usually not used to describe a stock investment in a foreign company alone. FDI is a key element in international economic integration because it creates stable and long-lasting links between economies.





Key Takeaways

Foreign direct investments (FDIs) are substantial, lasting investments made by a company or government into a foreign concern.FDI investors typically take controlling positions in domestic firms or joint ventures and are actively involved in their management.The investment may involve acquiring a source of materials, expanding a company’s footprint, or developing a multinational presence.The top recipients of FDI over the past several years have been the United States and China.The U.S. and other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries have been the top contributors to FDI beyond their borders.












Lara Antal / Investopedia


   How Does Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Work?  

Companies or governments considering a foreign direct investment (FDI) generally consider target firms or projects in open economies that offer a skilled workforce and above-average growth prospects for the investor. Light government regulation also tends to be prized. FDI frequently goes beyond mere capital investment. It may include the provision of management, technology, and equipment as well. A key feature of foreign direct investment is that it establishes effective control of the foreign business or at least substantial influence over its decision making.



The net amounts of money involved with FDI are substantial, with more than $1.8 trillion of foreign direct investments made in 2021. In that year, the United States was the top FDI destination worldwide, followed by China, Canada, Brazil, and India. In terms of FDI outflows, the U.S. was also the leader, followed by Germany, Japan, China, and the United Kingdom.



FDI inflows as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) is a good indicator of a nation’s appeal as a long-term investment destination. The Chinese economy is currently smaller than the U.S. economy in nominal terms, but FDI as a percentage of GDP was 1.7% for China as of 2020, compared with 1.0% for the U.S. For smaller, dynamic economies, FDI as a percentage of GDP is often significantly higher: e.g., 110% for the Cayman Islands, 109% for Hungary, and 34% for Hong Kong (also for 2020).





COVID’s Impact on FDI

In 2020, foreign direct investment tanked globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The total $859 billion global investment that year compared with $1.5 trillion the previous year. And China dislodged the U.S. in 2020 as the top draw for total investment, attracting $163 billion compared with investment in the U.S. of $134 billion. In 2021, global FDI bounced back by 88%.


   Special Considerations  

Foreign direct investments can be made in a variety of ways, including opening a subsidiary or associate company in a foreign country, acquiring a controlling interest in an existing foreign company, or by means of a merger or joint venture with a foreign company.



The threshold for an FDI that establishes a controlling interest, per guidelines established by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), is a minimum 10% ownership stake in a foreign-based company. That definition is flexible. There are instances in which effective controlling interest in a firm can be established by acquiring less than 10% of the company’s voting shares.


   Types of Foreign Direct Investment  

Foreign direct investments are commonly categorized as horizontal, vertical, or conglomerate.



With a horizontal FDI, a company establishes the same type of business operation in a foreign country as it operates in its home country. A U.S.-based cellphone provider buying a chain of phone stores in China is an example. In a vertical FDI, a business acquires a complementary business in another country. For example, a U.S. manufacturer might acquire an interest in a foreign company that supplies it with the raw materials it needs.In a conglomerate FDI, a company invests in a foreign business that is unrelated to its core business. Because the investing company has no prior experience in the foreign company’s area of expertise, this often takes the form of a joint venture.


   Examples of Foreign Direct Investment  

Foreign direct investments may involve mergers, acquisitions, or partnerships in retail, services, logistics, or manufacturing. They indicate a multinational strategy for company growth.



They also can run into regulatory concerns. For instance, in 2020, U.S. company Nvidia announced its planned acquisition of ARM, a U.K.-based chip designer. In August 2021, the U.K.’s competition watchdog announced an investigation into whether the $40 billion deal would reduce competition in industries reliant on semiconductor chips. The deal was called off in February 2022.





FDI in China and India

China’s economy has been fueled by an influx of FDI targeting the nation’s high-tech manufacturing and services. Meanwhile, more recently relaxed FDI regulations in India now allow 100% foreign direct investment in single-brand retail without government approval.




What is the difference between foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign portfolio investment (FPI)?
Foreign portfolio investment (FPI) is the addition of international assets to the portfolio of a company, an institutional investor such as a pension fund, or an individual investor. It is a form of portfolio diversification, achieved by purchasing the stocks or bonds of a foreign company. Foreign direct investment (FDI) instead requires a substantial and direct investment in, or the outright acquisition of, a company based in another country, and not just their securities.FDI is generally a larger commitment, made to enhance the growth of a company. But both FPI and FDI are generally welcome, particularly in emerging nations. Notably, FDI involves a greater responsibility to meet the regulations of the country that hosts the company receiving the investment.




What are the advantages and disadvantages of FDI?
FDI can foster and maintain economic growth, in both the recipient country and the country making the investment. On one hand, developing countries have encouraged FDI as a means of financing the construction of new infrastructure and the creation of jobs for their local workers. On the other hand, multinational companies benefit from FDI as a means of expanding their footprints into international markets. A disadvantage of FDI, however, is that it involves the regulation and oversight of multiple governments, leading to a higher level of political risk.




What are some examples of FDI?
One of the most sweeping examples of FDI in the world today is the Chinese initiative known as One Belt One Road (OBOR). This program, sometimes referred to as the Belt and Road Initiative, involves a commitment by China to substantial FDI in a range of infrastructure programs throughout Africa, Asia, and even parts of Europe. The program is typically funded by Chinese state-owned enterprises and organizations with deep ties to the Chinese government. Similar programs are undertaken by other nations and international bodies, including Japan, the United States, and the European Union.


   The Bottom Line  

FDI involves the direct investment by companies or governments into foreign firms or projects. This accounts for nearly $2 trillion in cash flows around the world, with the U.S. and China leading in the FDI inflow statistics. For smaller and developing countries, FDI funds can be a substantial part of overall GDP. Foreign portfolio investment (FPI) is related to FDI but instead involves owning the securities issued by firms (e.g., stock in foreign companies) rather than direct capital investments.
What Is the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion?  

The foreign earned income exclusion is intended to prevent double taxation by excluding income taxed in another country from U.S. taxation. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will tax your income earned worldwide; however, if you are an American expat, this means you are taxed twice on this income. The income you receive overseas is taxed in the foreign country and can be taxed again by the IRS.





Key Takeaways

The foreign earned income exclusion was created to avoid double taxation for Americans living abroad.Only U.S. citizens who meet certain qualifications may claim the foreign earned income inclusion, among them being a U.S. citizen or resident alien.Resident aliens who are citizens or nationals of a country with which the U.S. has an income tax treaty may qualify.If you are living and working abroad, it may be worth investigating the foreign earned income exclusion before you prepare your taxes.A foreign housing amount represents the housing costs you paid abroad with foreign earned income.


   Understanding Foreign Earned Income Exclusion  

The foreign earned income exclusion is elected on IRS tax Form 2555. Furthermore, taxpayers who claim this exclusion make domestic retirement plan contributions of any kind that are based on this income or claim the foreign tax credit or deduction for any taxes paid to a foreign government on this income.



You must meet specific qualifications to claim the foreign earned income exclusion.



You are a U.S citizen or resident alien. A resident alien is a foreign person and is a permanent resident without citizenship of the country in which they reside. To fall under this classification in the United States, a person needs to either have a current green card or have had one during the last calendar year.
You have a qualifying presence in a foreign country. Qualifying presence status is met by satisfying the bona fide resident test by being a resident in the country for a full tax year. You may also fulfill the physical presence test by being physically present there for at least 330 days within a 12-month consecutive period.
You have foreign earned income. You have foreign earned income if you receive wages through employment or compensation through self-employment for services you perform in a foreign country. The income you receive from foreign-source pensions, investments, alimony, or gambling is not foreign earned income.


   Foreign Housing Amount  

There is a statutory maximum exclusion amount plus a foreign housing amount which limits the exclusion. It is prorated if the number of qualifying days in a foreign country is less than a full tax year.



The foreign housing amount is the housing costs you paid with foreign earned income that exceeds 16% of the maximum exclusion, or base, amount. This amount has a cap of 30% of the maximum exclusion amount. The foreign housing amount is taken as an exclusion by employees and as a deduction by self-employed individuals.



For the 2022 tax year, the maximum exclusion amount is $112,000 and it goes up to $120,000 in 2023.


   Example of Foreign Earned Income Exclusion  

Let’s see how the foreign earned income exclusion works. MP is an American working in Vietnam. They lived in Hanoi for 345 days of the tax year and were absent for 10 days on a trip home for Thanksgiving. They earned a salary of $225,000 and paid $30,596 of it to lease a flat for the year. MP paid $75,000 in Vietnamese income tax and owed $81,000 in U.S. income tax on this income. The upshot is that their foreign earned income is being taxed twice.



Since MP is a U.S. citizen who paid foreign taxes on income they earned during 335 qualifying days in a foreign country, they may elect to exclude the foreign earned income from their U.S. taxable income.



MP’s 2022 exclusion is $112,000, and MP's 2022 foreign housing amount is $15,040 ($33,600 in housing costs – $16,944 base amount). Since $13,652 is less than the $31,770 cap amount, no further reduction is necessary.



The foreign earned income exclusion allows MP to exclude $111,000 from their taxable income. But $114,000 remains included, and since they have paid foreign taxes of $37,000 and still owe U.S. taxes of $36,000, it remains double taxed. 



MP should take a $37,000 nonrefundable foreign tax credit against the $36,000 U.S. taxes they owe. As long as they timely file Form 2555 to elect the foreign earned income exclusion and Form 1116 claiming the foreign tax credit, they will not owe U.S. taxes on the foreign income.




Who Qualifies for the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion?
A U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien who is physically present in another country for 330 days or more during 12 consecutive months, a U.S. citizen who is a legal resident of a foreign country for an uninterrupted period that includes an entire tax year, or a U.S. resident alien who is a citizen or national of a country with which the United States has an income tax treaty in effect who is a legal resident of a foreign country for an uninterrupted period that includes an entire tax year, qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion.




What Is the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion for 2022?
For 2022, the foreign earned income exclusion is $112,000. For 2023, the amount is $120,000. Any earned income below these amounts for an individual will not be taxed.




Do I Have To Pay U.S. Taxes on Foreign Income?
Yes, as a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien, you must pay taxes on all foreign earned income regardless of your place of residency; however, you may qualify for foreign earned income exclusions or foreign income tax credits.
What Is the Forex or FX?  

The foreign exchange market, commonly referred to as the Forex or FX, is the global marketplace for the trading of one nation's currency for another.



The forex market is the largest, most liquid market in the world, with trillions of dollars changing hands every day. It has no centralized location, and no government authority oversees it.



Rather, the forex is an electronic network of banks, brokerages, institutional investors, and individual traders (mostly trading through brokerages or banks).





Key Takeaways

The forex is a global marketplace for exchanging national currencies.Foreign exchange venues comprise the largest securities market in the world by nominal value, with trillions of dollars changing hands each day.Foreign exchange trading uses currency pairs, priced in terms of one versus the other.Forwards and futures are another way to participate in the forex market.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding the Forex  

The Forex market determines the day-to-day value, or the exchange rate, of most of the world's currencies. If a traveler exchanges dollars for euros at an exchange kiosk or a bank, the number of euros will be based on the current forex rate. If imported French cheese suddenly costs more at the grocery, it may well mean that euros have increased in value against the U.S. dollar in forex trading.



Forex traders seek to profit from the continual fluctuations of currency values. For example, a trader may anticipate that the British pound will strengthen in value. The trader will exchange U.S. dollars for British pounds. If the pound then strengthens, the trader can do the transaction in reverse, getting more dollars for the pounds.


  Currency Pairs  

In forex trading, currencies are listed in pairs, such as USD/CAD, EUR/USD, or USD/JPY. These represent the U.S. dollar (USD) versus the Canadian dollar (CAD), the euro (EUR) versus the USD, and the USD versus the Japanese yen (JPY).



There will also be a price associated with each pair, such as 1.2569. If this is the USD/CAD pair, it means that it costs 1.2569 CAD to buy one USD. If the price increases to 1.3336, then it now costs 1.3336 CAD to buy one USD. The USD has increased in value against the CAD, so it now costs more CAD to buy one USD.



In the forex market, currencies trade in lots, called micro, mini, and standard lots. A micro lot is 1,000 worth of a given currency, a mini lot is 10,000, and a standard lot is 100,000. Trades take place in set blocks of currency. For example, a trader can exchange seven micro lots (7,000), three mini lots (30,000), or 75 standard lots (7,500,000).



Trading volume in the forex market is generally very large. Trading in the foreign exchange markets averaged $6.6 trillion worth per day in April 2019, according to the Bank for International Settlements. 



The largest trading centers are London, New York, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Tokyo.






   Trading in the Foreign Exchange Market  

The Forex market is open 24 hours a day, five days a week around the globe. 



Historically, foreign exchange market participation was for governments, large companies, and hedge funds. In today's world, trading currencies is as easy as a click of a mouse and accessibility is not an issue. Many investment companies allow individuals to open accounts and trade currencies through their platforms.



This is not like a trip to a foreign exchange kiosk. The process is entirely electronic with no physical exchange of money from one hand to another.



Rather, traders are taking a position in a specific currency in the hope that there will be some upward movement and strength in the currency that they're buying (or weakness if they're selling) so that they can make a profit. 


   Forex Market vs. Other Markets  

There are some fundamental differences between foreign exchange and other markets.



First of all, there are fewer rules, which means investors aren't held to strict standards or regulations like those in the stock, futures, and options markets. There are no clearing houses and no central bodies that oversee the forex market.



Second, since trades don't take place on a traditional exchange, there are fewer fees or commissions like those on other markets.



Next, there's no cutoff as to when you can and cannot trade. Because the market is open 24 hours a day, you can trade at any time.



Finally, because it's such a liquid market, you can get in and out whenever you want and you can buy as much currency as you can afford.


   Types of Forex Transactions  

Forex traders transact in one of three distinct marketplaces: the spot, the forward, or the futures market.


  The Forex Spot Market  

The spot market is the most straightforward of the Forex markets. The spot rate is the current exchange rate. A transaction in the spot market is an agreement to trade one currency for another currency at the prevailing spot rate.



Spot transactions for most currencies are finalized in two business days. The major exception is the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar, which settles on the next business day.



The price is established on the trade date, but money is exchanged on the value date.


  Role of the U.S. Dollar  

The U.S. dollar is the most actively traded currency. The most common pairs are the USD versus the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Australian dollar.



Trading pairs that do not include the dollar are referred to as crosses. The most common crosses are the euro versus the pound and the euro versus the yen.



The spot market can be very volatile. Movement in the short term is dominated by technical trading, which bases trading decisions on a currency's direction and speed of movement. Longer-term changes in a currency's value are driven by fundamental factors such as a nation's interest rates and economic growth.


  The Forex Forward Market  

A forward trade is any trade that settles further in the future than a spot transaction. The forward price is a combination of the spot rate plus or minus forward points that represent the interest rate differential between the two currencies.



Most forward trades have a maturity of less than a year in the future but a longer term is possible. As in the spot market, the price is set on the transaction date but money is exchanged on the maturity date.



A forward contract is tailor-made to the requirements of the counterparties. They can be for any amount and settle on any date that is not a weekend or holiday in one of the countries.


  Forex Futures  

Unlike the rest of the foreign exchange market, forex futures are traded on an established exchange, primarily the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.



Forex futures are derivative contracts in which a buyer and a seller agree to a transaction at a set date and price.



This type of transaction is often used by companies that do much of their business abroad and therefore want to hedge against a severe hit from currency fluctuations. It also is subject to speculative trading.


   Example of a Forex Trade  

A trader thinks that the European Central Bank (ECB) will be easing its monetary policy in the coming months as the Eurozone’s economy slows. As a result, the trader bets that the euro will fall against the U.S. dollar and sells short €100,000 at an exchange rate of 1.15. Over the next several weeks the ECB signals that it may indeed ease its monetary policy. That causes the exchange rate for the euro to fall to 1.10 versus the dollar. This creates a profit for the trader of $5,000.



By shorting €100,000, the trader took in $115,000 for the short sale. When the euro fell, and the trader covered the short, it cost the trader only $110,000 to repurchase the currency. The difference between the money received on the short sale and the buy to cover it is the profit.



Had the euro strengthened versus the dollar, it would have resulted in a loss.


   Pros and Cons of Forex  
  Pros  

The forex was once the exclusive province of banks and other financial institutions. The internet has blasted the doors wide open.



Entry costs are low and the marketplace is open around the clock. There are many choices of forex trading platforms, including some that cater to beginners. There also are online forex trading courses that teach the basics.


  Cons  

Those financial institutions and the traders who work for them are still there, alongside the neophytes working from home. They have deep pockets, sophisticated software that tracks currency price movements, and teams of analysts to examine the economic factors that make currency rates move.



Currency trading is a fast-moving, volatile arena. It's risky business and can be made riskier by the use of leverage to increase the size of bets.



It's an easy way to lose money fast. Anyone willing to jump into the Forex should get the necessary training in advance, and start slowly with a minimal stake.




Pros and Cons of Forex

Pros

Accessible to individual investors through online trading platforms.
Open 24 hours a day world-wide.
Relatively light regulation or oversight.



Cons

Dominated by professionals and institutions with deep pockets.
Volatile prices subject to sudden swings based on news.
Relatively steep learning curve for newcomers.





   Forex Terms  

There are a number of terms that are used by Forex traders. Here are some of the basics.



Going long: Buying a currency on the belief that its value will increase in a matter of hours. Then it can be sold for a profit.



Going short: Selling a currency on the belief that its value will decrease. It can then be repurchased at a lower price.



Currency pair: Every Forex transaction is an exchange of one currency for another. A currency pair quote looks like this: USD/GBP = $1.15. In this example, the U.S. dollar is the base currency, and the British pound is the quote currency. A trader who wishes to buy British pounds will pay $1.15 for each.



The ask: The price the trader will pay to buy a currency pair.



The bid: The price the trader will pay to sell a currency pair.



The spread: The difference between the buying price and the selling price.


  Major Currency Codes on the Forex  

Just seven currency pairs represent the majority of trades on the Forex. They are:



EUR/USD (Euro/U.S. dollar)



USD/JPY (U.S. dollar/Japanese yen)



GBP/USD (British pound/U.S. dollar)



AUD/USD (Australian dollar/U.S. dollar)



USD/CAD (U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar)



USD/CHF (U.S. dollar/Swiss franc)



NZD/USD (New Zealand dollar/U.S. dollar)




How Big Is the Forex Market?
The daily trading volume on the forex market dwarfs that of the stock and bond markets.According to the latest triennial survey conducted by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), trading in foreign exchange markets averaged $6.6 trillion per day in 2019. By contrast, the total notional value of U.S. equity markets on Dec. 31, 2021, was approximately $393 billion.




What Is Foreign Exchange Trading?
When you're making trades in the forex market, you're buying the currency of one nation and simultaneously selling the currency of another nation.There's no physical exchange of money. Traders are taking a position in a specific currency, with the hope that it will gain in value relative to the other currency.




How Does the Forex Market Differ From Other Markets?
The Forex is a decentralized market. It has no physical existence and no owner or management.There are no clearing houses or central bodies to oversee the forex. That means traders aren't held to strict standards or regulations, as are seen in the stock, futures, or options markets.It also means there are fewer fees and commissions to pay.


   The Bottom Line  

The forex, or FX, is the global marketplace for the exchange of currencies. As such, it determines the value of one currency against another in the real world.



Forex prices determine the amount of money a traveler gets when exchanging one currency for another. Forex prices also influence global trade, as companies buying or selling across borders must take currency fluctuations into account when determining their costs. Inevitably, the forex has an impact on consumer prices, as global exchange rates increase or lower the prices of imported components.
What Are Foreign Exchange Reserves?  

Foreign exchange reserves are assets held on reserve by a central bank in foreign currencies. These reserves are used to back liabilities and influence monetary policy. It includes any foreign money held by a central bank, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank.





Key Takeaways

Foreign exchange reserves are assets denominated in a foreign currency that are held by a nation's central bank.These may include foreign currencies, bonds, treasury bills, and other government securities.Most foreign exchange reserves are held in U.S. dollars, with China being the largest foreign currency reserve holder in the world.Economists suggest that it’s best to hold foreign exchange reserves in a currency that is not directly connected to the country’s own currency.


   How Foreign Exchange Reserves Work  

Foreign exchange reserves can include banknotes, deposits, bonds, treasury bills and other government securities. These assets serve many purposes but are most significantly held to ensure that a central government agency has backup funds if their national currency rapidly devalues or becomes entirely insolvent.



It is a common practice in countries around the world for a central bank to hold a significant amount of reserves in its foreign exchange. Most of these reserves are held in the U.S. dollar since it is the most traded currency in the world. It is not uncommon for the foreign exchange reserves to be made up of the British pound (GBP), the euro (EUR), the Chinese yuan (CNY) or the Japanese yen (JPY) as well.



Economists theorize that it is better to hold the foreign exchange reserves in a currency that is not directly connected to the country’s own currency in order to provide a barrier should there be a market shock. However, this practice has become more difficult as currencies have become increasingly intertwined as global trading has become easier.






Foreign exchange reserves are not only used to back liabilities but also influence monetary policy﻿.


   Example of Foreign Exchange Reserves  

The world's largest current foreign exchange reserve holder is China, a country holding more than $3 trillion of its assets in a foreign currency. Most of their reserves are held in the U.S. dollar. One of the reasons for this is that it makes international trade easier to execute since most of the trading takes place using the U.S. dollar.



Saudi Arabia also holds considerable foreign exchange reserves, as the country relies mainly on the export of its vast oil reserves. If oil prices begin to rapidly drop, the country's economy could suffer. It keeps large amounts of foreign funds in reserves to act as a cushion should this happen, even if it’s only a temporary fix.






U.S. foreign exchange reserves totaled $247 billion, as of March 25, 2022, compared to China’s over $3 trillion.



Russia’s foreign exchange reserves are held mostly in U.S. dollars, much like the rest of the world, but the country also keeps some of its reserves in gold. Since gold is a commodity with an underlying value, the risk in relying on gold in the event of a Russian economic decline is that the value of gold will not be significant enough to support the country’s needs. As of February 2022, Russia's foreign exchange reserves totaled some $630 billion. However, sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU), the U.S., and other nations in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 rendered most of those reserves inaccessible to the central bank.



Another danger of using gold as a reserve is that the asset is only worth what someone else is willing to pay for it. During an economic crash, that would put the power of determining the value of the gold reserve, and therefore Russia’s financial fallback, into the hands of the entity willing to purchase it.
What is Foreign Exchange Risk?  

Foreign exchange risk refers to the losses that an international financial transaction may incur due to currency fluctuations. Also known as currency risk, FX risk and exchange-rate risk, it describes the possibility that an investment’s value may decrease due to changes in the relative value of the involved currencies. Investors may experience jurisdiction risk in the form of foreign exchange risk.





Key Takeaways

Foreign exchange risk refers to the losses that an international financial transaction may incur due to currency fluctuations.Foreign exchange risk can also affect investors, who trade in international markets, and businesses engaged in the import/export of products or services to multiple countries.Three types of foreign exchange risk are transaction, translation, and economic risk.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Foreign Exchange Risk  

Foreign exchange risk arises when a company engages in financial transactions denominated in a currency other than the currency where that company is based. Any appreciation/depreciation of the base currency or the depreciation/appreciation of the denominated currency will affect the cash flows emanating from that transaction. Foreign exchange risk can also affect investors, who trade in international markets, and businesses engaged in the import/export of products or services to multiple countries.



The proceeds of a closed trade, whether it is a profit or loss, will be denominated in the foreign currency and will need to be converted back to the investor's base currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could adversely affect this conversion resulting in a lower-than-expected amount.



An import/export business exposes itself to foreign exchange risk by having account payables and receivables affected by currency exchange rates. This risk originates when a contract between two parties specifies exact prices for goods or services, as well as delivery dates. If a currency’s value fluctuates between when the contract is signed and the delivery date, it could cause a loss for one of the parties.



There are three types of foreign exchange risk:



Transaction risk: This is the risk that a company faces when it's buying a product from a company located in another country. The price of the product will be denominated in the selling company's currency. If the selling company's currency were to appreciate versus the buying company's currency then the company doing the buying will have to make a larger payment in its base currency to meet the contracted price.
Translation risk: A parent company owning a subsidiary in another country could face losses when the subsidiary's financial statements, which will be denominated in that country's currency, have to be translated back to the parent company's currency.
Economic risk: Also called forecast risk, refers to when a company’s market value is continuously impacted by an unavoidable exposure to currency fluctuations.



Companies that are subject to FX risk can implement hedging strategies to mitigate that risk. This usually involves forward contracts, options, and other exotic financial products and, if done properly, can protect the company from unwanted foreign exchange moves.






   Foreign Exchange Risk Example  

An American liquor company signs a contract to buy 100 cases of wine from a French retailer for €50 per case, or €5,000 total, with payment due at the time of delivery. The American company agrees to this contract at a time when the Euro and the US Dollar are of equal value, so €1 = $1. Thus, the American company expects that when they accept delivery of the wine, they will be obligated to pay the agreed upon amount of €5,000, which at the time of the sale was $5,000.



However, it will take a few months for delivery of the wine. In the meantime, due to unforeseen circumstances, the value of the US Dollar depreciates versus the Euro to where at the time of delivery €1 = $1.10. The contracted price is still €5,000 but now the US Dollar amount is $5,500, which is the amount that the American liquor company will have to pay.
What Is a Foreign Institutional Investor (FII)?  

A foreign institutional investor (FII) is an investor or investment fund investing in a country outside of the one in which it is registered or headquartered. The term foreign institutional investor is probably most commonly used in India, where it refers to outside entities investing in the nation's financial markets. The term is also used officially in China.





Key Takeaways

A foreign institutional investor is an investor in a financial market outside its official home country.Foreign institutional investors can include pension funds, investment banks, hedge funds, and mutual funds.Some countries place restrictions on the size of investments by foreign investors.







Foreign Institutional Investor (FII)


   Understanding Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs)  

FIIs can include hedge funds, insurance companies, pension funds, investment banks, and mutual funds. FIIs can be important sources of capital in developing economies, yet many developing nations, such as India, have placed limits on the total value of assets an FII can purchase and the number of equity shares it can buy, particularly in a single company.



This helps limit the influence of FIIs on individual companies and the nation's financial markets, and the potential damage that might occur if FIIs fled en masse during a crisis.


   Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) in India  

Some of the countries with the highest volume of foreign institutional investments are those with developing economies, which generally provide investors with higher growth potential than mature economies.



This is one reason FIIs are commonly found in India, which has a high-growth economy and attractive individual corporations to invest in. All FIIs in India must register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to participate in the market.


  Regulations on Investing in Indian Companies  

FIIs are allowed to invest in India's primary and secondary capital markets only through the country's portfolio investment scheme. This scheme allows FIIs to purchase shares and debentures of Indian companies on the nation's public exchanges.



However, there are many regulations. For example, FIIs are generally limited to a maximum investment of 24% of the paid-up capital of the Indian company receiving the investment. However, FIIs can invest more than 24% if the investment is approved by the company's board and a special resolution is passed. The ceiling on FIIs' investments in Indian public-sector banks is only 20% of banks' paid-up capital.



The Reserve Bank of India monitors compliance with these limits daily by implementing cutoff points 2% below the maximum investment. This gives it a chance to caution the Indian company receiving the investment before allowing the final 2% to be purchased.


   Foreign Institutional Investors in China  

China is also a popular destination for foreign institutions seeking to invest in high-growth capital markets. In 2019, China decided to scrap quotas on the amount of the nation's stocks and bonds FIIs can purchase. The decision was part of efforts to attract more foreign capital as its economy slowed and it fought a trade war with the U.S.


   Example of a Foreign Institutional Investor (FII)  

If a mutual fund in the United States sees a high-growth investment opportunity in an India-listed company, it can take a long position by purchasing shares in an Indian stock market.



This type of arrangement also benefits private U.S. investors who may not be able to buy Indian stocks directly. Instead, they can invest in the mutual fund and take part in the high-growth potential.



The mutual fund, which would be an FII, would have to ensure that it meets all of the requirements of an FII in the nation that which it is investing. Most nations that allow FIIs to invest require them to follow strict rules.




What Is the Difference Between FDI and FII?
"FDI" refers to "foreign direct investment," which is the investment made into a foreign country, usually an investment in a foreign company. "FII" refers to "foreign institutional investor," which is a person or institution that invests in a foreign market, usually the stock market of another country.




Which Companies Are FIIs?
Companies in India that have many FIIs are CarTrade Tech, HDFC, PB Fintech, Axis Bank, Kiri Industries, ITC, ICICI Bank, and Standard Industries.




What Are the Benefits of FIIs?
The benefits of FIIs to countries are that FIIs bring in foreign capital, which boosts the economy of a nation. This spurs growth and shores up foreign reserves. It also helps the FIIs as it allows for greater diversity and exposure to foreign markets.


   The Bottom Line  

Foreign institutional investor (FII) is a designation used by certain countries for international investors in their stock markets. The term is typically associated with fast-developing economies, like India and China, that have strict rules regarding foreign investors.



FIIs must ensure they are compliant with all of the rules laid out by these countries to be able to invest, as well as abide by the limits and securities they are allowed to invest in. Gaining access to these markets for foreigners is a way to diversify their holdings as well as gain exposure to fast-growing economies.
What Is Foreign Investment?  

Foreign investment involves capital flows from one country to another, granting the foreign investors extensive ownership stakes in domestic companies and assets. Foreign investment denotes that foreigners have an active role in management as a part of their investment or an equity stake large enough to enable the foreign investor to influence business strategy. A modern trend leans toward globalization, where multinational firms have investments in a variety of countries.





Key Takeaways

Foreign investment refers to the investment in domestic companies and assets of another country by a foreign investor.Large multinational corporations will seek new opportunities for economic growth by opening branches and expanding their investments in other countries.Foreign direct investments include long-term physical investments made by a company in a foreign country, such as opening plants or purchasing buildings.Foreign indirect investment involves corporations, financial institutions, and private investors that purchase shares in foreign companies that trade on a foreign stock exchange.Commercial loans are another type of foreign investment and involve bank loans issued by domestic banks to businesses in foreign countries or the governments of those countries.


   How Foreign Investment Works  

Foreign investment is largely seen as a catalyst for economic growth in the future. Foreign investments can be made by individuals, but are most often endeavors pursued by companies and corporations with substantial assets looking to expand their reach.



As globalization increases, more and more companies have branches in countries around the world. For some multinational corporations, opening new manufacturing and production plants in a different country is attractive because of the opportunities for cheaper production and labor costs.



Additionally, these large corporations frequently look to do business with those countries where they will pay the least amount of taxes. They may do this by relocating their home office or parts of their business to a country that is a tax haven or has favorable tax laws aimed at attracting foreign investors.






Some of the more popular tax haven countries that attract foreign investors include the Bahamas, Bermuda, Monaco, Luxembourg, Mauritius, and the Cayman Islands.


   Direct vs. Indirect Foreign Investments  

Foreign investments can be classified in one of two ways: direct and indirect. Foreign direct investments (FDIs) are the physical investments and purchases made by a company in a foreign country, typically by opening plants and buying buildings, machines, factories, and other equipment in the foreign country. These types of investments find a far greater deal of favor, as they are generally considered long-term investments and help bolster the foreign country’s economy.



Foreign indirect investments involve corporations, financial institutions, and private investors buying stakes or positions in foreign companies that trade on a foreign stock exchange. In general, this form of foreign investment is less favorable, as the domestic company can easily sell off their investment very quickly, sometimes within days of the purchase. This type of investment is also sometimes referred to as a foreign portfolio investment (FPI). Indirect investments include not only equity instruments such as stocks, but also debt instruments such as bonds.


   Other Types of Foreign Investment  

There are two additional types of foreign investments to be considered: commercial loans and official flows. Commercial loans are typically in the form of bank loans that are issued by a domestic bank to businesses in foreign countries or the governments of those countries. Official flows is a general term that refers to different forms of developmental assistance that developed or developing nations are given by a domestic country.



Commercial loans, up until the 1980s, were the largest source of foreign investment throughout developing countries and emerging markets. Following this period, commercial loan investments plateaued, and direct investments and portfolio investments increased significantly around the globe.


   Multilateral Development Banks  

A different kind of foreign investor is the multilateral development bank (MDB), which is an international financial institution that invests in developing countries in an effort to encourage economic stability. Unlike commercial lenders who have an investment objective to maximize profit, MDBs use their foreign investments to fund projects that support a country's economic and social development.



The investments—which typically take the form of low- or no-interest loans with favorable terms—might fund the building of an infrastructure project or provide the country with the capital needed to create new industries and jobs. Examples of multilateral development banks include the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
What Is Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI)?  

Foreign portfolio investment (FPI) consists of securities and other financial assets held by investors in another country. It does not provide the investor with direct ownership of a company's assets and is relatively liquid depending on the volatility of the market. Along with foreign direct investment (FDI), FPI is one of the common ways to invest in an overseas economy. FDI and FPI are both important sources of funding for most economies.





Key Takeaways

Foreign portfolio investment (FPI) involves holding financial assets from a country outside of the investor's own.FPI holdings can include stocks, ADRs, GDRs, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange traded funds.Along with foreign direct investment (FDI), FPI is one of the common ways for investors to participate in an overseas economy, especially retail investors.Unlike FDI, FPI consists of passive ownership; investors have no control over ventures or direct ownership of property or a stake in a company.


   Understanding Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI)  

Portfolio investment involves the making and holding of a hands-off—or passive—investment of securities, done with the expectation of earning a return. In foreign portfolio investment, these securities can include stocks, american depositary receipts (ADRs), or global depositary receipts of companies headquartered outside the investor's nation. Holding also includes bonds or other debt issued by these companies or foreign governments, mutual funds, or exchange traded funds (ETFs) that invest in assets abroad or overseas.



An individual investor interested in opportunities outside their own country is most likely to invest through an FPI. On a more macro level, foreign portfolio investment is part of a country’s capital account and shown on its balance of payments (BOP). The BOP measures the amount of money flowing from one country to other countries over one monetary year.


   FPI vs. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)  

With FPI—as with portfolio investment in general—an investor does not actively manage the investments or the companies that issue the investments. They do not have direct control over the assets or the businesses.



In contrast, foreign direct investment (FDI) lets an investor purchase a direct business interest in a foreign country. For example, say an investor based in New York City purchases a warehouse in Berlin to lease to a German company that needs space to expand its operations. The investor’s goal is to create a long-term income stream while helping the company increase its profits.



This FDI investor controls their monetary investments and often actively manages the company into which they put money. The investor helps to build the business and waits to see their return on investment (ROI). However, because the investor’s money is tied up in a company, they face less liquidity and more risk when trying to sell this interest. The investor also faces currency exchange risk, which may decrease the value of the investment when converted from the country’s currency to the home currency or U.S. dollars. An additional risk is with political risk, which may make the foreign economy and his investment shaky.





Pros

Feasible for retail investors
Quicker return on investment
Highly liquid



Cons

No direct control/management of investments
Volatile
Cause of economic disruption (if withdrawn)






Although some of these risks affect foreign portfolio investments as well, it is to a lesser degree than with foreign direct investments. Since the FPI investments are financial assets, not the property or a direct stake in a company, they are inherently more marketable.



So FPI is more liquid than FDI and offers the investor a chance for a quicker return on his money—or a quicker exit. However, as with most investments offering a short-term horizon, FPI assets can suffer from volatility. FPI money often departs the country of investment whenever there is uncertainty or negative news in a foreign land, which can further aggravate economic problems there.



Foreign portfolio investments are more suited to the average retail investor, while FDI is more the province of institutional investors, ultra-high-net-worth individuals, and companies. However, these large investors may also use foreign portfolio investments.


   Example of Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI)  

The year 2018 was a good one for India in terms of FPI. More than 600 new investment funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), bringing the total to 9,246. An easier regulatory climate and a strong performance by Indian equities over the last few years were among the factors sparking foreign investors' interest.
What Is the Foreign Tax Credit?  

The foreign tax credit is a U.S. tax credit used to offset income tax paid abroad. U.S. citizens and resident aliens who pay income taxes imposed by a foreign country or U.S. possession can claim the credit. The credit can reduce your U.S. tax liability and help ensure you aren't taxed twice on the same income.





Key Takeaways

The foreign tax credit is a U.S. tax break that offsets income tax paid to other countries.The credit is available to U.S. citizens and residents who earn income abroad and have paid foreign income taxes.Foreign taxes on income, wages, dividends, interest, and royalties generally qualify for the foreign tax credit.


   How the Foreign Tax Credit Works  

If you paid taxes to a foreign country or U.S. possession and are subject to U.S. tax on the same income, you can take an itemized deduction or a credit for those taxes. For foreign tax credit purposes, U.S. possessions include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.



Reported as a deduction on Schedule A of your 1040 or 1040-SR, the foreign income tax reduces your U.S. taxable income. Conversely, the foreign income directly reduces your U.S. tax liability if you take the credit. If you opt for the tax credit, you must complete Form 1116 and attach it to your U.S. tax return.






You must take a credit or a deduction for all qualified foreign taxes. You can't take the credit for some of your foreign taxes and a deduction for others, and you can't claim both a credit and a deduction for the same tax.



Taking the credit usually makes financial sense because the amount reduces your actual tax bill instead of just lowering your taxable income. The tax break reduces the double tax burden that would otherwise arise if you were taxed on the same income twice.



Generally, only income, war profits, and excess profits taxes are eligible for the credit. Foreign taxes on wages, dividends, interest, and royalties also qualify. The IRS specifies that "the tax must be a levy that is not payment for a specific economic benefit," and it must be similar to a U.S. income tax.



You can also claim the credit on foreign taxes that aren't imposed under a foreign income tax law if the tax is "in lieu" of income, war profits, or excess profits tax. In this situation, the tax must be imposed in place of an income tax the country otherwise imposes.






Foreign tax is typically imposed in a foreign currency. Use the exchange rate in effect on the date you paid the foreign tax, the tax was withheld, or you made estimated tax payments.



Other foreign taxes, such as foreign real and personal property taxes, do not qualify for the foreign tax credit, but you may be able to deduct these other taxes on Schedule A of your income tax return even if you also claim the foreign tax credit. You can deduct foreign real property taxes unrelated to your trade or business. However, other taxes must be expenses you incur in a trade or business.



Individuals, estates, and trusts can use the foreign tax credit to reduce their income tax liability. Additionally, taxpayers can carry any unused foreign tax back for one year and then forward up to 10 years.


   Do I Qualify for a Foreign Tax Credit?  

Not all taxes paid to a foreign government can be claimed as a credit against the U.S. federal income tax. For the foreign tax to qualify for the credit:



The tax must be imposed on you by a foreign country or U.S. possession.You must have paid or accrued the tax to a foreign country or U.S. possession.The tax must be the legal and actual foreign tax liability you paid or accrued during the year.The tax must be an income tax or a tax instead of an income tax.



There is a limit on the amount of credit you can claim, which you calculate on Form 1116. You can claim the smaller of the foreign tax you paid or your calculated limit unless you qualify for one of these exemptions:



Your only foreign source income for the tax year is passive.Your qualified foreign taxes for the year are less than $300 or $600 if married and filing jointly.Your gross foreign income and the foreign taxes are reported to you on a payee statement such as Form 1099-DIV or 1099-INT.You elect this procedure for the tax year.



If you qualify for an exemption, claim the tax credit directly on Form 1040.






If you claim the foreign earned income exclusion and/or the foreign housing exclusion, you can't take a foreign tax credit for taxes on the income you excluded (or could have excluded). If you do, the IRS could revoke one or both of your choices.


   Refundable vs. Non-refundable Tax Credits  

Tax credits can be either refundable or non-refundable. A refundable tax credit is a refund if the tax credit is more than your tax bill. If you apply a $3,400 tax credit to a $3,000 tax bill, you will receive a $400 refund.



A non-refundable tax credit won't provide a refund because it only reduces the tax owed to zero. If the $3,400 tax credit was non-refundable, you would owe nothing to the government. However, you would also forfeit the $400 that remained after the credit was applied. Most tax credits, including the foreign tax credit, are non-refundable. 




What Is the Difference Between Tax Credits and Tax Deductions?
Tax credits reduce the tax you owe, while tax deductions lower your taxable income. While both save you money, credits are more valuable because they reduce your tax bill. A $1,000 tax credit reduces your tax bill by $1,000. Conversely, a $1,000 tax deduction lowers your taxable income. If you're in the 22% tax bracket, a $1,000 deduction saves $220 on your tax bill.




How Do the Foreign Tax Credit and Foreign Earned Income Exclusion Differ?
Two ways to avoid double taxation on the income you earn while living abroad are the foreign tax credit and the foreign earned income exclusion. A key difference is an income to which each applies. The foreign tax credit applies to earned and unearned income, such as dividends and interest. Conversely, the foreign earned income exclusion applies only to earned income.




Who Can Claim the Foreign Tax Credit?
If you are a U.S. citizen, the U.S. taxes your worldwide income, no matter where you live. To avoid double taxation, the U.S. lets you tax credit for foreign taxes you pay or accrue. U.S. citizens and resident aliens who paid foreign income tax and are subject to U.S. tax on that same income can take the foreign tax credit. A nonresident alien can take the credit if they were a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico for the entire tax year or paid foreign income taxes connected to a trade or business in the U.S.


   The Bottom Line  

The foreign tax credit is a U.S. tax break that offsets income tax paid to other countries. To qualify, the tax must be imposed on you by a foreign country or U.S. possession and you must have paid the tax. Taxes on income, wages, dividends, interest, and royalties generally qualify for the foreign tax credit.
What Is Forensic Accounting?  

Forensic accounting utilizes accounting, auditing, and investigative skills to examine the finances of an individual or business. Forensic accountants are CPAs that look for evidence of crimes and commonly work for insurance companies, financial institutions, and law enforcement agencies.



Forensic accountants analyze financial records and accounts that may be used as legal evidence and often testify in court cases as expert witnesses. They may work on cases such as fraud and embezzlement and explain the nature of a financial crime in court.





Key Takeaways

Forensic accounting is a combination of accounting and investigative techniques used to discover financial crimes.Forensic accountants explain the nature of a financial crime to the courts.Forensic accountants trace funds, identify assets and conduct asset recovery, and perform due diligence reviews.Forensic accounting is used by the insurance industry to establish damages from claims.


   Career as a Forensic Accountant  

Forensic accountants analyze, interpret, and summarize complex financial data. They compile financial evidence, develop computer applications to manage the information collected, and communicate their findings in the form of reports or presentations.



The accountant's tasks include tracing funds, asset identification, asset recovery, and due diligence reviews. Forensic accountants may also train in alternative dispute resolution (ADR) due to their high level of involvement in legal issues and familiarity with the judicial system.


  Litigation Support  

Forensic accounting is utilized in litigation when quantification of damages is needed. Parties involved in legal disputes use the findings of a forensic accountant to resolve disputes via settlements or court decisions, such as compensation or benefit disputes. The forensic accountant may be utilized as an expert witness if the dispute escalates to a court decision.


  Criminal Investigation  

Forensic accountants analyze whether a crime occurred and assess the likelihood of criminal intent. Such crimes may include employee theft, securities fraud, falsification of financial statement information, identity theft, or insurance fraud.



The scope and mechanics of Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme are understood today because forensic accountants dissected the scheme and made it understandable for the court case. Forensic accountants search for hidden assets in divorce cases and investigate breaches of contracts, tort, or disagreements relating to company acquisitions like breaches of warranty, or business valuation disputes.



Forensic accountants may investigate construction claims, expropriations, product liability claims, or trademark or patent infringements or determine the economic results of the breach of a nondisclosure or non-compete agreement.


  Insurance Industry  

Forensic accounting is routinely used by the insurance industry. A forensic accountant may be asked to quantify the economic damages arising from a vehicle accident or a case of medical malpractice or other claims. One of the concerns about taking a forensic accounting approach to insurance claims as opposed to an adjuster approach is that forensic accounting is mainly concerned with historical data and may miss relevant current information that changes the assumptions around the claim.
What Is a Forensic Audit?  

A forensic audit examines and evaluates a firm's or individual's financial records to derive evidence used in a court of law or legal proceeding. Forensic auditing is a specialization within accounting, and most large accounting firms have a forensic auditing department. Forensic audits require accounting and auditing procedures and expert knowledge about the legal framework of such an audit.



Forensic audits cover a wide range of investigative activities. A forensic audit is often conducted to prosecute a party for fraud, embezzlement, or other financial crimes. In the process of a forensic audit, the auditor may be called to serve as an expert witness during trial proceedings. Forensic audits could also involve situations that do not include financial fraud, such as disputes related to bankruptcy filings, business closures, and divorces.





Key Takeaways

A forensic audit is an examination and evaluation of a firm's or individual's financial records. During a forensic audit, an auditor seeks to derive evidence that could potentially be used in court.A forensic audit is used to uncover criminal behavior such as fraud or embezzlement. When you are a forensic auditor, you specialize in a particular brand of accounting. Smaller firms may not have a forensic auditor on the payroll, but most large, commercial accounting firms have forensic auditing departments.



Forensic audit investigations can uncover or confirm various types of illegal activities. Usually, a forensic audit is chosen instead of a regular audit if there's a chance that the evidence collected would be used in court.


   How Forensic Audits Work  

The process of a forensic audit is similar to a regular financial audit—planning, collecting evidence, writing a report—with the additional step of a potential court appearance. The attorneys for both sides offer evidence that either uncovers or disproves the fraud and determines the damages suffered. They present their findings to the client, and the court should the case go to trial.






If you've ever padded an expense report—or even thought about it—know that that is an example of fraud and could be uncovered easily via a forensic audit.


  Planning the Investigation  

During the planning stage, the forensic auditor and team will plan their investigation to achieve objectives, such as



Identifying what fraud, if any, is being carried outDetermining the period during which the fraud occurredDiscovering how the fraud was concealedNaming the perpetrators of the fraudQuantifying the loss suffered as a result of the fraudGathering relevant evidence that is admissible in courtSuggesting measures to prevent such frauds from occurring in the future


  Collecting Evidence  

The evidence collected should be adequate to prove the fraudster's identity (s) in court, reveal the fraud scheme's details, and document the financial loss suffered and the parties affected by the fraud.



A logical flow of evidence will help the court in understanding the fraud and the evidence presented. Forensic auditors are required to take precautions to ensure that documents and other evidence collected are not damaged or altered by anyone.


  Reporting  

A forensic audit requires a written report about the fraud to be presented to the client to proceed to file a legal case if they so desire. At a minimum, the report should include



The findings of the investigationA summary of the evidence collectedAn explanation of how the fraud was perpetratedSuggestions for preventing similar frauds in the future—such as improving internal controls


  Court Proceedings  

The forensic auditor must be present during court proceedings to explain the evidence collected and how the team identified the suspect(s). They should simplify any complex accounting issues and explain the case in a layperson’s language so that people who have no understanding of legal or accounting terms can understand the fraud clearly.


   What Necessitates a Forensic Audit?  
  Corruption or Fraud  

In a forensic audit, an auditor would be on the lookout for



Conflicts of Interest—when a fraudster uses their influence for personal gains to the company's detriment. For example, if a manager allows and approves inaccurate expenses of an employee with whom they have a personal relationship.
Bribery—offering money to get things done or to influence a situation in one’s favor.
Extortion—the wrongful use of actual or threatened force, violence, or intimidation to gain money or property from an individual or entity.


  Asset Misappropriation  

Asset misappropriation is the most prevalent form of fraud. Examples include: misappropriating cash, submitting falsified invoices, making payments to non-existent suppliers or employees, misusing assets (like company equipment), and stealing company inventory.


  Financial Statement Fraud  

A company can get into this type of fraud to try to show that its financial performance is better than it is. The goal of presenting fraudulent numbers may be to improve liquidity, ensure that C-level executives continue to receive bonuses, or cope with the pressure to perform.


   Example of a Forensic Audit Case  

Let's say that a fictional computer manufacturer, WysiKids, on the recommendation of its chief financial officer (CFO), entered into a contract with Smart Chips, Inc. to supply WysiKids with processors. However, when the contract was signed, Smart Chips was not authorized to conduct business because its license had been indefinitely revoked based on certain irregularities in a recent Internal Revenue Service (IRS) filing. WysiKids' CFO knew that Smart Chips' license was suspended, yet still suggested that their company sign on with Smart Chips, as they were secretly receiving compensation from Smart Chips for doing so.



The fictional example of fraud depicted above could be uncovered by investigating the interpersonal relationships involved and exposing a conflict of interest.
What Is Forex (FX)?  

Forex (FX) refers to the global electronic marketplace for trading international currencies and currency derivatives. It has no central physical location, yet the forex market is the largest, most liquid market in the world by trading volume, with trillions of dollars changing hands every day. Most of the trading is done through banks, brokers, and financial institutions.



The forex market is open 24 hours a day, five days a week, except for holidays. The forex market is open on many holidays on which stock markets are closed, though the trading volume may be lower.



Its name, forex, is a portmanteau of foreign and exchange. It's often abbreviated as fx.





Key Takeaways

Forex (FX) market is a global electronic network for currency trading.Formerly limited to governments and financial institutions, individuals can now directly buy and sell currencies on forex.In the forex market, a profit or loss results from the difference in the price at which the trader bought and sold a currency pair.Currency traders do not deal in cash. Brokers generally roll over their positions at the end of each day.


   Understanding Forex (FX)  

Forex exists so that large amounts of one currency can be exchanged for the equivalent value in another currency at the current market rate.



Some of these trades occur because financial institutions, companies, or individuals have a business need to exchange one currency for another. For example, an American company may trade U.S. dollars for Japanese yen in order to pay for merchandise that has been ordered from Japan and is payable in yen.



A great deal of forex trade exists to accommodate speculation on the direction of currency values. Traders profit from the price movement of a particular pair of currencies.


  Forex Pairs and Quotes  

Currencies being traded are listed in pairs, such as USD/CAD, EUR/USD, or USD/JPY. These represent the U.S. dollar (USD) versus the Canadian dollar (CAD), the Euro (EUR) versus the USD, and the USD versus the Japanese Yen (JPY), respectively.



There will also be a price associated with each pair, such as 1.2569. If this price was associated with the USD/CAD pair it means that it costs 1.2569 CAD to buy one USD. If the price increases to 1.3336, it now costs 1.3336 CAD to buy one USD. The USD has increased in value (the CAD has decreased) as it now costs more CAD to buy one USD.


  Forex Lots  

In the forex market, currencies trade in lots called micro, mini, and standard lots. A micro lot is 1,000 units of a given currency, a mini lot is 10,000, and a standard lot is 100,000.



This is obviously exchanging money on a larger scale than going to a bank to exchange $500 to take on a trip. When trading in the electronic forex market, trades take place in blocks of currency, and they can be traded in any volume desired, within the limits allowed by the individual trading account balance. For example, you can trade seven micro lots (7,000) or three mini lots (30,000), or 75 standard lots (7,500,000).


  How Large Is the Forex?  

The forex market is unique for several reasons, the main one being its size. Trading volume is generally very large. The Forex market trades over $5 trillion per day compared to $200 billion for the equities market.



The largest foreign exchange markets are located in major global financial centers including London, New York, Singapore, Tokyo, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, and Sydney.


  How to Trade Forex  

The forex market is open 24 hours a day, five days a week, in major financial centers across the globe. This means that you can buy or sell currencies at virtually any hour. 



In the past, forex trading was largely limited to governments, large companies, and hedge funds. Now, anyone can trade on forex. Many investment firms, banks, and retail brokers allow individuals to open accounts and trade currencies. 



When trading in the forex market, you're buying or selling the currency of a particular country, relative to another currency. But there's no physical exchange of money from one party to another as at a foreign exchange kiosk.



In the world of electronic markets, traders usually take a position in a specific currency with the hope that there will be some upward movement and strength in the currency they're buying (or weakness if they're selling) so that they can make a profit. 



A currency is always traded relative to another currency. If you sell a currency, you are buying another, and if you buy a currency you are selling another. The profit is made on the difference between your transaction prices.


  Spot Transactions  

A spot market deal is for immediate delivery, which is defined as two business days for most currency pairs. The major exception is the purchase or sale of USD/CAD, which is settled in one business day.



The business day excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays in either currency of the traded pair. During the Christmas and Easter seasons, some spot trades can take as long as six days to settle. Funds are exchanged on the settlement date, not the transaction date.



The U.S. dollar is the most actively traded currency. The euro is the most actively traded counter currency, followed by the Japanese yen, British pound, and Chinese renminbi.



Market moves are driven by a combination of speculation, economic strength and growth, and interest rate differentials.


  Forex Rollover  

Retail traders don't typically want to take delivery of the currencies they buy. They are only interested in profiting from the difference between their transaction prices. Because of this, most retail brokers will automatically "roll over" their currency positions at 5 p.m. EST each day.



The broker basically resets the positions and provides either a credit or debit for the interest rate differential between the two currencies in the pairs being held. The trade carries on and the trader doesn't need to deliver or settle the transaction.



When the trade is closed the trader realizes a profit or loss based on the original transaction price and the price at which the trade was closed. The rollover credits or debits could either add to this gain or detract from it.



Since the forex market is closed on Saturday and Sunday, the interest rate credit or debit from these days is applied on Wednesday. Therefore, holding a position at 5 p.m. on Wednesday will result in being credited or debited triple the usual amount.


  Forex Forward Transactions  

Any forex transaction that settles for a date later than spot is considered a forward. The price is calculated by adjusting the spot rate to account for the difference in interest rates between the two currencies. The amount of adjustment is called "forward points."



The forward points reflect only the interest rate differential between two markets. They are not a forecast of how the spot market will trade at a date in the future.



A forward is a tailor-made contract. It can be for any amount of money and can settle on any date that's not a weekend or holiday. As in a spot transaction, funds are exchanged on the settlement date.


  Forex Futures  

A forex or currency futures contract is an agreement between two parties to deliver a set amount of currency at a set date, called the expiry, in the future. Futures contracts are traded on an exchange for set values of currency and with set expiry dates.



Unlike a forward, the terms of a futures contract are non-negotiable. A profit is made on the difference between the prices the contract was bought and sold at.



Most speculators don't hold futures contracts until expiration, as that would require they deliver/settle the currency the contract represents. Instead, speculators buy and sell the contracts prior to expiration, realizing their profits or losses on their transactions.


   How Forex Differs from Other Markets  

There are some major differences between the way the forex operates and other markets such as the U.S. stock market.


  Fewer Rules  

This means investors aren't held to as strict standards or regulations as those in the stock, futures, or options markets. There are no clearinghouses and no central bodies that oversee the entire forex market. You can short-sell at any time because in forex you aren't ever actually shorting; if you sell one currency you are buying another.


  Fees and Commissions  

Since the market is unregulated, fees and commissions vary widely among brokers. Most forex brokers make money by marking up the spread on currency pairs. Others make money by charging a commission, which fluctuates based on the amount of currency traded. Some brokers use both.


  Full Access  

There's no cut-off as to when you can and cannot trade. Because the market is open 24 hours a day, you can trade at any time of day. The exception is weekends, or when no global financial center is open due to a holiday.


  Leverage  

The forex market allows for leverage up to 1:50 in the U.S. and even higher in some parts of the world. That means a trader can open an account for $1,000 and buy or sell as much as $50,000 in currency. Leverage is a double-edged sword; it magnifies both profits and losses.


   Example of Forex Transactions  

Assume a trader believes that the EUR will appreciate against the USD. Another way of thinking of it is that the USD will fall relative to the EUR.



The trader buys the EUR/USD at 1.2500 and purchases $5,000 worth of currency. Later that day the price has increased to 1.2550. The trader is up $25 (5000 * 0.0050). If the price dropped to 1.2430, the trader would be losing $35 (5000 * 0.0070).


  About the Rollover  

Currency prices move constantly, so the trader may decide to hold the position overnight. The broker will roll over the position, resulting in a credit or debit based on the interest rate differential between the Eurozone and the U.S.



If the Eurozone has an interest rate of 4% and the U.S. has an interest rate of 3%, the trader owns the higher interest rate currency in this example. Therefore, at rollover, the trader should receive a small credit. If the EUR interest rate was lower than the USD rate, the trader would be debited at rollover.



Rollover can affect a trading decision, especially if the trade can be held for the long term. Large differences in interest rates can result in significant credits or debits each day, which can greatly enhance or erode profits (or increase or reduce losses) of the trade.



Most brokers provide leverage. Many U.S. brokers leverage up to 1:50. Let's assume our trader uses 1:10 leverage on this transaction. If using 10:1 leverage the trader is not required to have $5,000 in an account, even while trading $5,000 worth of currency. Only $500 is needed.



In this example, a profit of $25 can be made quite quickly considering the trader only needs $500 or $250 of trading capital (or even less if using more leverage). That shows the power of leverage. The flip side is that the trader could lose the capital just as quickly.




Is Forex Trading for Beginners?
Forex trading can be risky and complex, involving quick decisions due to how fast exchange rates change. It is likely not suited for beginner traders; however, traders can spend time learning forex trading with test trading or with low levels of capital.




How Much Do You Need to Start Trading Forex?
You can start trading Forex with around $100. This will be enough to get you started in buying and selling currencies. It is also a good level for beginners as it isn't a very large amount of capital to lose.




What Are the Risks of Forex Trading?
There are many risks to forex trading. Exchange rates are very volatile, changing often, which could quickly impact a trade. There is also a significant amount of leverage involved in FX, meaning small movements can result in large losses. In addition, there is transaction risk, interest rate risk, and country risk.


   The Bottom Line  

Forex is foreign exchange, which refers to the global trading of currencies and currency derivatives. It is the largest financial market in the world, involving the buying and selling of currencies in pairs, taking advantage of changing rates.
What Is Forfaiting?  

Forfaiting is a means of financing that enables exporters to receive immediate cash by selling their medium and long-term receivables—the amount an importer owes the exporter—at a discount through an intermediary. The exporter eliminates risk by making the sale without recourse. It has no liability regarding the importer's possible default on the receivables.



The forfaiter is the individual or entity that purchases the receivables. The importer then pays the amount of the receivables to the forfaiter. A forfaiter is typically a bank or a financial firm that specializes in export financing.





Key Takeaways

Forfaiting is a type of financing that helps exporters receive immediate cash by selling their receivables at a discount through a third party.The payment amount is typically guaranteed by an intermediary such as a bank, which is the forfaiter.Forfaiting also protects against credit risk, transfer risk, and the risks posed by foreign exchange rate or interest rate changes.The receivables convert into a debt instrument—such as an unconditional bill of exchange or a promissory note—which can then be traded on a secondary market.While these debt instruments can have a range of maturities, most maturity dates are between one and three years from the time of sale.


   How Forfaiting Works  

A forfaiter's purchase of the receivables expedites payment and cash flow for the exporter. The importer's bank typically guarantees the amount.



The purchase also eliminates the credit risk involved in a credit sale to an importer. Forfaiting facilitates the transaction for an importer that cannot afford to pay in full for goods upon delivery. 



The importer's receivables convert into a debt instrument that it can freely trade on a secondary market. The receivables are typically in the form of unconditional bills of exchange or promissory notes that are legally enforceable, thus providing security for the forfaiter or a subsequent purchaser of the debt.



These debt instruments have a range of maturities from as short as one month to as long as 10 years. Most maturities fall between one and three years from the time of sale.






Forfaiting is most commonly used in cases of large, international sales of commodities or capital goods where the price exceeds $100,000.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Forfaiting  
  Advantages  

Forfaiting eliminates the risk that the exporter will receive payment. The practice also protects against credit risk, transfer risk, and the risks posed by foreign exchange rate or interest rate changes. Forfaiting simplifies the transaction by transforming a credit-based sale into a cash transaction. This credit-to-cash process gives immediate cash flow for the seller and eliminates collection costs. Additionally, the exporter can remove the accounts receivable, a liability, from its balance sheet.



Forfaiting is flexible. A forfaiter can tailor its offering to suit an exporter's needs and adapt it to a variety of international transactions. Exporters can use forfaiting in place of credit or insurance coverage for a sale. Forfaiting is helpful in situations where a country or a specific bank within the country does not have access to an export credit agency (ECA). The practice allows an exporter to transact business with buyers in countries with high levels of political risk.


  Disadvantages  

Forfaiting mitigates risks for exporters, but it is generally more expensive than commercial lender financing leading to higher export costs. These higher costs are generally pushed onto the importer as part of the standard pricing. Additionally, only transactions over $100,000 with longer terms are eligible for forfaiting, but forfaiting is not available for deferred payments.



Some discrimination exists where developing countries are concerned compared to developed countries. For example, only selected currencies are taken for forfaiting because they have international liquidity. Lastly, there is no international credit agency that can provide guarantees for forfaiting companies. This lack of guarantee affects long-term forfaiting.


   Real World Example  

The Black Sea Trade & Development Bank (BSTDB) lists forfaiting in its list of special products along with underwriting, hedging instruments, financial leasing, and discounting. BSTDB was established as a source of financing for development projects by 11 founding countries—Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine.﻿﻿



The bank explains that "the importer’s obligations are evidenced by accepted bills of exchange or promissory notes which a bank avals, or guarantees." The minimum operation size that BSTDB will finance through forfaiting is euro 5 million with a repayment period of one to five years. The bank may also apply option, commitment, termination, or discount rate fees.﻿﻿
What Is a Forfeited Share?  

A forfeited share is a share in a publicly-traded company that the owner loses (or forfeits) by neglecting to live up to any number of purchase requirements. For example, a forfeiture may occur if a shareholder fails to pay an owed allotment (call money), or if he sells or transfers his shares during a restricted period.



When a share is forfeited, the shareholder no longer owes any remaining balance and surrenders any potential capital gain on the shares, which automatically revert back to the ownership of the issuing company.





Key Takeaways

Shares in publicly-traded companies that an owner loses or gives up by failing to honor certain purchase agreements or restrictions are considered to be forfeited.With forfeited shares, the shareholder no longer owes any remaining balance and is giving up any possible gain on the shares.Forfeited shares revert back to the issuing company, such as when an employee quits before stock options have fully vested.The issuing company can reissue forfeited shares at whatever price they want; typically, the reissue is at a discount to the initial price.


   How Forfeited Shares Work  

Suppose an investor named David agrees to buy 5,000 shares of a company, with a 25% initial payment requirement, followed by three subsequent annual 25% installments, that are due according to a schedule dictated by the company. If David is derelict on a scheduled installment, the company may choose to seize his entire 5,000 shares, and David sadly would lose any money he previously paid.






Corporations are not required to seize shares from delinquent shareholders, and can instead offer investors grace periods in which to pay the money that is owed.


   Employee Share Forfeiture  

In certain cases, companies offer employee stock purchase plans, where employees may allocate a portion of their salaries toward purchasing discounted shares of a company's stock. However, these programs often come with restrictions. In many cases, a stock cannot be sold or transferred within a defined period of time after the initial purchase.



Furthermore, if an employee quits the company before a certain mandatory waiting period, he may be obligated to forfeit any shares he purchased. Contrarily, if an employee remains with the company for a stated duration of time, he becomes fully vested in those shares and may cash them in at will.






Once an employee forfeits shares of stock purchased through an employee stock purchase plan, he may not ever receive those shares again, should the company reissue them.


   Example of Forfeited Shares  

Companies use stock purchase plans to inspire employee loyalty. In the same vein, companies offer employees bonuses in the form of restricted stock units, which they incrementally distribute over time. For example, an employee might receive 80 restricted stock units as part of an annual bonus. But in order to entice this valued employee to linger longer, the stock vests the first 20 units in the second year after the bonus, 20 in year three, 20 in year four, and 20 in year five. If the employee quits after year two, only 20 units of stocks would be vested, and the other 60 would be forfeited.


   Reissue of Forfeited Shares  

Forfeited shares become the property of the issuing company, which is entitled to either reissue the shares at par, at a premium, or a discount (at a price below their nominal value). This decision rests in the hands of a company's board of directors, which usually reissues forfeited shares at a discount.



But if the shares were initially issued at par, the maximum discount for the reissued stock is equal to the amount forfeited on the shares. Furthermore, if a company’s articles of association permits, the board may reissue forfeited shares to a third party, but may not reissue those shares back to the defaulting shareholder.
What Is SEC Form 3?  

SEC Form 3: Initial Statement of Beneficial Ownership of Securities is a document filed by a company insider or major shareholder with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 



It is an important step to help regulate insider trading, which is an individual’s buying or selling of a security based on material nonpublic information. Filing Form 3 helps disclose who these insiders are and track any suspicious behaviors.



According to the SEC, disclosure is mandatory. The information provided on the form is meant to disclose the holdings of directors, officers, and beneficial owners of registered companies. This information becomes public record and is, therefore, available for public inspection.





Key Takeaways

Form 3 is a document that a company insider or major shareholder must file with the SEC.The information provided on the form is meant to disclose the holdings of directors, officers, and beneficial owners of registered companies and becomes public record.The form must be filed with the SEC no later than 10 days after an insider becomes affiliated with a company. 


   Understanding SEC Form 3  

The company insider must file Form 3 with the SEC no later than 10 days after becoming affiliated with a company.



The SEC lists the following who are required to file Form 3:



Any director or officer of an issuer with a class of equity securities 
A beneficial owner of greater than 10% of a class of equity securities
An officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser, or affiliated person of an investment
An adviser or beneficial owner of more than 10% of any class of outstanding securities 
A trust, trustee, beneficiary, or settlor required to report 



The form must be filed for each company in which a person is an insider, regardless of whether or not the insider has an equity position in the company at that time. The filer is required to input their name, address, relationship to the reporting person, security name, and its ticker symbol.



There are two tables that also need to be filled out. Table I is for non-derivative securities that are beneficially owned, while Table II is for derivative securities beneficially owned including puts, calls, warrants, options, and convertible securities.


   Other Related SEC Forms  

Form 3 is also affiliated with SEC Forms 4 and 5, along with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (SEA). The SEA was created to govern securities transactions on the secondary market, following their initial issue, to ensure greater financial transparency and less fraud.



Form 4 is for changes in ownership. These changes must be reported to the SEC within two business days, although limited transactional categories are not subject to this reporting requirement. Insiders must file Form 5 to report any transactions that should have been reported earlier on Form 4 or were eligible for deferred reporting.



The SEC adopted new rules and amendments to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act in August 2002 in accordance with the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley, which accelerated the deadline for filing many reports of insider ownership.



In addition to Forms 3, 4, and 5, several other important SEC forms exist. For example, companies must file Form 10-K, an annual report that contains a comprehensive summary of their performance. A 10-K generally includes five distinct sections:



Business: Details including the company’s main operations, products, and services.
Risk Factors: These outline any and all risks the company faces or could face in the future, typically listed in order of importance. Examples include the risk of defaulting on loans or the risk of new regulations that hinder progress.
Selected Financial Data: One of the most important sections for research analysts that detail specific financial information about the company over the last five years.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: These are known as MD&A, which refers to qualitative information that accompanies the financial statements. This gives the company an opportunity to explain its business results from the previous fiscal year.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: This includes the company’s full audited financial statements, including the income statement, balance sheets, and statement of cash flows.



Together, all SEC filings are important sources of information for anyone considering an investment in a company.




What Triggers a Form 3 Filing?
The necessity for a Form 3 filing with the SEC arises when an individual becomes an insider in a firm. The individual must disclose their ownership of the company's securities. Form 3 has specific qualifications on what constitutes an insider and the purpose of the form is to prevent insider trading.




What Is the Difference Between SEC Form 3 and SEC Form 4?
SEC Form 3 is required to be filled out when an individual becomes an insider in a firm, according to specific SEC rules. The individual will need to disclose their ownership of company shares. SEC Form 4 needs to be filled out when there is any change in the ownership of a company's stock.




What Is the Penalty for Insider Trading?
When insider trading is done illegally, through the possession of material nonpublic information, the punishment can be civil or criminal, constituting fines and/or prison time.
What Is SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership?  

SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership is a document that must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) whenever there is a material change in the holdings of company insiders. Insiders consist of directors and officers of the company, as well as any shareholders, owning 10% or more of the company's outstanding stock. The forms ask about the reporting person's relationship to the company and about purchases and sales of such equity shares.



The filing of Form 4 relates to Sections 16(a) and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as Sections 30(h) and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Disclosure of information required on Form 4 is mandatory and becomes public record upon filing.





Key Takeaways

Form 4 must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission whenever there is a material change in the holdings of company insiders.If a party fails to disclose required information on a Form 4, civil or criminal actions could result.It must be filed within two business days starting from the end of the day the material transaction occurred. 


   Understanding SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership  

There are multiple SEC forms that are associated with the ownership of stocks or securities for publicly-traded companies. SEC Form 4 is one of three forms that is usually required by the SEC.﻿﻿


  Form 3  

Individuals file Form 3 when they first acquire a stock and are registering the securities for the first time. The form must be filed within 10 days of the individual becoming an officer, director, or beneficial owner at the company.


  Form 4  

Form 4 is required to be filed by a company or the individual at the company when there is a change in the holdings of company insiders. Form 4 must be filed with the SEC within two days of the transaction. Form 4 is a two-page document, which covers any buy-and-sell orders, as well as the exercise of company stock options.



Options are contracts that give the holder the right, but not the obligation to buy or sell a stock at a certain price, and by a specific date. Options are often awarded to executives and directors of companies as part of the employee incentive plan. Typically, the options can be cashed out or redeemed after a predetermined holding period has expired.


  Form 5  

Form 5 is filed if a person conducted a trade of the company's stock but failed to report it via Form 4. Form 5 allows the individual 45 days following the close of the company's fiscal year.



The SEC is able to use the information in SEC Form 4 when referring a case to other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). If a party fails to disclose the required information on Form 4, civil or criminal actions could result.


   Forms Related to SEC Form 4  

Several other forms are critical to maintaining transparency and recording the actions of public company executives, officers, and directors. These include the company's annual financial report, which is filed via a 10-K and the quarterly financial report filed via a 10-Q.



If a company is issuing stock for the first time, they must file Form S-1, and if any amendments must be made, they file Form S-1A. The 8-K is filed when there are unscheduled material events or corporate changes. Schedule 13D informs the SEC when an entity acquires more than 5% of the stock of a public company.






The SEC has the capacity to use information disclosed on Form 4 in investigations or litigation involving federal securities laws, in addition to other civil, criminal, or regulatory statutes or provisions.


   How to File SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership  

In general, a party must file Form 4 electronically via the Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR). Exceptions can occur during hardship. It is mandatory within two business days starting from the end of the day the material transaction occurred.﻿﻿



Here is a link to a downloadable SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership.


   Real-World Example of SEC Form 4  

In February 2020, Elon Musk, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the publicly-traded company Tesla Inc. (TSLA), filed SEC Form 4 as an individual. Below is a copy of the Form 4 as well as the details of the transaction, which was obtained via the SEC's EDGAR system.﻿﻿



Section 1 contains the reporting person's name, which was Elon Musk, and the address for the company.Section 2 has the company name of Tesla Inc.Section 3 contains the transaction date of February 14, 2020.


  Table 1  

Section 1 contains the type of security, which was common stock.Section 4 contains the number of shares, the action taken (whether the shares were acquired or disposed of), and the price at which the shares were bought or sold.



The SEC Form 4 shows that Elon Musk purchased 13,037 shares at a price of $767, which left Mr. Musk with a total number of shares owned of 34,098,597 following the purchase (section 5).















SEC Form 4 Example Elon Musk CEO of Tesla Inc.
Investopedia
What Is SEC Form 144: Notice of Proposed Sale of Securities?  

Form 144: Notice of Proposed Sale of Securities is a document issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). It must be filed with the SEC by an executive officer, director, or the affiliate of a company when placing an order to sell that company's stock during any three-month period in which the sale exceeds 5,000 shares or units or has an aggregate sales price greater than $50,000. This is also known as Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933.





Key Takeaways

Form 144 must be filed with the SEC when there's an order to sell a company's stock during any three-month period in which the sale exceeds 5,000 shares or units or has an aggregate sales price greater than $50,000.The party filing Form 144 must have a bona fide intention to sell the securities within a reasonable time frame after filling.Since sales covered under Form 144 are often very close to the interests of the issuing company, filers must register the securities under Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933.


   Understanding Form 144: Notice of Proposed Sale of Securities  

Anyone who sells restricted, unregistered, and control securities in the United States must follow Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, which was passed as a way to protect investors after the stock market crashed in 1929. Selling these types of securities can often be complicated, so Rule 144 helps make the process a little easier. Under this rule, sellers can be exempt from registering the sale of securities as long as they meet several conditions, which are noted below. Sellers can be anyone including the issuer of a security, a broker-dealer, or even underwriters.



Since sales covered under Form 144 are often very close to the interests of the issuing company, filers must register the securities under Section 5 of the Securities Act. If the correct conditions are met, Rule 144 can provide the necessary exemption and permit the resale to take place. Still, all parties must obtain a transfer agent to remove the securities’ legend prior to sale.



Form 144 must be filed with the SEC by an affiliate as a notice of the proposed sale of securities when the amount to be sold under Rule 144 during any three-month period exceeds 5,000 shares or units or has an aggregate sales price in excess of $50,000. An entity filing a Form 144 must have a bona fide intention to sell the securities referred to in the form within a reasonable time after the filing of the Form. While the SEC does not require the form to be sent electronically to the SEC’s EDGAR database, some filers choose to do so. Others may choose to do so in print form.






SEC Form 144 may be filed in print or electronically.



Additional information on Form 144 for individuals may include a physical address, an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) number, the nature of the payment, and additional similar sales in the preceding several months.


   Special Considerations  

There are certain conditions that must be met under Rule 144 for these securities to be sold. They are:



Companies must meet certain holding or lock-up periods—six months for public companies and one year for others. More on this below.
Companies must provide enough information to the public including a description of the business, financial statements, disclosures, and information about the company's officers and other key personnel.
Company affiliates cannot resell more than 1% of the total amount of shares outstanding.
Trading conditions still apply as they would under normal circumstances.
As noted above, affiliated sellers must file a notice proposing the sale of securities. This is required if more than 5,000 shares will be sold or if the value of the sale is expected to be more than $50,000 during a three-month period.


  Lock-Up Agreement  

Underwriters will have company executives, managers, employees, and venture capitalists sign lock-up agreements surrounding a company’s initial public offering (IPO) to encourage an element of stability in the stock's price in the first few months of trading.



A lock-up agreement is a legally binding contract between company underwriters and insiders that prohibits inside individuals from selling any shares of stock for a specified period of time. Lock-up periods typically last 180 days but can on occasion last for as little as 120 days or as long as 365 days.


  Other Relevant Forms  

In addition to From 144, critical SEC filing forms include:



S-1 and S-1/A —both of which are registration statements
10-K and 10-Q or annual and quarterly reports
SEC Form 4: Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership of Securities
SEC Form 12b-25: Notification of Late Filing
SEC Form 15: Certification and Notice of Termination of Registration



Keep in mind, this isn't an exhaustive list of related forms. A full list, along with descriptions and downloadable forms, can be found on the SEC’s website.


   Example of Form 144: Notice of Proposed Sale of Securities  

Examples of Form 144 can be found by looking up a company on EDGAR. On April 26, 2018, Lee Kirk, a director of Guaranty Bancshares filed to sell 20,891 shares of company stock for an aggregate market value of $686,896.08 on the Nasdaq. The approximate date of the sale was set for the period between April 7, 2018, and June 12, 2018.
What Is Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return?  

The 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual U.S. Income Tax Return is a form used by taxpayers who need to correct an error in a previously filed federal tax return. Common mistakes corrected with this form include errors in the taxpayer's filing status or number of dependents or omissions of credits or deductions. Form 1040-X should not be used to correct simple mathematical errors in a tax return, as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) routinely corrects such mistakes while processing returns.





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 1040-X is filed by taxpayers to amend an annual tax return that was previously filed.To get a refund, the form must be filed within three years after the original return was filed or within two years after the tax was paid, whichever is later.Form 1040-X should be used to correct material changes but not to fix mathematical errors.You can e-file the form if you e-filed the corresponding tax return. Otherwise, mail it in.You should include any unsubmitted and supporting documents with the form. 


   Who Can File Form 1040-X?  

A 1040-X form should be filed by anyone who has already filed a tax return and needs to amend it for any of the following reasons:



To correct Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Most taxpayers use one of these three forms to file their annual tax returns.
To make an election after the deadline. For example, a married taxpayer can elect to file as an individual or jointly with a spouse.
To change an amount that was previously adjusted by the IRS
To make a claim for a carryback due to a loss or unused credit













All pages of form 1040-X can be found on the IRS webpage.


   How to File Form 1040-X  

This form is an itemized, line-by-line description of all possible adjustments, so the taxpayer can clearly record the exact type and amount of each amendment and enter a brief description of what is being amended and why.



The filer must include not only the 1040-X but a revised version of the entire 1040 or 1040-SR, including any attached forms and schedules, even if they were not amended. Taxpayers can e-file a Form 1040-X or send it to the IRS by mail. Form 1040-X can only be filed after an annual return is filed. Be sure to include the following documents with your amended return:



Income-related forms that were not submitted, such as W-2s or 1099Documents or forms that support your amended income tax return



In order to receive a credit, taxpayers must file a 1040-X form within three years after the original return was filed or within two years after the tax was paid, whichever is later.



The IRS provides the following tips to taxpayers about Form 1040-X:



Wait for the first refund, if you were due one. If your original tax return included a refund, you should wait until you get it before filing Form 1040-X. The IRS will issue a separate, second refund if it is warranted, so feel free to cash the first check.File a 1040-X form within the three-year amendment time period. If the change will affect your refund amount, you must file the form within three years from the date of your original tax return or within two years from the date of paying the tax amount, whichever is later. Any returns filed early will be considered filed on the official deadline date for filing taxes, which is usually April 15 of the calendar year.






You can electronically file up to three accepted amended returns. After the third, all others will be rejected.


   What Are the Benefits of Filing Form 1040-X?  

When you file 1040-X, be sure you look out for anything that you missed, such as exemptions, deductions, and credits. It may seem daunting and you may feel as though you'll be penalized for having to correct any errors. But there are advantages that come with amending your income tax return, including:



Claiming additional tax creditsTaking additional deductionsGetting a (bigger) refund



Keep in mind that you may also have to report additional income that you didn't include on your original return. If this happens, your taxable income will increase and you may have a balance owing. This means you are responsible for paying the outstanding amount plus any fees and penalties that may apply.




What Is a 1040-X Form Used for?
The 1040-X allows a taxpayer to amend or correct a previously filed tax return. If you forgot to claim a credit or record a deduction, this is the form to use. If you made a mathematical error, forget about it. The IRS always runs the numbers and corrects that kind of error.




Do You Have to File Form 1040-X With Form 1040?
You have to file Form 1040-X after filing your 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. You're amending your earlier tax return with the correct information.




Where Do You Send Form 1040-X?
If you e-filed your annual return, you can now e-file a 1040-X using commercial tax preparation software. That's the fastest way to get your money back if you're owed any. You can send it in the mail if you prefer. The IRS lists four separate addresses for use by residents of different regions and for Americans living abroad.




Can Form 1040-X Refunds Be Direct Deposited?
No. Direct deposit is not currently available for refunds based on amended returns. You'll get a check in the mail from the IRS.




When Should I Receive My Amended Tax Return?
The IRS says it can take up to 16 weeks (20 weeks as of 2023 due to delays caused by the coronavirus pandemic) to process an amended return even if it's filed electronically. About three weeks after you file the 1040-X, you can start checking the status of your filing on the IRS website on its Where's My Amended Return? page.
What Is Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund?  

Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used by individuals, estates, and trusts to apply for a quick tax refund.



According to the instructions for Form 1045, the basis for the refund request must be for one of four reasons:



The carryback of a net operating loss (NOL)
The carryback of an unused general business credit
The carryback of a net section 1256 contracts loss
An overpayment of tax due to a claim of right adjustment under section 1341(b)(1)



The instructions for Form 1045 spell out what qualifies as a loss.





Key Takeaways

As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), most taxpayers can now only carry net operating losses (NOLs) arising from tax years after 2017 to a later year.The net operating loss (NOL) carryback generally will not exceed $250,000 for single taxpayers, or $500,000 for married filing jointly returns.Taxpayers should be careful when carrying back net operating losses (NOLs) to a previous tax year, as it may create an alternative minimum tax (AMT) obligation.


   Who Can File Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund?  

Individuals, estates, and trusts can file Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund instead of using Form 1040-X for individuals or using Form 1041 for estates or trusts.



Form 1045 is used to file for a quick tax refund, while Forms 1040X and 1041 are not processed as quickly. Form 1045 is required to be processed by the IRS within 90 days, and can only be filed by the taxpayer or taxpaying entity within one year of the NOL occurring. In contrast, both Form 1040X, for individuals, or Form 1041 for estates and trusts, can be filed up to three years from the time the NOL occurs. However, the IRS will not process either Form 1040X or Form 1041 within 90 days and has up to six months to process either of these refunds.



Form 1045 can be disputed by the IRS or the taxpaying entity after the refund is processed, which is why it is labeled as a tentative refund. In contrast, the information and claims made on Forms 1040X and 1041 are assumed by all parties to be correct and final. A party that wants a fast refund but isn’t concerned about having the refund corrected later will file Form 1045, while a party that wants accuracy and can wait for the correct refund will file either Form 1040X (individuals) or Form 1041 (estate or trust).













Form 1045 is available on the IRS website.






Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund is not attached to an income tax return, but filed separately or mailed in a separate envelope.


   How to File Form 1045: Application for Tentative Refund  

Taxpayers must file Form 1045 within one year after the end of the year in which the triggering incident—an NOL, unused credit, net section 1256 contracts loss, or claim of right adjustment—arose.﻿﻿



The first part of the form includes personal details including the name, address, and Social Security number of the filer. The next section includes questions about the nature of the carryback. The filer must then figure out the amount of the decrease in tax from the carryback for each year before the NOL or unused credit. The taxpayer will sign and date the bottom of the form, along with the tax preparer, if any.


   Other Relevant Forms  

While Form 1045 is filed separately from the taxpayer's main tax return, it should include the first two pages of Form 1040, any Form 4952, and all Schedules K-1.
What Is Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income?  

Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income is a tax document issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) used to declare the profits, losses, deductions, and credits of a business partnership. In addition to Form 1065, partnerships must also submit Schedule K-1, a document prepared for each partner.



Form 1065 provides the IRS with a snapshot of a company's financial status for the year. The partners must report and pay taxes on their shares of income from the partnership on their individual tax returns and pay income tax on their earnings regardless of whether earnings were distributed.





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 1065 is used to declare profits, losses, deductions, and credits of a business partnership for tax filing purposes.Form 1065 is filed by domestic partnerships, foreign partnerships with income in the U.S., and nonprofit religious organizations.Partnerships must also submit a completed Schedule K-1 for each relevant partner.


   Who Must File Form 1065?  

All partnerships must file Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income. This includes a general partnership, a limited partnership, or a limited liability corporation (LLC) classified as a domestic partnership and headquartered in the U.S. The IRS defines a partnership as two or more people carrying a trade or business together. 



Partnerships and LLCs are pass-through entities, where any profits or losses pass directly to the partners or LLC members. Individual partners report and pay taxes on their share of the business income on their personal tax returns using Schedule K-1 and then file this form with their personal tax returns, IRS Form 1040. The partnership or LLC then files a single IRS Form 1065, but the business does not pay the income tax.



Foreign partnerships with income in the U.S. must also file Form 1065. However, foreign partnerships earning less than $20,000 in the country or partnerships that receive less than 1% of their income in the U.S. may not have to file.



Nonprofit religious organizations classified as 501(d) also file this form. They must show that profits were given to their members as dividends, regardless of whether they were distributed.


   How to File Form 1065  

A domestic partnership commonly files Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income by the 15th day of the third month following the date its tax year ended, usually by March 15th of each year. Businesses commonly submit through online tax filing services or by mail.



Form 1065 requires partnerships to gather important year-end financial statements, including a profit and loss statement that shows net income and revenues, deductible expenses, and a balance sheet for the beginning and end of the year.



The form must include the Employer Identification Number (EIN), or Tax ID, the number of partners in the business, and start dates for the inception of the business. Form 1065 also requires information about the partners and their stake in the company by the percentage of ownership.



Before completing Form 1065, filers will find the information required from the following:



Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization
Form 1125-A: Cost of Goods Sold
Form 4797: Sale of Business Property
Copies of any Form 1099 issued by the partnership
Form 8918: Material Advisor Disclosure Statement
Form 114: Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts Disclosure Statement
Form 3520: Annual Return to Report Transactions with Foreign Trusts and Receipt of Certain Foreign Gifts



Farming partnerships need a copy of Form 1040 individual tax return as well.


   Where to Find Form 1065  

All the pages of Form 1065 are available on the IRS website:












   When to File Form 1065  

For 2022 returns, if the business follows the calendar year, form 1065 must be filed by March 15, 2023. If it follows a fiscal year, the company has until the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of its tax year to file.



If the business needs an extension, it must file Form 7004 by the appropriate deadline for its tax year. When filed by the deadline, the company automatically receives a six-month extension. The IRS won't contact the business with approval, but it will if the extension is denied. Each partner must file Form 7004 unless the company has a common parent or agent, in which case a blanket request can be submitted.




What Is the Penalty for Failing to File Form 1065?
A late filing penalty is assessed against the partnership if the partnership fails to file Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income, by the due date, including the extension if requested. The penalty for returns due in 2023 is $220 for each month not filed per applicable partner.




Do I Need to File a 1065 If My Partnership Did Not Have Income?
Every domestic partnership must file Form 1065 unless it does not receive income or does not incur any expenditures treated as deductions or credits for federal income tax purposes.




What Is the Difference Between a K-1 and Form 1065?
A K-1 document is prepared for each partner, shareholder, or beneficiary. A partnership then files Form 1065, the partnership tax return that contains the activity found on each partner's K-1.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1065: U.S. Return of Partnership Income is a tax document issued by the IRS used to declare the profits, losses, deductions, and credits of a business partnership. In addition to Form 1065, partnerships must also submit a Schedule K-1 prepared for each partner. Form 1065 is due to the IRS by the 15th day of the third month following the date the tax year ended for the business. If your business follows a calendar year, the due date is March 15.
What Is Form 1095-A: Health Insurance Marketplace Statement?  

Form 1095-A is a form that is sent to Americans who obtain health insurance coverage through a Health Insurance Marketplace carrier.



The form does not have to be returned to the government but serves as a record of the individual's coverage. It includes information such as the effective date of the coverage, the premium amounts paid monthly, and any advance payments of the premium tax credit or subsidy.



The form was created with the Affordable Care Act (ACA), often referred to as Obamacare. People who receive coverage from the Marketplace created by that law may be eligible for subsidized coverage or for a tax credit. A penalty for taxpayers who are not covered by health insurance was abolished at the start of 2019.





Key Takeaways

If you buy your health insurance through the Marketplace you should receive a Form 1095-A.You don't have to send the form in with your tax return.However, if you are eligible for a subsidy or tax credit, you need to transfer that information to Form 8962 and include it with your tax return.


   Who Can File Form 1095-A: Health Insurance Marketplace Statement?  

You will receive Form 1095-A if you enrolled in a qualified health plan via the federal Health Insurance Marketplace or a state's exchange. The exchanges use the form to provide participants in different markets with information on their coverage.



You do not have to submit Form 1095-A itself. You have to provide information from the form or acknowledge that you have received one on the federal tax return.



If you are eligible for a premium tax credit, you may have to attach a related form, Form 8962: Premium Tax Credit.






The penalty for having no health coverage has been abolished; however, some buyers are still eligible for tax credits for buying it. As a result of the American Rescue Plan of 2021, all taxpayers with insurance bought on the ACA Marketplace are now eligible for this credit; previously, filers were ineligible if their income exceeded 400% of the federal poverty line.



You should keep Form 1095-A for your records. The form is issued, as suggested by its title, by the Health Insurance Marketplace.


   How to File Form 1095-A: Health Insurance Marketplace Statement  

When preparing your tax return, you or your tax preparer will use 1095-A to fill out Form 8962: Premium Tax Credit if you are eligible to receive the credit.



According to the IRS, if you are expecting to receive a Form 1095-A, you should wait to file your income tax return until you receive it. Because it deals with claiming or reporting of tax credits, which in turn affects the amount of income tax you owe or any refunds you are due, 1095-A is crucial in the filing process.



Taxpayers should receive a Form 1095-A by mid-January of the year following the coverage year, either by mail or in their HealthCare.gov accounts. Individuals who don't receive their forms or see inaccuracies in them can contact HealthCare.gov directly.



The form lists each month for which you received coverage and the amount you paid in premiums. It also contains personal information including your name, address, and Social Security Number. Your policy number and insurance company name also appear on the form.













The complete 1095-A is available on the IRS website.




What Is Form 1095-A?
Form 1095-A is a form that is sent to Americans who obtain health insurance coverage through a Health Insurance Marketplace carrier. It includes information such as the effective date of the coverage, the premium amounts paid monthly, and any advance payments of the premium tax credit or subsidy.




What Do I Do With Form 1095-A?
You don't need to send form 1095-A to the government with your tax return. However, if you are eligible for a subsidy or tax credit, you need to transfer that information to Form 8962 and include it with your tax return. You don't need to send form 1095-A in this instance, just copy the information across.




When Should I Receive Form 1095-A?
You should receive a Form 1095-A by mid-January of the year following the coverage year, either by mail or in your HealthCare.gov accounts. If you don't receive your form, or there is a mistake on it, you can contact HealthCare.gov directly.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1095-A is a form that is sent to Americans who obtain health insurance coverage through a Health Insurance Marketplace carrier. It is a record of key information about your health insurance coverage, and you should receive it by mid-January of the year following your coverage year.



You don't need to send form 1095-A as part of your tax return. However, if you are eligible for a subsidy or tax credit, you need to copy the relevant information to Form 8962 and include it with your tax return.
What Is Form 1095-B: Health Coverage?  

Form 1095-B is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form that may be sent to taxpayers who receive minimum essential health insurance coverage as defined by the Affordable Care Act (ACA).



A 1095-B form shows information such as the health insurance coverage, effective coverage dates, individuals covered, and the coverage provider.





Key Takeaways

Form 1095-B: Health Coverage contains health care coverage information for taxpayers, their spouses, and dependents if enrolled through an insurance provider.Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), minimum essential coverage is required as part of the individual mandate for health insurance.Recipients of Form 1095-B don't have to send it to the IRS; instead, check off a box on their tax returns, indicating the months they had health insurance coverage during the tax year.


   Understanding Form 1095-B: Health Coverage  

Form 1095-B: Health Coverage contains health care coverage information for taxpayers, their spouse, and their dependents if they were enrolled through an insurance provider or a self-insured employer.



Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), there is a requirement for minimum essential coverage as part of the individual mandate for health insurance, also called the individual shared responsibility provision.



Most health insurance plans provided by an employer will typically qualify as minimum essential coverage. Other qualifying plans include government-sponsored programs, like Medicare and most Medicaid plans.


  Shared Responsibility Payment  

Under the original rules of the ACA, taxpayers were required to have minimum essential health insurance coverage for each month of the year (or have a coverage exemption).



Prior to the 2020 plan year (for which you filed taxes in 2021), if you or your family members didn’t have one or the other, you may have had to pay a penalty called a shared responsibility payment (also sometimes referred to as the Individual Mandate penalty). However, as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), the penalty for not having health insurance was eliminated. This also means that an exemption is no longer required.



In addition, beginning with the tax year 2019, the IRS acknowledged that the provider’s obligation to supply 1095-B forms is not an enforcement priority. If providers comply with two conditions the IRS has set forth, they will not be penalized.



These are the two conditions: first, the provider’s website contains a notice that Form 1095-B is available to participants upon request and includes specific information on how to request it, and second, the provider must then furnish Form 1095-B within 30 days of a request.


  State Penalties  

Some U.S. states have implemented their own penalties for those who do not have health insurance coverage for the entire tax year. For example, Massachusetts charges 50% of the cost of the lowest-cost plan that could have been purchased. There are income-based exemptions to the penalty.



Taxpayers should check with their state and local governments to determine if there is a penalty for not having minimum essential health insurance coverage throughout the tax year.






While the information on a 1095-B form may assist in preparing a tax return, taxpayers do not need to submit the form when filing their taxes. However, it must be indicated by checking off a box on the tax return stating that they had health insurance for each month of the tax year—called minimum essential coverage.


   Form 1095-B vs. Form 1095-A vs. Form 1095-C  

Health insurance providers send Form 1095-B to individuals for whom they provide minimum essential coverage. Form 1095-B provides information about who was covered and when. You will receive Form 1095-A: Health Insurance Marketplace Statement if you enrolled in a qualified health plan via the health insurance marketplace.



If you received or were offered healthcare from an employer who has 50 or more employees, you may receive 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage in addition to, or instead of, a 1095-B form.


   How to File Form 1095-B: Health Coverage  

Depending on who provided your health insurance coverage, as just noted, you should receive either Form 1095-A, Form 1095-B, or Form 1095-C. You usually have to provide information from these forms or acknowledge receiving one of them on your federal tax return. You do not have to submit the form itself. Taxpayers tick off a box on their returns, indicating how long they were covered throughout the tax year.















IRS Form 1095-B.
Investopedia



All pages of Form 1095-B are available on the IRS website.




What Is IRS Form 1095-B Used For?
IRS Form 1095-B is sent to taxpayers who receive minimum essential health insurance coverage as defined by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), showing health insurance coverage, the insurance provider, coverage dates, and individuals covered.




What Do I Have to Do with IRS Form 1095-B?
Taxpayers do not need to send the 1095-B form to the IRS. Instead, you indicate on your tax return information provided from 1095-B, such as how many months you had health insurance coverage during the tax year.




What's the Difference Between Forms 1095-B and 1095-C?
Form 1095-B is sent to individuals from health insurance providers indicating whether the taxpayer had minimum essential coverage. Form 1095-C might be sent, with or instead of 1095-B, if you had health insurance coverage from an employer with 50 or more employees.
What Is Form 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage?  

Form 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form reporting information about an employee's health coverage offered by an Applicable Large Employer (ALE). ALEs typically have 50 or more full-time employees.



Information from this form also helps determine a taxpayer's eligibility for credits, such as the premium tax credit.





Key Takeaways

Form 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage is a tax form reporting information about an employee's health coverage offered by an Applicable Large Employer (ALE).Applicable Large Employers (ALEs) typically have 50 or more full-time employees.The taxpayer does not fill out the form and does not file it with a tax return; employers should keep the form with their records.Information from this form also helps determine a taxpayer's eligibility for credits, such as the premium tax credit.The premium tax credit is a refundable tax credit payable by the IRS to eligible individuals and families that have obtained healthcare insurance through the Health Insurance Marketplace in the tax year.


   Who Can File Form 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage?  

This form is provided by Applicable Large Employers to full-time employees who have been working for one or more months of the calendar year. ALE members must report that information for all 12 months or the entire calendar year for each employee.





Premium Tax Credit

The premium tax credit is a refundable tax credit payable by the IRS to eligible individuals and families and helps them cover the premiums for their health insurance purchased through the Health Insurance Marketplace.


   How to File Form 1095-C: Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage  

Form 1095-C is a reference document that is not completed by the taxpayer. It is not filed with a tax return. Instead, it should be kept with the taxpayer's records.



Part I of the form provides information about the ALE member, including their name, address, and phone number, for questions about the validity of the form or to report errors.
Part II provides information about the health care coverage, if any, provided to the employee. In addition to information about the plan, it also reports employee-required contributions.
Part III is completed only if the employer offers a self-insured plan. It lists the names of the covered individuals along with their Social Security numbers and dates of birth. This section also confirms uncovered months for the participants. 













Form 1095-C is available on the IRS website.


   Other Relevant Forms  

If Parts I and II are the only sections filled, the employee may also receive a Form 1095-B: Health Coverage, which provides proof of coverage from the insurer chosen by the employer.



Form 1095-B is used by employers to report information to the IRS and to taxpayers about individuals covered by minimum essential coverage and who are not liable for the individual shared responsibility payment.



An individual who obtains health insurance through Health Insurance Marketplace carrier will receive Form 1095-A: Health Insurance Marketplace Statement. Form 1095-A does not have to be returned to the government. It simply serves as a record of the individual's healthcare coverage. It includes information such as the effective date of the coverage, the premium amounts paid monthly, and any advance payments of the premium tax credit or subsidy.




What Is 1095-C Form Used for?
Form 1095-C provides information about the health coverage offered by your employer and about whether you enrolled in this coverage. You can use Form 1095-C to help determine your eligibility for the premium tax credit.




Is 1095-C Required for 2021 Taxes?
You don't need to include your 1095-C with your 2021 tax return or send it to the IRS, but you may use information from the form to help complete your tax return.




How Do I Get My 1095-C Tax Form?
Form 1095-C is provided by your employer (if it has 50 or more full-time employees.) It is also available on the IRS website.




How Do I Fill Out 1095-C 2021?
You can find the specific instructions to file 1095-C for the 2021 tax year on the IRS website. Note, though, that the information required will be filled in by your employer.
What Is Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement?  

Form 1098, Mortgage Interest Statement, is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used by taxpayers to report the amount of interest and related expenses paid on a mortgage during the tax year when the amount totals $600 or more. Related expenses include points paid on the purchase of the property. Points are prepaid interest made on a home loan to improve the rate on the mortgage offered by the lending institution.



Form 1098 serves two purposes:



Lenders use it to report interest payments in excess of $600 they received for the year. The IRS collects this information to ensure proper financial reporting for lenders and other entities that receive interest payments.Homeowners use it to determine the total amount of interest they paid for the year when figuring out their mortgage interest deduction for their annual tax returns.





Key Takeaways:

Form 1098 is used to report mortgage interest paid for the year.Lenders must issue Form 1098 when a homeowner has paid $600 or more in mortgage interest during the tax year.To deduct mortgage interest, you must be the primary borrower on the loan and actively make payments.If you are itemizing your deductions and plan to claim a mortgage interest deduction, Form 1098 helps you calculate the amount of your mortgage payments that have gone towards interest.Other 1098 tax forms include Form 1098-C (charitable contributions), Form 1098-T (credit for education payments), and Form 1098-E (student loan interest payments).


   Who Receives Form 1098?  

Your lender is required to send Form 1098 to you if you paid $600 or more for the previous year in interest and points on a mortgage. If you paid less than $600, you will not receive Form 1098. You can deduct these expenses on a federal income tax form, Schedule A, which reduces taxable income and the overall amount owed to the IRS. Form 1098 is issued and mailed by the lender—or other entity receiving the interest—to you, the borrower.



The IRS also requires the mortgage lender to provide Form 1098 to you if your property is considered real property. Real property is land and anything built on, grown on, or attached to the land.


  Rules for Deducting Mortgage Interest  

If you pay mortgage interest on a property, it must meet the IRS standards of a home to be deductible. These standards define a home as a space with basic living amenities: cooking and bathroom facilities and a sleeping area. Houses, condominiums, mobile homes, boats, cooperatives, and house trailers all qualify as homes.






The mortgage itself must be qualified. According to the IRS, qualified mortgages include first and second mortgages, home equity loans, and refinanced mortgages.



Whether or not you need Form 1098 depends on whether or not you plan to itemize your deductions on the Schedule A Form. Claiming a deduction for mortgage interest paid can reduce your total taxable income. However, there are a few rules to know about deducting mortgage interest.



You must be the primary borrower and be making payments on the loan.You’re limited to deducting interest on total mortgage debt of $750,000 or less if the debt originated on or after Dec. 16, 2017 (the limit for older mortgage debt is $1 million.)



If all of these apply to you, you need Form 1098 to deduct the mortgage interest you paid for your home loan for the current tax year. If you have more than one qualified mortgage, you will receive a separate Form 1098 for each.












   How to Claim a Mortgage Interest Deduction  

Taxpayers don't need to include Form 1098 with their tax returns because the information in the form has already been provided to the IRS. Instead, you use the information provided on Form 1098 if you plan to deduct your mortgage payments. If you plan to file your tax return electronically, enter the information from the form into the appropriate boxes on your tax return to record your interest deduction information.



If you're receiving Form 1098 for the first time, you may wonder how to make sense of it. There are 11 boxes to take note of when reviewing your statement.



Box 1: Mortgage interest received from the borrower. This box shows how much interest you paid to your lender for the year.Box 2: Outstanding mortgage principal. This box shows how much is owed on the principal of the loan.Box 3: Mortgage origination date. This shows the date when your mortgage originated.Box 4: Refund of overpaid interest. If you overpaid the refunded mortgage interest, it would be listed here.Box 5: Mortgage insurance premiums. If you're paying private mortgage insurance or mortgage insurance premiums for the loan, those amounts are entered here.Box 6: Points paid on the purchase of the principal residence. This box shows mortgage points you may be able to deduct.Boxes 7 - 11: These boxes include information about the mortgage and the property itself.



When reviewing Form 1098, it's important to verify that your personal information, including your name, address, and tax identification number, is accurate.



Download Now


   Other 1098 Tax Forms  

There are several 1098 forms—they are all related to deductions. The three other versions of Form 1098 are Form 1098-C, Form 1098-E, and Form 1098-T.


  Form 1098-C  

Form 1098-C details the donations of automobiles, boats, and airplanes to charitable organizations that give the vehicles to those in need or sell them at a below-market price. It is filed and reported by the recipient organization and includes the date of donation, type of vehicle, vehicle identification number (VIN), and vehicle value.


  Form 1098-E  

Form 1098-E reports the interest paid on qualified student loans during the tax year. The interest paid can be deducted by the taxpayer, who will receive the form detailing how much interest was paid that year. It is sent by the lending institution if at least $600 was paid in interest, although the taxpayer may get a form for sums less than $600.


  Form 1098-T  

Form 1098-T provides information about post-secondary tuition and related fees during the year. The educational institution files it, and you can use it to calculate education-related tax deductions and credits. Some examples of these credits are the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) and the Lifetime Learning Credit (LLC). The form also reports any scholarships and grants received through the school that may reduce the taxpayer’s allowable deduction or credit.


  Form 1098-MA  

Taxpayers who have received assistance from the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for the Hardest Hit Housing Markets (HFA Hardest Hit Fund) receive Form 1098-MA, which they can use to report these payments.




What Is a 1098 Tax Form Used for?
Form 1098 reports the total interest paid on a mortgage during the previous year. Taxpayers use it to calculate the size of the mortgage interest deduction they can take, if any, for that tax year.




How Do I Get My 1098 Form?
Your mortgage lender sends your Form 1098 to you, generally by the end of January of the filing year.




Do I Need to File 1098?
No, you don't have to file Form 1098 or submit it with your tax return. You only have to indicate the amount of interest reported by the form. And you generally only report this interest if you are itemizing deductions on your tax return.




What Is a 1098 Tax Form From College?
Colleges and universities use Form 1098-T to report payments to students for qualified tuition and other expenses, like scholarships and grants. The educational institution files it with the IRS, and the student receives a copy. Taxpayers use the info on Form 1098-T to claim an education credit on Form 1040 (the tax return).




Does the Parent or Student Claim the 1098-T?
Either can do so (but not both). Generally, it depends on who is actually paying the educational expenses and if the student is still being listed and taken as a dependent on the parent's tax return. If they are, the parent usually claims the education credit based on the Form 1098-T info.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Deduction is an IRS form for notifying a borrower how much interest they have paid in one year on a qualified home mortgage. You should receive one in January if you have a mortgage, and are able to claim the interest as a deduction if you itemize your tax return.
What Is Form 1099-B?  

Form 1099-B, Proceeds from Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form used by brokerages and barter exchanges to record customers' gains and losses during a tax year.



Individual taxpayers receive the form from their brokers or barter exchange already filled out. Taxpayers transfer the information from a 1099-B to Form 8949 to calculate their preliminary gains and losses. The result is entered onto Schedule D of their tax return.





Key Takeaways

Form 1099-B is sent by brokers to their customers for tax filing purposes.The form itemizes all transactions made during a tax year.Individuals use the information to fill out Schedule D listing their gains and losses for the tax year.The sum total is the individual's taxable gain (or loss) for the year.Brokerage firms and those that deal in bartering activities must file separate forms even if sales of different securities took place in a single transaction.


   Who Must File Form 1099-B?  

Brokers must submit a 1099-B form to the IRS and send a copy directly to every customer who sold stocks, options, commodities, or other securities during the tax year. The IRS requires submission of the form to serve as a record of a taxpayer’s gains or losses. Forms are sent to investors in January and February.



For example, let's assume you sold several stocks last year. The proceeds of the sales were $10,000. That figure will be reported to the IRS by the brokerage via a 1099-B form and by you as a report of a taxable capital gain.



The form may also be filed by companies that participate in certain bartering activities with others. For this, the form is used to report changes in capital structure or control of a corporation in which you hold stock. 






The broker or barter exchange must mail a copy of a 1099-B form to all clients by Feb. 15 of the year following the tax year. If you don't receive yours, contact the issuer for a replacement copy.


   How to File Form 1099-B  

A separate Form 1099-B must be filed by a brokerage or barter exchange for every single transaction involving the sale (including short sales) of stocks, commodities, regulated futures contracts, foreign currency contracts (pursuant to a forward contract or regulated futures contract), forward contracts, debt instruments, options, or securities futures contracts.



Information on Form 1099-B includes:



Issuer's informationTaxpayer's informationA description of each investmentThe purchase date and priceThe sale date and priceThe resulting gain or loss



Commissions for these transactions do not apply and are, therefore, excluded from the form.



The form reports the cash received and the fair market value (FMV) of goods or services received or any trade credits received. Taxpayers may be required to report the receipt of gains made during the bartering activity. Reportable gains can be in the form of cash, property, or stock.



A broker or barter exchange should report each transaction (other than regulated futures, foreign currency, or Section 1256 option contracts) on a separate Form 1099-B.






As a taxpayer, your capital losses are subtracted from any capital gains and may be used to reduce the taxable income you report. There are limits to the amount of capital loss that can be deducted each tax year. However, if the capital loss exceeds the limit, the difference may be carried over to the following tax year(s).















2022 1099-B.



Form 1099-B can be downloaded on the IRS website.


   Other Relevant Forms  

If you receive a 1099-B, you will need to file Schedule D. This is where you record your gains and losses for the year. Form 8949, Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets is used to record the details of the transactions.




What Is Form 1099-B Used for?
Form 1099-B is used to report capital gains and losses that a taxpayer incurs after selling certain assets through brokerages and barter exchanges. These firms send separate forms for each transaction to both the IRS and the investor.




How Do You Report 1099-B on Your Tax Return?
You must report the information found on Form 1099-B on Schedule D and/or Form 8949 as capital gains or losses.




How Do You Read Form 1099-B?
Issuers include their information and yours on Form 1099-B. It also includes a description of the property sold, the acquisition date, the sale date and price, the original price, and any deductions that apply. Other information includes any federal tax withheld, gains or losses incurred, and state tax withholdings.




Do I Have to Report 1099-B on My Taxes?
While you don't send the actual Form 1099-B to the IRS with your tax return, you must include the information that's on it on Form 8949 and send that along with Schedule D, which is what you'll use to record your totals for all transactions shown on Form 8949.




Is 1099-B Earned Income?
No. 1099-B reports capital gains and losses. A capital gain or loss results from selling an asset you own, such as a stock, stock option, or bond. Earned income is income you receive from your employment.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1099-B, Proceeds from Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions is the form issued to taxpayers that reports their capital gains and losses for the tax year. It is sent by the broker or barter exchange to clients and the IRS.



Taxpayers don't include Form 1099-B with their tax return but they do transfer the information on it to Form 8949 to calculate their capital gains and losses. These totals are then recorded on Schedule D. Both forms should be included in the tax return sent to the IRS.
What Is Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions?  

The term Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions refers to an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form sent by banks and other financial institutions to investors who receive dividends and distributions from any type of investment during a calendar year. Investors can receive multiple 1099-DIVs. Each 1099-DIV form should be reported on an investor’s tax filing. Investors typically will not receive a 1099-DIV form if cumulative dividends are not greater than $10.





Key Takeaways

Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions is sent to investors who receive distributions from any type of investment during a calendar year.Banks, investment companies, and other financial institutions must provide taxpayers with the form by January 31 every year.Taxpayers put the information from each 1099-DIV form either on a Schedule B form or directly on Form 1040.Taxpayers are only sent the form if the dividends and/or distributions they receive exceed $10.Financial institutions must send the form to both the taxpayer and to the IRS.


   Who Can File Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions?  

Companies provide a copy of the form to the investor and to the IRS. Banks, investment companies, and other financial institutions are required to provide taxpayers with a 1099-DIV by January 31 each year.



The form includes the recipient's name, address, and Social Security Number (SSN). It also has the payer's name, address, identification number, and plan number. The right side of the form outlines some of the important figures the recipient will need, including the total ordinary dividends, qualified dividends, and total capital gain distribution.



Most investors who receive a Form 1099-DIV will have ordinary dividends, qualified dividends, or total capital gains. Other categories for investors include:



Unrecaptured section 1250 gains
Section 1202 gains
Collectibles gains
Non-dividend distributions
Federal income tax withheld
Investment expenses
Foreign tax paid
Foreign country or U.S. possessions
Cash liquidation distributions
Non-cash liquidation distributions
Exempt-interest dividends
Specified private activity bond interest dividends
State tax withheld



Investors may also be subject to Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) filing requirements for foreign accounts. This is a law that requires U.S. citizens, both in the country and abroad, to file reports on foreign account holdings. These account holdings must be reported in U.S. dollars.






Certain types of investment accounts are exempt from issuing a Form 1099-DIV. Exempt accounts include individual retirement accounts (IRAs), money purchase pension plans, profit-sharing plans, and various retirement accounts.


   How to File Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions  

Form 1099-DIV has three copies. Copy A, in red, is for informational purposes only and should not be printed. There are two parts of Copy B, which can be downloaded and printed. One is for the recipient, while the other is attached to the tax return for the state tax department. This section, which is in black, can be used to satisfy the requirements of the recipient.



Taxpayers are required to file the information on each Form 1099-DIV they receive on their annual tax form. This can be done on a Schedule B form or directly on Form 1040. Taxpayers who receive more than $1,500 in taxable interest and/or ordinary dividends during the year are required to fill out Schedule B, which accompanies a 1040 form.



Dividends are taxed at an investor’s income tax rate with a few exceptions. Qualified dividends are the primary exception. Qualified dividends have met certain criteria that allow them to be taxed at a lower capital gains tax rate.



The tax rate on capital gains may also vary from the ordinary income tax rate. Short-term capital gains are taxed at the ordinary income tax rate, but taxes on long-term capital gains are lower.















2022 1099-DIV.


   Download Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions  

Form 1099-DIV is available on the IRS website.




What Is Form 1099-DIV?
Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions is a form required by the IRS. It is used to report any dividends or distributions paid to taxpayers by banks and other financial institutions. This includes ordinary and qualified dividends, total capital gains, federal income tax withheld, and foreign tax paid, among others.




Why Didn't I Receive a Form 1099-DIV Even Though I Was Paid Dividends?
You only receive Form 1099-DIV if you received dividends exceeding $10. If your dividend payments were more than this and you still haven't received a form, contact the issuer for a replacement.




How Do I Report Form 1099-DIV?
You can report the information found on Form 1099-DIV on Schedule B or on Form 1040 directly.
What Is Form 1099-INT: Interest Income?  

The term Form 1099-INT refers to an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form that is used by taxpayers to report interest income. Form 1099-INT is issued by all entities that pay interest income to investors at the end of the year. It includes a breakdown of all types of interest income and related expenses. Payers must issue a 1099-INT for any party to whom they paid at least $10 of interest during the year by Jan. 31. One copy goes to the IRS while another copy is sent to the taxpayer.





Key Takeaways

Form 1099-INT is an IRS income tax form used by taxpayers to report interest income received.Interest-paying entities must issue Form 1099-INT to investors at year-end and include a breakdown of all types of interest income and related expenses.Brokerage firms, banks, mutual funds, and other financial institutions must file Form 1099-INT on interest over $10 paid during the year.Types of interest income for which Form 1099-INT is issued include interest on deposit accounts, dividends, and amounts paid to the holder of a collateralized debt obligation.Forms should be sent to recipients no later than January 31.


   Understanding Form 1099-INT  

Form 1099-INT is used to remit information relating to the amount of interest paid or received during a tax year. Not all sections of Form 1099-INT may be filled out. As such, only relevant information that pertains to a specific taxpayer may be completed.


  Payer's Information  

Form 1099-INT calls for the payer's name, street address, city, state, country, ZIP code, and telephone number. The payer also needs to report its taxpayer identification number (TIN) on the form.


  Recipient's Information  

Form 1099-INT also calls for the recipient's information. Most often, the payer will have obtained this information in advance. For example, when setting up a new bank account, the institution asks for your contact information. One of the reasons for this request is to be able to adequately issue Form 1099-INT at the appropriate time.



Form 1099-INT reports the recipient's TIN, name, street address, city, state, country, and ZIP code. The issuing party may list the individual's account number if multiple accounts are to receive a different Form 1099-INT (though some lending institutions may aggregate the forms).


  Box 1: Interest Income  

Box 1 of Form 1099-INT reports the taxable amount of interest. This amount does not include amounts reported in Box 3. This box includes amounts $10 or greater paid to an individual's savings account, bank deposits, dividends paid by a life insurance company, and a variety of other interest. This box also includes interest of $600 or more paid in the course of a trade or business.


  Box 2: Early Withdrawal Penalty  

Box 2 of Form 1099-INT reports the amount of principal or interest forfeited because of the early withdrawal of funds. This early withdrawal must have been tied to a time deposit that had a stipulated maturity date. The amount reported in Box 1 is not reduced by the forfeiture deductible, and the forfeiture is deductible from gross income by the recipient.


  Box 3: Interest on U.S. Savings Bonds and Treasury Obligations  

Box 3 of Form 1099-INT reports the amount of interest earned on specific bonds, Treasury bills, Treasury notes, and Treasury bonds issued by the U.S. government. This figure is included in the amount of interest earned and reported in Box 1.


  Box 4: Federal Income Tax Withheld  

Box 4 of Form 1099-INT reports the amount of taxes withheld from interest payments. If a taxpayer does not provide their TIN in a timely manner when requested, the taxpayer must have a portion of the interest earned withheld from their payments. The applicable rate of withholding will vary. The IRS offers guidance on requesting the recipient's TIN as part of federal tax form instructions.


  Box 8: Tax-Exempt Interest  

The next commonly used box on Form 1099-INT is Box 8, which reports the amount of tax-exempt interest. This type of interest is most often earned off of obligations issued by a state or other governmental entity. This amount is not taxable and is not to be included in the taxpayer's gross income.






Form 1099-INT recipients may not have to pay income tax on the interest a payer reports, but may still need to report it on their return. The IRS uses the information on the form to ensure the interest earner reports the correct amount of interest income on their tax return.


  Other Boxes  

Form 1099-INT has 17 boxes (in addition to the areas for the payer and recipient information). Many of these boxes are for very specific purposes. Consider consulting a local tax advisor to help you if you receive Form 1099-INT with information in any of the other boxes.



These other areas of Form 1099-INT cover foreign taxes, private activity bond interest, market discounts, and more tax-exempt investments. Boxes 15, 16, and 17 are also used by taxpayers who participate in the combined Federal/State Filing Program to provide state tax information.















Form 1099-INT.


   Types of Interest Income  

Amounts paid to taxpayers that must be reported on a 1099-INT include:



Interest on bank deposits
Accumulated dividends paid by a life insurance company
Indebtedness issued in registered form or of a type offered to the public, such as bonds, debentures, notes, and certificates other than those of the U.S. Treasury
Amounts from which federal income tax or foreign tax was withheld 



Much less common amounts that are recorded on Form 1099-INT also include:



Interest accrued by a real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC)
Financial asset securitization investment trust (FASIT) regular interest holder,
Amounts paid to a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) holder


   Form 1099-INT for Payers  

Interest income is any amount paid by banks, investment houses, mutual fund companies, and financial institutions to account holders who deposit money into savings accounts, investments, and other interest-paying ventures. As such, Form 1099-INT must be filed for each person:



Who receives at least $10 (reported in Box 1, 3, and 8) or at least $600 of interest paid in the course of your trade or business described in the instructions for Box 1.
When a financial institution withholds and pays foreign tax on interest.
From whom a financial institution withholds and doesn't refund federal income tax under the backup withholding rules regardless of how much is paid.



The interest paid is considered taxable income and must be reported to the IRS on annual tax returns every year. The interest-paying entity must file a 1099-INT on any interest over $10 paid during the year. The form must be reported to the IRS and sent to each interest recipient by January 31 of each year.



The amounts and types of interest impact which tax form is to be used. Taxpayers who receive over $1,500 of taxable interest must list all of their payers on Part 1 of Schedule B on Form 1040. Form 1099-INT will always report interest paid as cash-basis income, which means that income that is owed but not yet paid cannot be reported on this form.






All copies of Form 1099-INT are available on the IRS website. You can download a copy of the form here.


   Form 1099-INT for Recipients  

Taxpayers who receive Form 1099-INT may be required to report certain income on their Federal tax return. Taxable interest is taxed at the same rate as ordinary income. This means it is taxed at the same rate as an individual's salary or wages. This obviously excludes tax-exempt income or income that is exempt at various tax reporting levels.



Most interest income is reported on Part 1 of Schedule B: Interest and Ordinary Dividends. The taxpayer must list their taxable income as part of a list of all forms of taxable interest. This amount is aggregated, and interest earned from Series EE and Series I U.S. bonds is excluded. This new subtotal is reported on Form 1040, Line 2b.



Interest is a component of a taxpayer's adjusted gross income (AGI) when it is added to wages, salaries, tips, and other forms of income.






Not receiving a form doesn't absolve taxpayers from having to report their interest income. Individuals who don't receive their 1099-INT should contact the issuer and get a new one issued so they can include the interest received on their tax returns. And although the minimum amount to issue a 1099-INT is $10, you must report all of your interest income on Form 1040 each year.


   Special Considerations  
  Exempt Recipients/Payments  

Some types of entities or taxpayers are not required to receive Form 1099-INT even if they receive interest payments. This list of exempt entities includes corporations, tax-exempt organizations, any individual retirement arrangement, certain health accounts, U.S. agencies, and other payees.



In addition, Form 1099-INT is only used for interest issued by an individual from sources inside the United States paid inside the United States. There are specific criteria that make interest payments exempt if paid by non-U.S. payers or related to non-U.S. instruments.


  Timing of Payments  

Form 1099-INT is used for interest payments but there may be vague conditions on when interest is actually paid. Consider payments where an individual is credited illiquid interest or is not allowed to withdraw interest earned.



In general, interest is paid when it is credited to a taxpayer without substantial limits or restrictions. Interest must be made available so the taxpayer can draw on it at any time. For savings bonds or other demand obligations, interest is paid when the obligation is presented for payment (i.e. when a coupon is detached from a bond and presented for payment).




What Is Form 1099-INT?
Form 1099-INT is a tax form issued by interest-paying entities, such as banks, investment firms, and other financial institutions, to taxpayers who receive interest income of $10 or more. The information recorded on the form must be reported to the IRS.




Who Must File Form 1099-INT?
Form 1099-INT must be filed by any entity that pays interest, such as banks, brokerages, investment firms, mutual funds, and other financial institutions. They must file the form to anyone who receives interest income of at least $10, when they withhold and pay foreign taxes on interest, and whenever the issuer withholds federal income tax without refunding it. One copy must be sent to the IRS and another to the taxpayer.




When Do You Receive a Form 1099-INT?
Interest-paying entities must submit Form 1099-INT by January 31. Anyone who doesn't receive one should contact the issuer to get another copy. Be mindful that many lending institutions may offer Form 1099-INT as a downloadable form. Upon logging into your online banking portal, search for 'Tax Forms' or a similar area of reporting.




Do I Have to Report Form 1099-INT?
Form 1099-INT often reports taxable income earned during the year. This information is remitted to the IRS and must be included as ordinary income on your tax return. Disregarding tax-exempt income, taxpayers are required to report the contents of Form 1099-INT on their federal tax returns.




Why Did I Receive Form 1099-INT?
Taxpayers receive Form 1099-INT because they earned more than $10 of interest from the savings in their bank account. Lending institutions are required to issue Form 1099-INT to account holders who earn this threshold. There are many other situations why a taxpayer may have received Form 1099-INT, all of which relate to interest paid to the taxpayer.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1099-INT is used to remit tax information relating to the amount of interest paid and received. Payers have certain thresholds and conditions to meet in order to issue Form 1099-INT copies to taxpayers and the IRS. On the other hand, receiving a Form 1099-INT often means a taxpayer has taxable interest income it must report on its Federal income tax return.
What Is Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income?  

Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income (or Miscellaneous Information, as it’s now called) is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used to report certain types of miscellaneous compensation, such as rents, prizes, and awards, healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney.



Before the 2020 tax year, Form 1099-MISC was also used to report nonemployee compensation for independent contractors, freelancers, sole proprietors, and self-employed individuals. Starting with 2020, this nonemployee pay is reported on Form 1099-NEC: Nonemployee Compensation. These forms generally report business payments—not personal ones.



A 1099-MISC form is one of many in the 1099 series and among those commonly used. Taxpayers receive 1099s, including Form 1099-MISC, shortly after the end of the tax year and use the information to report the income that they received. 





Key Takeaways


Form 1099-MISC is used to report miscellaneous compensation such as rents, prizes, and awards, medical and healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney.
Until 2020, it also was used to report the income of taxpayers who are not employees, such as independent contractors, freelancers, sole proprietors, and self-employed individuals.
Nonemployee compensation is now reported on Form 1099-NEC.
A taxpayer would receive a Form 1099-MISC if you paid them $10 or more in royalties or $600 or more in other types of miscellaneous income during a calendar year.



   Who Files Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income?  

Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income (aka Miscellaneous Information) is completed and sent out by someone who has paid at least $10 in royalties or broker payments in lieu of dividends or tax-exempt interest to another person. It’s also sent to each person to whom you paid at least $600 during the calendar year in the following categories:



Rents (real estate agents and property managers report rent paid to property owners, for instance, or you report the office space rent that you paid)
Prizes and awards
Other income payments
Medical and healthcare payments (made in the course of your trade or business)
Crop insurance proceeds
Cash payments for fish (or other aquatic life) purchased from anyone who makes a living catching fish
Cash paid from a notional principal contract to an individual, partnership, or estate
Payments to an attorney
Any fishing boat proceeds



The form is also used to report direct sales of at least $5,000 of consumer products to a buyer for resale anywhere other than a permanent retail establishment.



The payer must send the form to the recipient by Feb. 1 and file it with the IRS by March 1 (March 31 if filing electronically). The recipient can attach the form to their tax return.






The IRS overhauled Form 1099-MISC in 2020 and introduced a new form, called Form 1099-NEC, for nonemployee compensation (which previously was reported in Box 7 of Form 1099-MISC).


   How to File Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income  

A multipart fillable Form 1099-MISC is available on the IRS website.



Copy A of Form 1099-MISC appears in red. This copy of the form is not intended for printing; it is for IRS use only.



The black parts of the form can be completed, downloaded, and printed:



Copy 1 goes to the recipient’s state tax departmentCopy B is sent to the recipientCopy 2 is sent to the recipient for their state tax returnCopy C is retained by the payer for record keeping



The payer includes their name, address, and tax identification number, as well as the recipient’s name, address, and Social Security number.



The revised 1099-MISC form has different box numbers for reporting various types of payments—for instance, Rents in Box 1 and Royalties in Box 2. If applicable, you’ll also fill out Box 4: Federal Income Tax Withheld and Box 16: State Tax Withheld.















IRS Form 1099-MISC for 2022.
Investopedia


   Other 1099 Forms  

Here is a list of the specific 1099 forms and the purpose of each:



1099-A: Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property
1099-B: Proceeds from Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions
1099-C: Cancellation of Debt
1099-CAP: Changes in Corporate Control and Capital Structure
1099-DIV: Dividends and Distributions
1099-G: Certain Government Payments
1099-H: Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) Advance Payments
1099-INT: Interest Income
1099-K: Payment Card and Third Party Network Transactions
1099-LS: Reportable Life Insurance Sale
1099-LTC: Long-Term Care and Accelerated Death Benefits
1099-NEC: Nonemployee Compensation
1099-OID: Original Issue Discount
1099-PATR: Taxable Distributions Received from Cooperatives
1099-Q: Payments from Qualified Education Programs (Under Sections 529 and 530)
1099-QA: Distributions from ABLE Accounts
1099-R: Distributions from Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc. 
1099-S: Proceeds from Real Estate Transactions
1099-SA: Distributions from an HSA, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA
1099-SB: Seller’s Investment in Life Insurance Contract




What is the 1099-MISC form used for?
Form 1099-MISC is used to report certain miscellaneous compensation including rent, royalties, prizes, and awards, healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney.




Do I have to report a 1099-MISC on my tax return?
You must report on your tax return income shown on any 1099-MISC that you receive. You do not have to file the form with your taxes, but you should keep it for your records. You can deduct any taxes withheld, including state and local taxes, on the appropriate return.




Who must file Form 1099-MISC?
You must complete and file Form 1099-MISC with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), including sending a copy to the payee, payments of at least $10 in royalties or broker payments in lieu of dividends or tax-exempt interest to another person and at least $600 for certain rent paid, prizes, and awards, and other listed income payments as mandated by the IRS. You must send the form to the recipient by Feb. 1 and file it with the IRS by March 1 (March 31 if filing electronically).


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1099-MISC is used by business payers to report certain types of miscellaneous compensation, such as rents, prizes, and awards, healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney to the IRS and to the recipients of those payments. Recipients are required to report the payments as income on their tax returns.



In a change from previous years, beginning with the 2020 tax year, nonemployee compensation is reported on Form 1099-NEC, not Form 1099-MISC. The purpose of Form 1099-MISC is to track and account for listed payments as a business deduction for business payers and income for payees.
What Is Form 1099-R: Distributions from Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans?  

Form 1099-R: Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement, or Profit-Sharing Plans is an Internal Revenue System (IRS) tax form used for reporting passive income and distributions from retirement plans. The form deals specifically with annuities, profit-sharing plans, retirement plans, individual retirement accounts (IRAs), insurance contracts, or pensions. 



The form is one of many in the 1099 series. They are known as information returns and are used to report various types of income that a person may receive other than their salary, such as independent contractor income, interest, dividends, or government payments.





Key Takeaways

Form 1099-R is used to report distributions from annuities, profit-sharing plans, retirement plans, IRAs, insurance contracts, or pensions. Anyone who receives a distribution over $10 should receive a 1099-R form.The form is provided by the plan issuer.Form 1099-R is also used to record death or disability benefits that may be paid out to a beneficiary's estate.Account rollovers and loans may also be recorded on form 1099-R. 


   Who Can File Form 1099-R?  

According to the IRS, an entity that manages any of the accounts listed below is required to fill out a 1099-R form for each distribution of over $10:



Profit-sharing or retirement plans
Any IRA
Annuities, pensions, insurance contracts, or survivor income benefit plans
Permanent and total disability payments under life insurance contracts
Charitable gift annuities



In addition, rollover transfers from one retirement account to another will also be recorded on form 1099-R. A direct rollover is recorded with the distribution code G or H in box 7.



Some plans allow individuals to borrow against the savings in their retirement account, provided that they repay the loan with interest over time. These loans are not recorded on form 1099-R, since they are not considered a distribution. However, if the borrower fails to make regular payments, the missed payments will be considered an early distribution and reported on form 1099-R with the distribution code L. These distributions are considered taxable income and may incur early withdrawal penalties.



Like most 1099s, 1099-R forms must be sent to recipients by January 31 of the year following the tax year. Anyone who receives a 1099-R must include the amount shown on it in their income tax return and pay applicable taxes.



If you receive a 1099-R, keep in mind that not all distributions from retirement or tax-deferred accounts are subject to tax. A direct rollover from a 401(k) plan to an IRA is one example. If you are unsure whether a distribution is taxable, it may be a good idea to consult with a tax professional.






An individual who receives a 1099-R form in error should immediately contact the plan custodian to rectify the situation and avoid filing an incorrect tax return.


   Information Included on Form 1099-R  

As noted above, Form 1099-R is used to record and report distributions from retirement accounts. In addition to the recipient's identifying information, including their name, date of birth, and other personal data, it also includes information about the nature of the money being distributed.



This denotes information about the owner's contributions to the account, the unrealized value of any securities held in it, capital gains, and any taxes that are due on the distribution. This information is then used by the owner of the account when they file their annual taxes.


   How to File Form 1099-R  

The form is provided by the plan issuer, who must give a copy to the IRS, the recipient of the distribution, and the recipient's state, city, or local tax department. As with other IRS forms, the 1099-R form should also include the payer's name, address, telephone number, and taxpayer identification number (TIN). It should also have the recipient's name, address, and taxpayer identification number, which for most individual taxpayers is their Social Security Number (SSN).



Some of the other items included on the form are the gross distribution paid during the tax year, the amount of taxable distribution, the federal income tax withheld at source, any contributions made to the investment, or insurance premiums paid, and a code representing the type of distributions made to the plan holder.



A 1099-R form uses a variety of numbered and lettered codes to indicate the type of distribution. They are entered in Box 7 on the form. A table of the codes is included in the instructions.















Form 1099-R.
Investopedia



All copies of Form 1099-R are available on the IRS website.


   Other Relevant Forms  

Form 1099-R is one of many different types of 1099 forms, collectively referred to as the information return forms. Information returns are used by the IRS to keep taxpayers from underreporting their income. Each type of information return is intended to capture a different type of payment or transaction. Although there are approximately 16 types of information returns, most taxpayers will only ever receive a handful of them. Here are the most common Form 1099s.


  Form 1099-INT: Interest Income  

Form 1099-INT is issued by all financial institutions to investors at the end of the year. It includes a breakdown of all types of interest income and related expenses. All financial institutions and payers of interest must issue a 1099-INT for any party to whom they paid at least $10 of interest during the year.


  Form 1099-DIV: Dividends and Distributions  

Form 1099-DIV is sent by banks and other financial institutions to investors who receive dividends and distributions from any type of investment during a calendar year. Investors can receive multiple 1099-DIVs. Each 1099-DIV form should be reported on a taxpayer's tax filing.


  Form 1099-MISC: Miscellaneous Income  

Independent contractors, freelancers, sole proprietors, and self-employed individuals receive Form 1099-MISC from each client that paid them $600 or more in a calendar year. This form is also used to report miscellaneous compensation, such as rent, prizes, awards, healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney.


  Form 1099-K: Payment Card and Third Party Network Transactions  

Form 1099-K reports the gross amount of all reportable payment transactions. Taxpayers are sent a Form 1099-K from a payment settlement entity if they receive payments in settlement of reportable payment transactions. A reportable payment transaction is a payment card transaction or a third-party network transaction, such as Venmo, Zelle, and Paypal.



Reportable transactions include any that arise from payment card transactions, such as debit, credit, and prepaid cards. Any transactions that are settled through third-party payment networks also qualify. The table below sets out minimum reporting thresholds.










Minimum Reporting Thresholds for Form 1099-K




Returns 
Gross Payments 
Transactions 


For calendar years before 2022 
$20,000+
200+


For calendar years after 2021
$600+
Any number






Source: Understanding Your Form 1099-K (IRS)



In other words, taxpayers should receive a 1099-K from all payment settlement entities that process debit card, credit card, or prepaid credit card payments on the taxpayer's behalf and from any PSE that processes more than $600 in third-party network transactions as of 2022. Payments to and from family members and friends are not reportable transactions.


  Form 1099-B: Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions  

Form 1099-B is used by brokerages and barter exchanges to record customers' gains and losses during a tax year. Individual taxpayers will receive this form (already filled out) from their brokers or barter exchange.


  Form 1099-G: Certain Government Payments  

Taxpayers receive Form 1099-G if they receive unemployment compensation payments, state or local income tax refunds, or certain other payments from a government or government agency. If you receive this form, you may need to report some of the information on your income tax return.




How Do I Get a Copy of My 1099-R Form?
The IRS requires plan managers to fill out and send form 1099-R by January 31 in the year following a distribution of $10 or more. If you lose or do not receive your form 1099-R, you can request a replacement by contacting the company that manages your plan or retirement account.




How Do I Report Form 1099-R on Form 1041?
Form 1041 is used to report income taxes for an estate or trust. In the event that a death benefit or retirement distribution is paid out to a trust or estate, this income is recorded on Line 8: Other Income. In addition, a copy of the form 1099-R should be attached to the 1041 that it is being applied to.




What Are the Distribution Codes for Form 1099-R?
Distribution codes record the type of account that retirement funds are being distributed from and the nature of the distribution. For example, Roth account distributions are recorded as code B, and early distributions from a Roth IRA are recorded under code J. These codes are also used to indicate if there are any special circumstances for the recipient, such as code 3 (disability) or code 4 (death). The full list of codes is listed in Table 1 of the instructions for form 1099-R.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1099-R is one of many documents used to record taxable payments for the internal revenue system. While it may seem complicated, most people will never need to fill out a form 1099-R by themselves. Instead, they should automatically receive the form whenever they take a distribution from a pension or retirement account.
What Is Form 1099-Q: Payments From Qualified Education Programs?  

Form 1099-Q: Payments From Qualified Education Programs is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form sent to individuals who receive distributions from a Coverdell education savings account (ESA) or a 529 plan. These distributions—including rollovers—may be taxable, and you must determine the tax liability of any distribution using other IRS information. The form is then used by taxpayers to fill out both federal and state tax returns if the distributions received are subject to tax.





Key Takeaways

Individuals who receive distributions from a Coverdell education savings account or 529 plan are sent a 1099-Q.The form identifies the amount made from the account in gross distributions over the year being reported.A 1099-Q form should be filed and sent to taxpayers by officers or employees who have control of a program established by a state or qualified educational institution or anyone who has made a distribution from a 529 plan.Individual taxpayers who receive a 1099-Q only need to include information from the form in their tax return if the distributions are taxable.


   Who Can File Form 1099-Q?  

Form 1099-Q should be filed by officers or employees who have control of a program established by a state or qualified educational institution. It can also be filed by anyone who has made a distribution from a 529 plan, also known as a qualified tuition program (QTP).



CESAs and QTPs are tax-advantaged investment accounts designed to pay for qualified higher education expenses. A 1099-Q form will identify the amount made from the account in gross distributions over the year being reported. These gross distributions are then compared to the educational expenses incurred over the year.



If the gross distributions exceed qualified education expenses, then the excess is taxable and must be reported on the taxpayer's tax return. If the expenses are greater than the distributions, the individual may use the subsequent excess toward an education tax credit.



Form 1099-Q will be issued to the beneficiary student, for example, if the 529 distribution was paid to the beneficiary, the school, or a student loan provider. Any taxable amount of the distribution will be reported on the beneficiary’s income tax return. Distributions used to pay for nonqualified expenses are subject to income tax and a 10% penalty on the earnings portion of the withdrawal.



There’s often confusion about who uses the 1099-Q for their tax return: the beneficiary student or the owner of the account (who may be a parent or other relative). The person who receives the funds and whose Social Security number is on the form has to report the 1099-Q on their tax return.



It’s likely that the student/beneficiary will pay little or no tax on the distributions; the same cannot be said if the beneficiary is someone other than the student using the educational savings. Younger students also often fall below the reporting threshold for a federal income tax return.


   How to File Form 1099-Q  

Form 1099-Q must include the payer/trustee’s name, address, telephone number, and tax identification number (TIN), along with the recipient's name, address, account number, and TIN, which for individuals is typically their Social Security Number.



The form includes six numbered boxes.



Box 1. This will have the gross distribution over the past year from a QTP or a CESA, whether cash or in-kind, including tuition credits or certificates, vouchers, waivers, or any similar items. Under a QTP, the amount is included in income if there has been more than one transfer or rollover within any 12-month period with respect to the same beneficiary, or a change in the designated beneficiary has been made and the new designated beneficiary is not a family member. Under a CESA, the amount is included in income if there has been a change in the designated beneficiary and the new designated beneficiary is not a family member or is over age 30 (except for beneficiaries with special needs).



Box 2. Look here for the total amount of earnings.



Box 3. This shows your basis in the gross distribution listed in box 1; it must equal box 1 minus box 2.



Box 4. This must be checked off if this is a trustee-to-trustee transfer, and this can include rollovers from a QTP to an achieving a better life experience (ABLE) account. Such rollovers are allowed under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act between Dec. 22, 2017, and Jan. 1, 2026, without incurring any penalty or income tax. However, the rollover must occur within 60 days of the distribution.



Box 5. Here a box is checked indicating the type of account.



Box 6. This notes whether or not the recipient is the designated beneficiary.



Filers who fill out the form can also enter a distribution code in the blank spaces below boxes 5 and 6 if they choose.



There are three copies of the 1099-Q. The distributor files Copy A with the IRS, sends you Copy B, and retains Copy C. You should receive Form 1099-Q in the mail.



If distributions aren't taxable, taxpayers receiving a 1099-Q don't need to report them in their tax return but should keep the form with their tax records. If distributions are subject to taxes, then the amount is added to Line 21 of Schedule 1 and attached to Form 1040, your federal tax return, while also retaining your 1099-Q copy with your tax records.






Because the IRS receives very few 1099-Qs, the form has been converted to an online fillable format.













Form 1099-Q is available on the IRS website.



If you received qualified education program funds, your distributor should send you a copy of Form 1099-Q. If you haven't received a 1099-Q and believe you should have, contact your distributor.




Do I Have to Report 1099-Q on My Tax Return?
Form 1099-Q is filled out to determine if you owe any taxes on distributions from a Coverdell education savings account (ESA) or a 529 plan. If the form indicates that you do not owe any taxes, then you do not need to report this on your tax return.




Who Files a 1099-Q, the Parent or the Student?
The recipient of the distributions from an education plan will have to file Form 1099-Q, which can be either the parent or the student, depending on who received the money. For example, if the money goes directly from the education plan to the school, then the student is the recipient and will need to fill out the form.




Do 529 Withdrawals Count As Income?
529 withdrawals on the contributed amount do not count as income that needs to be taxed as the amount was already taxed. Earnings do not need to be taxed either as long as withdrawals don't exceed the beneficiary's adjusted qualified education expenses for the year.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1099-Q ensures you're paying your appropriate taxes on distributions from a Coverdell education savings account (ESA) or a 529 plan. If the form indicates you owe taxes, this will need to be included on your state and federal tax returns. If you need assistance, seek out the help of a professional tax advisor.
What Is Form 1120-S: U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation?  

Form 1120-S: U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation is a tax document that is used to report income, gains, losses, credits, deductions, and other information pertaining to businesses that are registered as S corporations to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Put simply, Form 1120-S is considered the tax return of an S corporation. The form must be filed by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the corporation's tax year.





Key Takeaways

Form 1120-S is the annual tax return for businesses that are registered as S corporations.The form is used to report income, gains, losses, credits, deductions, and other information for S corporations.Form 1120-S must be accompanied by Schedule K-1, which lists individual shareholders and the amount of profit and loss allotted to each.The company's information must be included on Form 1120-S along with details about its income, deductions, taxes, and payments.Form 1120-S can be filed electronically or by mail.


   Who Needs to File IRS Tax Form 1120-S?  

A corporation must file Form 1120-S if it elected to be an S corporation by filing Form 2553: Election by a Small Business Corporation, and the IRS accepted the election. 



An S corporation is a business entity permitted under the U.S. tax code. It is meant for smaller companies with fewer than 100 shareholders. S corporations are considered pass-through entities as they don't pay corporate taxes. Instead, they pass the tax liabilities to their individual shareholders.



The IRS uses the ownership percentage detailed in Form 1120-S to allocate how much profit and loss is assigned to an individual shareholder.



A shareholder's profit and loss are relatively easy to calculate if they don't see a change in the percentage of the shares they hold during the year. But if the shareholder purchases, sells, or transfers any (additional) shares or holdings during the course of the year, then their profit and loss must be prorated on a per-share basis.






The business structure of an S corporation allows it to pass corporate income, losses, deductions, and credits through to shareholders for federal tax purposes. It avoids double taxation as individual shareholders are taxed rather than the corporation.


   Information Included on Form 1120-S  

As noted above, S corporations use Form 1120-S to report the income, gains, losses, credits, and deductions, along with other information to the IRS each year.



The form includes pertinent business details, including:



Corporation name
Mailing address
Employer identification number (EIN)
Date of incorporation
Total assets
The effective date of the S corporation election
Business activity code



The remainder of the form includes other key information, which is noted in the table below.









Sections on Form 1120-S: U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation




Section 
What's Included 


Income 
Receipts, sales, returns, allowances, gross profit, other income, etc.


Deductions 
Compensation, salaries, wages, repairs, bad debts, rents, taxes, depreciation, advertising, pensions, etc.


Tax and Payments
Excess net passive income, estimated tax penalty, etc.






There are also a number of different schedules that are part of Form 1120-S. These include:



Schedule B: Other InformationSchedule K: Shareholders’ Pro Rata Share ItemsSchedule L: Balance Sheet per BooksSchedule M-1: Reconciliation of Income (Loss) per Books with Income (Loss) per ReturnSchedule M-2: Analysis of Accumulated Adjustments Account, Shareholders' Undistributed Taxable Income Previously Taxed, Accumulated Earnings and Profits, and Other Adjustments



Form 1120-S must be accompanied by Schedule K-1. This schedule must be prepared for every shareholder. Schedule K-1 identifies each individual shareholder of the S corporation and reports the portion of income, profits, losses, credits, and deductions allotted to each shareholder. The information from Schedule K-1 is also included on each shareholder's individual tax return.


   How to File Form 1120-S  

Form 1120-S can be filed electronically each year. Small business owners may complete these forms on their own using special tax software. The majority of these programs do come at a cost but may be inexpensive compared to the use of a professional.



Some S corporations, especially those with more complicated tax situations, may choose to have their annual tax returns completed by a professional, such as a tax preparer or an accountant. Having a tax professional complete and submit these forms reduces (or eliminates) the likelihood of error.






Although the IRS continues to accept paper returns by mail, it strongly recommends filing tax returns electronically. Submitting paper returns by mail can result in delays.















Form 1120-S (Page 1).



All pages of Form 1120-S can be downloaded from the IRS website.




What Is the Purpose of Form 1120-S?
Form 1120-S is the tax return for S corporations. As such, it is used by S corporations to report their income, profits, losses, tax credits, deductions, and other information to the IRS. The form can be filed electronically or by mail and must be accompanied by Schedule K-1. This schedule identifies individual shareholders in the S corporation along with the portion of income, profit, loss, tax credits, and deductions that are allocated to each of them.




Who Files Form 1120-S?
Form 1120-S is filed by S corporations. The form must be filed only after the IRS accepts the election of an S corporation filed by a business with fewer than 100 shareholders. The form may be prepared by a member of the corporation or a tax professional and must be filed electronically or by mail.




When Is Form 1120-S Due?
Form 1120-S is the annual tax return for S corporations. It must be filed with the IRS by the 15th of the third month following the end of the corporation's tax year. So if a company's tax year runs from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, the company's tax return is due on March 15. On the other hand, a company whose tax year runs between July 1 and June 30 must complete and file Form 1120-S by Sept. 15.


   The Bottom Line  

Every entity must report its tax liabilities by filing a tax return each year with the IRS. This includes individuals and businesses of all sizes. Form 1120-S is the return that is dedicated to S corporations. These businesses have fewer than 100 shareholders and pass their income and losses to each shareholder. Companies can file these forms electronically or by mail and must include Schedule K-1 with their returns. All paperwork must be submitted to the IRS by the 15th of the third month after the end of the corporation's tax year.
What Is Form 1310: Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer?  

Form 1310 is a tax form that is used to claim a refund for a deceased taxpayer. Form 1310 informs the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that a taxpayer has died and that a refund is being claimed by their beneficiaries and/or estate. The form is filed as part of a complete tax return and may also include additional forms to report income from the estate or trust after the taxpayer's death but before the transfer of any assets. Form 1310 is usually filed by a beneficiary of the deceased or by the executor of the estate of the deceased.





Key Takeaways

Form 1310 is an IRS form used to claim a federal tax refund for the beneficiary of a recently deceased taxpayer.This one-page form notifies the IRS that a taxpayer has died and directs it to send the refund to the beneficiary.The form may be filed by the surviving spouse, another beneficiary, or a court-appointed representative of the estate.Form 1310 is an attachment to Form 1040, which acts as the deceased's final tax form by recording income received in the year of the person's death.It's always a good idea for executors to request a paper check rather than a direct deposit.


   Who Can File Form 1310?  

The surviving spouse, another beneficiary, or the executor of an estate generally files IRS Form 1310. But it all depends if the deceased has a will or note.



If the deceased has a will, the executor named in the will is responsible for preparing and filing this form
In the absence of a will, a probate court names an individual to handle the executor’s duties. This person is also known as a personal representative or administrator



Probate court procedures vary by state. Generally, the court will consider the hierarchy of candidates before naming a personal representative. The list begins with a spouse and other close relatives and continues as necessary to include more distant relatives and even creditors.






The executor of the estate of the deceased is responsible for filing Form 1310.


   How to File Form 1310  

Form 1310 is an attachment to the standard Form 1040 tax return which must be prepared on behalf of the beneficiaries.



The executor may also need to file taxes owed by the estate rather than the individual. In this case, the representative will be required to file Form 1041 along with Form 1310. Form 1041 is required only if the estate generates more than $600 in income per year. If filing a Form 1310 along with a Form 1041, the IRS will issue the refund to the estate rather than to any individual.



Executors should always request that any tax refund be paid with a physical check rather than an electronic refund. Most banks will not deposit money to an account under a different name without special authorization.






Form 1310 must be mailed to the IRS. It cannot be efiled.



Form 1310 asks a series of identifying questions and requests legal documentation of the taxpayer's status and the executor's appointment. First, it asks the individual who fills out the form to justify the request for the refund.



A surviving spouse need not submit a death certificate if the request is for a refund check made out to both spouses. This is because refunds in earlier years would have referenced both taxpayers' names.



A personal representative must submit the appropriate court certificate in order to request a refund. In the absence of a court appointment, the filing individual must submit a copy of the death certificate and answer questions on Form 1310.















IRS Form 1310 Revised December 2021.
Investopedia



All pages of Form 1310 are available on the IRS website.


   Example of Form 1310  

Let's say a woman died on January 3, leaving one daughter and no will in place. There is also no personal representative appointed by the court. However, she was due a $500 tax refund from the IRS at the time of her death. In this case, the daughter must file Form 1310 along with a final 1040 tax return and mail it to the IRS.



Since she is a daughter and not a surviving spouse, she will check the box for "other" on Form 1310 located in Part I, line C.Part II contains a few brief questions related to the deceased and her estate.Part III is the signature of the filer.The daughter does not need to send a copy of her mother's death certificate as proof but she should keep it for her records.




What Should I Do With an IRS Check Made Out to a Deceased Person?
This assumes that a taxpayer filed a tax return but died before receiving a refund check. If there is a surviving spouse who filed jointly with the deceased, the refund will be made out to both of them and can be deposited as usual. In all other cases, it is appropriate to file form 1310 requesting a refund in the name of the beneficiary or the estate of the deceased.




Who Should File Form 1310?
Form 1310 is filed by the primary beneficiary of the estate of the deceased. This may be the spouse, a child, or another family member of the deceased. If the person did not leave a will, a probate court will name an executor. That person is then responsible for Form 1310. The purpose of the form is to notify the IRS that a taxpayer has died and to direct the agency to send any refund owed to the appropriate beneficiary.




Where Do I Mail Form 1310?
You'll mail Form 1310 to the same Internal Revenue Service Center where the original tax return was filed.




How Do I Fill Out Form 1310?
Form 1310 is a fairly straightforward one-page document. The purpose of the form is to notify the IRS that a taxpayer has died and that the tax refund that was due to that person should instead be sent to a surviving spouse or another beneficiary. Line-by-line instructions appear on the form, which can be downloaded on the IRS site.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 1310 is a tax form that is filed with the IRS to request a tax refund for a deceased individual. This form is typically filed by a surviving spouse, another beneficiary, or the executor of the deceased's estate. If there is no will, though, the probate court will appoint an executor who will be responsible to complete the filing. This form cannot be e-filed and must be mailed directly to the IRS.
What Is SEC Form 13F?  

The Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Form 13F is a quarterly report that is required to be filed by all institutional investment managers with at least $100 million in assets under management. It discloses their equity holdings and can provide insights into what the smart money is doing in the market.



Managers are required to file Form 13F within 45 days after the last day of the calendar quarter. Most funds wait until the end of this period in order to conceal their investment strategy from competitors and the public.





Key Takeaways

The SEC’s Form 13F must be filed quarterly by institutional investment managers with at least $100 million in assets under management.Congress intended these filings to provide transparency on the holdings of the nation’s biggest investors.Smaller investors frequently use these filings to determine what the “smart money” is doing in the market, but there are serious problems with the reliability and timeliness of the data.


   Understanding SEC Form 13F  

Congress created the 13F requirement in 1975. Its intention was to provide the U.S. public with a view of the holdings of the nation's largest institutional investors. Lawmakers believed this would increase investor confidence in the integrity of the nation's financial markets.



Firms that are considered institutional investment managers include mutual funds, hedge funds, trust companies, pension funds, insurance companies, and registered investment advisors.



Because 13F filings provide investors with a look at the holdings of Wall Street's top stock pickers, many smaller investors have sought to use the filings as a guide for their own investment strategies. Their rationale is that the nation's largest institutional investors are not only presumably the smartest, but their size also gives them the power to move markets. So investing in the same stocks—or selling the same stocks—makes sense as a strategy.


   Key Issues With SEC Form 13F  

Smaller investors who want to replicate the strategies of rock star money managers like Daniel Loeb, David Tepper, or Seth Klarman scrutinize 13F filings. The financial press often reports on what these fund managers have been buying and selling by comparing changes in quarterly filings. But there are a number of problems with 13F filings that warrant caution.


  Unreliable Data  

13F has drawn criticism from many groups who claim it provides a loophole for hedge fund managers. In fact, in a 2010 statement, the SEC itself acknowledged the form had many problems and recommended a number of changes should be made in order to ensure "useful and reliable data is provided to the public and government regulators."



The SEC's internal review also noted that although "the SEC would be expected to make extensive use of Section 13(f) information for regulatory and oversight purposes, no SEC division or office conducts any regular or systematic review of the data filed on Form 13F."



Perhaps this explains how infamous fraudster Bernard Madoff dutifully filed 13F forms every quarter and still ran a successful Ponzi scheme.


  Timing of Reporting  

Another frequent criticism of the form is the fact that it only requires fund managers to file 13F reports 45 days after the end of each quarter. Most managers submit their 13Fs as late as possible because they do not want to tip off rivals to what they are doing. By the time other investors get their hands on those 13Fs, they are looking at stock purchases that may have been made more than four months prior to the filing.



In a March 31, 2021 letter to Allison Herren Lee, the acting chair of the SEC, the progressive nonprofit Americans for Financial Reform urged the SEC to "expand both the frequency of Form 13F reporting and the range of financial products required to be disclosed on this form."



Another group, the National Investor Relations Institute, recommended the SEC implement a monthly reporting of ownership positions along with a 15-day window.


  Herd Behavior  

One risk for both professional and retail investors is the tendency of money managers to borrow investment ideas from one another. Hedge fund managers are no more immune to behavioral biases than anyone else. After all, if you are a fund manager, it is safer to be wrong with the majority than wrong alone. This can lead to crowded trades and overvalued stocks. And if small investors are late to the party getting into a trade, they are likely to be late getting out.


  An Incomplete Picture  

Another issue with 13F filings is that funds are only required to report long positions, in addition to their put and call options, American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), and convertible notes. This can give an incomplete and even misleading picture, because some funds generate most of their returns from their short-selling, only using long positions as hedges. There is no way to distinguish these hedges from genuine long positions on 13F forms.




Who Must File SEC Form 13F?
Institutional managers with assets under management of $100 million or more must file SEC Form 13F, disclosing their equity holdings.




What Is the New 13F Rule?
The new 13F rule, announced by the SEC in 2022, requires filers to round the security holding values to the nearest dollar rather than the nearest thousandth dollar. It also requires that Form 13F be filed via the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system.




What Is the Difference Between Form 13D and Form 13F?
SEC Form 13F requires institutional managers with $100 million or more in assets to disclose their holdings. Form 13D is a beneficial owner report that has to be filed when a person or group of persons acquire more than 5% of a voting class of a company's equity securities.


   The Bottom Line  

SEC Form 13F is required to be filed by institutional managers who manage $100 million or more in assets. The goal is to bring transparency into the financial holdings of such large managers. Though the form does bring transparency, there have been many criticisms of the form, which have yet to be addressed by the SEC.
What Is Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses?  

Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) used by employees to deduct ordinary and necessary expenses related to their jobs. Ordinary expenses are generally considered common and accepted in a particular line of business, while necessary expenses are those that are helpful in conducting business.



Starting in the tax year 2018, unreimbursed employee business expenses could no longer be claimed as a tax deduction for the majority of taxpayers. Currently, the only people who can use Form 2106 are Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing artists, fee-based state and local government officials, and employees with impairment-related work expenses. Prior to 2018, any employee with unreimbursed work expenses could use Form 2106 to claim those expenses as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Form 2106 is used by employees to deduct ordinary and necessary expenses related to their jobs.This form is used by Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing artists, fee-basis state or local government officials, and employees with impairment-related work expenses.



There was another version of the form. Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses was a simplified version and was used by employees claiming a tax deduction because of unreimbursed expenses related to their jobs. This form was discontinued after 2018 after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) went into effect.






Taxpayers used to have two options for claiming job-related expenses as a tax deduction. They could take this above-the-line deduction, or they could claim an itemized deduction for unreimbursed job expenses for W-2 income. Tax reform eliminated the itemized deduction option when the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) went into effect in 2018.













Form 2106 is available on the IRS website.﻿﻿


   Who Can File Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses?  

According to the IRS, only the following taxpayers can use Form 2106:



Armed Forces reservistsQualified performing artistsFee-basis state or local government officialsEmployees with impairment-related work expensesPrior to 2018, any employee with unreimbursed work expenses could use Form 2106 to claim those expenses as a miscellaneous itemized deduction


   How to File Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses  

There are two parts to Form 2106. Part I tabulates all employee business expenses and reimbursements. This part then calculates whether, and which, expenses were eligible for a tax deduction. These include vehicle expenses, parking, toll, transportation charges, and other business expenses. The filer also includes any reimbursements made by the employer.



Part II deals more specifically with vehicle expenses. Filers have two choices. They can use the standard mileage rate, which means multiplying the IRS mileage rate for the tax year by the number of business-qualifying miles driven. The mileage rate factors in gasoline and repair expenses, plus wear-and-tear on the average car. For 2021, it is set at 56 cents per mile (down from 57.5 cents in 2020).



The second method is to calculate actual expenses. These include gasoline, oil, repairs, insurance, registration, and depreciation which is factored with the use of a table in the instructions. You are not able to deduct interest on car loans. There are also limits on car valuations. Whether you used standard mileage or actual expenses, expenses incurred commuting to and from work are not considered eligible business expenses.
What Was Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses?  

Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses was a tax form issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for use by employees who wished to deduct ordinary and necessary expenses related to their jobs.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) eliminated virtually all of the deductions for unreimbursed employee expenses for most taxpayers. As a result, Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses could no longer be used after the tax year 2017.





Important!

While 2106-EZ is no longer in use, the longer Form 2106 is still available for a few segments of the population who qualify for the deductions. These include Armed Forces reservists, performing artists, fee-based state and local government officials, and employees with impairment-related work expenses.





Key Takeaways

Form 2106-EZ was used by employees to deduct job-related expenses, including meals, hotels, airfare, and vehicle expenses.This form was discontinued after 2018 after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act repealed all unreimbursed employee expense deductions.The full Form 2106 is still available but the deductions are available only to taxpayers in a few professions.


   Who Could File Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses?  

Ordinary expenses were generally defined as expenditures that were common and accepted in a particular line of business. Necessary expenses are those that are required in order to conduct business.



Form 2106-EZ was a simplified version of Form 2106 and was used by employees who were claiming a tax deduction because of unreimbursed expenses related to their jobs.



An employee could only qualify for a deduction if the expense was not reimbursed by the employer. Employees who used this form were able to claim the standard mileage rate for vehicle expenses.






The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act repealed all unreimbursed employee expenses. Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses was used only through the 2017 tax year.


   How to File Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses  

The form was divided into two parts. Part I tabulated all employee business expenses, then calculated whether—and which—expenses were eligible for a tax deduction. Part II more specifically addressed vehicle expenses.



In Part I, employees were required to list all unreimbursed business expenses, such as airfare, lodging, parking, tolls, and car rental, as well as any personal vehicle expenses from Part II. So-called incidental expenses allowed a deduction for valet tips and other small cash transactions that don’t typically generate a receipt. Meals and entertainment were added separately because most taxpayers were only allowed to claim 50% of those expenses.



Another way to calculate overnight expenses was to use the General Services Administration (GSA) per diem rates for cities around the U.S. or, for foreign travel, the State Department rates for every country. Lodging rates could vary considerably by month, based on supply and demand in any given locality. For example, the GSA would allow a per diem lodging rate of $361 in Aspen, Colorado, during January 2020, but only $185 in September. The per diem meal rate for Aspen was listed as $76 for 2020.


  When Vehicle Expenses Are Still Deductible  

Part II addressed personal vehicle expenses, which must be claimed using the standard mileage rate. This entailed multiplying the IRS mileage rate for the tax year by the number of business-qualifying miles driven. The mileage rate factors in gasoline and repair expenses plus wear and tear on the average car.



The tax code still permits self-employed taxpayers to deduct the use of a personal vehicle for work-related purposes. For the 2020 tax year, the rate was set at 57.5 cents per mile. For the 2021 tax year, it dropped to 56 cents.



Taxpayers also may still deduct expenses for use of their vehicles for charitable purposes and medical purposes. The deduction for personal vehicle use to relocate for a job is now restricted to active military personnel.


   Download Form 2106-EZ: Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses  

Form 2106 can be downloaded on the IRS website.



Form 2106-EZ is still accessible but is no longer in use.
What Is Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains?  

Form 2439 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form that Regulated Investment Companies(RICs)–mutuals funds and exchange-traded funds–and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are required to distribute to shareholders in order to report undistributed long-term capital gains. Mutual funds are required to distribute most capital gains to shareholders, and the shareholders report these gains on Form 1099-DIV. However, if the fund company decides to retain these gains, it must pay taxes on behalf of shareholders and report these transactions on Form 2439.





Key Takeaways

Form 2439 is an IRS form that Regulated Investment Companies (RICs)–mutuals funds and exchange-traded funds–and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are required to distribute to shareholders in order to report undistributed long-term capital gains.If a fund company decides to retain its capital gains, rather than distribute them to shareholders, it must pay taxes on behalf of shareholders and report these transactions on Form 2439.The net result of a capital gains allocation is essentially the same for the shareholder as a capital gains distribution.


   Understanding Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains  

Form 2439 is produced by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for use by RICs and REITs to inform shareholders of long-term capital gains that it has not distributed to its investors. This retention of capital gains is relatively rare. Regulations require fund companies to disburse almost all gains to investors in a transaction known as a capital gains distribution. Funds tend to accumulate capital gains in the months of November and December, but can generally warn investors with an estimate in advance. This is particularly true of actively-managed funds, which conduct more trades within their portfolios. Index funds tend to contain more static portfolios and thus produce fewer and more predictable capital gains.



Investors whose shares are held in tax-free accounts, such as an Individual Retirement Account (IRA), may file a Form 990-T to claim a tax refund on the taxes paid by the fund company. Shareholders subject to federal taxation must also adjust the basis for their shares upward. To do so, they first subtract the taxes reported by the fund company on Form 2439 from the capital gains reported on the same form. They should then add that difference to the prior cost basis.






Form 2439 must be referenced by shareholders, even if they do not take possession of the retained gains, to report the gains and taxes on their own Form 1040, Schedule D, line 11.﻿﻿



Companies that need to file Form 2439 should complete Copies A, B, C, and D for each shareholder for whom the regulated investment company (RIC) or real estate investment trust (REIT) paid tax on undistributed capital gains under section 852(b)(3)(D) or 857(b)(3)(C). Then, they should attach Copy A of all Forms 2439 to Form 1120-RIC or Form 1120-REIT when it is filed at the appropriate IRS service center. Furnish Copies B and C of Form 2439 to the shareholder by the 60th day after the end of the RIC’s or the REIT’s tax year. Retain Copy D for the RIC’s or REIT’s records.













Form 2439 is available on the IRS website.﻿﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains  

The net result of a capital gains allocation is essentially no different to the shareholder than a capital gains distribution. In distribution, the investor who receives a capital gains dividend in cash pays taxes on that gain, then reinvests the remainder in new shares, which should create very similar results to the investor who receives a Form 2439 from the fund.



One potential difference between a capital gains allocation and a capital gains distribution is that, because it falls into a higher income bracket, the fund company likely pays a higher tax rate on the gains that it retains, while the individual may be subject to a lower rate. By reporting the dollar amount paid by the fund company on their individual Form 1040, the shareholder may benefit from the discrepancy between the fund company’s tax rate and their own.
What Is Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?  

Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) document that authorizes an individual or organization to represent a taxpayer by appearing before the IRS—at an audit, for example.﻿﻿



Federal law requires the IRS to keep confidential all of the information that you supply on your tax return. So, you must file a Form 2848 with the IRS before anyone other than yourself may receive and inspect your tax information, and represent you to the IRS.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 2848 authorizes individuals or organizations to represent a taxpayer when appearing before the IRS.Authorized representatives, include attorneys, CPAs, and enrolled agents.Signing Form 2848 and authorizing someone to represent you does not relieve a taxpayer of any tax liability.


   What Is the Purpose of Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?  

Form 2848 is similar, but not identical, to a power of attorney (POA). It does not, however, relieve or indemnify the taxpayer of any tax liability. When you sign Form 2848, you authorize a certified public accountant (CPA), attorney, or other person designated as your agent to take certain actions on your behalf including:



Receive confidential tax informationSign an agreement with the IRS regarding taxes, on tax returns specified on Form 2848Sign documents requesting additional time to assess the tax obligation, as well as extra time in order to agree to a tax adjustmentSign a tax return in a limited situation﻿﻿



A limited situation, for example, could be if you are suffering from a disease or injury, or you are outside of the United States continuously for at least 60 days before the date that a return is required to be filed. In any other circumstance—let's say, you’re on vacation before and after your return has been prepared and must be filed—you must submit a request in writing to the IRS for permission for someone, such as a tax preparer, to sign your return.﻿﻿



However, Form 2848 is not a blanket grant of authority to do everything connected with taxes on your behalf. For instance, your agent cannot:



Endorse or negotiate a refund check, or direct that a refund be deposited electronically into the agent’s accountSubstitute another agent for themselves (although you can specifically authorize this﻿﻿






Taxpayers can revoke previously named representatives by writing "REVOKE" across the top of a new Form 2848, signing it, and sending it to the IRS with a copy of the original Form 2848.


   Who Can File Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?  

Anyone who wishes to be represented by an authorized power of attorney when meeting with the IRS may fill out and submit Form 2848. Authorized individuals or organizations include attorneys or law firms, CPAs, and enrolled agents. These agents can fully represent taxpayers to the IRS.﻿﻿



The IRS also allows individuals who are related to the taxpayer, such as family members or fiduciaries, to act as third-party representatives. However, their access is limited and they may represent taxpayers only in the presence of customer-service agents, revenue agents, or similar IRS employees. They cannot execute closing agreements, waivers, or refunds. Moreover, they cannot sign documents for taxpayers.﻿﻿


   How to File Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative  

In order for Form 2848 to be effective, you need to specify the tax form and year for which you are granting authority. Here are some tips on how to fill out a 2848 form correctly:



Description of the matter—for example, income taxes
Tax form number—for example, Form 1040. Saying "all forms" is not sufficient
Year or period of applicability—for example, 2020. Saying "all years" or "all periods" is not sufficient



You'll also need to provide specific information about your agent or representative such as:



Name, address, telephone number, and fax number
Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN), which CPAs, attorneys, enrolled agent​s, and paid tax preparers must renew annually﻿﻿
Centralized Authorization File (CAF) number, which the IRS uses to identify the representative



You must sign the form. If you filed jointly and each spouse wants to grant authority, each must file a separate Form 2848 to designate a representative (you don’t need to use the same representative).















Form 2848.



All pages of Form 2848 are available on the IRS website.﻿﻿


   Form 2848 vs. Form 8821  

Whereas Form 2848 allows a power of attorney to represent a taxpayer before the IRS, Form 8821: Tax Information Authorization empowers someone to receive and inspect your confidential information without representing you to the IRS.﻿﻿ In other words, you may use Form 8821 when you want someone merely to see your tax information—as when you're applying for a mortgage and need to share your tax information with your lender.
What Is Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return?  

Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return is filed by taxpayers to request exact copies of one or more previously filed tax returns and tax information from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Copies may be needed to complete a current-year tax return, amend a prior-year tax return, file a claim for a refund or abatement, apply for government benefits, apply for federal student aid, verify income during a loan application process, or defend an IRS audit.



There is a fee for getting a full copy of a tax return. In some cases, a free transcript—a shorter printout of the return information—may serve a taxpayer's need just as well.





Key Takeaways

Form 4506 is filed by taxpayers to request exact copies of previously filed tax returns and tax information.You can request a range of different types of previously filed tax returns, going back six years or more depending on the form.It currently costs $43 to get a copy of your return.If you don’t need an exact copy of your return, Forms 4506-T and 4506-T-EZ allow you to request free transcripts of a previously filed tax return.


   Who Can File Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return?  

Taxpayers requesting copies of previously filed tax returns can file Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return. You can also request a copy to be sent to a third party. Third parties might include a mortgage lender verifying your income with the IRS. In this case, you sign and file Form 4506, and the IRS sends the tax return copy directly to your lender.


   How to File Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return  

Form 4506 can be filed when an exact copy of a previously filed tax return is needed. A range of tax returns, including the Form 1040 series of individual tax returns, Form 1120 series corporate tax returns, Form 1065 partnership tax returns, and Form 1041 estate or trust tax returns, can be requested. Form 4506 must be completed and mailed to the IRS at the mailing address shown on the form.



There is a $43 fee charged for each tax period requested. Copies are usually available for returns filed in the current year as well as the previous six years.















IRS Form 4506.
Investopedia


   Download Form 4506, Request For Copy of Tax Return Here  

All versions of Form 4506 are available on the IRS website.






The IRS takes about 75 calendar days to process requests and deliver copies.


   Other Relevant Forms  

Other forms in the 4506 series include Form 4506-T, Request for Transcript of Tax Return and Form 4506-T-EZ, Short Form Request for Individual Tax Return Transcript. They allow you to request a transcript—a printout, without any attachments—of a previously filed tax return.



A transcript of a previously filed tax return can be requested by downloading, completing, and mailing Form 4506-T.



Form 4506-T can be filed when you need a transcript of your tax return or tax account information, Form W-2 information, and 1099 information. Tax return transcripts are available for the current and past three tax years and only for the following returns: Form 1040 series, Form 1120 series, and Form 1065. If you register online with the IRS, you can get it right away and free of charge.



An individual tax return transcript of your previously filed and processed 1040 series tax return can also be requested free of charge using the simplified Form 4506-T-EZ.






A tax return transcript is a computer printout of your income tax return information. It shows filing dates, filing status, dependents, adjusted gross income, and tax liability. The transcript shows most line items contained on your return as it was originally filed, though it's still shorter than a full copy with all attachments. It doesn't show changes made after the return was processed.



If tax information is required urgently, a transcript can be provided free of charge by using the IRS's online Get Transcript tool or calling the IRS at 1-800-908-9946. Transcripts are accepted as a substitute for an exact copy of a return by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, by student loan and mortgage lending agencies, and other third parties seeking to verify taxpayer income. In fact, the tax return transcript was created specifically to satisfy mortgage lenders' demands for the tax return information of their borrowers.



As of 2019, the IRS has a new transcript format that protects against identity theft and fraud. For example, only the last four digits of your Social Security number and telephone number are visible. Taxpayers can still request an unmasked version, but it will only be mailed to their address of record.  


   Special Considerations When Filing Form 4506  

When paper-filing any of the Form 4506 series, copies and transcripts of jointly filed tax returns may be requested by either spouse, and only one signature is required. When using Get Transcript online, either the primary or secondary spouse on a joint return can make the request. When using Get Transcript by mail or phone, only the primary taxpayer on the return can make the request.




What Is IRS Form 4506 and 4506-T?
IRS Form 4506 can be filed by taxpayers to request an exact copy of a previously filed return and tax information. For situations not requiring an exact copy of a return, Forms 4506-T and 4506-T-EZ can be filed to get free transcripts of a previously filed tax return.




How Long Does It Take to Receive Documents After Filing a Form 4506 or 4506-T?
If you use the "Get Transcript" option on the IRS website, you can download your forms immediately. If you request a transcript by mail, it could take 5 to 10 calendar days for it to arrive at your address on file with the IRS. If you fill out Form 4506 to request an exact copy of your tax return, you can expect it to take up to 75 calendar days.




Is a Transcript Sufficient for My Mortgage Lender?
Transcripts can typically be used as a substitute for an exact copy of a return by mortgage lending agencies. In fact, they were created specifically to supply mortgage lenders with the tax return information of their borrowers.




Why Does My Lender Want a Form 4506-T?
Mortgage lenders may require you to fill out Form 4506-T as part of your mortgage application. It allows them to obtain a transcript of your tax return information directly from the IRS. They use it to verify the other income documentation you provided during the loan application process.
What Is Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization?  

Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used to claim deductions for the depreciation or amortization of an asset, expense certain property, and provide information on the business or investment use of automobiles and any other listed property.





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 4562 is used to claim deductions for the depreciation or amortization of tangible or intangible property. Assets such as buildings, machinery, equipment (tangible), or patents (intangible) qualify.Land cannot depreciate, and so it can not be reported on the form.


   Understanding Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization  

When individuals or businesses purchase property to use in their business, the IRS does not allow them to claim the full cost as a business deduction in the first year. However, they can deduct a portion of their costs each year by claiming a depreciation deduction and reporting it on IRS Form 4562.



Individuals and businesses can claim deductions for both tangible assets such as a building and intangible assets such as a patent. Section 179 property, which is actively used to conduct business, cannot include investment property, hotels, or property primarily held abroad.


   Who Can File Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization?  

Anyone who wants to claim the following must fill out Form 4562 and include the following:



Depreciation for property placed in service during the tax year
A section 179 expense deduction (which may include a carryover from a previous year)
Depreciation on any vehicle or other listed property (regardless of when it was placed in service)
A deduction for any vehicle reported on a form other than Schedule C: Profit or Loss From Business
Any depreciation on a corporate income tax return other than Form 1120-S: U.S. Income Tax Return for an S-Corporation
Amortization of costs that begin during the tax year



Separate forms must be filed for each business or activity for which a Form 4562 is required. For example, a new form must be filled out for each depreciation or amortization deduction being claimed for different properties. The IRS does not require detailed depreciation records to be attached, but taxpayers should keep such records in order to calculate the depreciation deduction.



This form does not apply to employees who wish to deduct job-related vehicle expenses. That deduction has been discontinued after the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.


   How to File Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization  













Form 4562.



Filers must include their name, taxpayer identification number, as well as the business activity for which the form is being filed.



Part I of the form deals with Election to Expense Certain Property Under Section 179. The deduction applies to tangible personal property like machinery or equipment and for real, qualified property. Part II outlines the special depreciation allowance and other depreciation. This section must not include listed property. Part III is reserved for MACRS depreciation. Under this, assets are assigned to a specific asset class, which has a depreciation period associated with it.



If you need more space, attach additional sheets. However, complete only one Part I in its entirety when computing your section 179 expense deduction. Start by downloading a copy of Form 4562: Depreciation and Amortization.
What Is Form 4684: Casualties and Thefts?  

Form 4684 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for reporting gains or losses from casualties and thefts which may be deductible for taxpayers who itemize deductions. Casualty losses can be the result of fires, floods, and other disasters. In most cases, taxpayers can deduct losses in the tax year in which they happened. In the case of theft, the tax year is the year of loss discovery.





Key Takeaways

Form 4684 is a U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for reporting gains or losses from casualties and thefts that occurred because of a federally declared disaster and which may be deductible for taxpayers who itemize deductions.Taxpayers who live in federally declared disaster areas do not need to itemize deductions in order to file Form 4684.A casualty loss can result from the damage, destruction, or loss of your property from any sudden, unexpected, or unusual event such as a flood, hurricane, tornado, fire, earthquake, or volcanic eruption.


   Who Can File Form 4684: Casualties and Thefts?  

Taxpayers reporting gains or losses from a casualty or theft should file Form 4684. Homeowners who received notification of the need to tear down or move a structure after a federally declared disaster may use Form 4684 to claim a loss. These individuals may claim the difference in the home's value, pre- and post-event. However, the owner must receive notification from the building authority within 120 days of the declaration of the disaster area. 



Casualties and thefts of personal property are only deductible if they can be attributed to a federally declared disaster. The IRS allows an exception to this rule for individuals who have personal casualty gains. In that case, the taxpayer can use casualty and theft losses not attributable to a federally-declared disaster to offset the gains. Taxpayers who live in federally declared disaster areas do not need to itemize deductions to file Form 4684. Taxpayers cannot use Form 4684 to deduct expenses related to personal injuries.













Form 4684 is available on the IRS website.






In most cases, this form only applies to personal losses, not for casualties and thefts related to the business property.



Once you have determined that your casualties or thefts qualify for a deduction, complete Form 4684 and either attach it to your return or to an amended return for a past claim. To deduct federally declared disaster losses for the preceding tax year, complete Section D of Form 4684.


   Special Considerations When Filing Form 4684  

Form 4684 allows the deduction of non-reimbursed losses from specific events. Deductible casualty losses generally must result from an incident that is sudden, unexpected, or unusual and took place during a federally declared disaster. Casualties include natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or storms. Other types of catastrophes include vandalism, car accidents, and shipwrecks. Provisions are also in place to assist those suffering loss from corrosive drywall and specific caustic pyrrhotite concrete.



Even the loss of deposits in some financial institutions which become bankrupt or insolvent can sometimes qualify as a casualty. There are specific circumstances for the deduction of loss from events such as Ponzi schemes. Section C of Form 4684 contains information to complete deductions for such financial losses.



However, damage alone may not qualify as a deductible casualty loss. For example, damage to a home from termite infestation or invasion of molds and fungi is not considered a casualty loss because such destruction is the result of an ongoing process, not a sudden event. Also, a car accident may result in damages, but those losses are not deductible if the taxpayer was willfully negligent in causing it.



Theft losses may include incidents of embezzlement and larceny. These losses qualify if the theft is a crime in the state the event occurred and if someone acted with criminal intent. Fraud may be considered theft in certain circumstances. However, if losses are the result of a decline in the price of a company’s stock because of illegal misconduct on the part of company executives, damages may not be deductible. However, these losses can result in a capital loss, which can offset a taxpayer’s capital gains or reduce taxable income.


   Form 4684 and Federal Disaster Areas  

Section D of IRS Form 4684 applies to federally declared disaster losses. Although casualty losses are usually deductible only in the tax year in which those losses happen, special provisions exist for qualified disaster losses. Losses from federally declared disaster areas have allowances to be deductible in the previous tax year and provide additional tax advantages. For an event to qualify, the loss must fall into specific geographically-declared disaster areas.



According to the IRS, for the tax year 2021, "a qualified disaster loss also includes an individual’s casualty or theft of personal-use property that is attributable to a major disaster that was declared by Presidential Declaration that is dated between January 1, 2020, and February 25, 2021 (inclusive). However, in order to qualify, the major disaster must have an incident period beginning between December 28, 2019, and December 27, 2020 (inclusive). Further, the major disaster must have an incident period ending no later than January 26, 2021. However, this change does not include those losses attributable to a major disaster that has been declared only by reason of COVID-19."
What Is Form 4797: Sales of Business Property?  

Form 4797 (Sales of Business Property) is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It is used to report gains made from the sale or exchange of business property, including (but not limited to) property used to generate rental income, and property used for industrial, agricultural, or extractive resources.



When filling out Form 4797, entities must provide the following information:



Description of the propertyPurchase dateSale or transfer dateCost of purchaseGross sales priceDepreciation amount (which is added to the sales price)





Key Takeaways

Form 4797 is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).Form 4797 is used to report gains made from the sale or exchange of business property, including property used to generate rental income, and property used for industrial, agricultural, or extractive resources.When filling out Form 4797, entities must provide the following information: a description of the property, purchase date, sale or transfer date, cost of purchase, gross sales price, and the depreciation amount.


   Who Can File Form 4797?  

Business property that is reported on Form 4797 may include property that is purchased in order to produce rental income. Taxpayers may also report a home that was used as a business on Form 4797. Gains made from the sale of oil, gas, geothermal, or mineral properties are also reported on Form 4797.



If a piece of property was used partially for business purposes, or to produce income—while also serving as a primary residence—gains from the sale of that property may be eligible for tax exclusion. This is typically the case for self-employed persons and independent contractors who generate their income from home.



The net profit or loss from the transfer or sale of the business property is determined by subtracting the cost basis, or purchase price, from the sum of the sales price minus any depreciation costs.


   How to File Form 4797  

Form 4797 has four parts. In general, most depreciable property held for more than a year is recognized under Part I: Sales or Exchanges of Property Used in a Trade or Business and Involuntary Conversions From Other Than Casualty or Theft.



Property held for a year or less and sold for a loss is recorded in Part II: Ordinary Gains and Losses. Capital assets held for more than a year and sold for a profit fall in the section labeled Part III: Gain From Disposition of Property Under Sections 1245, 1250, 1252, 1254, and 1255.



For a corporation or partnership, the total amount entered on Line 17, Part II, must be added to the gross income line on Schedule C. Part IV is labeled Recapture Amounts Under Sections 179 and 280F(b)(2): When Business Use Drops to 50% or Less.



When a business, such as a flow-through entity—like a partnership or an S Corporation—sells a property, partners and shareholders may experience a tax event (either a gain or a loss) when the property is sold and a Form 4797 is filed.



The disposition of capital assets not reported on Schedule D must be reported on Form 4797, which can be downloaded here.














What Is the Difference Between Schedule D and Form 4797?
Schedule D is used to report gains from personal investments, while Form 4797 is used to report gains from real estate dealings—those that are done primarily in relation to business rather than personal transactions.




Should You Use Form 8949 or Form 4797?
When reporting gains from the sale of real estate, Form 4797 will suffice in most scenarios. Form 8949 will need to be used when deferring capital gains through investments in a qualified fund.




How Do I Avoid Capital Gains Tax on a Business Sale?
You cannot avoid paying capital gains tax, but you can defer it. To defer paying capital gains tax on a business sale, you may reinvest the capital gains into an opportunity zone.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 4797 (Sales of Business Property), issued by the IRS, is used to report financial gains made from the sale or exchange of business property. The form requires a variety of information to be provided, such as the description of the property, the purchase date, depreciation, and the cost of the purchase.
What Is Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction?  

Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) used to determine the amount of investment interest expense that can be deducted, as well as any interest expense that can be carried forward to a future tax year.﻿﻿



The IRS has different rules taxpayers must follow depending on where the interest comes from and whether it is investment, personal, business, or mortgage-related. If an investor pays or accrues interest on a loan and then uses the proceeds for several different purposes, the taxpayer may have to allocate the interest to ensure that the right interest rule is used.﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 4952 determines the amount of deductible investment interest expense as well as interest expense that can be carried forward.The form must be filed by individuals, estates, or trusts seeking a deduction for investment interest expenses.Certain expenses cannot be deducted such as home mortgage interest and qualified dividends.


   Who Can File Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction?  

Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction must be filed by individuals, estates, or trusts seeking a deduction for investment interest expenses. That means if you borrow money for an investment, you may be able to get a tax break. You can claim the interest on the investment as a deduction. Interest income may result from money borrowed specifically to purchase investments like parcels of land, commercial or residential investment properties, stocks, and non-tax-exempt bonds.


   How to File Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction  

There are three parts to Form 4952:



Part I: Total Investment Interest Expense. Here, the taxpayer calculates the total investment interest expense.Part II: Net Investment Interest. This figure is calculated after adjustments are made following the input of your gross income from property held for investment.Part III: Investment Interest Expense Deduction. Here, you calculate any disallowed expense that can be carried forward to future years, and you figure out the current year's net investment interest expense deduction



The final figure from Part III is transferred to line 9 of Schedule A.















Form 4592.



Form 4952 is available on the IRS webpage.﻿﻿






The IRS limits the investment interest expense deduction to the taxpayer's net income from an investment.


   Exceptions That Don't Qualify for Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction  

According to the IRS, the following instances serve as exceptions to filing the form:



If the investment interest expense is less than your investment income from interest and ordinary dividends minus any qualified dividends.
If you don't have any other deductible investment expense.
There is no carryover of disallowed investment interest expense from the previous year.



In addition, the following investments do not qualify:



Home mortgage interest.Interest used to generate tax-exempt income such as a municipal bond.Interest expenses that are properly allocable to passive activities. The IRS defines these as rental activities or any businesses in which taxpayers do not materially participate.Qualified dividends or long-term capital gains. Taxpayers are already receiving tax breaks on these items, which are taxed at rates lower rates than most other income.
What Is Form 5405: First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit?  

Form 5405: First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Taxpayers used it to claim a tax credit for a percentage of the purchase price of a new home.



That tax credit is no longer available to taxpayers today. However, people who bought homes before 2010 can still claim it if the closing took place on or before Sept. 30, 2010.





Key Takeaways

Form 5405, First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).It was used by homeowners to claim a now-defunct tax credit for the purchase of a new or replacement home between April 9, 2008, through Sept. 30, 2010.The allowable tax credit was 10% of the purchase price of the home, up to a cap of $6,500 to $8,000.Form 5405 was revised in 2021 and is now used mainly by those who have to repay their tax credit.


   Understanding Form 5405: First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit  

The Obama administration enacted the federal first-time homebuyer tax credit in 2008. The tax credit was available for approximately two years and five months—from April 9, 2008, through Sept. 30, 2010.



When the program began in 2008, the allowable tax credit was 10% of the purchase price of the home, up to a cap of $7,500. The cap went up to $8,000 in 2009. Homes with purchase prices that ranged from $75,000 to $80,000 allowed the homebuyer to claim the full tax credit. The amount of the credit was the lesser of either a fixed percentage of the home's purchase price or a fixed dollar value.



In most cases, if the home was sold within 36 months of the purchase date or if the home ceased to be the taxpayer's primary residence, the homeowner was generally responsible for repaying the full credit.






For people who purchased homes in 2008, the credit was more of a $7,500 interest-free loan: They had to repay it in 15 equal installments over 15 years.


   Who Can File Form 5405: First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit?  

Both individuals and married couples were eligible for the tax credit. At first, it was open only to first-time homebuyers—defined by the IRS as taxpayers who have not owned another home within the previous three years of the new home purchase. Later, though, the credit was extended to longtime residents if they purchased a new main "replacement" home. The credit for this group was a maximum of $6,500, but they generally didn't have to repay it.



Neither the purchase price of the home nor the homebuyer's modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) could exceed a certain threshold. However, there was no floor on income, so the tax credit could provide the filer with a refund, even if they owed no taxes at all.



Form 5405 was attached to the homebuyer's tax return, along with a copy of the settlement statement, which is typically the HUD-1 Form. The form contained all parties' names, signatures, the property's address, the purchase date, and the purchase price. Some types of homes, such as mobile homes, could use other forms of contracts to demonstrate that the property met the requirements for the credit.



Qualified homebuyers who purchased a qualified home but did not claim the tax credit on their 2009 returns were encouraged to file an amended 1040-X return with Form 5405 attached to claim their credit.






After taking office in Jan. 2021, President Biden announced his intention to help homeowners by making purchases more affordable, including a $15,000 first-time homebuyer tax credit. A bill was introduced to the House in April 2021, where it remained stalled as of September 2022.


   Example of Form 5405  

Information about Form 5405: First-Time Homebuyer Credit and Repayment of the Credit, along with the form itself, can be downloaded on the IRS website.












   Form 5405 Revision  

In Nov. 2021, Form 5405 was revised to facilitate repayment of the first-time homebuyer tax credits. The purpose of the newly revised Form 5405 is to:



Notify the IRS that the home you purchased in 2008 and for which you claimed the credit was disposed of or ceased to be your main home in 2021. Complete Part I and, if applicable, Parts II and III.Figure the amount of the credit you must repay with your 2021 tax return. Complete Part II and, if applicable, Part III.



Taxpayers must file the new Form 5405 with their 2021 tax return if they purchased the home in 2008 and meet either of the following conditions:



The property was disposed of in 2021.The taxpayer ceased using it as their main home in 2021.
What Is Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals?  

Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form used to determine the amount of alternative minimum tax (AMT) that a taxpayer may owe. Some taxpayers with higher incomes can claim certain deductions that allow them to reduce their regular tax obligation. The AMT sets an upper limit on how much that deduction can be as a way of ensuring that wealthier individuals pay an adequate amount of taxes. If you are among those to whom it applies, you'll pay the AMT instead of standard income taxes.





Key Takeaways

Form 6251 is used to determine if taxpayers owe alternative minimum tax instead of standard income tax.The AMT was designed to ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share of taxes.Changes to the AMT that were part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act greatly reduced how many taxpayers are required to pay it.The IRS raised the AMT in 2023 to $81,300 (75,900 in 2022) for individuals and $126,500 ($118,100 in 2022) for joint filers who are married.Created in 1969, the AMT is a tax system parallel to the regular income tax.


   Understanding Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals  

Each taxpayer must evaluate whether or not they must pay AMT each year. Depending on your income level, you may not need to.



The AMT is a tax system parallel to the regular income tax. It was enacted in 1969 and was originally designed to identify and collect taxes owed by a limited number of wealthy individuals and families who were otherwise avoiding income taxes.



It does this by limiting the number of itemized deductions that can be claimed by a taxpayer. Deductions for state and local taxes are not allowed, for example. In addition, taxpayers impacted by the AMT cannot take the standard deduction.






The AMT has two rates (26% and 28%) versus the seven federal tax brackets, which range from 10% to 37%.


   How to File Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals  

Form 1040: U.S. Individual tax Return includes a worksheet that allows a taxpayer to determine whether AMT is owed, but it only provides basic computations. Form 6251 is more detailed and will give a more accurate answer, and simply completing it does not mean that it has to be filed. Alternatively, you can use tax software or enlist a tax pro. Only if there is AMT owed will Form 6251 have to be attached to Form 1040.



The AMT requires affected taxpayers to calculate their tax bill under the ordinary income tax system and again under the AMT, paying the higher of the two amounts. After calculating your AMT, you can claim an exemption based on your filing status.



The AMT exemption is much higher than the standard exemption but phases out when you reach a certain income level. In 2023, the AMT exemption for individual filers is $81,300 ($75,900 in 2022) and for married joint filers, $126,500 ($118,100 in 2022). The exemption begins to phase out when income reaches $578,150 for individual filers and $1,156,300 for married joint filers.













All pages of Form 6251 are available on the IRS website.


   Special Considerations  

A lack of inflation adjustments caused the AMT to apply to a much larger group of taxpayers than originally intended. Congress had passed annual inflation adjustments to limit the reach of the AMT before instituting a permanent fix of indexing future exemption levels to inflation as part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.



The AMT collected $4.7 billion in 2019, about 0.3% of individual income tax revenue but significantly less than the $36.2 billion collected in 2017. This decrease was mainly due to changes to the AMT that were part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017. Starting in 2018, for example, TCJA triggered a higher AMT exemption and the level at which the exemption begins to phase out.
What Is Form 6252: Installment Sale Income?  

Form 6252: Installment Sale Income is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used to report income from the sale of real or personal property coming from an installment sale with the installment method.



An installment sale occurs when at least one payment from the disposition of property is received after the end of the tax year. An installment sale, in general, does not include disposition of personal property from a person who regularly sells that same type of property–like a real estate agent or broker–or property that is sold to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer’s occupation (such as with farmland).



In some situations, when there are gains on the dispositions of the property, the installment method may be used. Proceeds from an installment sale can come in later tax years, which are reported unless the taxpayer is not using the installment method.





Key Takeaways

Form 6252 is used to report income from the sale of real or personal property coming from an installment sale.This form is filed by anyone who has realized a gain on the property using the installment method.New rules allow taxpayers to defer part or all of the capital gain into a Qualified Opportunity Fund.


   Who Can File Form 6252: Installment Sale Income?  

Filers may need to use this form any time they realize a gain on property in the installment method. Taxpayers do not have to file Form 6252 if the sale of the property does not result in a gain for them, even if their payments are received in a subsequent tax year. If this is the case, a business should report the sale using Form 4797.



Additionally, Form 6252 is not needed to report sales of stock or securities traded on an established securities market; those sales should be treated as if they were received in the same year the sale was made.






Taxpayers should not file Form 6252 for sales that do not result in a gain, even if a payment is received in the tax year.﻿


   How to File Form 6252: Installment Sale Income  

The taxpayer must input their name and identification number—an employer identification number for a corporation or a Social Security Number for an individual. The next section deals with information about the property, including description, and date of acquisition and sale.



Part I deals with gross profits and the contract price. This part is completed for all years of the installment agreement. The next section, Part II, outlines information about the installment sale income. Part III, which is not filled out if the taxpayer received the final payment in the tax year, deals with information about related party sale income﻿.













Form 6252 is available on the IRS website.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations When Filing Form 6252: Installment Sale Income  

New rules in 2018 allow taxpayers to defer part or all of their capital gains into a Qualified Opportunity Fund. In order to qualify for the deferral, taxpayers must consider the following:



Investment in the fund must be done within 180 days. Deferrals are elected on Form 8949, which is filed with the return.Investment in the QOF must be an equity interest rather than a debt interest.


   Other Relevant Forms  

As mentioned above, if the taxpayer is opting to defer any or all of their capital gains into a Qualified Opportunity Fund, they must also file Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets. These funds were designed by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) to help create economic development and jobs. They also need to file Form 8997 every year in which they hold an investment in a QOF.
What Is Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles?  

Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles is used to report gains and losses from straddles or financial contracts that are labeled as Section 1256 contracts.



A straddle is a strategy that involves holding contracts that offset the risk of loss from each other. For example, if a trader buys both a call option and a put option for the same investment security at the same time, they have formed a straddle.



Most options and futures traders will need to use this form when they complete their taxes each year. For reported investments, 40% of the gain or loss is reported as short-term, and the remaining 60% is reported as long-term.





Key Takeaways

Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that is used by investors to report gains and losses from straddles or financial contracts.Form 6781 has separate sections for straddles and Section 1256 contracts.Section 1256 contracts include regulated futures contracts, foreign currency contracts, options, dealer equity options, or dealer securities futures contracts.


   Who Can File Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles?  

Individual tax filers must report gains and losses for contracts according to mark-to-market rules.



Form 6781 has separate sections for straddles and Section 1256 contracts, so investors have to identify the specific type of investment used.



Section 1256 contracts include regulated futures contracts, foreign currency contracts, options, dealer equity options, or dealer securities futures contracts. These investments are considered to be sold at year-end (even if the positions are not actually closed) for tax purposes. They are assigned their fair market value in order to determine gains and losses.



For example, assume a trader bought a regulated futures contract on May 5, 2019, for $25,000. At the end of the tax year, they still have the contract in their portfolio valued at $29,000. This trader's mark-to-market profit is $4,000. The trader reports this on Form 6781 (treated as 60% long-term and 40% short-term capital gain). On January 30, 2020, the trader sells their long position for $28,000. Since they've already recognized a $4,000 gain on their 2019 tax return, the trader will record a $1,000 loss (calculated as $28,000 minus $29,000) on their 2020 tax return (treated as 60% long-term and 40% short-term capital loss).



Investors report gains and losses for straddles and Section 1256 contract investments by using Form 6781, but hedging transactions are treated differently. Since Section 1256 contracts are considered to be sold every year, the holding period of the underlying asset does not determine whether or not the gain or loss is short-term or long-term: all gains and losses on these contracts are considered to be 60% long-term and 40% short-term. In other words, Section 1256 contracts allow an investor or trader to take 60% of the profit at the more favorable long-term tax rate even if the contract was only held for a year or less.






Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles require that investors trading foreign securities contracts in foreign exchanges report gains or losses from that contract on Form 6781, even if those contracts would generally not be treated as a Section 1256 contract.


   How to File Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles  

Part I of Form 6781 requires Section 1256 investment gains and losses be reported at either the actual price the investments were sold for, or the mark-to-market price established on December 31. Part II of the form requires the losses on the trader’s straddles be reported in Section A and gains reported in Section B. Part III is provided for any unrecognized gains on positions held at the end of the tax year, but only has to be completed if a loss is recognized on a position.


   Download Form 6781 Here  

The IRS provides access to a downloadable Form 6781: Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles.
What Is Form 706: United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return?  

Form 706: United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used by an executor of a decedent’s estate to calculate the estate tax owed, according to Chapter 11 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The tax is levied on the entire taxable estate, not just on the share a specific beneficiary receives. Executors also use Form 706 to calculate the generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT) imposed by Chapter 13 of the IRC.





Key Takeaways

Form 706 is used by an executor of a decedent’s estate to calculate estate tax owed, according to Chapter 11 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), and to calculate the generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT) imposed by Chapter 13 of the IRC.Form 706 must be filed on behalf of a deceased U.S. citizen or resident whose gross estate, adjusted taxable gifts, and specific exemptions exceed $12.06 million in 2022 (adjusted to $12.92 million in 2023, to account for inflation).Form 706-GS(D) is used to calculate taxes due on trust distributions subject to the generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT).



Form 706 is used by an executor of an estate to calculate the amount of tax owed on estates valued at more than $12.06 million if the decedent died in 2022 ($12.92 million in 2023).



Form 706 also helps executors determine the overall value of an estate prior to distributing any assets to beneficiaries as outlined in the decedent’s will or trust. The IRS treats any inheritance on a stepped-up valuation—or a step-up basis. That means the cost basis is adjusted to the fair market value of the inherited property as of the date of death.



Using the stepped-up valuation methodology allows heirs to minimize capital gains taxes. The method also allows for a cleaner valuation process in terms of limiting the number of administrative tasks associated with the estate. 


   Who Can File Form 706?  

Form 706 must be filed by the executor of the estate of every U.S. citizen or resident:



Whose gross estate, adjusted taxable gifts, and specific exemptions total more than the exclusion amount: $12.06 million for decedents who died in 2022 ($12.92 million in 2023), or
Whose executor elects to transfer the “deceased spousal unused exclusion” (DSUE) amount to the surviving spouse, regardless of the size of the decedent’s gross estate.



To determine if the estate exceeds the exclusion amount, add together amounts 1, 2, and 3 below.



The adjusted taxable gifts made by the decedent after Dec. 31, 1976The total specific exemption allowed under Section 2521 (as in effect before its repeal by the Tax Reform Act of 1976) for gifts made by the decedent after Sept. 8, 1976The decedent’s gross estate valued as of the date of death



The gross estate includes:



All property in which the decedent had an interest (including real property outside the U.S.)
Certain transfers made during the decedent’s life without adequate consideration
 Annuities
The includable part of joint estates with rights of survivorship
The includable part of tenancies by the entirety
Certain life insurance proceeds
Property over which the decedent had a general power of appointment
Dower or curtesy (or statutory estate) of the surviving spouse
Community property in which the decedent had an interest






The IRS uses a stepped-up valuation methodology in determining the value of an estate.













Form 706 is available on the IRS webpage.


   Related Forms  

Form 706-NA, United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Tax Return, is used to calculate estate tax and GSTT liability for nonresident alien decedents.



Form 706-GS(D), Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax Return for Distributions, is used to calculate taxes due on trust distributions subject to the GSTT. Any skip person who receives a taxable distribution coming from a trust must use Form 706-GS(D) to calculate and report the tax due.



A generation-skipping transfer tax (GST) is a transfer of money or property, either as an inheritance or a gift, to someone who is two or more generations below the grantor. The person who receives the inheritance or gift is called the “skip person.” While a skip person is often a grandchild, it could be anyone who’s at least 37½ years younger than the grantor.



The GSTT is imposed on gifts and inheritances that a skip person receives. This ensures that taxes are paid at each generational level. The GSTT has the same lifetime exemption as the federal estate and gift taxes—$12.06 million for 2022 ($12.92 million for 2023).



Trustees must report taxable distributions to skip persons using Form 706-GS(D-1), Notification of Distribution From a Generation-Skipping Trust. Note that trustees must also provide the skip person with the information needed to figure the tax due on the distribution.


   Where to Mail Form 706  

You must file a paper Form 706 to report estate or GSTT within nine months of the date of the decedent’s death. If you can’t file Form 706 by the due date, you can apply for an automatic six-month extension using Form 4768, Application for Extension of Time to File a Return and/or Pay U.S. Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Taxes.



File Form 706 at the following address:



Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, Kansas City, MO 64999



If you’re using a private delivery service (including DHL Express, FedEx, and UPS), send Form 706 to:



Internal Revenue Submission Processing Center, 333 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, MO 64108



If you’re filing an amended Form 706, use the following address (even if you’re using a private delivery service):



Internal Revenue Service Center, Attn: E&G, Stop 824G, 7940 Kentucky Drive, Florence, KY 41042-2915



The estate tax and the GSTT are due within nine months of the date of the decedent’s death. Make checks payable to “United States Treasury” and note the decedent’s name, Social Security number, and “Form 706” on the check. Alternatively, you can pay online through the Electronic Federal Tax Payments System (EFTPS).




Does Every Estate Have to File a Form 706?
Not all estates must file a Form 706. A form has to be filed on behalf of someone who has died when the gross estate, adjusted taxable gifts and tax exemption surpasses the filing limit for the year of the person's death.




What's the Difference Between IRS Form 706 and IRS Form 709?
IRS Form 706 is filed by the executor of an estate on behalf of someone who has died to determine what taxes are owed, while IRS Form 709 is filed by an individual to report to the government any gifts that have surpassed the annual limit.




What Triggers an Estate Tax Return?
An estate that pulls in more than $600 in annual gross income must file Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts. The estate may also have to pay quarterly estimated taxes.
What Is Form 8283: Noncash Charitable Contributions?  

Form 8283: Noncash Charitable Contributions is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and used by filers who wish to deduct non-cash contributions made to a qualifying charitable organization. Deductions for non-cash contributions are reported as itemized deductions.



Non-cash contributions can include securities, property, vehicles, collectibles, and art. The form can be downloaded from the IRS website.





Key Takeaways

Donated non-cash items may require an appraisal to determine their value.Appraisals are not required for private stock valued at $10,000 or less and intellectual property.Form 8283 should not be used for out-of-pocket expenses generated by volunteer or charitable work or for cash or credit card contribution payments or expenses.


   Who Can File Form 8283: Noncash Charitable Contributions?  

This form is available for individuals, partnerships, and corporations to report their non-cash charitable contributions if the deduction for the non-cash gift equals more than $500. The only exception to the $500 rule is for C corporations, which must file Form 8283 only if their charitable donation exceeds $5,000. You can list up to five donations to five different organizations on Form 8283, and if you had more donations, you can attach as many Form 8283s to your 1040 as you need.



Form 8283 should not be used for out-of-pocket expenses generated by volunteer or charitable work or for cash or credit card contribution payments or expenses.






Form 8283 cannot determine a taxpayer’s charitable contribution limits.


   How to File Form 8283: Noncash Charitable Contributions  

The filer must first fill out their name and identifying number. For corporations, this is the employer identification number (EIN). For individuals, it is their Social Security number (SSN).



The filer will then fill out the following information for each column in Part I of Section A:



A—Name and address of the organization
B—Vehicle identification number (VIN), if the property is a vehicle
C—Property description (If it is a vehicle, the year, make, model, mileage, and general condition must be included. For securities, the name and number of shares must be inputted.)
D—Date of contribution
E—Date when the property was acquired
F—Details on how the property was originally acquired
G—Cost or adjusted basis (This should not be filled out if the property was held for at least 12 months or for publicly traded securities.)
H—Fair market value
I—How the filer achieved the fair market value



Part II should be filled out if there was less than an entire interest in a property listed in the previous section. Taxpayers who file Form 8283 and have made contributions of motor vehicles, boats, and/or airplanes may also include Form 1098-C, which shows the gross proceeds.


  Appraisals  

Donated non-cash items may require an appraisal to determine their value. Such items include art pieces valued at $20,000 or more, most jewelry and gems, and used household goods valued over $500 that are not in good or better condition.



Appraisals are not required for private stock valued at $10,000 or less; publicly traded securities; inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of your trade or business; a qualified vehicle (including a car, boat, or airplane) if your deduction for the vehicle is limited to the gross proceeds from its sale and you obtained a contemporaneous written acknowledgment; and intellectual property.



Part I of Section B, which is similar to Part I in Section A, is filled out by the taxpayer and/or the appraiser. The appraiser must also sign a declaration. The appraisal is not required to be submitted with the form, but it should be kept with the filer’s records The recipient of the non-cash donation must sign an acknowledgment and include its name, identification number, address, and a signature from an authorized officer.




What is Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 8283 used for?
Form 8283 is used to report non-cash contributions of more than $500 to qualifying charitable organizations. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows you to use such contributions as itemized deductions on your taxes.




Who can file Form 8283?
The form can be utilized by individuals, partnerships, and corporations. Each form has room for five donations, and you can submit as many forms as you have donations.




Do non-cash contributions require an appraisal to prove their worth?
Only in certain circumstances. Art pieces valued at $20,000 or more need a written appraisal from a qualified appraiser. A household good that is not in good or better condition must have an appraisal. Jewelry and gems almost always require an appraisal.On the other hand, private stock valued at $10,000 or less, all publicly traded securities, and intellectual property are among the items that do not need an appraisal.
What Is IRS Form 8379: Injured Spouse Allocation?  

The "injured" spouse on a jointly filed tax return can file Form 8379 to regain their share of a joint refund that was seized to pay a past-due obligation of the other spouse. These obligations might include past-due federal tax, state tax, child support, or federal non-tax debt (such as a student loan). The term "injured" refers to the negatively impacted spouse, who does not owe the debt.





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 8379 is a tax form that can be filed to reclaim part of a tax refund that has been used to pay for an overdue debt.If a married couple files a joint tax return and the refund is applied to one spouse's past-due debts, the "injured" spouse can file Form 8379 to get their share of the refund.An injured spouse form can be filed with a joint tax return, amended joint tax return, or afterward by itself.If you live in a community property state, the rules may differ. The IRS uses laws in these states to determine if—and how much—an injured spouse is entitled to.It takes 8 to 14 weeks for the IRS to process an injured spouse allocation.


   Who Can File Form 8379: Injured Spouse Allocation?  

Typically, spouses are jointly responsible for a tax obligation so an injured spouse should file Form 8379 when they become aware that all or part of a share of a refund was, or is expected to be, applied against their spouse's legally enforceable past-due obligations.



If a spouse has fallen behind on child support payments, alimony, federal or state taxes, federal non-tax debt such as student loans, or certain unemployment compensation debt, then the Department of Treasury is authorized to take a taxpayer's refund and apply it toward the past-due debt. By filling out Form 8379, the injured spouse is requesting that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) release their share of a joint tax refund.






To be eligible to file Form 8370 an injured spouse must have reported income included in the joint return in which a refund was garnished.


   How to File Form 8379: Injured Spouse Allocation  

Form 8379 can be filed with a joint tax return, amended joint tax return (Form 1040-X), or it can be filed afterward by itself. An injured spouse form is only filed with Form 1040-X: Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return if a spouse is amending an original return to claim a joint refund.



An injured spouse form must be filed for each year the taxpayer wants their portion of any offset refunded. If a couple files their return knowing any refund might be seized, the injured spouse can file the form with the joint tax return or file separately.



Once you file a Form 8379, the IRS will review it to determine whether you are eligible for injured spouse relief and, if so, how much. It takes the IRS about 14 weeks to process an injured spouse form if you file a paper version with a joint return and 11 weeks if you file it electronically.













All pages of Form 8379 are available on the IRS website.


   Special Considerations When Filing Form 8379: Injured Spouse Allocation  

If you live in a community property state different rules may apply. In general, these states take the view that debts and assets acquired during a marriage are jointly owned, though there are exceptions. The rules vary in each state. The IRS uses each state's rules to determine the amount, if any, refundable to the injured spouse. Community property states include Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.﻿﻿






Injured spouse relief is not the same as innocent spouse relief. This is a separate form that can be filed if one spouse has been made responsible for back taxes, interest, or penalties from improperly reported tax filings.


   Other Relevant Forms  

"Injured" spouse relief should not be confused with "innocent" spouse relief. A person files for "innocent" spouse relief when they have been made responsible for back taxes, interest, and penalties resulting from improperly reported taxes on a joint return. If the "innocent" spouse had no knowledge of the improper items leading to the problematic filing, Form 8857: Request for Innocent Spouse Relief can be submitted to claim relief. Several conditions must be met:



The understated tax was reported on a joint return.
The understated tax stems from under-reported income or improperly applied deductions, credits, or cost basis.
The spouse can demonstrate they signed the joint return without knowing the understated tax existed.



Finally, the IRS must determine it would be unfair to hold the spouse responsible.




Who Does the Term Injured Spouse Apply to on IRS Form 8379?
The "injured spouse" on Form 8379 refers to a spouse who has been affected by the application of a joint tax refund to offset their spouse's debts. Because they have been financially harmed ("injured") by this use of the refund, that spouse is able to reclaim their share of the refund from the IRS.




When Does the IRS Begin Processing Injured Spouse Forms?
It can take up to 14 weeks for the IRS to process an injured spouse allocation form, although processing is faster if the form is submitted electronically. If Form 8379 is filed separately from a joint tax return, it will take around 8 weeks.




Can I File an IRS Injured Spouse Form Because of a Spouse’s Student Loan Debt?
In most cases, an injured spouse can file Form 8379 to claim their share of a tax refund before it is used to offset their spouse's debts. However, rules are different in community property states, where the tax refund may be considered shared marital property. In those cases, the IRS will divide the return according to the state community property law.




Where Do I Send My Tax Form 8379?
Generally speaking, Form 8379 should be filed with the IRS Service Center for the area where you live. However, if you have already filed your tax return for the year in question, you should send Form 8379 to the same Service Center you filed your tax return, even if you now live somewhere else.




Can I File Form 8379 Electronically?
Yes, and the IRS will process your injured spouse allocation faster if it is sent online. Electronic submissions take about eleven weeks to process, compared to fourteen weeks for paper filings.




How Long Does It Take To Get a Tax Refund With an Injured Spouse Claim?
If an injured spouse files Form 8379 along with their joint tax return, it will take between 11 and 14 weeks to receive their share of the tax return. Of course, this is contingent upon the IRS determination that the injured spouse is qualified for a share of the return.




How Do You Check Injured Spouse Refund Status?
If an injured spouse files Form 8379 and does not hear back, they can call the Bureau of Financial Services' TOP Center at 800-304-3107.




Can the IRS Deny an Injured Spouse Claim?
Yes, the IRS may determine that someone filing Form 8379 is ineligible for an injured spouse allocation, or that they are not entitled to as much as they believe. When the IRS receives a claim, they will calculate the injured spouse's share of the tax return, based on state laws and the circumstances surrounding each case.
What Is Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit?  

Form 8396 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used by homeowners to claim the mortgage interest credit. The aim of the mortgage interest credit is to help lower-income taxpayers afford homeownership. You can only claim the credit if you receive a mortgage credit certificate (MCC) from a state or local government agency.






IRS Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit is filed by homeowners to claim the mortgage interest credit, but only those who receive a mortgage credit certificate from a local or state government agency can do so.The mortgage interest credit is designed for lower- to moderate-income earners to help them afford homeownership.Individuals who qualify for the mortgage interest credit can claim the credit each year for part of the mortgage interest paid.


   Who Can File Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit?  

Anyone who was issued an MCC from a state or local government agency should file this form. In general, an MCC is only issued to lower- and moderate-income individuals in connection with a new mortgage to buy a primary residence. An MCC is issued under a qualified mortgage credit certificate program.



Individuals who qualify can claim the credit each year using Form 8396 for part of the home mortgage interest paid.


   How to File Form Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit  

The filer of Form 8396 must include details, including their name, the name of the issuer of the MCC, the certificate number and issue date, and their Social Security Number on the form.



Under Part I, the filer must figure out the current year's mortgage interest credit. The MCC will show the rate you will use to figure out your credit.



The IRS limits the mortgage interest credit to a maximum of $2,000 per year. Part II is used to determine the following year's carryforward credit.













Form 8396 is available on the IRS website.



Once the form is completed attach it to your individual federal income tax return—Form 1040, Form 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR.






If you have any unused credit to carry forward, keep a copy of Form 8396 to figure out your credit for the following year.


   Special Considerations When Filing Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit  

There are some restrictions associated with the credit. The residence must meet specific price and value requirements relative to the local housing market. The home connected to the issued certificate must be in the same jurisdiction as the issuing agency. The property must be the tax filer's primary residence.



In addition, taxpayers who itemize their deductions on Schedule A must offset the amount of their deduction for mortgage interest by the amount of the credit claimed.



A new mortgage credit certificate is issued if the mortgage is refinanced, and homeowners who sell their residence within nine years may have to repay some of the credit issued.


   Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit vs. Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement  

Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit is different from Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement. Form 1098 shows the amount of interest and related expenses paid on a mortgage during the tax year and is sent out by banks and financial institutions. The loan interest shown on the MCC is usually the same amount in Box 1 of Form 1098.
What Is Form 843: Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement?  

Form 843 is a multipurpose tax document issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) used by taxpayers to make a claim for a refund of certain assessed taxes or to request abatement of interest or penalties applied in error.





Key Takeaways

Form 843 is used to claim a refund of certain assessed taxes or to request abatement of interest or penalties applied in error by the IRS.The form must be filed within two years from the date when taxes were paid or three years from the date when the return was filed, whichever is later.A separate form must be filed for each type of tax or fee, and for each tax year.


   What Is Form 843: Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement Used for?  

Form 843 can be used to ask the IRS for abatement of certain taxes other than income including:



Estate or gift taxes
Interest or penalties due to IRS error or delays, or incorrect written advice from the IRS
To seek a refund of Social Security or Medicare taxes that were withheld in error, and for which the employer will not adjust the over-collection



Form 843 cannot be used to amend a previously filed income or employment tax return to:



Claim a refund of agreement, offer-in-compromise fees, or lien fees
Request an abatement of gift or estate taxes
Claim a refund or abatement of Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax
Claim a refund or abatement of Railroad Retirement Tax Act tax
Claim a refund or abatement of income tax withholding


   Who Can File Form 843: Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement?  

There are several reasons a taxpayer can file Form 843. This includes if a taxpayer's employer withholds too much income, Social Security, or Medicare tax from a paycheck and will not make any adjustments. This form can also be filed by a taxpayer's authorized representative.



Another reason to file this form may be as a result of IRS error or delay. This happens when a taxpayer is wrongly assessed interest, penalties, or additions to tax that are not owed. On these occasions, a taxpayer can request that the IRS fix the error(s) by filing a claim for refund or abatement.



A separate Form 843 must generally be filed for each type of tax or fee, and for each tax year.






If the IRS believes a taxpayer claims an excessive refund amount, it can add a penalty equal to 20% of the amount determined to be excessive.


   How to File Form 843: Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement  

Form 843 requires basic information such as name, address, Social Security number, tax period, tax type, and return type. It requires a statement of the facts and issues as to why you are entitled to a refund or abatement. Penalty abatement requests require you to write the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) section number of the penalty on Line 4. You can find this section number on the IRS notice you received. Then, you must choose a reason for your request in Section 5a. The choices are:



Interest was assessed as a result of IRS errors or delaysErroneous written information from the IRSReasonable cause or another reason other than erroneous written advice



You can write an explanation of your request in Section 7. Remember to support your reasons with evidence and computations. The IRS allows you to attach additional pages if you need more space.













Form 843 is available on the IRS website.﻿﻿



The form must be filed within two years from the date you paid the taxes or three years from the date the return was filed, whichever is later.


   Special Considerations for Form 843  

If the IRS denies your claim by sending a statutory notice of claim disallowance—or if six months pass without any action—you can petition the U.S. District Court or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ You can also file a protective claim before the expiration of the statute of limitations to preserve your right to make a claim for a refund. Protective claims and real claims have the same legal effect.
What Is Form 8606?  

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 8606, "Nondeductible IRAs," is used by filers who make nondeductible contributions to an individual retirement account (IRA). A separate form should be filed for each tax year that nondeductible contributions are made.



Normally, contributions to an IRA are deductible from ordinary income. In some circumstances, however, people who participate in an employer retirement plan and whose households exceed a threshold of modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) might not be able to make these deductible contributions, though they can still contribute to an IRA.





Key Takeaways

Filers who make nondeductible contributions to an IRA use IRS Form 8606.Any taxpayer with a cost basis above zero for IRA assets should use Form 8606 to prorate the taxable vs. nontaxable distribution amounts.File Form 8606 with Form 1040 or 1040NR by the due date, including due dates for extensions.If taxpayers do not file Form 8606 in a distribution year, they may be required to pay income taxes (and possibly penalties) on what could be tax-free monies.


   Who Can File an 8606?  

Participants should file Form 8606 in conjunction with the standard income tax forms (1040 or 1040NR) for individual filers. Any taxpayer with a cost basis above zero for IRA assets (a combination of post- and pre-tax contributions, or deductible and nondeductible contributions) should use Form 8606 to prorate the taxable vs. nontaxable distribution amounts.



If the taxpayer does not file IRS form 8606 in a distribution year, income taxes (and possibly penalties) may be due. What would ordinarily be tax-free money is now taxable.


   Re-characterizing an IRA  

Younger investors should consider "re-characterizing" traditional and Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) IRA assets as Roth assets. Assets that are so re-characterized are immediately taxable as ordinary income; money placed into a traditional or SEP IRA has usually never been taxed. When money comes out of a traditional or SEP IRA, it becomes taxable. Already-taxed money is not taxed when it comes out of the account.



Not having to pay taxes on future distributions may outweigh the immediate tax bill caused by the re-characterization. Investors should speak with a tax professional before attempting a re-characterization.






Form 8606 is also required whenever a taxpayer either converts a traditional or SEP IRA to a Roth IRA, or receives an IRA distribution that is attributable to previous nondeductible contributions.


   How to File Form 8606  

File Form 8606 with Form 1040 or 1040NR by the due date, including due dates for extensions. If you're not required to file an income tax return but are required to file Form 8606, sign Form 8606 and send it to the IRS at the same time and place you would otherwise file a 1040 or 1040NR.



Generally, after a taxpayer files their return, they can change a nondeductible contribution to a traditional IRA to a deductible contribution (or vice versa) within the time limit for filing Form 1040X, "Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return."
What Is IRS Form 8949?  

Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used to report capital gains and losses from investments. The form is used by individual taxpayers as well as partnerships, corporations, trusts, and estates.



Taxpayers are required to short- and long-term capital gains and losses from sales of investments. The information recorded on Form 8949 reconciles the amounts reported to taxpayers and the IRS on Forms 1099-B, which brokerages send to their account holders annually.





Key Takeaways

IRS Form 8949 is used to report capital gains and losses from investments for tax filing.The form includes Part I and Part II to separate short-term capital gains and losses from long-term capital gains and losses, as they are subject to different tax rates.Users of Form 8949 also need to complete a Schedule D and file a Form 1099-B, which is provided by brokerages to individual taxpayers.


   Who Can File Form 8949?  

According to the IRS, individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, and estates can file Form 8949 in order to report the following:



The sale or exchange of a capital asset not reported on another form or schedule
Gains from involuntary conversions (other than from casualty or theft) of capital assets not used in your trade or business
Non-business bad debts
The worthlessness of a security
The election to defer capital gain invested in a Qualified Opportunity Fund
The disposition of interests in Qualified Opportunity Funds(s)



Anyone filing a joint return must complete as many pages of the form as are necessary to report their transactions. The totals from all completed pages of Form 8949 are transferred to Schedule D.



Along with the list above, corporations can use Form 8949 to report the sale of stock of a specified 10%-owned foreign corporation, adjusted for the dividends-received deduction under section 245A, but only if the sale would otherwise generate a loss.






Taxpayers with an eligible gain can invest it into a Qualified Opportunity Fund and elect to defer part or all of that gain.


   How to File Form 8949  

A capital gain or loss is generated when a capital asset is sold and reported to the IRS for tax purposes. Schedule D: Capital Gains and Losses of IRS Form 1040 is used to report most capital gain or loss transactions. Form 8949 must be completed in order to arrive at the net gain or loss that is entered on Schedule D.



Along with the filer's name and taxpayer identification number, Form 8949 has two parts that need to be completed. Part I deals with short-term assets held one year or less. Part II is used for long-term transactions, those assets held for more than one year. Each asset sold must be identified along with its purchase and sale date and its purchase and sale price.



The transactions reported on Form 8949 can be found on Form 1099-B: Proceeds from Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions, which is provided by brokerages once a year to their account holders and to the IRS. Form 1099-B reports the cost basis of the investor’s buy and sell transactions.



In some cases, Form 1099-B will not report the cost basis of an asset. If this is the case, the taxpayer must determine the base amount to calculate the gain or loss from a capital asset using a separate Form 8949. A capital asset transaction for which no Form 1099-B is issued must be listed on another Form 8949.



Form 8949 can also be used to correct any inaccuracies in the data reported on Form 1099-B. If the capital losses or gains for the year are reported for all assets on 1099-B with the correct basis, then Form 8949 is not necessary.



Keep in mind, though, that Schedule D is still required and must still be filed.


   Where to Find Form 8949  

All the pages of Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets are available on the IRS website.















Form 8949 IRS 2022.




Can Schedule D Be Completed Without Form 8949?
No, a taxpayer with capital gains or losses to report must file both Form 8949 and Schedule D.Form 8949 is a list of every transaction, including its cost basis, its sale date and price, and the total gain or loss.That produces a total short-term gain or loss and a total long-term gain or loss.Those numbers are then plugged into a Schedule D in order to indicate the total amount of capital gains taxes owed.




What Information Is Required on Form 8949?
Information required for each asset reported on Form 8949 includes the description of the stock or other asset, the purchase price, purchase date, selling price, and selling date.




Is Form 8949 Required for Reporting Cryptocurrency Transactions?
Form 8949 may be required when you realize a gain on cryptocurrency by buying and then selling crypto for profit in a taxable account or exchanging crypto for goods or services that realize a gain in value.


   The Bottom Line  

Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets is an IRS form used by both individuals and businesses to report capital gains and losses from investments. Form 8949 and Schedule D are additions to an annual tax filing that are required whenever a capital asset such as stock is sold during the year.



Each asset cited on Form 8949 includes the description of the property, its purchase price, purchase date, selling price, and selling date.



For stock investors, most of the information needed to complete Form 8949 is included in the Form 1099-B that brokerages send to their account holders annually.
What Is SEC Form ADV?  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires all professional investment advisers to submit SEC Form ADV. This form specifies the investment style, assets under management (AUM), and key officers of an advisory firm. This form must be updated annually and it must be made available as a matter of public record for companies that manage funds in excess of $25 million.



There are several parts of SEC Form ADV. The first section includes identifying information, If past disciplinary action was taken against the adviser, this must be noted in the first section of SEC Form ADV. The second section deals with the AUM, investment strategy, fee arrangements, and service offerings of the firm.





Key Takeaways

The Securities and Exchange Commission requires any professional investment adviser to submit SEC Form ADV.Form ADV serves as a registration document that must be submitted to the SEC and to state securities authorities.Filers must include identifying information and information about assets under management and investment fee structures among other information on SEC Form ADV.Clients should review SEC Form ADV provides transparent information about the firm's asset mix and the personnel's professional background.SEC Form CRS is a new form that used to be Part 3 of SEC Form ADV.


   Understanding SEC Form ADV  
  Who Can File SEC Form ADV?  

Officially called the Uniform Application for Investment Adviser Registration and Report by Exempt Reporting Adviser, SEC Form ADV serves as a registration document that must be submitted to the SEC and to state securities authorities.



The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) reviews and approves changes made to the document, and it is supported by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



Potential and current clients of an investment adviser should always review the SEC Form ADV on file. That's because it provides transparent evidence of the asset mix within the firm, as well as the professional background of key personnel.






Most advisers offer a current SEC Form ADV to any potential client early in the marketing process. In fact, investors should be immediately cautious of an adviser that does not freely offer the form upon request.


   How to File SEC Form ADV  

As noted above, there are several parts to this form. We've highlighted some of the key information found in each below.


  Part 1  

The first portion of Form ADV is organized as fill-in-the-blank (often easier for the adviser to compile) and includes details about:



The adviser’s businessIts ownership structure and breakdownAny affiliationsAll relevant business practicesCurrent and historical clientsDetails on its key and other employeesAny disciplinary events involving the advisory firm and/or its employees



The SEC reviews the information provided by the firm from this part of the form to process registrations and manages its regulatory and examination programs.


  Part 2  

The second section of the form is a longer narrative that is prepared by the investment adviser. This must be written in plain English and contain detailed information on the specific types of advisory services offered, the fee schedule of the adviser, disciplinary information, and any conflicts of interest. This latter part may include details on whether any directors have outside business interests that could impact their judgments or provide inside information.



This part should also include management background—their educational history and business experiences. These bios should extend to key advisory personnel, as well. This section is the most important primary disclosure document offered to clients by investment advisers. Brochures are always available to the public once they are filed.



SEC Form ADV Part 2 must also include a supplement, which details information about key employees who directly provide investment advice to clients.


  Annual Updates to SEC Form ADV  

All investment advisers are required to submit annual updates to their brochures. This includes any and all material changes that occur within the firm and any information and/or activity that takes place that is critical to their business.


   SEC Form CRS  

SEC Form ADV previously included Part 3, which was meant to serve as a summary of the previous sections. As such, it was called the relationship summary. In June 2019, the SEC amended the form and spun the third section off into an altogether new form called SEC Form CRS or the Relationship Summary.



The form is meant to "deliver to retail investors a brief customer or client relationship summary that provides information about the firm." It must be filed with the SEC by every firm that provides retail investment services to their clients and it must be submitted to these individuals.



As noted above, SEC Form CRS is a summary of information from SEC Form ADV. Therefore, advisers must include the following information:



Identifying informationServices provided Client relationshipsFees and costsConflicts of interestStandards of conductDisciplinary actionAdditional details



The form must be concise and written in plain English so it can be easily understood.


   How to Access SEC Form ADV  

To request a copy of Form ADV, contact the SEC branch closest to you. Potential and current clients of an investment adviser should always review the Form ADV on file, as it provides transparent evidence of the asset mix within the firm and the professional backgrounds of key personnel.


  Download SEC Form ADV  

Here is a link to a downloadable SEC Form ADV.




How Do I Find a Firm’s SEC Form ADV?
All firms must make the SEC Form ADV they submit to regulation authorities public. This means they can be easily accessed through the Investment Advisor Public Disclosure page of the Securities and Exchange Commission's website. You can also make a request directly to the firm. Keep in mind that all investment firms are required to provide new and existing clients with these forms.




Do Brokers/Dealers File an SEC Form ADV?
Yes. Anyone who provides investment services to their clients is expected to file SEC Form ADV. This includes investment firms or individual advisers. It serves as a registration form with the Securities and Exchange Commission and it must also be filed with one or more state securities authorities.




What Is SEC Form ADV Part 1 and Part 2?
Part 1 of SEC Form ADV is meant to identify the firm that is submitting the form. It includes information about the firm, the services it provides, who owns the business, the clients it serves, any business affiliations, and any disciplinary actions it faced in the past. This section is a fill-in-the-blank or check-box format, which makes it easier to complete.




What Is SEC Form ADV Part 2A and 2B?
Part 2 of SEC Form ADV serves as a brochure for the firm. It provides disclosures about key information about the company, including its business practices, fees, conflicts of interest, and any discipline that it faced in the past.This section is divided into two different sections. Part 2A is the brochure's cover page, which has the identifying information, while Part 2b is the supplement. Details must be written concisely in simple English that can be easily understood.




What Is SEC Form ADV Part 3?
This section is called the relationship summary. In June 2019, the SEC amended SEC Form ADV and turned Part 3 into a separate form called SEC Form CRS. This form must be submitted by any firm that provides retail investment services to their clients. Since it serves as a summary of both parts of SEC Form ADV, it must include any identifying information as well as client relationships, services provided, and conflicts of interest among other things.


   The Bottom Line  

SEC Form ADV is one of just a number of filings that investment advisers and firms must submit in order to remain compliant. Investors can use this information to help guide them when choosing or making changes to their investment team(s). As such, it's important for firms to ensure that the information submitted is concise and written in simple English that can be easily understood by anyone reading it. Keep in mind that the information submitted must be accurate. Any misleading information may result in the revocation of registration, fines, and even prosecution.
What Is the Fortune 100?  

The Fortune 100 is a list of the top 100 companies in the United States within the Fortune 500, a list of the 500 largest U.S. public and privately held companies published by Fortune magazine.



Fortune creates the list by ranking public and private companies that report annual revenue figures to a government agency. The Fortune 100 ranking is based on total revenues for the company's corresponding fiscal year.





Key Takeaways

The Fortune 100 consists of the top companies in the more significant annual Fortune 500 list.The Fortune 500 has been around since 1955 and ranks companies by reported revenues for their fiscal year.The Fortune 500 changed in 1994 to include a broader range of company types from different sectors.Recently, the top 100 companies have included many tech, energy, and healthcare companies.The same big companies often show in the top 10, even if their rankings shift slightly, year after year, like Amazon and Walmart.


   Understanding the Fortune 100  

Fortune first published its first Fortune 500 in 1955. Since that year, the publisher has published an annual list of the top 500 revenue-producing companies. The Fortune 100 is an "unofficial" list within the Fortune 500.






The Fortune 100 described here is not the same as Fortune's 100 Best Companies to Work For.



The Fortune 500 in 1955 was led by General Motors, a company that held the top position for more than 30 years. General Motors had revenues of $9.82 billion to top the list. The remaining nine rounded out as follows:



Exxon Mobil at $5.66 billionU.S. Steel at $3.25 billionGeneral Electric at $2.96 billionEsmark at $2.51 billionChrysler at $2.07 billionArmour at $2.06 billionGulf Oil at $1.71 billionMobil at $1.70 billionDuPont at $1.69 billion






Fortune includes in its 500 list all public and private companies that file financial statements with the government, and are incorporated and operate in the United States.


   Requirements for the Fortune 100  

At first, the magazine's editors were stricter on which business sectors were included. From 1955 to 1994, the Fortune 100 list (again, a subset of the Fortune 500 list) only included businesses in the manufacturing, mining, and energy sectors. This left out many of the top-earning companies across the country. However, Fortune did publish individual sector lists for the top 50 companies in the industries of banks, utilities, insurance, retailers, and transportation.



In 1994, Fortune expanded its list of companies to include service companies, opening the door for many newcomers to join. This change added many new companies to the top 100 companies on the Fortune 500 list and also dramatically increased the amount of annual revenue required to make the prestigious list.



The Fortune 500 does not include foreign companies, though many of the listed companies have significant international operations.






Walmart, which joined the list after 1994, was #1 in 2018 with $500.34 billion in revenue. It has been a frequent top 10 company since its inclusion.


   2022 Fortune 100 Top 10  

The highest-ranked companies in the Fortune 100 for the year 2022 are:



WalmartAmazonAppleCVS HealthUnitedHealth GroupExxon MobilBerkshire HathawayAlphabetMcKessonAmerisourceBergen




How Are the Fortune 100 and Fortune 500 Different?
Based on rankings from Fortune magazine's Fortune 500 list, the Fortune 100 are the 100 largest public and private companies in the United States based on revenues. The Fortune 100 is a subset of the Fortune 500, derived from a list of companies that operate in the United States and report to federal agencies. Prior to 1994, the Fortune 100 only included companies that operated in the mining, manufacturing, and energy sectors. It has since included companies that operate in the services sector.




What Is the History of the Fortune 100?
In 1955, Fortune magazine established the Fortune 500 list. At the time, General Motors ranked at the top of the list with revenues in excess of $9.8 billion. This was a position that it continued to hold for the next three decades. Along with General Motors, many of the largest companies by revenue in 1955 are names that still exist today—including Chrysler, Exxon, and General Electric. 




What Is the Difference Between Fortune 100 and Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work for?
The Fortune 500 ranks the highest revenue-generating companies in the United States each year. By contrast, the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For are ranked according to a survey of employees, who are asked about topics including trust in their organization, reaching their potential, and the effectiveness of leaders, among other variables. To be eligible, companies must employ at least 1,000 employees, and government agencies are not applicable.




What Are the Companies in the Fortune 100?
The Fortune 100 consists of the top 100 companies in the Fortune 500, which itself is the top 50% of the more inclusive Fortune 1,000.The list for 2022 is:






   The Bottom Line  

The Fortune 100 comprises the top 100 companies in the broader Fortune 500 list. a ranking of American companies by annual revenue. To appear on this list is a feather in the cap of a company, and moving up in the ranks is often seen as a positive sign of growth. Many of the companies on the Fortune 100 also appear in the S&P 500 index.



Correction—Aug, 13, 2022: A previous version of this article incorrectly named one of the companies on the Fortune 100 list in 1955. It is Armour, not Under Armour.
What Is the Fortune 500?  

The term Fortune 500 refers to a list of 500 of the largest companies in the United States compiled by Fortune magazine every year. Companies are ranked by their annual revenues for their respective fiscal years. This list includes both public and private companies using publicly available revenue data. To be a Fortune 500 company is widely considered to be a mark of prestige.





Key Takeaways

The Fortune 500 is an annual list of 500 of the largest US companies ranked by total revenues for their respective fiscal years.The list is compiled and published by Fortune magazine.Being on the Fortune 500 is considered to be prestigious—firms on the list are considered to be of high quality.The Fortune 500 has put out a list of top companies since the year 1955.


   Understanding the Fortune 500  

Fortune magazine was founded in 1929 by Henry Robinson Luce.﻿﻿﻿ The first issue was published the following year and has since become one of the world's leading business publications. Originally printed monthly, the magazine put out 16 issues every year and also has a major presence online.



The magazine compiled its first list of the most successful American companies—both public and private—in 1955. It was created by editor Edgar P. Smith in an effort to measure the size and power of American businesses during a time when the country's economic power was "the envy of the world."﻿﻿﻿ Originally called the Fortune Industrial 500, the name of the list was shortened to Fortune 500.



The Fortune 500 survey includes companies that are incorporated and operate in the United States and file financial statements with government agencies. This includes companies that are both publicly traded and privately held. Private companies that don't file financial statements with government agencies, foreign corporations are excluded, as are American companies consolidated by other companies and those that neglect to report full financial statements for at least three quarters of the current fiscal year.﻿﻿﻿ As of 2020, companies are ranked by total revenues for their respective fiscal years as reported on their 10-K filings or comparable financial statements.






About two-thirds of the Fortune 500 appear on the S&P 500 Index, so consider an S&P 500 index fund if you want to invest in many of these companies.



More than 1,800 American companies have been featured on the list over the course of its history. The list has changed dramatically from the very first Fortune 500.﻿﻿ Mergers and acquisitions (M&A), shifts in production output, and bankruptcies have taken companies off of the list. The impact of a recession can also take out multiple companies from individual sectors. The Fortune 500 list can often be a telling sign of how strong the economy is or if there has been an economic recovery after poor performing years.


   Special Considerations  

As of 2020, Walmart (WMT) took to the top spot on the Fortune 500 list for the eighth year in a row. The company earned revenue of $524 billion.﻿﻿ Online retailer Amazon (AMZN) took the second spot with revenues of $280.5 billion, jumping up four spots from 2019.﻿﻿ Exxon Mobil (XOM) came in third with revenues of $265 billion, while Apple (AAPL) and CVS Health (CVS) ranked in fourth and fifth.﻿﻿



The three most profitable companies on the 2020 list were as follows:



Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A/BRK.B) with net profits of $81.4 billion
Apple with net profits of $55.2 billion
Microsoft (MSFT) with net profits of $39.2 billion



Notable newcomers to the list include Dow (DOW), Baker Hughes (BKR), and Uber (UBER).


   The History of the Fortune 500  

As noted above, the idea for the list came from Edgar P. Smith, who was an assistant managing editor for Fortune. Smith's idea took off and provided the grounds for the popular annual list.﻿﻿﻿ The original Fortune 500 lists contained only companies that were in the manufacturing, mining, and energy sectors, limiting inclusion for many big-name companies. To secure a spot on the list, a company had to produce $49.7 million in annual revenue.﻿﻿﻿ In the original 1955 Fortune 500 list, General Motors (GM) was the top company with annual revenues of $9.8 billion.



The Fortune 500 underwent its biggest change in 1995. The new list continued to include companies from the original manufacturing, mining, and energy sectors, but it also included service companies for the first time.﻿﻿﻿ The change greatly impacted the future of the Fortune 500 list.



For example, service companies made up 291 of the 500 entries that year. Three of the newly included service companies even made the top 10 listings in the Fortune 500. Walmart ranked fourth, AT&T was number five, and Sears Roebuck took the ninth spot on the list.﻿﻿﻿ Walmart has spent several years at number one—a position it would not have held if this change didn't occur.﻿﻿﻿
What Is a Forward Contract?  

A forward contract is a customized contract between two parties to buy or sell an asset at a specified price on a future date. A forward contract can be used for hedging or speculation, although its non-standardized nature makes it particularly apt for hedging.





Key Takeaways

A forward contract is a customizable derivative contract between two parties to buy or sell an asset at a specified price on a future date.Forward contracts can be tailored to a specific commodity, amount, and delivery date.Forward contracts do not trade on a centralized exchange and are considered over-the-counter (OTC) instruments.For example, forward contracts can help producers and users of agricultural products hedge against a change in the price of an underlying asset or commodity.Financial institutions that initiate forward contracts are exposed to a greater degree of settlement and default risk compared to contracts that are marked-to-market regularly.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Forward Contracts  

Unlike standard futures contracts, a forward contract can be customized to a commodity, amount, and delivery date. Commodities traded can be grains, precious metals, natural gas, oil, or even poultry. A forward contract settlement can occur on a cash or delivery basis.



Forward contracts do not trade on a centralized exchange and are therefore regarded as over-the-counter (OTC) instruments. While their OTC nature makes it easier to customize terms, the lack of a centralized clearinghouse also gives rise to a higher degree of default risk.






Because of their potential for default risk and lack of a centralized clearinghouse, forward contracts are not as easily available to retail investors as futures contracts.


   Forward Contracts vs. Futures Contracts  

Both forward and futures contracts involve the agreement to buy or sell a commodity at a set price in the future. But there are slight differences between the two. While a forward contract does not trade on an exchange, a futures contract does.



Settlement for the forward contract takes place at the end of the contract, while the futures contract settles on a daily basis. Most importantly, futures contracts exist as standardized contracts that are not customized between counterparties.


   Example of a Forward Contract  

Consider the following example of a forward contract. Assume that an agricultural producer has two million bushels of corn to sell six months from now and is concerned about a potential decline in the price of corn. It thus enters into a forward contract with its financial institution to sell two million bushels of corn at a price of $4.30 per bushel in six months, with settlement on a cash basis.



In six months, the spot price of corn has three possibilities:



It is exactly $4.30 per bushel. In this case, no monies are owed by the producer or financial institution to each other and the contract is closed.It is higher than the contract price, say $5 per bushel. The producer owes the institution $1.4 million, or the difference between the current spot price and the contracted rate of $4.30.It is lower than the contract price, say $3.50 per bushel. The financial institution will pay the producer $1.6 million, or the difference between the contracted rate of $4.30 and the current spot price.






   Risks of Forward Contracts  

The market for forward contracts is huge since many of the world’s biggest corporations use it to hedge currency and interest rate risks. However, since the details of forward contracts are restricted to the buyer and seller—and are not known to the general public—the size of this market is difficult to estimate.



The large size and unregulated nature of the forward contracts market mean that it may be susceptible to a cascading series of defaults in the worst-case scenario. While banks and financial corporations mitigate this risk by being very careful in their choice of counterparty, the possibility of large-scale default does exist.



Another risk that arises from the non-standard nature of forward contracts is that they are only settled on the settlement date and are not marked-to-market like futures. What if the forward rate specified in the contract diverges widely from the spot rate at the time of settlement?



In this case, the financial institution that originated the forward contract is exposed to a greater degree of risk in the event of default or non-settlement by the client than if the contract were marked-to-market regularly.
What Is a Forward Dividend Yield?  

A forward dividend yield is an estimation of a year's dividend expressed as a percentage of the current stock price. The year's projected dividend is measured by taking a stock's most recent actual dividend payment and annualizing it. The forward dividend yield is calculated by dividing a year's worth of future dividend payments by a stock's current share price.





Key Takeaways

A forward dividend yield is the percentage of a company's current stock price that it expects to pay out as dividends over a certain time period, generally 12 months.Forward dividend yields are generally used in circumstances where the yield is predictable based on past instances. If not, trailing yields, which indicate the same value over the previous 12 months, are used.


   Understanding a Forward Dividend Yield  

For example, if a company pays a Q1 dividend of 25 cents, and you assume the company's dividend will be consistent, the firm will be expected to pay $1.00 in dividends over the course of the year. (25 cents x 4 quarters). If the stock price is $10, the forward dividend yield is 10% ([1/10] x 100).



The opposite of a forward dividend yield is a trailing dividend yield, which shows a company's actual dividend payments relative to its share price over the previous 12 months. When future dividend payments are not predictable, the trailing dividend yield can be one way to measure value. When future dividend payments are predictable or have been announced, the forward dividend yield is a more accurate tool.






Forward dividend yield is also know as indicated yield.



An additional form of dividend yield is the indicated yield or the dividend yield that one share of stock would return, based on its current indicated dividend. To calculate indicated yield, multiply the most recent dividend issued by the number of annual dividend payments (the indicated dividend). Divide the product by the most current share price.


















Indicated Yield


=




(


MRD


)


×


(


#


 of DPEY


)



Stock Price

















where:
















MRD


=


Most recent dividend
















DPEY


=


Dividend payments each year







\begin{aligned}&\text{Indicated Yield}=\frac{(\text{MRD})\times(\#\text{ of DPEY})}{\text{Stock Price}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{MRD}=\text{Most recent dividend}\\&\text{DPEY}=\text{Dividend payments each year}\end{aligned}


​Indicated Yield=Stock Price(MRD)×(# of DPEY)​where:MRD=Most recent dividendDPEY=Dividend payments each year​



For example, if a stock trading at $100 has a most recent quarterly dividend of $0.50, the indicated yield would be:








Indicated Yield of Stock ABC


=




$


0.50


×


4




$


100




=


2


%


.



\text{Indicated Yield of Stock ABC}=\frac{\$0.50\times4}{\$100}=2\%.


Indicated Yield of Stock ABC=$100$0.50×4​=2%.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Forward Dividend Yields and Corporate Dividend Policy  

A company’s board of directors determines the dividend policy of the company. In general, more mature and established companies issue dividends, while younger, rapidly growing firms often choose to put any excess profits back into the company for research, development, and expansion purposes. Common types of dividend policies include the stable dividend policy, in which the company issues dividends when earnings are up or down.



The goal of a stable dividend policy is to align with the firm’s goal for long-term growth instead of its quarterly earnings volatility. With a constant dividend policy, a company issues a dividend each year, based on a percentage of the company's earnings.



With constant dividends, investors experience the full volatility of company earnings. Finally, with a residual dividend policy, a company pays out any earnings after it pays for its own capital expenditures and working capital needs.




What Is a Good Dividend Yield?
Generally, a dividend yield between 2% and 6% is considered a good dividend yield. Yields above 6% are considered to be higher-risk stocks, which, depending on the investor's risk tolerance, may be a risky investment not worth exploring. As of March 10, 2022, the average dividend yield for the S&P 500 since inception is 4.29% and its current dividend yield is 1.42%.




What Is a Good P/E Ratio?
The higher the P/E ratio means the more willing investors are to pay a higher share price now for a stock with the expectation of growth in the future. The average P/E ratio of the S&P 500 since inception is 15.97 while its current P/E ratio is 24.29.




Does Tesla Pay Dividends?
No, Tesla has not and does not intend on paying dividends. The company believes in keeping its retained earnings to fund the growth of the company.
What Is a Forward Exchange Contract (FEC)?  

A forward exchange contract (FEC) is a special type of over-the-counter (OTC) foreign currency (forex) transaction entered into in order to exchange currencies that are not often traded in forex markets. These may include minor currencies as well as blocked or otherwise inconvertible currencies. An FEC involving such a blocked currency is known as a non-deliverable forward, or NDF.



Broadly speaking, forward contracts are contractual agreements between two parties to exchange a pair of currencies at a specific time in the future. These transactions typically take place on a date after the date that the spot contract settles and are used to protect the buyer from fluctuations in currency prices.





Key Takeaways

A forward exchange contract (FEC) is an agreement between two parties to effect a currency transaction, usually involving a currency pair not readily accessible on forex markets.FECs are traded OTC with customizable terms and conditions, many times referencing currencies that are illiquid, blocked, or inconvertible.FECs are used as a hedge against risk as it protects both parties from unexpected or adverse movements in the currencies' future spot rates when FX trading is otherwise unavailable.


   Understanding Forward Exchange Contracts (FECs)  

Forward exchange contracts (FECs) are not traded on exchanges, and standard amounts of currency are not traded in these agreements. Still, they cannot be canceled except by the mutual agreement of both parties involved.



The parties involved in the contract are generally interested in hedging a foreign exchange position or taking a speculative position. All FECs set out the currency pair, notional amount, settlement date, and delivery rate, and also stipulate that the prevailing spot rate on the fixing date be used to conclude the transaction.



The contract's rate of exchange is thus fixed and specified for a specific date in the future, allowing the parties involved to better budget for future financial projects and know in advance precisely what their income or costs from the transaction will be at the specified future date. The nature of FECs protects both parties from unexpected or adverse movements in the currencies' future spot rates.






Forward exchange rates for most currency pairs can usually be obtained for up to 12 months in the future—or up to 10 years for the four "major pairs."



Generally, forward exchange rates for most currency pairs can be obtained for up to 12 months in the future. There are four pairs of currencies known as the "major pairs." These are the U.S. dollar and euros; the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen; the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling; and the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc. For these four pairs, exchange rates for a time period of up to 10 years can be obtained.



Contract times as short as a few days are also available from many providers. Although a contract can be customized, most entities won't see the full benefit of an FEC unless setting a minimum contract amount at $30,000.


   Special Considerations  

The largest forward exchange markets are in the Chinese yuan (CNY), Indian rupee (INR), South Korean won (KRW), New Taiwan dollar (TWD), Brazilian real (BRL), and Russian ruble (RUB). The largest OTC markets, meanwhile, take place in London, with active markets also in New York, Singapore, and Hong Kong. Some countries, including South Korea, have limited but restricted onshore forward markets in addition to an active NDF market.



The largest segment of FEC trading is done against the U.S. dollar (USD). There are also active markets using the euro (EUR), the Japanese yen (JPY), and, to a lesser extent, the British pound (GBP) and the Swiss franc (CHF).


   Forward Exchange Calculation and Example  

The forward exchange rate for a contract can be calculated using four variables:



S = the current spot rate of the currency pair
r(d) = the domestic currency interest rate
r(f) = the foreign currency interest rate
t = time of contract in days



The formula for the forward exchange rate would be:



Forward rate = S x (1 + r(d) x (t / 360)) / (1 + r(f) x (t / 360))



For example, assume that the U.S. dollar (USD) and Canadian dollar (CAD) spot rate is 1 CAD buys $0.80 USD. The U.S. three-month rate is 0.75%, and the Canadian three-month rate is 0.25%. In this case, the three-month USD/CAD FEC rate would be calculated as:



Three-month forward rate = 0.80 x (1 + 0.75% * (90 / 360)) / (1 + 0.25% * (90 / 360)) = 0.80 x (1.0019 / 1.0006) = 0.801



The difference due to the rates over 90 days is one one-hundredth of a cent.
What Is Forward Integration?  

Forward integration is a business strategy that involves a form of downstream vertical integration whereby the company owns and controls business activities that are ahead in the value chain of its industry, this might include among others direct distribution or supply of the company's products. This type of vertical integration is conducted by a company advancing along the supply chain.



A good example of forward integration would be a farmer who directly sells his crops at a local grocery store rather than to a distribution center that controls the placement of foodstuffs to various supermarkets. Or, a clothing label that opens up its own boutiques, selling its designs directly to customers instead of or in addition to selling them through department stores.


   How Forward Integration Works  

Often referred to as "cutting out the middleman," forward integration is an operational strategy implemented by a company that wants to increase control over its suppliers, manufacturers, or distributors, so it can increase its market power. For a forward integration to be successful, a company needs to gain ownership over other companies that were once customers. This strategy differs from backward integration in which a company tries to increase ownership over companies that were once its suppliers.






A company implements forward integration strategies when it wants to exert a wider control over the value chain of its industry, optimize economies of scope, and target better cost structure, thereby increasing its industry market share and profitability.



The rise of the internet has made forward integration both easier and a more popular approach to business strategy. A manufacturer, for example, has the ability to set up an online store and use digital marketing to sell its products. Previously, it had to use retail companies and marketing firms to effectively sell the products.



The goal of forward integration is for a company to move forward in the supply chain, increasing its overall ownership of the industry. Standard industries are made up of five steps in the supply chain: raw materials, intermediate goods, manufacturing, marketing and sales, and after-sale service. If a company wants to conduct a forward integration, it must advance along the chain while still maintaining control of its current operations—its original place in the chain, so to speak.





Key Takeaways

Forward integration is a business strategy that involves expanding a company's activities to include the direct distribution of its products.Forward integration is colloquially referred to as "cutting out the middleman."While forward integration can be a way to increase a company's control of its product and profits, there can be a danger of diluting the core competencies and business.


   Special Considerations for Forward Integration  

Companies should be aware of the costs and scope associated with a forward integration. They should only engage in this sort of strategy if there are cost benefits and if the integration won't dilute its current core competencies. Sometimes it is more effective for a company to rely on the established expertise and economies of scale of other vendors, rather than expand on its own.


   Example of Forward Integration  

For example, the company Intel supplies Dell with intermediate goods—its processors—that are placed within Dell's hardware. If Intel wanted to move forward in the supply chain, it could conduct a merger or acquisition of Dell in order to own the manufacturing portion of the industry.



Additionally, if Dell wanted to engage in forward integration, it could seek to take control of a marketing agency that the company previously used to market its end-product. However, Dell cannot seek to take over Intel if it wants to integrate forward. Only a backward integration allows a movement up the supply chain its case.
What Is a Forward Market?  

A forward market is an over-the-counter marketplace that sets the price of a financial instrument or asset for future delivery. Forward markets are used for trading a range of instruments, but the term is primarily used with reference to the foreign exchange market. It can also apply to markets for securities and interest rates as well as commodities.





Key Takeaways

Forward contracts differ from future contracts in that they are customizable in terms of size and length, or maturity term.Forward contract pricing is based on interest rate discrepancies.The most commonly traded currencies in the forward market are the same as on the spot market: EUR/USD, USD/JPY and GBP/USD.


   How A Forward Market Works  

A forward market leads to the creation of forward contracts. While forward contracts—like futures contracts—may be used for both hedging and speculation, there are some notable differences between the two. Forward contracts can be customized to fit a customer's requirements, while futures contracts have standardized features in terms of their contract size and maturity.



Forwards are executed between banks or between a bank and a customer; futures are done on an exchange, which is a party to the transaction. The flexibility of forwards contributes to their attractiveness in the foreign exchange market.


   Pricing  

Prices in the forward market are interest-rate based. In the foreign exchange market, the forward price is derived from the interest rate differential between the two currencies, which is applied over the period from the transaction date to the settlement date of the contract. In interest rate forwards, the price is based on the yield curve to maturity.


   Foreign Exchange Forwards  

Interbank forward foreign exchange markets are priced and executed as swaps. This means that currency A is purchased vs. currency B for delivery on the spot date at the spot rate in the market at the time the transaction is executed. At maturity, currency A is sold vs. currency B at the original spot rate plus or minus the forward points; this price is set when the swap is initiated.



The interbank market usually trades for straight dates, such as a week or a month from the spot date. Three- and six-month maturities are among the most common, while the market is less liquid beyond 12 months. Amounts are commonly $25 million or more and can range into the billions.



Customers, both corporations and financial institutions such as hedge funds and mutual funds, can execute forwards with a bank counter-party either as a swap or an outright transaction. In an outright forward, currency A is bought vs. currency B for delivery on the maturity date, which can be any business day beyond the spot date. The price is again the spot rate plus or minus the forward points, but no money changes hands until the maturity date. Outright forwards are often for odd dates and amounts; they can be for any size.


   Non-Deliverable Forwards  

Currencies for which there is no standard forward market can be traded via a non-deliverable forward. These are executed off-shore to avoid trading restrictions, are only executed as swaps and are cash-settled in dollars or euros. The most commonly traded currencies are the Chinese remnimbi, South Korean won, and Indian rupee.
What are Forward Points?  

In currency trading, forward points are the number of basis points added to or subtracted from the current spot rate of a currency pair to determine the forward rate for delivery on a specific value date. When points are added to the spot rate this is called a forward premium; when points are subtracted from the spot rate it is a forward discount. The forward rate is based on the difference between the interest rates of the two currencies (currency deals always involve two currencies) and the time until the maturity of the deal. 



Forward points are also known as the forward spread.



Basis points can be either added or taken away from the spot rate. If they are added, they are forward points. If subtracted, they are discount points.





Key Takeaways

In currency trading, forward points are the number of basis points added to or subtracted from the current spot rate of a currency pair to determine the forward rate for delivery on a specific value date.A discount spread is the currency forward points that are subtracted from the spot rate, to obtain a forward rate for a currency.When points are added to the spot rate this is called a forward premium; when points are subtracted from the spot rate it is a forward discount.


   The Basics of Forward Points  

Forward points are used to calculate the price for both an outright forward contract and a foreign currency swap. Points can be calculated and transactions executed for any date that is a valid business day in both currencies. The most commonly traded forward currencies are the U.S. dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, and the Swiss franc.



Forwards are most commonly done for periods of up to one year. Prices for further out dates are available, but liquidity is generally lower. In an outright forward foreign exchange contract, one currency is bought against another for delivery on any date beyond the spot. The price is the spot rate plus or minus the forward points to the value date. No money changes hands until the value date.



In a foreign exchange swap, a currency is bought for the near date (usually spot) against another currency, and the same amount is sold back for the forward date. The rate for the forward leg of the swap is the near-date rate plus or minus the forward points to the far date. Money changes hands on both value dates.


  Discount Spreads  

In contrast to the forward spread, a discount spread is the currency forward points that are subtracted from the spot rate, to obtain a forward rate for a currency. In the currency markets, forward spreads, or points, are presented as two-way quotes; that is, they have a bid price and an offer price. In a discount spread, the bid price will be higher than the offer price, while in a premium spread, the bid price will be lower than the offer price.


   Examples of Forward Points  

Forward points are often quoted in numbers, such as +13.2 or minus -270.68. These represent 1/10,000, so +13.2 means 0.00132 when added to a currency spot price. 



For example, if the euro can be bought versus the dollar at the rate of 1.1350 for spot, and the forward points are +13.2, the forward rate is 1.13632 (or 1.1350 + 0.00132).



Just based on this information we can determine that the interest rate in the US is higher than in the Eurozone. The positive forward points when buying the EUR/USD tell us that the rate goes up the further out into the future we go. This is because the forward points compensate for the difference in interest rates between the two currencies.



Thinking of it a different way if the euro interest rate is 1% and the U.S. interest rate is 2%, you could make the 1% difference by holding U.S. dollars instead of euros. So when exchanging or locking in currency exchange rates for the future (forward rate) this needs to be factored in.
What Is a Forward Premium?  

A forward premium is a situation in which the forward or expected future price for a currency is greater than the spot price. It is an indication by the market that the current domestic exchange rate is going to increase against the other currency.



This circumstance can be confusing because an increasing exchange rate means the currency is depreciating in value.





Key Takeaways

A forward premium is a situation in which the forward or expected future price for a currency is greater than the spot price.A forward premium is frequently measured as the difference between the current spot rate and the forward rate.When a forward premium is negative, is it is equivalent to a discount.


   Understanding Forward Premiums  

A forward premium is frequently measured as the difference between the current spot rate and the forward rate, so it is reasonable to assume that the future spot rate will be equal to the current futures rate. According to the forward expectation's theory of exchange rates, the current spot futures rate will be the future spot rate. This theory is rooted in empirical studies and is a reasonable assumption over a long-term time horizon.






Typically, a forward premium reflects possible changes arising from differences in the interest rate between the two currencies of the two countries involved.



Forward currency exchange rates are often different from the spot exchange rate for the currency. If the forward exchange rate for a currency is more than the spot rate, a premium exists for that currency. A discount happens when the forward exchange rate is less than the spot rate.


   Forward Rate Premium Calculation  

The basics of calculating a forward rate require both the current spot price of the currency pair and the interest rates in the two countries (see below). Consider this example of an exchange between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar:



The ninety-day yen to dollar (¥ / $) forward exchange rate is 109.50.The spot rate ¥ / $ rate is = 109.38.Calculation for annualized forward premium = ((109.50-109.38÷109.38) x (360 ÷ 90) x 100% = 0.44%



In this case, the dollar is "strong" relative to the yen since the dollar's forward value exceeds the spot value by a premium of 0.12 yen per dollar. The yen would trade at a discount because its forward value regarding dollars is less than its spot rate.



To calculate the forward discount for the yen, you first need to calculate the forward exchange and spot rates for the yen in the relationship of dollars per yen.



¥ / $ forward exchange rate is (1÷109.50 = 0.0091324).¥ / $ spot rate is (1÷109.38 = 0.0091424).Annualized forward discount for the yen, in terms of dollars = ((0.0091324 - 0.0091424) ÷ 0.0091424) × (360 ÷ 90) × 100% = -0.44%



For the calculation of periods other than a year, you would input the number of days as shown in the following example. A three-month forward rate is equal to the spot rate multiplied by (1 + the domestic rate times 90/360 / 1 + foreign rate times 90/360).



To calculate the forward rate, multiply the spot rate by the ratio of interest rates and adjust for the time until expiration. So, the forward rate is equal to the spot rate x (1 + domestic interest rate) / (1 + foreign interest rate).



As an example, assume the current U.S. dollar-to-euro exchange rate is $1.1365. The domestic interest rate, or the U.S. rate is 5%, and the foreign interest rate is 4.75%. Plugging the values into the equation results in: F = $1.1365 x (1.05 / 1.0475) = $1.1392. In this case, it reflects a forward premium.
What is a Forward Price  

Forward price is the predetermined delivery price for an underlying commodity, currency, or financial asset as decided by the buyer and the seller of the forward contract, to be paid at a predetermined date in the future. At the inception of a forward contract, the forward price makes the value of the contract zero, but changes in the price of the underlying will cause the forward price to take on a positive or negative value.
The forward price is determined by the following formula:
















F


0



=



S


0



×



e



r


T









\begin{aligned} &F_0 = S_0 \times e^{rT} \\ \end{aligned}


​F0​=S0​×erT​


   Basics of Forward Price  

Forward price is based on the current spot price of the underlying asset, plus any carrying costs such as interest, storage costs, foregone interest or other costs including opportunity costs.



Although the contract has no intrinsic value at the inception, over time, a contract may gain or lose value. Offsetting positions in a forward contract are equivalent to a zero-sum game. For example, if one investor takes a long position in a pork belly forward agreement and another investor takes the short position, any gains in the long position equals the losses that the second investor incurs from the short position. By initially setting the value of the contract to zero, both parties are on equal ground at the inception of the contract.





Key Takeaways

Forward price is the price at which a seller delivers an underlying asset, financial derivative, or currency to the buyer of a forward contract at a predetermined date.It is roughly equal to the spot price plus associated carrying costs such as storage costs, interest rates, etc.Investors may want to lock in a forward price to hedge against future market fluctuations.The downside of locking in a forward price is that the asset’s value could move unfavorably against the investor.


   Forward Price Calculation Example  

When the underlying asset in the forward contract does not pay any dividends, the forward price can be calculated using the following formula:



﻿















F


=


S


×



e



(


r


×


t


)


















where:
















F


=


the contract’s forward price
















S


=


the underlying asset’s current spot price
















e


=


the mathematical irrational constant approximated
















by 2.7183
















r


=


the risk-free rate that applies to the life of the
















forward contract
















t


=


the delivery date in years








\begin{aligned} &F = S \times e ^ { (r \times t) } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &F = \text{the contract's forward price} \\ &S = \text{the underlying asset's current spot price} \\ &e = \text{the mathematical irrational constant approximated} \\ &\text{by 2.7183} \\ &r = \text{the risk-free rate that applies to the life of the} \\ &\text{forward contract} \\ &t = \text{the delivery date in years} \\ \end{aligned}


​F=S×e(r×t)where:F=the contract’s forward priceS=the underlying asset’s current spot pricee=the mathematical irrational constant approximatedby 2.7183r=the risk-free rate that applies to the life of theforward contractt=the delivery date in years​﻿



For example, assume a security is currently trading at $100 per unit. An investor wants to enter into a forward contract that expires in one year. The current annual risk-free interest rate is 6%. Using the above formula, the forward price is calculated as:



﻿















F


=


$


1


0


0


×



e



(


0


.


0


6


×


1


)




=


$


1


0


6


.


1


8








\begin{aligned} &F = \$100 \times e ^ { (0.06 \times 1) } = \$106.18 \\ \end{aligned}


​F=$100×e(0.06×1)=$106.18​﻿



If the there are carrying costs, that is added into the formula:



﻿















F


=


S


×



e



(


r


+


q


)


×


t










\begin{aligned} &F = S \times e ^ { (r + q) \times t } \\ \end{aligned}


​F=S×e(r+q)×t​﻿



Here, q is the carrying costs.



If the underlying asset pays dividends over the life of the contract, the formula for the forward price is:



﻿















F


=


(


S


−


D


)


×



e



(


r


×


t


)










\begin{aligned} &F = ( S - D ) \times e ^ { ( r \times t ) } \\ \end{aligned}


​F=(S−D)×e(r×t)​﻿



Here, D equals the sum of each dividend's present value, given as:



﻿









D


=









 


PV


(


d


(


1


)


)


+


PV


(


d


(


2


)


)


+


⋯


+


PV


(


d


(


x


)


)










=









 


d


(


1


)


×



e



−


(


r


×


t


(


1


)


)




+


d


(


2


)


×



e



−


(


r


×


t


(


2


)


)




+


⋯


+











=










 


d


(


x


)


×



e



−


(


r


×


t


(


x


)


)










\begin{aligned} D =& \ \text{PV}(d(1)) + \text{PV}(d(2)) + \cdots + \text{PV}(d(x)) \\ =& \ d(1) \times e ^ {- ( r \times t(1) ) } + d(2) \times e ^ { - ( r \times t(2) ) } + \cdots + \\ \phantom{=}& \ d(x) \times e ^ { - ( r \times t(x) ) } \\ \end{aligned}


D===​ PV(d(1))+PV(d(2))+⋯+PV(d(x)) d(1)×e−(r×t(1))+d(2)×e−(r×t(2))+⋯+ d(x)×e−(r×t(x))​﻿



Using the example above, assume that the security pays a 50-cent dividend every three months. First, the present value of each dividend is calculated as:



﻿















PV


(


d


(


1


)


)


=


$


0


.


5


×



e



−


(


0


.


0


6


×




3




1


2




)




=


$


0


.


4


9


3








\begin{aligned} &\text{PV}(d(1)) = \$0.5 \times e ^ { - ( 0.06 \times \frac { 3 }{ 12 } ) } = \$0.493 \\ \end{aligned}


​PV(d(1))=$0.5×e−(0.06×123​)=$0.493​﻿



﻿















PV


(


d


(


2


)


)


=


$


0


.


5


×



e



−


(


0


.


0


6


×




6




1


2




)




=


$


0


.


4


8


5








\begin{aligned} &\text{PV}(d(2)) = \$0.5 \times e ^ { - ( 0.06 \times \frac { 6 }{ 12 } ) } = \$0.485 \\ \end{aligned}


​PV(d(2))=$0.5×e−(0.06×126​)=$0.485​﻿



﻿















PV


(


d


(


3


)


)


=


$


0


.


5


×



e



−


(


0


.


0


6


×




9




1


2




)




=


$


0


.


4


7


8








\begin{aligned} &\text{PV}(d(3)) = \$0.5 \times e ^ { - ( 0.06 \times \frac { 9 }{ 12 } ) } = \$0.478 \\ \end{aligned}


​PV(d(3))=$0.5×e−(0.06×129​)=$0.478​﻿



﻿















PV


(


d


(


4


)


)


=


$


0


.


5


×



e



−


(


0


.


0


6


×




1


2




1


2




)




=


$


0


.


4


7


1








\begin{aligned} &\text{PV}(d(4)) = \$0.5 \times e ^ { - ( 0.06 \times \frac { 12 }{ 12 } ) } = \$0.471 \\ \end{aligned}


​PV(d(4))=$0.5×e−(0.06×1212​)=$0.471​﻿



The sum of these is $1.927. This amount is then plugged into the dividend-adjusted forward price formula:



﻿















F


=


(


$


1


0


0


−


$


1


.


9


2


7


)


×



e



(


0


.


0


6


×


1


)




=


$


1


0


4


.


1


4








\begin{aligned} &F = ( \$100 - \$1.927 ) \times e ^ { ( 0.06 \times 1 ) } = \$104.14 \\ \end{aligned}


​F=($100−$1.927)×e(0.06×1)=$104.14​﻿




What is the Difference Between Forward Price and Spot Price?
Forward price refers to a predetermined future delivery price for an underlying commodity, currency, or financial asset agreed upon by the buyer and seller of a forward futures contract. In contrast, a spot price refers to the asset’s current market price. 




Why Do Some Investors Want to Lock in a Forward Price?
Investors may want to lock in a forward price to hedge against future market fluctuations. For example, a farmer may want to use a forward wheat contract ahead of harvest to protect against a decline in grain prices caused by potential drought or flood.




What are the Drawbacks of Locking in a Forward Price?
The main downside of locking in a forward price is that the asset’s value could move unfavorably against the investor, resulting in a loss compared to selling at the spot price on the asset's delivery. Furthermore, a longer-dated forward price contact increases the risk of non-payment or default.




What are the Main factors That Determine an Asset’s Forward Price?
Investors determine an asset's forward price based on its current spot price plus carrying costs such as storage, transportation, opportunity costs, and foregone interest. Typically, these costs will be higher for forward contracts that have longer expiry dates.


   The Bottom Line  

Forward price refers to an asset’s future delivery price agreed upon by the buyer and seller of a forward futures contract. This type of contract has zero value at inception as market conditions have yet to change. Investors determine a forward price by adding carrying costs to the underlying asset's spot price. Using a forward price in futures contracts provides a hedge against market fluctuations; however, this can work as a double-edged sword if an asset's value moves unfavorably against the investor.
What Is Forward Price-to-Earnings (Forward P/E)?  

Forward price-to-earnings (forward P/E) is a version of the ratio of price-to-earnings (P/E) that uses forecasted earnings for the P/E calculation. While the earnings used in this formula are just an estimate and not as reliable as current or historical earnings data, there are still benefits to estimated P/E analysis.





Key Takeaways:

Forward P/E is a version of the ratio of price-to-earnings that uses forecasted earnings for the P/E calculation.Because forward P/E uses estimated earnings per share (EPS), it may produce incorrect or biased results if actual earnings prove to be different.Analysts often combine forward and trailing P/E estimates to make a better judgment.


   Understanding Forward Price-to-Earnings (Forward P/E)  

The forecasted earnings used in the formula below are typically either projected earnings for the following 12 months or the next full-year fiscal (FY) period. The forward P/E can be contrasted with the trailing P/E ratio.






Forward 


P


/


E


=



Current Share Price


Estimated Future Earnings per Share




\text{Forward } P/E = \frac{\text{Current Share Price}}{\text{Estimated Future Earnings per Share}}


Forward P/E=Estimated Future Earnings per ShareCurrent Share Price​

For example, assume that a company has a current share price of $50 and this year’s earnings per share are $5. Analysts estimate that the company's earnings will grow by 10% over the next fiscal year. The company has a current P/E ratio of $50 / 5 = 10x.
The forward P/E, on the other hand, would be $50 / (5 x 1.10) = 9.1x. Note that the forward P/E is smaller than the current P/E since the forward P/E accounts for future earnings growth relative to today's share price.


   What Does Forward Price-to-Earnings Reveal?  

Analysts like to think of the P/E ratio as a price tag on earnings. It is used to calculate a relative value based on a company's level of earnings. In theory, $1 of earnings at company A is worth the same as $1 of earnings at company B. If this is the case, both companies should also be trading at the same price, but this is rarely the case.



If company A is trading for $5, and company B is trading for $10, this implies that the market values company B's earnings more. There can be various interpretations as to why company B is valued more. It could mean that company B's earnings are overvalued. It could also mean that company B deserves a premium on the value of its earnings due to superior management and a better business model.



When calculating the trailing P/E ratio, analysts compare today's price against earnings for the last 12 months or the last fiscal year. However, both are based on historical prices. Analysts use earnings estimates to determine what the relative value of the company will be at a future level of earnings. The forward P/E estimates the relative value of the earnings.



For example, if the current price of company B is $10, and earnings are estimated to double next year to $2, the forward P/E ratio is 5x, or half the value of the company when it made $1 in earnings. If the forward P/E ratio is lower than the current P/E ratio, this implies that analysts are expecting earnings to increase. If the forward P/E is higher than the current P/E ratio, analysts expect a decrease in earnings.


   Forward P/E vs. Trailing P/E  

Forward P/E uses projected EPS. Meanwhile, trailing P/E relies on past performance by dividing the current share price by the total EPS earnings over the past 12 months. Trailing P/E is the most popular P/E metric because it's the most objective—assuming the company reported earnings accurately. Some investors prefer to look at the trailing P/E because they don't trust another individual’s earnings estimates.



However, trailing P/E also has its share of shortcomings—namely, a company’s past performance does not signal future behavior. Investors should thus commit money based on future earnings power, not the past. The fact that the EPS number remains constant while the stock prices fluctuate is also a problem. If a major company event drives the stock price significantly higher or lower, the trailing P/E will be less reflective of those changes.


   Limitations of Forward P/E  

Since forward P/E relies on estimated future earnings, it is subject to miscalculation and/or analysts' bias. There are other inherent problems with the forward P/E also. Companies could underestimate earnings to beat the consensus estimate P/E when the next quarter's earnings are announced.



Other companies may overstate the estimate and later adjust it going into their next earnings announcement. Furthermore, external analysts may also provide estimates, which may diverge from the company estimates, creating confusion.



If you're using forward P/E as the central basis of your investment thesis, research the companies thoroughly. If the company updates its guidance, this will affect the forward P/E in a way that might cause you to change your opinion. It is good practice to use both forward and trailing P/E to come to a more trustworthy figure.


   How to Calculate Forward P/E in Excel  

You can calculate a company's forward P/E for the next fiscal year in Microsoft Excel. As shown above, the formula for the forward P/E is simply a company's market price per share divided by its expected earnings per share. In Microsoft Excel, first increase the widths of columns A, B, and C by right-clicking on each of the columns and left-clicking on "Column Width" and change the value to 30.



Assume you wanted to compare the forward P/E ratio between two companies in the same sector. Enter the name of the first company into cell B1 and the name of the second company into cell C1. Then:



Enter "Market price per share" into cell A2, and the corresponding values for the companies' market price per share into cells B2 and C2.
Next, enter "Forward earnings per share" into cell A3, and the corresponding value for the companies' expected EPS for the next fiscal year into cells B3 and C3.
Then, enter "Forward price to earnings ratio" into cell A4.



For example, assume company ABC is currently trading at $50 and has an expected EPS of $2.60. Enter "Company ABC" into cell B1. Next, enter "=50" into cell B2 and "=2.6" into cell B3. Then, enter "=B2/B3" into cell B4. The resulting forward P/E ratio for company ABC is 19.23.



On the other hand, company DEF currently has a market value per share of $30 and has an expected EPS of $1.80. Enter "Company DEF" into cell C1. Next, enter "=30" into cell C2 and "=1.80" into cell C3. Then, enter "=C2/C3" into cell C4. The resulting forward P/E for company DEF is 16.67.
What Is a Forward Rate?  

A forward rate is an interest rate applicable to a financial transaction that will take place in the future. Forward rates are calculated from the spot rate and are adjusted for the cost of carry to determine the future interest rate that equates the total return of a longer-term investment with a strategy of rolling over a shorter-term investment.



The term may also refer to the rate fixed for a future financial obligation, such as the interest rate on a loan payment.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Forward Rates  

In forex, the forward rate specified in an agreement is a contractual obligation that must be honored by the parties involved. For example, consider an American exporter with a large export order pending for Europe, and the exporter undertakes to sell 10 million euros in exchange for dollars at a forward rate of 1.35 euros per U.S. dollar in six months' time. The exporter is obligated to deliver 10 million euros at the specified forward rate on the specified date, regardless of the status of the export order or the exchange rate prevailing in the spot market at that time.



For this reason, forward rates are widely used for hedging purposes in the currency markets, since currency forwards can be tailored for specific requirements, unlike futures, which have fixed contract sizes and expiry dates and therefore cannot be customized.



In the context of bonds, forward rates are calculated to determine future values. For example, an investor can purchase a one-year Treasury bill or buy a six-month bill and roll it into another six-month bill once it matures. The investor will be indifferent if both investments produce the same total return.



For example, the investor will know the spot rate for the six-month bill and will also know the rate of a one-year bond at the initiation of the investment, but they will not know the value of a six-month bill that is to be purchased six months from now.






   Forward Rates in Practice  

To mitigate reinvestment risks, the investor could enter into a contractual agreement that would allow them to invest funds six months from now at the current forward rate.



Now, fast-forward six months. If the market spot rate for a new six-month investment is lower, the investor could use the forward rate agreement to invest the funds from the matured t-bill at the more favorable forward rate. If the spot rate is high enough, the investor could cancel the forward rate agreement and invest the funds at the prevailing market rate of interest on a new six-month investment.
What Is a Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)?  

A forward rate agreement (FRA) is an over-the-counter (OTC) contract between parties that determines the rate of interest to be paid on an agreed-upon date in the future. In other words, an FRA is an agreement to exchange an interest rate commitment on a notional amount.



The forward rate agreement determines the rates to be used along with the termination date and notional value. FRAs are cash-settled. The payment is based on the net difference between the interest rate of the contract and the floating rate in the market—the reference rate. The notional amount is not exchanged. It is a cash amount based on the rate differentials and the notional value of the contract.





Key Takeaways

Forward rate agreements (FRAs) are over-the-counter (OTC) contracts between parties that determine the rate of interest to be paid on an agreed-upon date in the future.The notional amount is not exchanged, but is a cash amount based on the rate differentials and the notional value of the contract.A borrower might want to fix their borrowing costs today by entering into an FRA.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Formula and Calculation for a Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)  
















FRAP


=



(




(


R


−


FRA


)


×


N


P


×


P



Y



)



×



(



1



1


+


R


×



(



P


Y



)





)

















where:
















FRAP


=


FRA payment
















FRA


=


Forward rate agreement rate, or fixed interest
















rate that will be paid
















R


=


Reference, or floating interest rate used in
















the contract
















N


P


=


Notional principal, or amount of the loan that
















interest is applied to
















P


=


Period, or number of days in the contract period
















Y


=


Number of days in the year based on the correct
















day-count convention for the contract







\begin{aligned} &\text{FRAP} = \left ( \frac{ ( R - \text{FRA} ) \times NP \times P }{ Y } \right ) \times \left ( \frac{ 1 }{ 1 + R \times \left (\frac{ P }{ Y } \right ) } \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{FRAP} = \text{FRA payment} \\ &\text{FRA} = \text{Forward rate agreement rate, or fixed interest} \\ &\text{rate that will be paid} \\ &R = \text{Reference, or floating interest rate used in} \\ &\text{the contract} \\ &NP = \text{Notional principal, or amount of the loan that} \\ &\text{interest is applied to} \\ &P = \text{Period, or number of days in the contract period} \\ &Y = \text{Number of days in the year based on the correct} \\ &\text{day-count convention for the contract} \\ \end{aligned}


​FRAP=(Y(R−FRA)×NP×P​)×(1+R×(YP​)1​)where:FRAP=FRA paymentFRA=Forward rate agreement rate, or fixed interestrate that will be paidR=Reference, or floating interest rate used inthe contractNP=Notional principal, or amount of the loan thatinterest is applied toP=Period, or number of days in the contract periodY=Number of days in the year based on the correctday-count convention for the contract​

Calculate the difference between the forward rate and the floating rate or reference rate.
Multiply the rate differential by the notional amount of the contract and by the number of days in the contract. Divide the result by 360 (days).
In the second part of the formula, divide the number of days in the contract by 360 and multiply by the reference rate. Add this result to 1 and then divide that value into 1. 
Multiply the result from the right side of the formula by the left side of the formula.

Forward rate agreements typically involve two parties exchanging a fixed interest rate for a variable one. The party paying the fixed rate is referred to as the borrower, while the party paying the variable rate is referred to as the lender. The forward rate agreement could have the maturity as long as five years.
A borrower might enter into a forward rate agreement with the goal of locking in an interest rate if the borrower believes rates might rise in the future. In other words, a borrower might want to fix their borrowing costs today by entering into an FRA. The cash difference between the FRA and the reference rate or floating rate is settled on the value date or settlement date.
For example, if the Federal Reserve Bank is in the process of hiking U.S. interest rates, called a monetary tightening cycle, corporations would likely want to fix their borrowing costs before rates rise too dramatically. Also, FRAs are very flexible, and the settlement dates can be tailored to the needs of those involved in the transaction.


   Forward Rate Agreement (FRA) vs. Forward Contract (FWD)  

A forward rate agreement is different from a forward contract (FWD). A currency forward is a binding contract in the foreign exchange market that locks in the exchange rate for the purchase or sale of a currency on a future date. A currency forward is a hedging tool that does not involve any up-front payment. The other major benefit of a currency forward is that it can be tailored to a particular amount and delivery period, unlike standardized currency futures.



The FWD can result in the currency exchange being settled, which would include a wire transfer or a settling of the funds into an account. There are times when an offsetting contract is entered, which would be at the prevailing exchange rate. However, offsetting the forward contract results in settling the net difference between the two exchange rates of the contracts. An FRA results in settling the cash difference between the interest rate differentials of the two contracts.



A currency forward settlement can be on either a cash or delivery basis, provided that the option is mutually acceptable and has been specified beforehand in the contract.


   Limitations of Forward Rate Agreements  

There is a risk to the borrower if they had to unwind the FRA and the rate in the market had moved adversely so that the borrower would take a loss on the cash settlement. FRAs are very liquid and can be unwound in the market, but there will be a cash difference settled between the FRA rate and the prevailing rate in the market.


   Example of a Forward Rate Agreement  

Company A enters into an FRA with Company B in which Company A will receive a fixed (reference) rate of 4% on a principal amount of $5 million in half a year, and the FRA rate will be set at 50 basis points less than that rate. In return, Company B will receive the one-year London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), determined in three years’ time, on the principal amount. The agreement will be settled in cash in a payment made at the beginning of the forward period, discounted by an amount calculated using the contract rate and the contract period.
The formula for the FRA payment takes into account five variables:

FRA = the FRA rate
R = the reference rate
NP = the notional principal
P = the period, which is the number of days in the contract period
Y = the number of days in the year based on the correct day-count convention for the contract

Assume the following data, and plugging it into the formula above:

FRA = 3.5%
R = 4%
NP = $5 million
P = 181 days
Y = 360 days

The FRA payment (FRAP) is thus calculated as:








FRAP








=



(




(


0.04


−


0.035


)


×


$


5


 Million


×


181



360



)


















×



(



1



1


+


0.04


×



(



181


360



)





)

















=


$


12


,


569.44


×


0.980285
















=


$


12


,


321.64







\begin{aligned} \text{FRAP} &= \left (\frac{ (0.04 - 0.035) \times \$5\ \text{Million} \times 181 }{ 360 } \right ) \\ &\quad \times \left ( \frac{ 1 }{ 1 + 0.04 \times \left ( \frac{ 181 }{ 360 } \right ) } \right ) \\ &= \$12,569.44 \times 0.980285 \\ &= \$12,321.64 \\ \end{aligned}


FRAP​=(360(0.04−0.035)×$5 Million×181​)×(1+0.04×(360181​)1​)=$12,569.44×0.980285=$12,321.64​
If the payment amount is positive, then the FRA seller pays this amount to the buyer. Otherwise, the buyer pays the seller. Remember, the day-count convention is typically 360 days in a year. Note also that the notional amount of $5 million is not exchanged. Instead, the two companies involved in this transaction are using that figure to calculate the interest rate differential.




What Happens If You Sell a Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)?
The seller of a forward rate agreement (FRA), or the lender in the transaction, agrees to accept a fixed interest rate at a predetermined future date. If there has been a decrease in the floating market interest rate, then the FRA seller benefits from having locked in the higher rate.




Why Would You Buy a Forward Rate Agreement?
The main reason to buy a forward rate agreement (FRA) is to hedge against future increases in interest rates. By locking in an interest rate to be paid at a specified date in the future, FRA purchasers provide themselves with a measure of protection should market rates rise.




What Are the Risks of a Forward Rate Agreement?
A forward rate agreement (FRA) is an over-the-counter (OTC) contract, meaning that there are lower levels of regulation and oversight related to the transaction compared with futures contracts. It can sometimes be difficult for a party to close an FRA before the maturity date, and the agreements are also subject to counterparty risk, as there is a potential that a participant in the contract could default on its obligations.


   The Bottom Line  

A forward rate agreement (FRA) is an over-the-counter (OTC) contract that establishes an interest rate to be paid at a predetermined future date. The parties in the FRA do not exchange the notional amount. Instead, they settle the contract in cash based on the rate differential and the contract’s notional value.



Parties can enter into an FRA to hedge against or benefit from future interest rate movements. Borrowers can use an FRA to fix their borrowing costs, while lenders can benefit from locking in a predetermined rate in the event that market rates fall.



Correction—Sept. 3, 2023: A previous version of this article mistakenly ignored the order of operations when calculating an example.
What Are the Four Asian Tigers?  

The Four Asian Tigers are the high-growth economies of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. Fueled by exports and rapid industrialization, the Four Asian Tigers have consistently maintained high levels of economic growth since the 1960s, and have collectively joined the ranks of the world's wealthiest nations.



Hong Kong and Singapore are among the most prominent worldwide financial centers, while South Korea and Taiwan are essential hubs for the global manufacturing of automobile and electronic components, as well as information technology.





Key Takeaways

The Four Asian Tigers are the high-growth economies of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan.All four economies have been fueled by exports and rapid industrialization, and have achieved high levels of economic growth since the 1960s.The countries that make up the Four Asian Tigers share common characteristics, including a sharp focus on exports, an educated populace, and high savings rates.


   Understanding the Four Asian Tigers  

Also known as the Asian Dragons, the countries that make up the Four Asian Tigers share common characteristics, including a sharp focus on exports, an educated populace, and high savings rates. The economies of the Four Tigers have proven resilient enough to withstand local crises such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and global shocks like the credit crunch of 2008.






The International Monetary Fund includes the Four Asian Tigers in its category of 35 most advanced economies.


  South Korea  

In the 1960s, South Korea's per capita gross domestic product was comparable to the poorest countries in Asia and Africa. But in the four decades since then, the country has observed substantial growth, affected in part by a system of close government, directed credit, and import restrictions. As of Dec. 2020, South Korea had a total GDP of $1.59 trillion and a per capita GDP of $30,640 with a growth rate of -1.9% and a population of 51.8 million.﻿﻿


  Taiwan  

Despite its contentious relationship with China, Taiwan has thrived over the last four decades. As of Dec. 2020, Taiwan's GDP per capita was $28,180. Due to pressure from China, the country is not a part of the United Nations, but it has nevertheless emerged as a reliable exporter. Its GDP was $660 billion with a growth rate of 2.5%, making this nation of 23.6 million people one of the strongest economies in Asia.﻿﻿


  Hong Kong  

Hong Kong is considered a special administrative region (SAR) in China, which gives it freedom over all its activities except for its defense until the year 2047, at which time Hong Kong and China will reassess their relationship. The latest reports show that the region ranks exceptionally high on scales measuring economic freedom, boasting a GDP of approximately $340 billion as of Dec. 2020, a GDP per capita of $45,180, a growth rate of 2.9%, and a population of 7.6 million.﻿﻿


  Singapore  

Although it has only 5.8 million citizens, Singapore had a GDP of $340 billion, a GDP per capita of $58,480 as of Dec. 2020, and a growth rate of -6%.﻿﻿ Considered one of the least corrupt nations in the world, Singapore has a notoriously transparent regulatory environment and well-secured property rights, which provide valuable commercial security to its private sector.


   Special Considerations  

Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, and Indonesia are sometimes referred to as the "Tiger Cub Economies," because while they have developed more slowly than the Four Asian Tigers in the decades since the 1950s, they have nonetheless grown at a steady rate.
What Is the 4% Rule?  

The 4% Rule is a practical rule of thumb that may be used by retirees to decide how much they should withdraw from their retirement funds each year.



The purpose of adopting the rule is to keep a steady income stream while maintaining an adequate overall account balance for future years. The withdrawals will consist primarily of interest and dividends on savings.



Experts are divided on whether the 4% withdrawal rate is the best option. Many, including the creator of the rule, say that 5% is a better rule for all but the worst-case scenario. And some caution that 3% may be safer in current interest-rate conditions.





Key Takeaways

The 4% Rule suggests the total amount that a retiree should withdraw from retirement savings each year.The rule seeks to establish a steady and safe income stream that will meet a retiree's current and future financial needs.The rule was created using historical data on stock and bond returns over the 50-year period from 1926 to 1976. Some experts suggest 3% is a safer withdrawal rate with current interest rates; others think 5% could be OKLife expectancy plays an important role in determining a sustainable rate.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding the 4% Rule  

The 4% Rule is a guideline used by some financial planners and retirees to estimate a comfortable but safe income for retirement.



An individual's life expectancy plays an important role in determining if the rate will be sustainable. Retirees who live longer need their portfolios to last longer, and their medical costs and other expenses can increase with age.


  History of the 4% Rule  

The concept of the 4% Rule is attributed to Bill Bengen, a financial adviser in Southern California who created it in the mid-1990s, and has since complained that it has been over-simplified by many of its adherents. He said that the 4% rule was based on a "worst-case" scenario and that 5% would be a more realistic number.



The rule was created using historical data on stock and bond returns over the 50-year period from 1926 to 1976, focusing heavily on the severe market downturns of the 1930s and early 1970s.



Bengen concluded that, even during untenable markets, no historical case existed in which a 4% annual withdrawal exhausted a retirement portfolio in fewer than 33 years.


   Accounting for Inflation  

While some retirees who adhere to the 4% rule keep their withdrawal rate constant, the rule allows retirees to increase the rate to keep pace with inflation. Possible ways to adjust for inflation include setting a flat annual increase of 2% per year, which is the Federal Reserve's target inflation rate, or adjusting withdrawals based on actual inflation rates. The former method provides steady and predictable increases, while the latter method more effectively matches income to cost-of-living changes.






While the 4% Rule recommends maintaining a balanced portfolio of 50% common stocks and 50% intermediate-term Treasurys bonds, some financial experts advise maintaining a different allocation, including reducing exposure to stocks in retirement in favor of a mix of cash, bonds, and stocks.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the 4% Rule  

While following the 4% rule can make it more likely that your retirement savings will last the remainder of your life, it doesn’t guarantee it. The rule is based on the past performance of the markets, so it doesn't necessarily predict the future. What was considered a safe investment strategy in the past may not be a safe investment strategy in the future if market conditions change.



There are several scenarios in which the 4% rule might not work for a retiree. A severe or protracted market downturn can erode the value of a high-risk investment vehicle much faster than it can a typical retirement portfolio.



Furthermore, the 4% Rule does not work unless a retiree remains loyal to it year in and year out. Violating the rule one year to splurge on a major purchase can have severe consequences down the road, as this reduces the principal, which directly impacts the compound interest that the retiree depends on for sustainability.



However, there are obvious benefits to the 4% Rule. It is simple to follow and provides for a predictable, steady income. And, if it is successful, the 4% Rule will protect you from running short of funds in retirement.





Pros

It's simple to follow
Provides predictable, steady income
Protects you from running out of money in retirement



Cons

Requires strict adherence (doesn't respond to lifestyle changes)
Is based on a 'worst-case' scenario of portfolio performance
5%, not 4%, may be a more realistic number





   The 4% Rule and Economic Crises  

Actually, the 4% Rule may be a little on the conservative side. According to Michael Kitces, an investment planner, it was developed to take into account the worst economic situations, such as 1929, and has held up well for those who retired during the two most recent financial crises. Kitces points out:



The 2000 retiree is merely "in line" with the 1929 retiree, and doing better than the rest. And the 2008 retiree—even having started with the global financial crisis out of the gate—is already doing far better than any of these historical scenarios! In other words, while the tech crash and especially the global financial crisis were scary, they still haven’t been the kind of scenarios that spell outright doom for the 4% Rule.



This is, of course, not a reason to go beyond it. Safety is a key element for retirees, even if following it may leave those who retire in calmer economic times "with a huge amount of money left over," Kitces notes, adding that "in general, a 4% withdrawal rate is really quite modest relative to the long-term historical average return of almost 8% on a balanced (60/40) portfolio!"



Meantime, some experts—pointing to the recent low interest rates on bonds and savings—suggest that 3% might be a safer withdrawal rate. The best strategy is to review your situation with a financial planner, starting with how much you have saved, what your current investments are, and when you plan to retire.




Does the 4% Rule Still Work?
The 4% rule was created to meet the financial needs of a retiree even during a worst-case economic scenario such as a prolonged market downturn. Many financial advisers say that 5% allows for a more comfortable lifestyle while adding only a little more risk.




How Long Will My Money Last Using the 4% Rule?
The 4% Rule is intended to make your retirement savings last for 30 years or more.




Does the 4% Rule Work for Early Retirement?
The 4% Rule is focused on preparing for retirement at age 65. If you're hoping to retire early or expect to keep working past age 65, your long-term financial needs will be different.




What Is a 4% Rule Calculator?
You can use any online retirement withdrawal calculator, using the 4% rule as the amount you intend to withdraw annually. One example can be found at MyCalculators


   The Bottom Line  

For most people, managing their retirement savings is a balancing act. If they withdraw too much too fast, they'll risk running out of money. Not withdrawing enough money can deny them the full benefit of their hard-earned savings.



For those who want a rule of thumb to follow, the 4% Rule is an easy-to-use choice.



Correction—Jan. 20, 2022:  An earlier version of this article misstated the type of bonds that might be included in a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds. They are intermediate-term Treasury bonds, not immediate-term Treasury bonds.
What Are the 4 Ps of Marketing?  

The four Ps are the key considerations that must be thoughtfully reviewed and wisely implemented in order to successfully market a product or service. They are product, price, place, and promotion.



The four Ps are often referred to as the marketing mix. They encompass a range of factors that are considered when marketing a product, including what consumers want, how the product or service meets or fails to meet those wants, how the product or service is perceived in the world, how it stands out from the competition, and how the company that produces it interacts with its customers.



Since the four Ps were introduced in the 1950s, more Ps have been identified, including people, process, and physical evidence.





Key Takeaways

The four Ps are the four essential factors involved in marketing a product or service to the public.The four Ps are product, price, place, and promotion.The concept of the four Ps has been around since the 1950s. As the marketing industry has evolved, other Ps have been identified: people, process, and physical evidence.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the 4 Ps of Marketing  

Neil Borden, an advertising professor at Harvard, popularized the idea of the marketing mix—and the concepts that would later be known primarily as the four Ps—in the 1950s. His 1964 article "The Concept of the Marketing Mix" demonstrated the ways that companies could use advertising tactics to engage their consumers.



Decades later, the concepts that Borden popularized are still being used by companies to advertise their goods and services.



Borden's ideas were developed and refined over a number of years by other key players in the industry. E. Jerome McCarthy, a marketing professor at Michigan State University, refined the concepts in Borden's article and named them the "four Ps" of marketing. McCarthy co-wrote the book Basic Marketing: A Managerial Approach, further popularizing the idea.



At the time the concept was introduced, it helped companies breach the physical barriers that could hamper widespread product adoption. Today, the Internet has helped businesses to overcome some of these barriers.



People, process, and physical evidence are extensions of the original Four Ps and are relevant to current trends in marketing.






Any successful marketing strategy should be revisited from time to time. The marketing mix you create is not intended to be static. It needs to be adjusted and refined as your product grows and your customer base changes.


   These Are the 4 Ps of Marketing  
  1. Product  

Creating a marketing campaign starts with an understanding of the product itself. Who needs it, and why? What does it do that no competitor's product can do? Perhaps it's a new thing altogether and is so compelling in its design or function that consumers will have to have it when they see it.



The job of the marketer is to define the product and its qualities and introduce it to the consumer.



Defining the product also is key to its distribution. Marketers need to understand the life cycle of a product, and business executives need to have a plan for dealing with products at every stage of the life cycle.



The type of product also dictates in part how much it will cost, where it should be placed, and how it should be promoted.



Many of the most successful products have been the first in their category. For example, Apple was the first to create a touchscreen smartphone that could play music, browse the internet, and make phone calls. Apple reported total sales of the iPhone for FY 2022 at $205.4 billion. In 2021, it hit the milestone of 2 billion iPhones sold.


  2. Price  

Price is the amount that consumers will be willing to pay for a product. Marketers must link the price to the product's real and perceived value, while also considering supply costs, seasonal discounts, competitors' prices, and retail markup.



In some cases, business decision-makers may raise the price of a product to give it the appearance of luxury or exclusivity. Or, they may lower the price so more consumers will try it.



Marketers also need to determine when and if discounting is appropriate. A discount can draw in more customers, but it can also give the impression that the product is less desirable than it was.



UNIQLO, headquartered in Japan, is a global manufacturer of casual wear. Like its competitors Gap and Zara, UNIQLO creates low-priced, fashion-forward garments for younger buyers.



What makes UNIQLO unique is that its products are innovative and high-quality. It accomplishes this by purchasing fabric in large volumes, continually seeking the highest-quality and lowest-cost materials in the world. The company also directly negotiates with its manufacturers and has built strategic partnerships with innovative Japanese manufacturers.



UNIQLO also outsources its production to partner factories. That gives it the flexibility to change production partners as its needs change.



Finally, the company employs a team of skilled textile artisans that it sends to its partner factories all over the world for quality control. Production managers visit factories once a week to resolve quality problems.


  3. Place   

Place is the consideration of where the product should be available—in brick-and-mortar stores and online—and how it will be displayed.



The decision is key: The makers of a luxury cosmetic product would want to be displayed in Sephora and Neiman Marcus, not in Walmart or Family Dollar. The goal of business executives is always to get their products in front of the consumers who are the most likely to buy them.



That means placing a product only in certain stores and getting it displayed to the best advantage.



The term placement also refers to advertising the product in the right media to get the attention of target consumers.



For example, the 1995 movie GoldenEye was the 17th installment in the James Bond movie franchise and the first that did not feature an Aston Martin car. Instead, Bond actor Pierce Brosnan got into a BMW Z3. Although the Z3 was not released until months after the film had left theaters, BMW received 9,000 orders for the car the month after the movie opened.


  4. Promotion  

The goal of promotion is to communicate to consumers that they need this product and that it is priced appropriately. Promotion encompasses advertising, public relations, and the overall media strategy for introducing a product.



Marketers tend to tie together promotion and placement elements to reach their core audiences. For example, In the digital age, the "place" and "promotion" factors are as much online as offline. Specifically, where a product appears on a company's web page or social media, as well as which types of search functions will trigger targeted ads for the product.



The Swedish vodka brand Absolut sold only 10,000 cases of its vodka in 1980. By 2000, the company had sold 4.5 million cases, thanks in part to its iconic advertising campaign. The images in the campaign featured the brand's signature bottle styled as a range of surreal images: a bottle with a halo, a bottle made of stone, or a bottle in the shape of the trees standing on a ski slope. To date, the Absolut campaign is one of the longest-running continuous campaigns of all time, from 1981 to 2005.


   How To Use the 4 Ps of Marketing in Your Marketing Strategy  

The four Ps provide a framework on which to build your marketing strategy. Think through each factor. And don't worry when the factors overlap. That's inevitable.



First, analyze the product you will be marketing. What are the characteristics that make it appealing? Consider similar products that are already on the market. Your product may be tougher, easier to use, more attractive, or longer-lasting. Its ingredients might be environmentally friendly or naturally sourced. Identify the qualities that will make it appealing to your target consumers.



Think through the appropriate price for the product. It's not simply the cost of production plus a profit margin. You may be positioning it as a premium or luxury product or as a bare-bones, lower-priced alternative.



Placement involves identifying the type of store, online and off, that stocks products like yours for consumers like yours.



Promotion can only be considered in the context of your target consumer. The product might be appealing to a hip younger crowd or to upscale professionals or to bargain hunters. Your media strategy needs to reach the right audience with the right message.




What Are the 4 Ps of Marketing?
Product, price, promotion, and place form the four Ps of the marketing mix. These are the key factors that are involved in introducing a product or service to the public.




When Did the 4 Ps Become the 7 Ps?
The focus on the four Ps—product, price, place, and promotion—has been a core tenet of marketing since the 1950s. Three newer Ps expand the marketing mix for the 21st century.People places the focus on the personalities who represent the product. In the current era, that means not only sales and customer service employees but social media influencers and viral media campaigns.Process is logistics. Consumers increasingly demand fast and efficient delivery of the things they want, when they want them.Physical evidence is perhaps the most thoroughly modern of the seven Ps. If you're selling diamond jewelry on a website, it must be immediately clear to the consumer that you are a legitimate established business that will deliver as promised. A professionally designed website with excellent functionality, an "About" section that lists the principals of the company and its physical address, professional packaging, and efficient delivery service are all critical to convincing the consumer that your product is not only good, it's real.




What Are Some Examples of the 4 Ps of Marketing?
Place refers to where consumers buy your product, or where they discover it. Today's consumers may learn about products and buy them online, through a smartphone app, at retail locations, or through a sales professional.Price refers to the cost of the product or service. Properly determining product price includes an analysis of the competition, the demand, production costs, and what consumers are willing to spend. Various pricing models may be considering, such as choosing between one-time purchase and subscription models.The product a company provides depends on the type of company and what they do best. For example, McDonald's provides consistent fast food in a casual setting. They may expand their offerings, but they wouldn't stray far from their core identity.Promotion refers to specific and thoughtful advertising that reaches the target market for the product. A company might use an Instagram campaign, a public relations campaign, advertising placement, an email campaign, or some combination of all of these to reach the right audience in the right place.




How Do You Use the 4 Ps of Marketing?
The model of the 4Ps can be used when you are planning a new product launch, evaluating an existing product, or trying to optimize the sales of an existing product.A careful analysis of these four factors—product, price, place, and promotion—helps a marketing professional devise a strategy that successfully introduces or reintroduces a product to the public.


   The Bottom Line  

The four Ps of marketing—product, price, place, promotion—are often referred to as the marketing mix. These are the key elements involved in planning and marketing a product or service, and they interact significantly with each other. Considering all of these elements is one way to approach a holistic marketing strategy.
What is the Fourth World?  

The Fourth World is an outdated term used to describe the most underdeveloped, poverty-stricken, and marginalized regions of the world.



Many inhabitants of these nations do not have any political ties and are often hunter-gatherers that live in nomadic communities, or are part of tribes. They may be fully functional and self-surviving but during the Cold War were ascribed Fourth World status based on their economic performance.





Key Takeaways

Fourth World refers to the most underdeveloped, poverty-stricken, and marginalized regions and populations of the world.Many inhabitants of these nations do not have any political ties and are often hunter-gatherers that live in nomadic communities, or are part of tribes.The outdated and offensive term Fourth World is often linked to indigenous people.


   Understanding Fourth World  

During the Cold War, each country was classed as belonging to a certain type of world, a position that has since evolved as these classifications have evolved. The First World was used to describe countries whose views aligned with NATO and capitalism, the Second World referred to countries that supported communism and the Soviet Union and the Third World referenced the nations that were not actively aligned with either side. These countries included impoverished former European colonies and all the nations of Africa, the Middle East, Latin America, and Asia.



The term Fourth World was born later as an extension of the developing Third World to describe places and populations characterized by extremely low income per capita and limited natural resources.



Fourth World nations consisted of those excluded from mainstream society. For example, the Aboriginal tribes in South America or Australia are entirely self-sufficient but do not participate in the global economy. These tribes can function free from any assistance from others but, from a global standpoint, were considered to be Fourth World nations. Fourth World nations do not contribute or consume anything on the global scale and are unaffected by any global events.



Political borders did not define Fourth World areas. In many cases, they were defined as nations without sovereign status, emphasizing instead the perceived non-recognition and exclusion of ethnically and religiously defined peoples from the politico-economic world system, such as the First Nations groups throughout North, Central, and South America.


   History of the Fourth World Term  

The term Fourth World was believed to have been first used in Canada by Mbuto Milando, the first secretary of the Tanzanian High Commission, in a conversation with George Manuel, Chief of the National Indian Brotherhood (now the Assembly of First Nations). Milando stated that "When native peoples come into their own, on the basis of their own cultures and traditions, that will be the Fourth World."



The term became synonymous with stateless, poor, and marginal nations following the publication of Manuel's The Fourth World: An Indian Reality in 1974. Since 1979, think tanks, such as the Center for World Indigenous Studies, have used the term to define the relationships between ancient, tribal, and non-industrial nations and modern political nation-states.



In 2007, the United Nations (UN) Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) was introduced to promote "minimum standards for the survival, dignity, and well-being of the indigenous peoples of the world.” Since then, communications and organizing among Fourth World peoples accelerated in the form of international treaties for trade, travel, and security.
What Is a Fractal?  

The fractal indicator is based on a simple price pattern that is frequently seen in financial markets. Outside of trading, a fractal is a recurring geometric pattern that is repeated on all time frames. From this concept, the fractal indicator was devised. The indicator isolates potential turning points on a price chart. It then draws arrows to indicate the existence of a pattern.



The bullish fractal pattern signals the price could move higher. A bearish fractal signals the price could move lower. Bullish fractals are marked by a down arrow, and bearish fractals are marked by an up arrow.





Key Takeaways


A bullish fractal occurs when there is a low point with two higher low bars/candles on each side of it.
A bearish fractal occurs when there is a high point with two lower high bars/candles on each side of it.
An up arrow marks the location of a bearish fractal, while a down arrow marks the location of a bullish fractal.
Arrows are drawn above or below the middle bar (high or low point), even though the pattern is five bars. There is no way a trader could enter a trade at the arrow because the arrow only occurs if the next two bars create the pattern.
If someone were to trade fractal signals, the entry would be the open price of the third bar after the arrow.













Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   The Formulas for Fractals Are:  










Bearish Fractal


=


 









High


(


N


)


>


High


(


N


−


2


)


 and
















High


(


N


)


>


High


(


N


−


1


)


 and
















High


(


N


)


>


High


(


N


+


1


)


 and
















High


(


N


)


>


High


(


N


+


2


)







\begin{aligned} \text{Bearish Fractal} =\ &\text{High} ( N ) > \text{High} ( N - 2 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{High} ( N ) > \text{High} ( N - 1 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{High} ( N ) > \text{High} ( N + 1 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{High} ( N ) > \text{High} ( N + 2 ) \\ \end{aligned}


Bearish Fractal= ​High(N)>High(N−2) andHigh(N)>High(N−1) andHigh(N)>High(N+1) andHigh(N)>High(N+2)​












Bullish Fractal


=


 









Low


(


N


)


<


Low


(


N


−


2


)


 and
















Low


(


N


)


<


Low


(


N


−


1


)


 and
















Low


(


N


)


<


Low


(


N


+


1


)


 and
















Low


(


N


)


<


Low


(


N


+


2


)







\begin{aligned} \text{Bullish Fractal} =\ &\text{Low} ( N ) < \text{Low} ( N - 2 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{Low} ( N ) < \text{Low} ( N - 1 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{Low} ( N ) < \text{Low} ( N + 1 ) \text{ and} \\ &\text{Low} ( N ) < \text{Low} ( N + 2 ) \\ \end{aligned}


Bullish Fractal= ​Low(N)<Low(N−2) andLow(N)<Low(N−1) andLow(N)<Low(N+1) andLow(N)<Low(N+2)​


















where:
















N


=


High/low of the current price bar
















N


−


2


=


High/low of price bar two periods
















to the left of 


N
















N


−


1


=


High/low of price bar one period
















to the left of 


N
















N


+


1


=


High/low of price bar one period
















to the right of 


N
















N


+


2


=


High/low of price bar two periods
















to the right of 


N







\begin{aligned} &\textbf{where:}\\ &N = \text{High/low of the current price bar} \\ &N - 2 = \text{High/low of price bar two periods} \\ &\text{to the left of }N \\ &N - 1 = \text{High/low of price bar one period} \\ &\text{to the left of }N \\ &N + 1 = \text{High/low of price bar one period} \\ &\text{to the right of }N \\ &N + 2 = \text{High/low of price bar two periods} \\ &\text{to the right of }N \\ \end{aligned}


​where:N=High/low of the current price barN−2=High/low of price bar two periodsto the left of NN−1=High/low of price bar one periodto the left of NN+1=High/low of price bar one periodto the right of NN+2=High/low of price bar two periodsto the right of N​


   How to Calculate the Fractal Indicator  

Calculating fractals has more to do with visual acuity than math.



Isolate a high/low (N) point on the chart.If there are two lower highs to the left of the high or two higher lows to the left of the low (N-2 and N-1), there is a possible pattern. The pattern still needs two more bars on the right to confirm.If two lower highs occur after the high then a bearish fractal is complete (N+1 and N+2). If two higher lows occur after the low a bullish fractal is complete.


   What the Fractal Indicator Tells You  

The fractal indicator will generate signals frequently. The existence of a fractal isn't necessarily important since the pattern is so common.



The fractal is indicating the possibility of a trend change. This is because fractals are essentially showing a "U-shape" in price. A bearish fractal has the price moving upward and then downward, forming an upsidedown U. A bullish fractal occurs when the price is moving down but then starts to move up, forming a U.



Because fractals occur so frequently, and many of the signals aren't reliable entry points, fractals are typically filtered using some other form of technical analysis. Bill Williams also invented the alligator indicator which isolates trends. By combining fractals with trend analysis, a trader may decide to only trade bullish fractals signals while the price trend is up. If the trend is down they may take only short trades on bearish fractal signals, for example.



Fractals could also be used with other indicators, such as pivot points or Fibonacci retracement levels. A fractal is only acted on if it aligns with one of these other indicators and potentially the longer-term price direction. For example, assume a stock is trending higher. The price is pulling back and reaches a 50% Fibonacci retracement level. Since the trend is up, and the price is near a Fibonacci retracement level, the trader will take a trade if a bullish fractal forms.


   The Difference Between the Fractal Indicator and Chart Patterns  

The fractal indicator is unique in that it identifies a price pattern and marks it on the chart. Fractals are specific five-bar patterns. Chart patterns can also be drawn on the chart, although they are not limited to five price bars. Popular chart patterns include wedges, flags, and head and shoulders to list a few. While some software will mark chart patterns on a chart, most chartists find and isolate chart patterns by hand.


   Limitations of Using the Fractal Indicator  

The main problem with fractals is that there are so many of them. They occur frequently and trying to trade all of them will rapidly deplete a trading account due to losing trades. These are called false signals or whipsaws. Therefore, filter the signals with some other indicator or form of analysis.



The arrows for the indicator are typically drawn over the high or low point, which is the middle of the fractal, not where the fractal completes. Therefore, the arrows can be visually deceiving. Since the pattern is actually completing two bars to the right of the arrow, the first available entry point after seeing an arrow is the opening price of the third bar to the right of the arrow.
What Is Fractional Reserve Banking?  

Fractional reserve banking is a system in which only a fraction of bank deposits are required to be available for withdrawal. Banks only need to keep a specific amount of cash on hand and can create loans from the money you deposit. Fractional reserves work to expand the economy by freeing capital for lending. Today, most economies' financial systems use fractional reserve banking.





Key Takeaways

Fractional reserve banking describes a system whereby banks loan out a certain amount of the deposits that they have on their balance sheets.Fractional reserve banking facilitates lending, thereby expanding the economy.In most countries, banks are required to keep a certain amount of their customer's deposits in reserve.Banks with a low fractional reserve are vulnerable to bank runs because there is always a risk that withdrawals may exceed their available reserves.On March 26, 2020, the Federal Reserve reduced reserve requirements for all depositary institutions to zero. Instead, banks are now paid a specific interest rate on their reserve balance to encourage holding reserves.


   Understanding Fractional Reserve Banking  

When you create an account at a bank, in the contract, you agree to allow that bank to use a percentage of your deposits as loans to other bank customers. This doesn't mean you don't have access to the money you deposited; it only means that if you want to remove more than the percentage a bank keeps on hand, such as the entire balance, from the account, the bank will need to access funds from somewhere else to give you your balance.



When you deposit money in your savings account, your bank can use an amount specified as capital to fund loans and pay you for using your money. For instance, say you deposited $2,000 in a savings account. Savings accounts pay interest—generally between 0.5% and 2%—so you receive an interest payment on your money, and the bank can use part of it in a loan. In turn, the bank might want to access 80% of your money to use as loans to other customers.






You receive interest as an incentive for keeping money in an account the bank can use to create loans.



The Federal Reserve sets interest rates. They are based on economic circumstances and how it decides it can best meet its dual mandate of maximum employment and price stability. If a bank needs capital to fund loans, withdrawals, pay debts, or meet other obligations, it can borrow from other banks and pay them interest. As a last resort, the Federal Reserve maintains a service called the discount window, where it lends money to banks at a higher interest rate than they charge between themselves. This encourages banks to seek funds from each other rather than the Fed.



Interest is charged between financial institutions based on a range set by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors called the federal reserve target rate range. The average interest rate banks charge each other is referred to as the effective Federal Funds Rate.


   Fractional Reserve Banking Process  

The fractional reserve banking process creates money that is inserted into the economy. When you deposit that $2,000, your bank might lend 90% of it to other customers, along with 90% from five other customers' accounts. This creates enough capital to finance $9,000 in loans.



Your balance still reflects $2,000, and the customers that the bank borrowed from also see their balances remain unchanged. If all five customers have account balances of $2,000, it will look something like this:



You and four other customers have $2,000 each, deposited in savings accounts that pay 1% per year.If the bank can use 90% of its deposits for loans, the available capital is $9,000 (90% of $10,000).A sixth customer asks for a loan of $1,000.The bank borrows 10% from each of the five accounts, totaling $1,000.There is still a balance of $2,000 in each account ($10,000 total between the five accounts).The bank essentially created $1,000 and lent it to the borrower at 5% per year.You receive interest payments of 1% per year on your $2,000, and the bank pockets the difference of 4% as profit.


   History of Fractional Reserve Banking  

Fractional reserve banking supposedly has its roots in an era when gold and silver were traded. Goldsmiths would issue promissory notes, which were later used as a means of exchange. The smiths used the deposited gold to issue loans with interest, and fractional banking was born.



In the U.S., the National Bank Act was passed in 1863 to require banks to keep reserves on hand to protect depositor funds from being used in risky investments. In 1913 the Federal Reserve Act created the system of Federal Reserve banks we now know collectively as the Federal Reserve System. Banks were required to keep reserve balances with the Federal Reserve Banks.






Reserve requirements for banks under the Federal Reserve Act were set at 13%, 10%, and 7% (depending on the type of bank) in 1917. In the 1950s and '60s, the Fed had set the reserve ratio as high as 17.5% for certain banks, and it remained between 8% to 10% throughout much of the 1970s through the 2010s.



During this period, banks with fewer than $16.3 million in assets were not required to hold reserves. However, banks with fewer than $124.2 million in assets but more than $16.3 million had to have a reserve size of 3%, and those banks with more than $124.2 million in assets had a 10% reserve requirement.



On March 26, 2020, the 10% and 3% required reserve ratios against net transaction deposits were reduced to 0% for all banks, essentially removing the reserve requirements altogether. It was replaced with Interest on Reserve Balances (IORB), or interest paid on reserves the banks hold as an incentive rather than a requirement.


   Fractional Reserve Banking vs. Other Types of Banking  

Most countries today use fractional reserve banking because it is not feasible to use 100% reserve banking. Moreover, a system that requires banks to hold 100% of deposits cannot create more money without devaluing its currency. Thus, banks would need to hold a significant amount of capital to issue loans.



This would greatly reduce growth in developing and developed economies because the banks could not issue debt to businesses and consumers that rely on it for large purchases and investments.



A system backed by precious metals, such as gold, is also prone to this problem. If a specific amount of a country's currency has to be represented by a certain amount of gold, the country is limiting its growth potential because there is a finite amount of gold available. To meet the growing demand for capital, the currency's value would continuously be reduced. Fractional reserve banking allows a country to grow its money supply to meet the demand for growth.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Fractional Reserve Banking  
  Pro Explained  

Banks don't need to hold vast amounts of capital: Because banks use deposits customers tend to leave in their accounts, fractional reserve banking frees up capital for the economy. This assists in economic growth by keeping money flowing.Banks stimulate the economy by lending: The economy needs capital to grow. Banks meets this need by using funds held in reserve to issue loans to business and consumers. For example, mortgages, auto loans, and other loans are all made possible by fractional reserve banking. Without it, most consumers wouldn't have the means to afford homes and other necessities of modern life.Allows for regulation: Central banks can use reserve ratios as a macroeconomic tool for regulating the economy. Increasing reserve requirements reduces lending, thereby cooling the economy. Decreasing the reserve requirements encourages lending, thereby expanding the economy. This tool is rarely employed by the Federal Reserve but is still used by other central banks, notably the People's Bank of China.


  Cons Explained  

Consumer panic can cause mass withdrawals and lack of capital: When consumers, investors, and businesses panic about economic circumstances, they tend to run to their banks to withdraw everything they can to prevent further losses. This is called a bank run, and a fractional reserve system keeps them from withdrawing their capital because banks do not physically have it.
Too much lending can contribute to economic overheating: When the economy is expanding, it is growing. Consumers tend to spend more, and banks lend more during periods of expansion. When more money is being created through loans, demand can soar, increasing prices. Producers begin producing more to meet demand. This can continue into a situation where the economy overheats, growing too fast.





Pros

Banks don't need to hold vast amounts of capital
Banks stimulate the economy by lending
Allows for macroeconomic regulation



Cons

Consumer panic can cause mass withdrawals and lack of capital
Too much lending can cause the economy to overheat





   Criticisms of Fractional Reserve Banking  

The one main criticism of fractional reserve banking is that there are insufficient funds for everyone to withdraw at once. However, this is generally not an issue because people won't need to remove all of their capital under most circumstances.






Before the introduction of the Fed in the early 20th century, the National Bank Act of 1863 imposed 25% reserve requirements for U.S. banks under its charge.



This can be witnessed by reviewing the Greek financial crisis that began in 2009. In 2015, Greece defaulted on its debts to the International Monetary Fund amidst a global financial crisis. As a result, citizens flocked to the banks to withdraw their funds, and the banks were forced to close their doors to prevent a complete withdrawal of capital from a struggling system.



Further back in time, at the start of the Great Depression in the U.S., consumers rushed to banks to withdraw all of their funds, leading to the collapse of New York's Bank of the United States.




What Is the Difference Between Fractional Reserve Banking and 100% Reserve?
Fractional reserve banking permits banks to use funds (i.e., the bulk of deposits) that would be otherwise unused and idle to generate returns in the form of interest rates on new loans—and to make more money available to grow the economy. It can thus allocate capital better to where it is most needed. Reserves of 100% require banks to hold all deposited money.




Is Fractional Reserve Banking Legal?
Yes. Most countries use fractional reserve banking because it is currently the only financial system model that allows banks to earn a reliable profit. Without the ability to earn money on their assets, banks would have to fund their operations by charging extremely high deposit fees.




Where Did Fractional Reserve Banking Originate?
Nobody knows when fractional reserve banking originated, but it is certainly not a modern innovation. Goldsmiths during the Middle Ages issued demand receipts for gold on hand that exceeded the amount of physical gold they had under custody, knowing that on any given day, only a tiny fraction of that gold would be demanded.


   The Bottom Line  

Fractional reserve banking is the banking system used throughout the world today. Banks use fractional reserves to create loans for businesses and consumers. Without the ability to do this, an economy's growth is stunted, leaving it to flounder while those that need money for large purchases and investments rely on a bank's substantial holdings.



Fractional reserve banking is important for modern economies because the alternatives limit the amount of money that can be created or manipulated in an economy to encourage or discourage growth.



Correction—April 9, 2023: This article has been edited to correct an arithmetic error in the section "Fractional Reserve Banking Process." It has also been edited to clarify how central banks can use reserve requirements as a macroeconomic tool.
What Is a Fractional Share?  

Less than one full share of equity is called a fractional share. Such shares may be the result of stock splits, dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs), or similar corporate actions. Typically, fractional shares aren't available from the stock market, and while they have value to investors, they are also difficult to sell.





Key Takeaways

A fractional share is a portion of an equity stock that is less than one full share.Fractional shares often result from stock splits, which don't always result in an even number of shares.Mergers or acquisitions create fractional shares, as companies combine new common stock using a predetermined ratio.Capital gains, dollar-cost averaging, and dividend reinvestment plans often leave the investor with fractional shares.Fractional shares don't trade on the open market; the only way to sell fractional shares is through a major brokerage.


   Understanding a Fractional Share  

Fractional shares come about in a number of ways, including dividend reinvestment plans, stock splits, mergers, and acquisitions.


  Dividend Reinvestment Plans  

Dividend reinvestment plans (DRIP) often create fractional shares. A dividend reinvestment plan is a plan in which a dividend-offering corporation or brokerage firm allows investors to use dividend payouts to purchase more of the same shares. As this amount "drips" back into the purchase of more shares, it is not limited to whole shares. Reinvesting capital gain distributions and dollar-cost averaging programs can also result in purchasing fractional shares.


  Stock Splits  

Stock splits don't always result in an even number of shares. A 3-for-2 stock split would create three shares for every two shares an investor owns, so an investor with an odd number of shares would end up with a fractional share after the split. Three shares would become 4½, five would become 7½, and so on.


  Mergers and Acquisitions  

Mergers and acquisitions (M&As) may also create fractional shares since companies combine new common stock using a predetermined ratio. The ratio often results in fractional shares for shareholders.



Some brokerage firms will split whole shares intentionally so they can sell fractional shares to clients. This division of shares is most often the case with high-priced stocks like Amazon (AMZN) or Alphabet, Google's parent company (GOOGL). As of March 2020, AMZN was selling for more than $1,800 per share, and GOOGL was selling for more than $1,100 per share.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Fractional shares often can be the only way individual investors can buy stock insuch companies.



For example, a young investor with limited funds might have their heart set on buying stock in Amazon. Starting with $1,000 to invest, they won't have enough to buy a full share of stock, so they might find a brokerage firm willing to sell a fractional share. They could invest half of the money in one-third of a share of Amazon and use the other half to invest in lower-priced stocks that would allow them to buy full shares.






In the event of stocks splits, mergers, and acquisitions, shareholders sometimes are given the option of obtaining cash in lieu of the fractional shares. The income received is taxable.


   Trading Fractional Shares  

The only way to sell fractional shares is through a major brokerage firm, which can join them with other fractional shares until a whole share is attained. If the selling stock does not have a high demand in the marketplace, selling the fractional shares might take longer than hoped.



Not everyone wants to hold onto fractional shares, especially if they ended up with them for inadvertent reasons such as stock splits. An investor might have 225 shares of XYZ stock priced at $12 per share. After a 3-for-2 stock split, they would end up with 337½ shares priced at $8 per share. If there is a high demand for XYZ stock in the market, they'll be more likely to find a brokerage firm willing to take the fractional share. Or they could find a brokerage firm willing to sell another half share to bring their total number of shares to 338.


   Real-World Example of a Fractional Share  

In November of 2019, Interactive Brokers became the first of the major online brokers to offer fractional shares trading.﻿﻿ On January 29, 2020, Fidelity announced it will offer fractional shares trading of equities and ETFs.﻿﻿
What Is a Franchise?  

A franchise is a type of license that grants a franchisee access to a franchisor's proprietary business knowledge, processes, and trademarks, thus allowing the franchisee to sell a product or service under the franchisor's business name. In exchange for acquiring a franchise, the franchisee usually pays the franchisor an initial start-up fee and annual licensing fees.





Key Takeaways

A franchise is a business whereby the owner licenses its operations—along with its products, branding, and knowledge—in exchange for a franchise fee.The franchisor is the business that grants licenses to franchisees.The Franchise Rule requires franchisors to disclose key operating information to prospective franchisees.Ongoing royalties paid to franchisors vary by industry and can range between 4.6% and 12.5%.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Franchises  

When a business wants to increase its market share or geographical reach at a low cost, it may franchise its product and brand name. A franchise is a joint venture between a franchisor and a franchisee. The franchisor is the original business. It sells the right to use its name and idea. The franchisee buys this right to sell the franchisor's goods or services under an existing business model and trademark.



Franchises are a popular way for entrepreneurs to start a business, especially when entering a highly competitive industry such as fast food. One big advantage to purchasing a franchise is you have access to an established company's brand name. You won't need to spend resources getting your name and product out to customers.



The franchise business model has a storied history in the United States. The concept dates to the mid-19th century when two companies—the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company and the I.M. Singer Company—developed organizational, marketing, and distribution systems recognized as the forerunners to franchising. These novel business structures were developed in response to high-volume production and allowed McCormick and Singer to sell their reapers and sewing machines to an expanding domestic market.






Before buying into a franchise, investors should carefully read the Franchise Disclosure Document, which franchisors are required to provide. This document contains information about franchise fees, expenses, performance expectations, and other key operating details.



The earliest food and hospitality franchises were developed in the 1920s and 1930s. A&W Root Beer launched franchise operations in 1925. Howard Johnson Restaurants opened its first outlet in 1935, expanding rapidly and paving the way for the restaurant chains and franchises that define the American fast-food industry until this day.



There were 790,492 franchise establishments in 2022 that supported the U.S. economy, with an expected 805,436 for 2023. These franchises contributed over $500 billion to the economy. In the food sector, franchises included recognizable brands such as McDonald's, Taco Bell, Dairy Queen, Denny's, Jimmy John's, and Dunkin'. Other popular franchises include Hampton by Hilton and Days Inn, as well as 7-Eleven and Anytime Fitness.


   Franchise Basics and Regulations  

Franchise contracts are complex and vary for each franchisor. Typically, a franchise agreement includes three categories of payment to the franchisor. First, the franchisee must purchase the controlled rights, or trademark, from the franchisor in the form of an upfront fee. Second, the franchisor often receives payment for providing training, equipment, or business advisory services. Finally, the franchisor receives ongoing royalties or a percentage of the operation's sales.



A franchise contract is temporary, akin to a lease or rental of a business. It does not signify business ownership by the franchisee. Depending on the contract, franchise agreements typically last between five and 30 years, with serious penalties if a franchisee violates or prematurely terminates the contract.



In the U.S., franchises are regulated at the state level; however, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) established one federal regulation in 1979. The Franchise Rule is a legal disclosure a franchisor must give to prospective buyers. The franchisor must fully disclose any risks, benefits, or limits to a franchise investment.



This information covers fees and expenses, litigation history, approved business vendors or suppliers, estimated financial performance expectations, and other key details. This disclosure requirement was previously known as the Uniform Franchise Offering Circular before it was renamed the Franchise Disclosure Document in 2007.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Franchises  
  Advantages  

There are many advantages to investing in a franchise, and also drawbacks. Widely recognized benefits include a ready-made business formula to follow. A franchise comes with market-tested products and services, and in many cases established brand recognition.



If you're a McDonald's franchisee, decisions about what products to sell, how to layout your store, or even how to design your employee uniforms have already been made. Some franchisors offer training and financial planning, or lists of approved suppliers. But while franchises come with a formula and track record, success is never guaranteed.


  Disadvantages  

Disadvantages include heavy start-up costs as well as ongoing royalty costs. To take the McDonald’s example further, the estimated total amount of money it costs to start a McDonald’s franchise ranges from $1.3 million to $2.3 million, on top of needing liquid capital of $500,000.



By definition, franchises have ongoing fees that must be paid to the franchisor in the form of a percentage of sales or revenue. This percentage can range between 4.6% and 12.5%, depending on the industry.



For uprising brands, there are those who publicize inaccurate information and boast about ratings, rankings, and awards that are not required to be proven. So, franchisees might pay high dollar amounts for no or low franchise value.



Franchisees also lack control over territory or creativity with their business. Financing from the franchisor or elsewhere may be difficult to come by. Other factors that impact all businesses, such as poor location or management, are also possibilities.





Pros

Ready-made business formula
Market-tested products and services
Established brand recognition
Large decisions already made
List of approved suppliers
Training and financial planning provided



Cons

Success not guaranteed
Large start-up costs
Ongoing fees
Lack of territory choice
Lack of creative control





   Franchise vs. Startup  

If you don't want to run a business based on someone else's idea, you can start your own. But starting your own company is risky, though it offers rewards both monetary and personal. When you start your own business, you're on your own. Much is unknown. "Will my product sell?", "Will customers like what I have to offer?", "Will I make enough money to survive?"



The failure rate for new businesses is high. Two-thirds of businesses survive just two years, and 50% survive just five years. If your business is going to beat the odds, you alone can make that happen.



To turn your dream into reality, expect to work long and hard hours with no support or expert training. If you venture out solo with little or no experience, the deck is stacked against you. If this sounds like too big a burden, the franchise route may be a wiser choice.



People typically purchase a franchise because they see other franchisees' success stories. Franchises offer careful entrepreneurs a stable, tested model for running a successful business. On the other hand, for entrepreneurs with a big idea and a solid understanding of how to run a business, launching your own startup presents an opportunity for personal and financial freedom. Deciding which model is right for you is a choice only you can make.




What Are the Advantages of Franchises?
Some of the widely recognized advantages of franchises include a ready-made business formula to follow, market-tested products and services, and, in many cases, established brand recognition. For example, if you're a McDonald's franchisee, decisions about what products to sell, how to layout your store, or even how to design your employee uniforms have already been made. Some franchisors offer training and financial planning, or lists of approved suppliers; however, despite these benefits, success is never guaranteed.




What Are the Risks of Franchises?
Disadvantages include heavy start-up costs as well as ongoing royalty costs. By definition, franchises have ongoing fees that must be paid to the franchisor in the form of a percentage of sales or revenue. This percentage can range between 4.6% and 12.5%, depending on the industry.There is also the risk of a franchisee being duped by inaccurate information and paying high dollar amounts for no or low franchise value. Franchisees also lack control over territory or creativity with their business. Financing from the franchisor or elsewhere may be difficult to come by and franchisees could be adversely affected by poor location or management.




How Does the Franchisor Make Money?
Typically, a franchise agreement includes three categories of payment to the franchisor. First, the franchisee must purchase the controlled rights, or trademark, from the franchisor in the form of an upfront fee. Second, the franchisor often receives payment for providing training, equipment, or business advisory services. Finally, the franchisor receives ongoing royalties or a percentage of the operation's sales.


   The Bottom Line  

A franchise can be a great way for an individual to enter the world of entrepreneurship, as the majority of the groundwork has already been laid and you are leveraging off an established, successful, and well-known business and brand name. There are also many businesses with franchises to choose from.



For a fee and start-up costs, you can be on your way to being your own boss and entering a possibly lucrative career. Though it must be noted that success is not guaranteed and franchises require a lot of work to be profitable.
What Is a Franchise Tax?  

The term franchise tax refers to a tax paid by certain enterprises that want to do business in some states. Also called a privilege tax, it gives the business the right to be chartered and/or to operate within that state. Companies in some states may also be liable for the tax even if they are chartered in another state. Despite the name, a franchise tax is not a tax on franchises and is separate from federal and state income taxes that must be filed annually.





Key Takeaways

A franchise tax is a levy paid by certain enterprises that want to do business in some states. Contrary to what the name implies, a franchise tax is not a tax imposed on a franchise. Some entities are exempt from franchise taxes including fraternal organizations, nonprofits, and some limited liability corporations.Franchise taxes are paid in addition to federal and state income taxes.The amount of franchise tax can differ greatly depending on the tax rules within each state and is not calculated on the organization's profit.Kansas, Missouri, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia all discontinued their corporate franchise taxes.


   Understanding Franchise Taxes  

A franchise tax is a state tax levied on certain businesses for the right to exist as a legal entity and to do business within a particular jurisdiction. As of 2020, these states included Alabama, Arkansas, California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas. Kansas, Missouri, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia all discontinued their corporate franchise taxes.



Contrary to what the name implies, a franchise tax is not a tax imposed on a franchise. Rather, it's charged to corporations, partnerships, and other entities like limited liability corporations (LLCs) that do business within the boundaries of that state. Some entities are exempt from franchise taxes, namely fraternal organizations, nonprofits, and certain LLCs. A more comprehensive list of exemptions is noted below. Companies that do business in multiple states are generally charged a franchise tax in the state in which they are formally registered.






Contrary to what the name implies, a franchise tax is not a tax imposed on a franchise.


   Franchise Tax Rates  

Franchise taxes do not replace federal and state income taxes, so it's not an income tax. These are levies that are paid in addition to income taxes. They are usually paid annually at the same time other taxes are due. The amount of franchise tax can differ greatly depending on the tax rules within each state. Some states calculate the amount of franchise tax owed based on an entity's assets or net worth, while other states look at the value of a company's capital stock.



Still, other states may charge a flat fee to all businesses operating in their jurisdiction or calculate the tax rate on the company’s gross receipts or paid-in capital.


  Delaware Franchise Tax Rates  

Depending on the size of the corporation and how it decides to file, Delaware franchise tax rates range from anywhere between $175 to $250,000 annually. Meanwhile, limited partnerships (LP), limited liability companies (LLC), and general partnerships formed in the State of Delaware are only required to pay an annual tax of $300.


  California Franchise Tax Rates  

Small business taxes in California are layered, with a franchise tax applying in certain situations. For example, the franchise tax does not apply to corporations and LLCs that elect to be treated as corporations. However, California franchise tax rates do apply to S corporations, LLCs, LPs, and limited liability partnerships (LLPs).



In California, the franchise tax rate for S corporations is the greater of either $800 or 1.5% of the corporation's net income. For LLCs, the franchise tax is $800. LLCs that elect to be taxed as a corporation are subject to California's corporate income tax instead of a franchise tax; meanwhile, franchise taxes for LLP and LPs vary but must pay the minimum $800 franchise tax.






A company that does business in multiple states may have to pay franchise taxes in all the states it is formally registered in.


   Special Considerations  

A company that does business in multiple states may have to pay franchise taxes in all the states it is formally registered in. Sole proprietorships are not usually subject to franchise taxes and other forms of state business income tax, in part because these businesses are not formally registered with the state in which they do business. The following entities are not subject to franchise tax:



Sole proprietorships (except for single-member LLCs)
General partnerships when direct ownership is composed entirely of natural persons (except for limited liability partnerships)
Entities exempt under Tax Code Chapter 171, Subchapter B
Certain unincorporated passive entities
Certain grantor trusts, estates of natural persons, and escrows
Real estate mortgage investment conduits (REMICs) and certain qualified real estate investment trusts (REITs)
a nonprofit self-insurance trust created under Insurance Code Chapter 2212
a trust qualified under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)
a trust exempt under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(9)
unincorporated political committees


   Franchise Tax vs. Income Tax  

There are some key differences between a franchise and income tax. Unlike state income taxes, franchise taxes are not based on a corporation’s profit. A business entity must file and pay the franchise tax regardless of whether it makes a profit in any given year. State income taxes—and how much is paid—on the other hand, are dependent on how much an organization makes during the year.



Income tax is also applied to all corporations that derive income from sources within the state, even though they may not do business within its boundaries. Doing business may be defined differently by some states as several factors are considered in establishing nexus, including whether the company sells in the state, has employees in the state, or has an actual physical presence in the state.



Delaware is well-known as a tax shelter, especially for corporations that do not conduct business in Delaware. Instead, they have to pay a franchise tax administered by the Delaware Department of State.


   Example of a Franchise Tax  

As noted above, each state may have a different method of calculating franchise taxes. Let's use Texas as an example. The state's comptroller levies taxes on all entities that do business in the state and requires them to file an Annual Franchise Tax Report every year by May 15th. The state calculates its franchise tax based on a company’s margin which is computed in one of four ways:



Total revenue multiplied by 70%
Total revenue minus cost of goods sold (COGS)
Total revenue minus compensation paid to all personnel
Total revenue minus $1 million



Corporate revenue is calculated by subtracting statutory exclusions from the amount of revenue reported on a corporation's federal income tax return.




What Is the Franchise Tax Board?
The Franchise Tax Board is usually a state-operated tax agency for both personal and business taxes.




Is the Franchise Tax Board the Same as the IRS?
The Franchise Tax Board operates similarly to the IRS, but operates at the state level, rather than the federal. For example, the California Franchise Tax Board states that its mission is to "help taxpayers file tax returns timely, accurately, and pay the correct amount to fund services important to Californians."




When Are Franchise Taxes Due?
Franchise tax deadlines vary by state. In Delaware, the franchise tax deadline is March 1 of each year.




What Happens If You Don’t Pay Your Franchise Tax?
Different states have penalties for late payments of franchise taxes, which the Franchise Tax Board will track and penalize corporations for. In Delaware, the penalty for non-payment or late payment is $200, with an interest of 1.5% per month.


   The Bottom Line  

Franchise taxes allow corporations to do business within a state, though states have varying tax rates for the corporations based on their legal filing and gross income levels.
What Is a Franchisee?  

A franchisee is an independent business owner who operates a third-party retail outlet called a franchise. In doing so, the franchisee has purchased the right to use an existing business's trademarks, associated brands, and proprietary knowledge to market and sell the same brand and uphold the same standards as the first business.





Key Takeaways

A franchisee is a business owner who is licensed to operate a branded outlet of a retail chain.The franchisee pays a fee to the franchisor for the right to sell its established products and use its trademarks and proprietary knowledge.The franchisee receives guidance and operational and marketing support from the franchisor.The franchisee is required to market and sell the same brand and uphold the same standards as the parent company.


   Understanding Franchises  

Franchises are an extremely common way of doing business in the U.S. It is hard to drive more than a few blocks in most cities without seeing a franchise business. Examples of well-known franchise business models include McDonald's (NYSE: MCD), Subway, United Parcel Service (NYSE: UPS), and H&R Block (NYSE: HRB).






Franchise business opportunities are available across a wide variety of industries.



When a business wants to garner more market share or increase its geographical presence at a low cost, one solution is to create a franchise using its product and brand name. The franchisor is the original or existing business that sells the right to use its name and idea. The franchisee is the individual who purchases the right to sell the franchisor’s goods or services using its existing business model and trademark.


   The Franchisee/Franchisor Relationship  

The relationship between a franchisee and a franchisor is inherently one of advisee and advisor. The franchisor provides guidance and support on hiring and training staff, setting up shop, advertising its products or services, sourcing its supply, and so on.



In return for the franchisor's advisory role, use of intellectual property, and experience, the franchisee generally pays a startup fee plus an ongoing percentage of gross revenues to the franchisor.



At the start, the franchisor assigns the franchisee an exclusive location far enough from its other franchises to avoid competition.






There are benefits and drawbacks to investing in an already successful business; as with any investment, research your options thoroughly before you decide to purchase a franchise.


   Franchisee Benefits  

Operating a franchise can be an ideal venture for an entrepreneur with little direct experience in business management because:



The costs of opening a franchise can be lower compared to starting a company from the ground up.The business has immediate brand recognition, a ready-built supply system, and a professional marketing campaign already in place.Franchisees adopt the business practices of their franchisors rather than create them from scratch.The franchisor is invested in the success of its franchisees and will take an active advisory role.


   Franchisee Responsibilities  

A franchisee must follow the proven business model that is already in place, down to its choice of location, furnishings, products, and decor. Franchisors require this to maintain consistent quality among all of the locations using its brand name.



The franchisee is responsible for growing the franchise via the usual means of advertising and marketing within its exclusive area of operation. However, all marketing campaigns must be approved by the original establishment before their release.



As the manager of the franchise, the franchisee is expected to protect the brand name by offering only approved products and services that are created by or sourced by the original company.


   Franchise Example: McDonald's  

A company that notably grew a global presence using the franchise model is the fast-food behemoth McDonald’s.



McDonald’s was founded in 1940 by the McDonald brothers in San Bernardino, California. However, it was their business associate Ray Kroc who opened the first official franchise for the McDonald’s System, Inc.—a predecessor of today's McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)—in 1955 in Des Plaines, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. Kroc later bought the business from the brothers.



As of 2023, there were more than 38,000 McDonald's restaurants in more than 100 countries, and 93% of them are owned and operated by local business people.



McDonald’s either owns the land and buildings used by the franchisees or secures long-term leases for the franchised sites. As part of the contractual agreement with the company, the franchisee pays a portion of the cost of seating, décor, and signs in the location that the company provides.






McDonald's indicates that it will only consider franchise buyers who have at least $500,000 in non-borrowed personal resources.



The legendary success of the McDonald's franchise story is partly a result of the company's commitment to maintaining consistent standards in its food. A Big Mac in Los Angeles should and does have the same quality as one in London.



Franchisees manage their own pricing decisions and staffing matters while benefiting from the brand equity and global experience of McDonald’s.




Does a Franchisee Own a Business?
Yes, a franchisee is the owner of the business. The owner is licensed to use products supplied by the franchisor. The franchisee is contractually obligated to use only products and services supplied by or authorized by the franchisor.This limits the business owner's scope and autonomy. A McDonald's franchisee cannot sell a peanut butter and jelly sandwich or even hang a picture on the wall that isn't issued by McDonald's.




Is a Franchisee the Same As a Franchisor?
No. The franchisor is the entity that owns the intellectual property, patents, and trademarks of the brand or business being franchised. A franchisee buys the right to operate a location of the franchisor.




Can a Franchisee Be Fired or Removed?
A franchisee can effectively be fired. The franchisor can shut down one of its licensed operators that breaks the rules. Those rules allow the franchisor to act quickly if a franchisee is discovered to be running a location that fails to meet health and safety guidelines, among other infractions.


   The Bottom Line  

The franchise model is expanding in new directions. The classic is the McDonald's model in which a business person adopts the entire product line and merchandising model of a franchisor.



Newer franchising models are emerging, particularly in services businesses such as home health care and tax preparation. There also is growth in business distribution franchises. This is a supplier/dealer relationship in which the dealer acquires exclusive rights to sell a supplier's goods within a certain area.



A franchise business is best suited to an individual who wants to buy into a proven business model and not invent one from scratch.
What Is a Franked Dividend?  

A franked dividend is an arrangement in Australia that eliminates the double taxation of dividends. The shareholder can reduce the tax paid on the dividend by an amount equal to the tax imputation credits.﻿﻿ An individual’s marginal tax rate and the tax rate for the company issuing the dividend affect how much tax an individual owes on a dividend.





Key Takeaways

A franked dividend is paid with a tax credit attached and is designed to eliminate the issue of double taxation of dividends for investors.The shareholder submits the dividend income plus the franking credit as income but will only be taxed on the dividend portion.Franked dividends can be fully franked or partially franked.Franked dividends help to create more stable and competitive markets by lowering the tax burden on dividends.


   Understanding Franked Dividends  

A franked dividend is paid with a tax credit attached and is designed to eliminate the issue of double taxation of dividends for investors. Basically, it reduces a dividend-receiving investor's tax burden.



Dividends are paid by companies to their shareholders out of profits. These payments are often periodic, such as monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually, but can also be paid out through special distributions which are carried out as a standalone event. Since these payments are drawn from profits, it implies dividends have already been subject to tax at the corporate level. So, a shareholder receiving the dividend should not be obligated for the tax on that dividend when it comes to paying their individual income taxes. That would constitute double taxation.



Franked dividends eliminate this double taxation by giving investors a tax credit, commonly known as a franking credit, for the amount of tax the business paid on that dividend. The shareholder submits the dividend income plus the franking credit as income but will end up being taxed only on the dividend portion. Franked dividends can be fully franked (100%) or partially franked (less than 100%).﻿﻿﻿



The formula for calculating a franking credit for a fully franked dividend paying $1,000 by a company whose corporate tax rate is 30% is:



Franking Credit = (Dividend Amount ÷ (1 - Company Tax Rate)) - Dividend Amount



Franking Credit = ($1,000 ÷ (1 - 0.30)) - $1,000 = ($1,000 ÷ 0.70) - $1,000 = $428.57



The shareholder would receive a fully franked dividend of $1,000, and their dividend statement would show a franking credit of $428.57. If the dividend were not franked, the shareholder would have owed taxes on the entire $1,428.57 ($1,000 + $428.57). With the franking credit, taxes only apply to the $1,000, even though they declare $1,428.57 as taxable income.


   Types of Franked Dividends  

There are two different types of franked dividends, fully franked and partially franked. When a stock’s shares are fully franked, the company pays tax on the entire dividend. Investors receive 100% of the tax paid on the dividend as franking credits. In contrast, shares that are not fully franked may result in tax payments for investors.﻿﻿



Businesses sometimes claim tax deductions, perhaps due to losses from preceding years. That allows them to avoid paying the entire tax rate on their profits in a given year. When this happens, the business does not pay enough tax to legally attach a full tax credit to the dividends paid to shareholders. As a result, a tax credit is attached to part of the dividend, making that portion franked. The rest of the dividend remains untaxed, or unfranked. This dividend is then said to be partially franked. The investor is responsible for paying the remaining tax balance.﻿﻿


   Benefits of Franked Dividends  

The tax advantages of franked dividends for investors are apparent, but there are additional benefits for markets and society. The classic argument against double taxation of income is that it deters investment in publicly traded companies that issue dividends. Many small businesses have flow-through taxation, so investors only have to pay income taxes. Large firms must pay corporate income tax, and then their investors are taxed again on the dividend income. Double taxation seems unfair on the surface. Furthermore, it distorts investment choices, potentially leading to reduced economic efficiency and lower incomes.



Franked dividends may have additional benefits within the stock market. Because unfranked dividends suffer from tax disadvantages, there was a trend away from issuing them. Growth stocks in the U.S., most notably Amazon (AMZN), outperformed the market in part by reinvesting profits in their operations rather than issuing dividends. Stocks that do not issue dividends are necessarily more speculative, so markets become less stable as those companies succeed. In the long-run, reinvesting in firms instead of issuing dividends reduces competition, efficiency, and consumer choice. Franked dividends help to create more stable and competitive markets by lowering the tax burden on dividends.


   Real World Example  

From April 2016 to June 2019, New York-based investment firm VanEck ran the VanEck Vectors S&P/ASX Franked Dividend ETF. The ETF tracked the S&P/ASX Franked Dividend Index and included companies in the S&P/ASX 200 that paid out 100% franked dividends in the preceding two years. The fund changed its investment objective and name in June 2019.
What Is Fraud?  










Investopedia / Sydney Saporito



Fraud is an intentionally deceptive action designed to provide the perpetrator with an unlawful gain or to deny a right to a victim. Types of fraud include tax fraud, credit card fraud, wire fraud, securities fraud, and bankruptcy fraud. Fraudulent activity can be carried out by one individual, multiple individuals or a business firm as a whole.





Key Takeaways

Fraud involves deceit with the intention to illegally or unethically gain at the expense of another.In finance, fraud can take on many forms including making false insurance claims, cooking the books, pump & dump schemes, and identity theft leading to unauthorized purchases.Fraud costs the economy billions of dollars each and every year, and those who are caught are subject to fines and jail time.


   Fraud Explained  

Fraud involves the false representation of facts, whether by intentionally withholding important information or providing false statements to another party for the specific purpose of gaining something that may not have been provided without the deception.



Often, the perpetrator of fraud is aware of information that the intended victim is not, allowing the perpetrator to deceive the victim. At heart, the individual or company committing fraud is taking advantage of information asymmetry; specifically, the resource cost of reviewing and verifying that information can be significant enough to create a disincentive to fully invest in fraud prevention.



Both states and the federal government have laws that criminalize fraud, though fraudulent actions may not always result in a criminal trial. Government prosecutors often have substantial discretion in determining whether a case should go to trial and may pursue a settlement instead if this will result in a speedier and less costly resolution. If a fraud case goes to trial, the perpetrator may be convicted and sent to jail.


   Legal Considerations  

While the government may decide that a case of fraud can be settled outside of criminal proceedings, non-governmental parties that claim injury may pursue a civil case. The victims of fraud may sue the perpetrator to have funds recovered, or, in a case where no monetary loss occurred, may sue to reestablish the victim’s rights.



Proving that fraud has taken place requires the perpetrator to have committed specific acts. First, the perpetrator has to provide a false statement as a material fact. Second, the perpetrator had to have known that the statement was untrue. Third, the perpetrator had to have intended to deceive the victim. Fourth, the victim has to demonstrate that they relied on the false statement. And fifth, the victim had to have suffered damages as a result of acting on the intentionally false statement.


   Types of Financial Fraud  

Common individual mortgage fraud schemes include identity theft and income/asset falsification, while industry professionals may use appraisal frauds and air loans to dupe the system. The most common investor mortgage fraud schemes are different types of property flipping, occupancy fraud, and the straw buyer scam.



Fraud also occurs in the insurance industry. Thoroughly reviewing an insurance claim may take so many hours that an insurer may determine that a more cursory review is warranted considering the size of the claim. Knowing this, an individual may file a small claim for a loss that didn’t really occur. The insurer may decide to pay the claim without thoroughly investigating since the claim is small. In this case, insurance fraud has been conducted. 



The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) describes securities fraud as criminal activity that can include high yield investment fraud, Ponzi schemes, pyramid schemes, advanced fee schemes, foreign currency fraud, broker embezzlement, pump-and-dumps, hedge fund related fraud, and late-day trading. In many cases, the fraudster seeks to dupe investors through misrepresentation and to manipulate financial markets in some way. These crimes are characterized by providing false or misleading information, withholding key information, purposefully offering bad advice, and offering or acting on inside information.


   Consequences of Financial Fraud  

Fraud can have a devastating impact on a business. In 2001, a massive corporate fraud was uncovered at Enron, a U.S.-based energy company. Executives used a variety of techniques to disguise the company’s financial health, including the deliberate obfuscation of revenue and misrepresentation of earnings. After the fraud was uncovered, shareholders saw share prices plummet from around $90 to less than $1 in a little over a year. Company employees had their equity wiped out and lost their jobs after Enron declared bankruptcy. The Enron scandal was a major driver behind the regulations found in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act passed in 2002.
What Is Freddie Mac—Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FHLMC)?  

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FHLMC) is a stockholder-owned, government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) chartered by Congress in 1970 to keep money flowing to mortgage lenders, which in turn supports homeownership and rental housing for middle-income Americans. The FHLMC, familiarly known as Freddie Mac, purchases, guarantees, and securitizes home loans and is a mainstay of the secondary mortgage market.





Key Takeaways

Freddie Mac is the officially recognized nickname for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FHLMC).Freddie Mac is a stockholder-owned, government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) chartered by Congress in 1970 in support of homeownership for middle-income Americans. The role of Freddie Mac is to buy a large number of loans from mortgage lenders, then combine them and sell them as mortgage-backed securities.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are both publicly traded GSEs. The main difference between them is that Fannie Mae buys mortgage loans from major retail or commercial banks, while Freddie Mac obtains its loans from smaller banks. Some have argued that unchecked growth for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was a primary driver in what led to the credit crisis of 2008 that turned into the Great Recession.


   History of Freddie Mac  

Freddie Mac was created when Congress passed the Emergency Home Finance Act in 1970. A wholly owned subsidiary of the Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLBS), it represented an attempt to reduce interest rate risk for savings and loans associations and smaller banks. In 1989, under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA), Freddie Mac underwent a reorganization. It became a publicly owned company, with shares that could trade on the New York Stock Exchange.



In 2008, during the financial crisis sparked by the subprime mortgage meltdown, the U.S. government—specifically, the Federal Housing Finance Agency—took over Freddie Mac. Though it's gradually transitioning toward independence, it remains under federal conservatorship.


   What Does Freddie Mac Do?  

Freddie Mac was created to enhance the flow of credit to different parts of the economy. Along with a similar GSE, Fannie Mae, it is a key player in the secondary mortgage market.



Freddie Mac doesn’t originate or service home mortgages itself. Rather, it buys home loans from banks and other commercial mortgage lenders (giving these institutions funds that they can then use to finance more loans and mortgages). These loans must meet certain standards that Freddie Mac sets.



After purchasing a large number of these mortgages, Freddie Mac either holds them in its own portfolio or combines and sells them as mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to investors who are seeking a steady income stream. Either way, it "insures" these mortgages—that is, it guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on the loans. As a result, securities issued by Freddie Mac tend to be very liquid and carry a credit rating close to that of U.S. Treasuries.





62%

The percentage of all U.S. mortgage originations (that is, new loans) securitized and guaranteed by Freddie Mac and its sister enterprise, Fannie Mae, as of mid-2020.


   Criticism of Freddie Mac  

Freddie Mac has come under criticism because its ties to the U.S. government allow it to borrow money at interest rates lower than those available to other financial institutions. With this funding advantage, it issues large amounts of debt (known in the marketplace as “agency debt” or “agencies”), and in turn purchases and holds a huge portfolio of mortgages known as its “retained portfolio.”



Some people believe that the size of the retained portfolio combined with the complexities of managing mortgage risk poses a great deal of systematic risk to the U.S. economy. Critics have argued that the unchecked growth of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae led to the credit crisis of 2008 that plunged the U.S. into the Great Recession. (In response, advocates of the enterprises argue that, while Freddie and Fannie made bad business decisions and held insufficient capital during the housing bubble, their portfolios made up only a tiny fraction of total subprime loans.)






Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s single-family foreclosure moratorium, put in place due to the 2020 economic crisis, ended on July 31, 2021. However, real estate owned evictions are halted until Sept. 30 and their forbearance programs continue. Homeowners with mortgages can enroll and pause their payments for up to a year; those who were enrolled as of Feb. 28, 2021, may qualify for up to 18 months. Other borrowers may be eligible for a loan modification.


   Freddie Mac vs. Fannie Mae   

Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage Association or FNMA) was created in 1938 as part of an amendment to the National Housing Act. It was considered a federal government agency, and its role was to act as a secondary mortgage market that could purchase, hold, or sell loans that were insured by the Federal Housing Administration. Fannie Mae stopped being a federal government agency and became a private-public corporation under the Charter Act of 1954.



Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are very similar. Both are publicly traded companies that were chartered to serve a public mission. The main difference between the two comes down to the source of the mortgages they buy. Fannie Mae buys mortgage loans from major retail or commercial banks, while Freddie Mac obtains its loans from smaller banks, often called “thrift banks” or “savings and loan associations,” that are focused on providing banking services to communities.
What Is Free Carrier (FCA)?  

Free carrier is a trade term dictating that a seller of goods is responsible for the delivery of those goods to a destination specified by the buyer. When used in trade, the word "free" means the seller has an obligation to deliver goods to a named place for transfer to a carrier. The destination is typically an airport, shipping terminal, warehouse, or other location where the carrier operates. It might even be the seller's business location.



The seller includes transportation costs in its price and assumes the risk of loss until the carrier receives the goods. At this point, the buyer assumes all responsibility.





Key Takeaways

Free carrier is a trade term requiring the seller of goods to deliver those goods to a named airport, shipping terminal, warehouse, or other carrier location specified by the buyer.The seller includes transportation costs in its price and assumes the risk of loss until the carrier receives the goods.Once the seller delivers the goods to the carrier, the buyer assumes all responsibility for the goods.The International Chamber of Commerce updated Incoterms in 2010 to include the free carrier provision, and the ICC further updated the definition of FCA shipping term in 2020.As part of the liability transfer, the seller is only responsible for delivery to the specified destination but isn't obligated to unload the goods.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   How Free Carrier (FCA) Works  

Buyers and sellers engaged in economic trade requiring the shipment of goods can use FCA shipping terms to describe any transportation point, regardless of the number of transportation modes involved in the shipping process. The point must be a location within the seller’s home country, however. It's the seller's duty to safely transport the goods to that facility. The carrier can be any kind of transportation service, such as a truck, train, boat, or airplane.



Liability for the merchandise transfers from the seller to the carrier or buyer at the time the seller delivers the goods to the agreed port or area. The seller is only responsible for delivery to the specified destination as part of the liability transfer. It isn't obligated to unload the goods, but the seller might be responsible for ensuring that the goods have been cleared for export out of the United States if the destination is the seller's premises.



Under FCA shipping terms, the buyer doesn't have to deal with export details and licenses because this is the responsibility of the seller. The buyer must arrange for transport, however. Once goods arrive at the carrier and title transfers to the buyer, the goods become an asset on the buyer's balance sheet.






Many experts recommend that any party involved in international trade consult with an appropriate legal professional—such as a trade attorney—before using any trade term within a contract.


   FCA Incoterms  

Contracts involving international transportation often contain abbreviated trade terms, or terms of sale, that describe shipment specifics. These might include the time and place of delivery, payment, the point at which the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer, and the party responsible for freight and insurance costs.



To help facilitate the delivery of such items, the most commonly known trade terms are international commercial terms or Incoterms. Incoterms are internationally recognized standards published by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). These are often identical in form to domestic terms, such as the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), but there can be slight differences in their official interpretations.



The term 'free carrier' or FCA is a typical and highly-used example of Incoterms. It has been internationally recognized as a standard set of instructions to designate delivery terms. FCA shipping terms were included in Incoterms starting in 2010 and will be continually adjusted as necessary as the ICC updates Incoterms every 10 years.






Established by the International Chamber of Commerce, the Incoterms rules may be purchased via the ICC's website.


   Example of FCA  

Under FCA shipping terms, the seller delivers the goods to the destination named by the buyer. The shipper assumes responsibility for the goods when they arrive there. The buyer would be responsible for loading the goods for transport.



For example, Joe Seller ships goods to Bob Buyer under an FCA shipping term agreement. Bob opts to use his shipper with whom he's done business before. Joe agrees, and it's his responsibility to deliver the goods to the shipper. At this point, all liability passes to Bob.




What Is the Difference Between FCA and FOB?
FCA and FOB are shipment terms used in different types of transportation. FOB delivery applies only to sea shipments and occurs when cargo is loaded onto a vessel. Goods delivered from from a warehouse to the water vessel are the responsibility of the seller. Under FCA, many more types of transport are allowable. The supplier is usually obligated to issue an export declaration once goods have been placed onto a buyer's vehicle.




What Is the Difference Between FCA and DDP?
Under DDP shipping terms, a vendor has to pay for the transportation costs. In addition, the vendor usually holds all risks and responsibilities for the transportation of the goods until the buyer receives them. FCA shipping terms are usually paid for by the buyer since the carrier is nominated by the buyer.




Who Pays for FCA Shipping?
Under FCA shipping terms, the buyer often pays for the transportation as they are the party responsible for nominating the carrier to use.




Who Is Responsible for Export Clearance Under FCA?
Under FCA shipping terms, the seller is responsible for export duty, taxes, and custom clearance. The buyer is responsible for importing items.


   The Bottom Line  

Under FCA shipping terms, the seller is responsible for pre-carriage to a terminal, delivery to the agreed upon destination, and proof of delivery. The seller is also responsible for export packaging, licenses, and customs formalities. On the other hand, under FCA shipments, the buyer pays for the goods, is responsible for the main means of transportation, and pays for loading charges. The buyer also covers import duties, taxes, and formalities.
What Is Free Cash Flow (FCF)?  

Free cash flow (FCF) represents the cash that a company generates after accounting for cash outflows to support operations and maintain its capital assets. Unlike earnings or net income, free cash flow is a measure of profitability that excludes the non-cash expenses of the income statement and includes spending on equipment and assets as well as changes in working capital from the balance sheet.



Interest payments are excluded from the generally accepted definition of free cash flow.



Investment bankers and analysts who need to evaluate a company’s expected performance with different capital structures will use variations of free cash flow like free cash flow for the firm and free cash flow to equity, which are adjusted for interest payments and borrowings.





Key Takeaways

Free cash flow (FCF) is a company's available cash repaid to creditors and as dividends and interest to investors.Management and investors use free cash flow as a measure of a company's financial health.FCF reconciles net income by adjusting for non-cash expenses, changes in working capital, and capital expenditures.Free cash flow can reveal problems in the fundamentals before they arise on the income statement.A positive free cash flow doesn't always indicate a strong stock trend.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding Free Cash Flow (FCF)  

Free cash flow is the money that the company has available to repay its creditors or pay dividends and interest to investors.



Some investors prefer to use FCF or FCF per share rather than earnings or earnings per share (EPS) as a measure of profitability because the latter metrics remove non-cash items from the income statement.



However, because FCF accounts for investments in property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) it can be lumpy and uneven over time, making it less useful for the purpose of analysis.


   Benefits of Free Cash Flow  

Because FCF accounts for changes in working capital, it can provide important insights into the value of a company and the health of its fundamental trends.



A decrease in accounts payable (outflow) could mean that vendors are requiring faster payment. A decrease in accounts receivable (inflow) could mean the company is collecting cash from its customers more quickly. An increase in inventory (outflow) could indicate a building stockpile of unsold products. Including working capital in a measure of profitability provides an insight that is missing from the income statement.



For example, assume that a company made $50,000,000 per year in net income each year for the last decade. On the surface, that seems stable. But what if FCF was dropping over the last two years as inventories were rising (outflow), customers started to delay payments (inflow), and vendors began demanding faster payments (outflow)? In this situation, FCF would reveal a serious financial weakness that wouldn’t be apparent from an examination of the income statement.



Looking at FCF is also helpful for potential shareholders or lenders who want to evaluate how likely it is that the company will be able to pay its expected dividends or interest. If the company’s debt payments are deducted from free cash flow to the firm (FCFF), a lender would have a better idea of the quality of cash flows available for paying additional debt. Shareholders can use FCF minus interest payments to predict the stability of future dividend payments.






Free cash flow is often evaluated on a per-share basis to evaluate the effect of dilution similar to the way that sales and earnings are evaluated.


   Limitations of Free Cash Flow  

Imagine a company has earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of $1,000,000 in a given year. Also assume that this company has had no changes in working capital (current assets - current liabilities) but it bought new equipment worth $800,000 at the end of the year. The expense of the new equipment will be spread out over time via depreciation on the income statement, which evens out the impact on earnings.



But because FCF accounts for the cash spent on new equipment in the current year, the company will report $200,000 FCF ($1,000,000 EBITDA - $800,000 equipment) on $1,000,000 of EBITDA that year. If we assume that everything else remains the same and there are no further equipment purchases, EBITDA and FCF will be equal again the following year.



In this situation, an investor will have to determine why FCF dipped so quickly one year only to return to previous levels, and if that change is likely to continue.



Moreover, understanding the depreciation method being used will garner further insights. For example, net income and FCF will differ based on the amount of depreciation taken per year of the asset's useful life. If the asset is being depreciated using the book depreciation method, over a useful life of 10 years, then net income will be lower than FCF by $80,000 ($800,000 / 10 years) for each year until the asset is fully depreciated.



Alternatively, if the asset is being depreciated using the tax depreciation method, the asset will be fully depreciated in the year it was purchased, resulting in net income equaling FCF in subsequent years.


   Calculating Free Cash Flow  

FCF can be calculated by starting with cash flows from operating activities on the statement of cash flows because this number will have already adjusted earnings for non-cash expenses and changes in working capital.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



The income statement and balance sheet can also be used to calculate FCF.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



Other factors from the income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows can be used to arrive at the same calculation. For example, if EBIT was not given, an investor could arrive at the correct calculation in the following way.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



While FCF is a useful tool, it is not subject to the same financial disclosure requirements as other line items in the financial statements. This is unfortunate because if you adjust for the fact that capital expenditures (CapEx) can make the metric a little lumpy, FCF is a good double-check on a company’s reported profitability.



Although the effort is worth it, not all investors have the background knowledge or are willing to dedicate the time to calculate the number manually. Luckily, there is software that helps make the calculation easier.


   How to Define Good Free Cash Flow  

Fortunately, most financial websites provide a summary of FCF or a graph of FCF’s trend for most public companies.



However, the real challenge remains: What constitutes good free cash flow? Many companies with very positive free cash flow also have dismal stock trends, and the opposite can also be true.



Using the trend of FCF can help you simplify your analysis.



One important concept from technical analysts is to focus on the trend over time of fundamental performance rather than the absolute values of FCF, earnings, or revenue. Essentially, if stock prices are a function of the underlying fundamentals, then a positive FCF trend should be correlated with positive stock price trends on average.



A common approach is to use the stability of FCF trends as a measure of risk. If the trend of FCF is stable over the last four to five years, then bullish trends in the stock are less likely to be disrupted in the future. However, falling FCF trends, especially FCF trends that are very different compared to earnings and sales trends, indicate a higher likelihood of negative price performance in the future.



This approach ignores the absolute value of FCF to focus on the slope of FCF and its relationship to price performance.


   Example of Free Cash Flow  

Consider the following example:














Example of a Hypothetical Company's Free Cash Flow




Factor
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
TTM


Sales/Revenue
$100
$105
$120
$126
$128
$130 


EPS
$1.00
$1.03
$1.15
$1.17
$1.19
$1.20


FCF/Share
$0.85
$0.97
$1.07
$1.05
$0.80
$0.56






In this example, there is a strong divergence between the company's revenue and earnings figures and its cash flow. Based on these trends, an investor would be on alert that something may not be going well with the company, but that the issues haven’t made it to the so-called headline numbers, such as revenue and earnings per share. These issues can be attributed to several potential causes:


  Investing in Growth  

A company could have diverging trends like these because management is investing in property, plant, and equipment to grow the business. In the previous example, an investor could detect that this is the case by looking to see if CapEx was growing between 2019 and 2021. If FCF + CapEx were still upwardly trending, this scenario could be a good thing for the stock’s value.


  Stockpiling Inventory  

Low cash flows can also be a sign of poor inventory control. A company with strong sales and revenue could nonetheless experience diminished cash flows, if too many resources are tied up in storing unsold products. A cautious investor could examine these figures and conclude that the company may suffer from faltering demand or poor cash management.


  Credit Problems  

A change in working capital can be caused by inventory fluctuations or by a shift in accounts payable and receivable.



If a company’s sales are struggling, they may choose to extend more generous payment terms to their clients, ultimately leading to a negative adjustment to FCF.



Alternatively, perhaps a company’s suppliers are not willing to extend credit as generously and now require faster payment. That will reduce accounts payable, which is also a negative adjustment to FCF.



In the late 2000s and early 2010s, many solar companies were dealing with this exact kind of credit problem. Sales and income could be inflated by offering more generous terms to clients. However, because this issue was widely known in the industry, suppliers were less willing to extend terms and wanted to be paid by solar companies faster.



In this situation, the divergence between the fundamental trends was apparent in FCF analysis but was not immediately obvious by examining the income statement alone.




How Is Free Cash Flow Calculated?
There are two main approaches to calculating FCF.The first approach uses cash flow from operating activities as the starting point and then makes adjustments for interest expense, the tax shield on interest expense, and any capital expenditures (CapEx) undertaken that year.The second approach uses earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as the starting point, then adjusts for income taxes, non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization, changes in working capital, and CapEx.In both cases, the resulting numbers should be identical, but one approach may be preferred over the other depending on what financial information is available.




What Does FCF Indicate?
Free cash flow indicates the amount of cash generated each year that is free and clear of all internal or external obligations.In other words, it reflects cash that the company can safely invest or distribute to shareholders.While a healthy FCF metric is generally seen as a positive sign by investors, it is important to understand the context behind the figure. For instance, a company might show high FCF because it is postponing important CapEx investments, in which case the high FCF could actually present an early indication of problems in the future.




How Important Is FCF?
Free cash flow is an important financial metric because it represents the actual amount of cash at a company’s disposal. A company with consistently low or negative FCF might be forced into costly rounds of fundraising in an effort to remain solvent.If a company has enough FCF to maintain its current operations but not enough FCF to invest in growing its business, that company might eventually fall behind its competitors.For yield-oriented investors, FCF is also important for understanding the sustainability of a company’s dividend payments, as well as the likelihood of a company raising its dividends in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

Checking a company's free cash flow (FCF), and especially checking the trend of free cash flow over time, can be useful to investors considering a company's stock and to others, such as bankers considering loaning the company money.



Shareholders can use FCF (minus interest payments) as a gauge of the company's ability to pay dividends or interest.



Bankers can consider FCF as a measure of the company's ability to take on additional debt.



Luckily, nobody has to calculate this number manually. Most financial websites provide a summary of FCF or a graph of FCF’s trend for publicly-traded companies.



Correction—Nov. 10, 2022: An example in a previous version of this article classified customer payments as outflows when they are, in fact, considered inflows.
What Is Free Cash Flow to Equity (FCFE)?  

Free cash flow to equity is a measure of how much cash is available to the equity shareholders of a company after all expenses, reinvestment, and debt are paid. FCFE is a measure of equity capital usage.


   Understanding Free Cash Flow to Equity  

Free cash flow to equity is composed of net income, capital expenditures, working capital, and debt. Net income is located on the company income statement. Capital expenditures can be found within the cash flows from the investing section on the cash flow statement.



Working capital is also found on the cash flow statement; however, it is in the cash flows from the operations section. In general, working capital represents the difference between the company’s most current assets and liabilities.





Key Takeaways

A measure of equity cash usage, free cash flow to equity calculates how much cash is available to the equity shareholders of a company after all expenses, reinvestment, and debt are paid.Free cash flow to equity is composed of net income, capital expenditures, working capital, and debt. The FCFE metric is often used by analysts in an attempt to determine the value of a company. FCFE, as a method of valuation, gained popularity as an alternative to the dividend discount model (DDM), especially for cases in which a company does not pay a dividend.



These are short-term capital requirements related to immediate operations. Net borrowings can also be found on the cash flow statement in the cash flows from financing section. It is important to remember that interest expense is already included in net income so you do not need to add back interest expense.


   The Formula for FCFE  

﻿




FCFE


=


Cash from operations


−


Capex


+


Net debt issued



\text{FCFE} = \text{Cash from operations} - \text{Capex} + \text{Net debt issued}


FCFE=Cash from operations−Capex+Net debt issued﻿


   What Does FCFE Tell You?  

The FCFE metric is often used by analysts in an attempt to determine the value of a company. This method of valuation gained popularity as an alternative to the dividend discount model (DDM), especially if a company does not pay a dividend. Although FCFE may calculate the amount available to shareholders, it does not necessarily equate to the amount paid out to shareholders.



Analysts use FCFE to determine if dividend payments and stock repurchases are paid for with free cash flow to equity or some other form of financing. Investors want to see a dividend payment and share repurchase that is fully paid by FCFE.



If FCFE is less than the dividend payment and the cost to buy back shares, the company is funding with either debt or existing capital or issuing new securities. Existing capital includes retained earnings made in previous periods.



This is not what investors want to see in a current or prospective investment, even if interest rates are low. Some analysts argue that borrowing to pay for share repurchases when shares are trading at a discount, and rates are historically low is a good investment. However, this is only the case if the company's share price goes up in the future.



If the company's dividend payment funds are significantly less than the FCFE, then the firm is using the excess to increase its cash level or to invest in marketable securities. Finally, if the funds spent to buy back shares or pay dividends is approximately equal to the FCFE, then the firm is paying it all to its investors.


   Example of How to Use FCFE  

Using the Gordon Growth Model, the FCFE is used to calculate the value of equity using this formula:



﻿





V


equity



=




FCFE





(


r


−


g


)






V_\text{equity} = \frac{\text{FCFE}}{\left(r-g\right)}


Vequity​=(r−g)FCFE​﻿



Where:



Vequity = value of the stock todayFCFE = expected FCFE for next yearr = cost of equity of the firmg = growth rate in FCFE for the firm



This model is used to find the value of the equity claim of a company and is only appropriate to use if capital expenditure is not significantly greater than depreciation and if the beta of the company's stock is close to 1 or below 1.
What Is Free Cash Flow to the Firm (FCFF)?  

Free cash flow to the firm (FCFF) represents the amount of cash flow from operations available for distribution after accounting for depreciation expenses, taxes, working capital, and investments. FCFF is a measurement of a company's profitability after all expenses and reinvestments. It is one of the many benchmarks used to compare and analyze a firm's financial health.





Key Takeaways

Free cash flow to the firm (FCFF) represents the cash flow from operations available for distribution after accounting for depreciation expenses, taxes, working capital, and investments.Free cash flow is arguably the most important financial indicator of a company's stock value.A positive FCFF value indicates that the firm has cash remaining after expenses.A negative value indicates that the firm has not generated enough revenue to cover its costs and investment activities.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Free Cash Flow to the Firm (FCFF)  

FCFF represents the cash available to investors after a company pays all its business costs, invests in current assets (e.g., inventory), and invests in long-term assets (e.g., equipment). FCFF includes bondholders and stockholders as beneficiaries when considering the money left over for investors.



The FCFF calculation is an indicator of a company's operations and its performance. FCFF considers all cash inflows in the form of revenues, all cash outflows in the form of ordinary expenses, and all reinvested cash to grow the business. The money left over after conducting all these operations represents a company's FCFF.



Free cash flow is arguably the most important financial indicator of a company's stock value. The value/price of a stock is considered to be the summation of the company's expected future cash flows. However, stocks are not always accurately priced. Understanding a company's FCFF allows investors to test whether a stock is fairly valued. FCFF also represents a company's ability to pay dividends, conduct share repurchases, or pay back debt holders. Any investor looking to invest in a company's corporate bond or public equity should check its FCFF.



A positive FCFF value indicates that the firm has cash remaining after expenses. A negative value indicates that the firm has not generated enough revenue to cover its costs and investment activities. In the latter case, an investor should dig deeper to assess why costs and investment exceed revenues. It could be the result of a specific business purpose, as in high-growth tech companies that take consistent outside investments, or it could be a signal of financial problems.


  Calculating Free Cash Flow to the Firm (FCFF)  

The calculation for FCFF can take several forms, and it's important to understand each version. The most common equation is the following:


















FCFF


=


NI


+


NC


+


(


I


×


(


1


−


TR


)


)


−


LI


−


IWC
















where:
















NI


=


Net income
















NC


=


Non-cash charges
















I


=


Interest
















TR


=


Tax Rate
















LI


=


Long-term Investments
















IWC


=


Investments in Working Capital







\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFF} = \text{NI} + \text{NC} + ( \text{I} \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) ) - \text{LI} - \text{IWC} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{NI} = \text{Net income} \\ &\text{NC} = \text{Non-cash charges} \\ &\text{I} = \text{Interest} \\ &\text{TR} = \text{Tax Rate} \\ &\text{LI} = \text{Long-term Investments} \\ &\text{IWC} = \text{Investments in Working Capital} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFF=NI+NC+(I×(1−TR))−LI−IWCwhere:NI=Net incomeNC=Non-cash chargesI=InterestTR=Tax RateLI=Long-term InvestmentsIWC=Investments in Working Capital​



Free cash flow to the firm can also be calculated using other formulations. Other formulations of the above equation include:


















FCFF


=


CFO


+


(


IE


×


(


1


−


TR


)


)


−


CAPEX
















where:
















CFO


=


Cash flow from operations
















IE


=


Interest Expense
















CAPEX


=


Capital expenditures







\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFF} = \text{CFO} + ( \text{IE} \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) ) - \text{CAPEX} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CFO} = \text{Cash flow from operations} \\ &\text{IE} = \text{Interest Expense} \\ &\text{CAPEX} = \text{Capital expenditures} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFF=CFO+(IE×(1−TR))−CAPEXwhere:CFO=Cash flow from operationsIE=Interest ExpenseCAPEX=Capital expenditures​


















FCFF


=


(


EBIT


×


(


1


−


TR


)


)


+


D


−


LI


−


IWC
















where:
















EBIT


=


Earnings before interest and taxes
















D


=


Depreciation







\begin{aligned}&\text{FCFF}=(\text{EBIT}\times(1-\text{TR}))+\text{D}-\text{LI}-\text{IWC}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{EBIT}=\text{Earnings before interest and taxes}\\&\text{D}=\text{Depreciation}\end{aligned}


​FCFF=(EBIT×(1−TR))+D−LI−IWCwhere:EBIT=Earnings before interest and taxesD=Depreciation​


















FCFF


=


(


EBITDA


×


(


1


−


TR


)


)


+


(


D


×


TR


)


−


LI

















FCFF


=



−


IWC
















where:
















EBITDA


=


Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
















and amortization







\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFF} = ( \text{EBITDA} \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) ) + ( \text{D} \times \text{TR} ) - \text{LI} \\ &\phantom {\text{FCFF} =} - \text{IWC} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EBITDA} = \text{Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation} \\ &\text{and amortization} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFF=(EBITDA×(1−TR))+(D×TR)−LIFCFF=−IWCwhere:EBITDA=Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciationand amortization​


  Real World Example of Free Cash Flow to the Firm (FCFF)  

If we look at Exxon's statement of cash flows, we see that the company had $8.519 billion in operating cash flow (below, in blue) in 2018. The company also invested in new plant and equipment, purchasing $3.349 billion in assets (in blue). The purchase is a capital expenditure (CAPEX) cash outlay. During the same period, Exxon paid $300 million in interest, subject to a 30% tax rate.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



FCFF can be calculated using this version of the formula:



﻿















FCFF


=


CFO


+


(


IE


×


(


1


−


TR


)


)


−


CAPEX








\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFF} = \text{CFO} + ( \text{IE} \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) ) - \text{CAPEX} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFF=CFO+(IE×(1−TR))−CAPEX​﻿



In the above example, FCFF would be calculated as follows:



﻿









FCFF


=









 


$


8


,


5


1


9


 Million


+


(


$


3


0


0


 Million


×


(


1


−


.


3


0


)


)


−











FCFF


=










 


$


3


,


3


4


9


 Million










=









 


$


5


.


3


8


 Billion








\begin{aligned} \text{FCFF} = &\ \$8,519 \text{ Million} + ( \$300 \text{ Million} \times ( 1 - .30 ) ) - \\ \phantom {\text{FCFF} =} &\ \$3,349 \text{ Million} \\ = &\ \$5.38 \text{ Billion} \\ \end{aligned}


FCFF=FCFF==​ $8,519 Million+($300 Million×(1−.30))− $3,349 Million $5.38 Billion​﻿


   The Difference Between Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow to the Firm (FCFF)  

Cash flow is the net amount of cash and cash equivalents being transferred into and out of a company. Positive cash flow indicates that a company's liquid assets are increasing, enabling it to settle debts, reinvest in its business, return money to shareholders, and pay expenses. 



Cash flow is reported on the cash flow statement, which contains three sections detailing activities. Those three sections are cash flow from operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities.



FCFF is the cash flows a company produces through its operations after subtracting any outlays of cash for investment in fixed assets like property, plant, and equipment, and after depreciation expenses, cash flow taxes, working capital, and interest are accounted for. In other words, free cash flow to the firm is the cash left over after a company has paid its operating expenses and capital expenditures.


   Special Considerations  

Although it provides a wealth of valuable information that investors appreciate, FCFF is not infallible. Crafty companies still have leeway when it comes to accounting sleight of hand. Without a regulatory standard for determining FCFF, investors often disagree on exactly which items should and should not be treated as capital expenditures.



Investors must thus keep an eye on companies with high levels of FCFF to see if these companies are under-reporting capital expenditures and research and development. Companies can also temporarily boost FCFF by stretching out their payments, tightening payment collection policies, and depleting inventories. These activities diminish current liabilities and changes to working capital, but the impacts are likely to be temporary.
What Is Free Cash Flow Yield?  

Free cash flow yield is a financial solvency ratio that compares the free cash flow per share a company is expected to earn against its market value per share. The ratio is calculated by taking the free cash flow per share divided by the current share price. Free cash flow yield is similar in nature to the earnings yield metric, which is usually meant to measure GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share divided by share price.


   The Formula for Free Cash Flow Yield is:  

﻿




F


r


e


e


 


C


a


s


h


 


F


l


o


w


 


Y


i


e


l


d


=




F


r


e


e


 


C


a


s


h


 


F


l


o


w


 


p


e


r


 


S


h


a


r


e




M


a


r


k


e


t


 


P


r


i


c


e


 


p


e


r


 


S


h


a


r


e





Free\ Cash\ Flow\ Yield=\frac{Free\ Cash\ Flow\ per\ Share}{Market\ Price\ per\ Share}


Free Cash Flow Yield=Market Price per ShareFree Cash Flow per Share​﻿












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   What Does the Free Cash Flow Yield Reveal?  

Generally, the lower the ratio, the less attractive a company is as an investment, because it means investors are putting money into the company but not receiving a very good return in exchange. A high free cash flow yield result means a company is generating enough cash to easily satisfy its debt and other obligations, including dividend payouts.



Some investors regard free cash flow, which excludes capital expenditures but considers other ongoing costs a business incurs to keep itself running, as a more accurate representation of the returns shareholders receive from owning a business. They prefer to use free cash flow yield as a valuation metric over an earnings yield.



In addition to sustaining ongoing operations, cash flow from operations is also a funding source for a company's long-term capital investments. Before tapping into any outside financing, a company first uses its operating cash flow to meet capital expenditure requirements. Anything left is referred to as free cash flow and becomes available to equity holders.



For investors preferring cash flow yield as a valuation metric over valuation multiples, the free cash flow yield would be a more accurate representation of investment returns, compared to yields based on cash flow not fully returnable or accounting earnings.





Key Takeaways

A higher free cash flow yield is ideal because it means a company has enough cash flow to satisfy all of its obligations.If the free cash flow yield is low, it means investors aren't receiving a very good return on the money they're investing in the company.The free cash flow yield gives investors an idea of how financially capable a company is at having quick access to cash in case of unexpected debts or other obligations, or how much cash would be available if the company had to be liquidated.


   The Difference Between Cash Flow and Earnings  

Free cash flow derives from operating cash flow, which is the net result of actual cash received and paid during a company's operations. Using cash flow to measure operating results is different from accounting-based earnings reporting. Earnings track every element of revenue and expense, regardless of cash involvements.



While earnings in principle summarize a company's total net income on account, cash flow concerns a company's ability to sustain its ongoing operations. The more cash a company amasses from operations, the easier it is to continue carrying out its business and to ultimately generate more earnings. The ability to yield cash flow can be a better indication of a company's longer-term valuation.


   Cash Flow Yield Versus a Valuation Multiple  

Investors may evaluate a company's worth by comparing its cash flows (business return) with its equity value. Cash flow can be a proper return representation, and market price a close proxy of equity value. Investors may judge a company's worth based on the percentage of its cash flow over the equity's market price, which is referred to as cash flow yield.



Alternatively, investors may look at a company's worth using a valuation multiple calculated as its equity's market price over the amount of cash flow. Evaluating an investment using cash flow yield can be more intuitive than a valuation multiple, as cash flow yield directly shows the cash returned as a percentage of the investment.
What Is Free Enterprise?  

Free enterprise, or the free market, refers to an economy where the market determines prices, products, and services rather than the government. Businesses and services are free of government control. Alternatively, free enterprise could refer to an ideological or legal system whereby commercial activities are primarily regulated through private measures.





Key Takeaways

Free enterprise refers to business activities that are not regulated by the government but are defined by a set of legal rules such as property rights, contracts, and competitive bidding.The argument for free enterprise is based on the belief that government interference in business and the economy hampers growth.A free enterprise legal system tends to result in capitalism.A free enterprise aims to increase freedom, market efficiency, consumer rights, financial security and stability, and economic opportunities.Though free enterprise grants more freedom, there is higher risk of more several economic crises without government intervention. 


   Free Enterprise As Law and Economics  

In principle and in practice, free markets are defined by private property rights, voluntary contracts, and competitive bidding for goods and services in the marketplace. This framework is in contrast to public ownership of property, coercive activity, and fixed or controlled distribution of goods and services.



In Western countries, free enterprise is associated with laissez-faire capitalism and philosophical libertarianism. However, free enterprise is distinct from capitalism. Capitalism refers to a method by which scarce resources are produced and distributed. Free enterprise refers to a set of legal rules regarding commercial interaction.



Another definition of free enterprise is in terms of economics and was offered by the Nobel-winning economist Friedrich Hayek. Hayek described such systems as "spontaneous order." Hayek's point was that free enterprise is not unplanned or unregulated; rather, planning and regulation arise from the coordination of decentralized knowledge among innumerable specialists, not bureaucrats.


   The Origins of Free Enterprise  

The first written intellectual reference to free enterprise systems may have emerged in China in the fourth or fifth century B.C., when Laozi, or Lao-tzu, argued that governments hampered growth and happiness by interfering with individuals.



Legal codes resembling free enterprise systems were not common until much later. The original home of contemporary free markets was England between the 16th and 18th centuries. This growth coincided with, and probably contributed to the first industrial revolution and birth of modern capitalism. At one time, the English legal code was completely free of international trade barriers, tariffs, barriers to entry in most industries, and limitations on private business contracts.



The United States also used a largely free-market legal approach during the 18th and 19th centuries. In modern times, however, both the United States and the United Kingdom are better classified as mixed economies. Countries such as Singapore, Hong Kong, and Switzerland are more reflective of free enterprise.






The opposite of a free enterprise economy is a planned, controlled, or command economy.


   Characteristics of Free Enterprise  

In the absence of central planning, a free enterprise legal system tends to produce capitalism although it is possible that voluntary socialism or even agrarianism could result. In capitalist economic systems, such as that of the United States, consumers and producers individually determine which goods and services to produce and which to purchase. Contracts are voluntarily entered into and may even be enforced privately; for example, by civil courts. Competitive bidding determines market prices.



The U.S. economic system of free enterprise has five main principles: the freedom for individuals to choose businesses, the right to private property, profits as an incentive, competition, and consumer sovereignty.



Economic Choice: In a free enterprise, consumers have the ability to choose who to transact with. This is only possible if there are multiple market suppliers. Consumers also have freedom to choose what they want to pay, although a seller must agree to this price for a transaction to occur.
Right to Private Property: In a free enterprise, consumers have the right to acquire private property. This may be in the location in which they want to acquire property and should not be restricted by personal or financial limitations.
Profit Motive: In a free enterprise, the goal is to make money in a freely-flowing society. Individuals have the right to buy and sell goods to personally profit, though there are less restrictions on doing so compared to other restrictive forms of economies.
Competition: In a free enterprise, buyers and sellers compete. Buyers attempt to acquire goods for lower prices or more favorable terms, while sellers attempt to sell goods for higher prices. Market equilibrium is met where these two parties agree to come together.
Voluntary Exchange: In a free enterprise, consumers have the right to choose to or not to exchange goods. Individuals can not be forced into trade or be required to consume any products.






Free enterprise may also be referred to as free trade or free market.


   Goals of Free Enterprise  

There are a number of goals in which a free enterprise society hopes to achieve. When a free enterprise society in fully operational, consumers often have freedom, efficiency, stability, security, growth opportunities, and justice.



Freedom: The overriding goal of a free enterprise is freedom. This is the freedom of choice, freedom to express oneself through the creation of any product you'd like, or freedom to charge or pay what you prefer.
Efficiency: By allowing markets to regulate themselves, inefficient companies are theoretically at-risk of being eliminated as market participants will not choose them and government policy won't fund them to keep them alive. In addition, there may be less processes or procedures to transact in a free enterprise.
Stability: A free enterprise strives to be self-sustaining by having markets rooted in consumer preference. Instead of monetary or fiscal policy dictating economic circumstances, the long-term goal for free enterprise is to have the consumers shape the economy in a more predictable, stable manner than a government may be able to.
Security: In a free enterprise, every individual should feel their goods and rights are protected. This means having the ultimate choice on what to make, what to sell goods for, and what they're allowed to consume or acquire.
Growth Opportunities: At the heart of free enterprise is the notion that individuals should be able to pursue profit-making opportunities without government limitation. This means every individual has greater potential for success when given greater flexibility.
Justice: Each individual should have the same rights as everyone else in a free enterprise. There is no favoritism or special circumstances granted to certain people in a free enterprise; every market participant faces the same rules without benefit from government policy.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Free Enterprise  
  Pros of Free Enterprise  

In a free enterprise, the market faces no bureaucracy. Processes are theoretically more efficient and may be administratively less expensive to operate a business and interact with consumers. This is especially true in highly regulated markets, though increased competition may shift costs elsewhere.



Market participants are usually allowed greater expression and flexibility. Entrepreneurs aren't constrained by public policy or dictated on what goods need to be produced. A cornerstone theory of free enterprise is that the best companies will innovate to continue to meet market demand, while companies that fail will cease to exist as they no longer have a place in the market.



Instead of government policy deciding how resources are allowed, a free enterprise's large benefit is that consumers have a greater voice in the economy. The consumer determines the ultimate prices of a good, which products are needed in a market, and what goods fail or succeed. It is up to a firm in a free enterprise to understand these consumer preferences and adjust their operations accordingly.


  Cons of Free Enterprise  

Seemingly unlimited freedom does come with its disadvantages. First, goods that are generally not profitable to manufacture will not be produced in a free enterprise. This is because there is no economic incentive for a firm to produce these goods (unless there were government aid or stipend). This may also include limitations on where goods are delivered. For example, government funds may partially pay for telecommunication services to be distributed to rural areas; without this funding, those communities may not receive service.



A free enterprise may also spur unfavorable activity due to prioritization of profits. Consider the example of Enron where the company did not follow public reporting regulation, resulting in financial ruin. When there are little to no rules to follow, entities within a free enterprise may sacrifice worker safety, environment standards, or ethical behavior in favor of making more money.



Last, a free enterprise doesn't come with bailouts. This means economic downturns are theoretically more severe, as public funds can't be used to aid failing institutions that would cause major ripple effects by dissolving. This is especially true in today's interconnected society where one large bankruptcy could negatively financially impact firms around the world.





Pros

Less bureaucratic
May be less expensive to operate a business
Allows for greater entrepreneurial freedom
Prioritizes consumer demand and preferences



Cons

May result in unprofitable products being dissolved
May restrict where goods are distributed to
May entice illicit behavior due to prioritizing profits
May result in greater market crashes due to no bailouts





   Example of Free Enterprise  

Consider the differences between two companies: Apple Inc., a public company, and SunGard Data Systems, a private company. Because both companies transact within the United States, neither is truly in a free enterprise environment.



Still, imagine each company wants to raise capital. As a public company, the Securities and Exchange Commission has outlined regulations that Apple must meet to sell additional shares and be listed on public exchanges. This also includes meeting public reporting and filing requirements. On the other hand, with fewer restrictions in place as a private company, SunGard Data Systems may raise capital more freely (yet still restricted) as it does not experience as many government restrictions.



Another example of free enterprise (or lack thereof) is the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. In response to the economic calamity, Congress authorized the use of the Trouble Assets Relief Program (TARP) emergency funds for distressed financial institutions. In a truly free enterprise, governments would not intervene to aid struggling businesses. Instead, these companies would be allowed to fail, allowing for the market to resolve itself with new market participants entering the space to claim the newly vacated market opportunity.




What Is the Main Goal of Free Enterprise?
The main goal of free enterprise is to allow citizens to dictate market and decide the value of trade. Instead of relying on government intervention or public policy, free enterprise's main goal is to allow markets to move themselves without constraint, self-discovering efficiencies and inaccuracies.




What Is the Main Benefit of Free Enterprise?
Some may argue the main benefit of free enterprise is freedom. In one sense, individuals may transact with little to no restricting barriers, especially those set by policy or trade regulation. In another sense, individuals are allowed to creatively express and transact based on a seemingly endless range of consumer choices.




What Is the Difference Between Capitalism and Free Enterprise?
Free enterprise and capitalism are related, though the two terms are different. Free enterprise refers to how a free market system has minimal barriers regarding the exchange of wealth or transacting of goods and services. On the other hand, capitalism is primarily centered on the creation of that wealth or production of those goods. Both relate to an individual initiating their own decisions with fewer market mechanisms governing the control of their resources.




What Is the Difference Between Socialism and Free Enterprise?
Whereas free enterprise is the notion around letting goods and services freely generate market results on their own, socialism is focused on governing how resources are distributed. These government policies may dictate how resources are used, who receives goods, or what pricing mechanisms certain market participants may face.


   The Bottom Line  

Free enterprise refers to an economic concept where markets are not governed by policy. Instead, market participants set pricing, do not face export or regulation requirements, and have more freedom in choosing how they transact. Though free enterprise is rooted in granting individuals more freedom, market failures may be more devastating without government intervention.
What Is Free-Float Methodology?  

The free-float methodology is a method of calculating the market capitalization of a stock market index's underlying companies. With the free-float methodology, market capitalization is calculated by taking the equity's price and multiplying it by the number of shares readily available in the market.



Rather than using all of the shares (both active and inactive shares), as is the case with the full-market capitalization method, the free-float method excludes locked-in shares, such as those held by insiders, promoters, and governments.





Key Takeaways

Free-float methodology is a method of calculating the market capitalization of a stock market index's underlying companies.Using this methodology, the market capitalization of a company is calculated by taking the equity's price and multiplying it by the number of shares readily available in the market.The free-float methodology can be contrasted with the full-market capitalization method, which takes into its calculation both active and inactive shares when determining market capitalization. The free-float method excludes locked-in shares, such as those held by insiders, promoters, and governments.


   Understanding Free-Float Methodology  

The free-float methodology is sometimes referred to as float-adjusted capitalization. According to some experts, the free-float method is considered to be a better way of calculating market capitalization (as opposed to the full-market capitalization method, for example).



Full-market capitalization includes all of the shares provided by a company through its stock issuance plan. Companies often issue unexercised stock to insiders through stock option compensation plans. Other holders of unexercised stock can include promoters and governments. Full market capitalization weighting for indexes is rarely used and would significantly change the return dynamic of an index because companies have various levels of strategic plans in place for issuing stock options and exercisable shares.



The free-float methodology is usually thought to provide a more accurate reflection of market movements and stocks actively available for trading in the market. When using a free-float methodology, the resulting market capitalization is smaller than what would result from a full market capitalization method.



An index that uses a free-float methodology tends to reflect market trends because it only takes into consideration the shares that are available for trade. It also makes the index more broad-based because it lessens the concentration of the top few companies in the index. 


  How to Calculate Market Capitalization Using the Free-Float Method  

Free-float methodology is calculated as follows:



FFM = Share Price x (Number of Shares Issued – Locked-In Shares)



The free-float methodology has been adopted by many of the world's major indexes. It is used by the S&P 500 Index, by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) World Index, and by the Financial Times Stock Exchange Group (FTSE) 100 Index.



There is also a relationship between free-float methodology and volatility. The number of free-floating shares of a company is inversely correlated to volatility. Typically, a larger free-float means that the stock’s volatility was lower because there are more traders buying and selling the shares. That means that a smaller free-float equates to higher volatility (since fewer trades move the price significantly and there are a limited amount of shares available to be bought and/or sold). Most institutional investors prefer trading companies with a larger free-float because they can buy or sell a big number of shares without having a big impact on the price.


   Price-Weighted vs. Market-Capitalization-Weighted  

Indexes in the market are usually weighted by either price or market capitalization. Both methodologies weigh the returns of the indexes’ individual stocks by their respective weighting types. Market capitalization weighting is the most common index-weighting methodology. The leading capitalization-weighted index in the United States is the S&P 500 Index.



The type of weighting methodology used by an index significantly affects the index’s overall returns. Price-weighted indexes calculate the returns of an index by weighing the individual stock returns of the index by their price levels. In a price-weighted index, stocks with a higher price receive a higher weighting and, thus, have more influence on the returns of the index (regardless of their market capitalizations). Price-weighted indexes versus capitalization-weighted indexes vary considerably due to their index methodology.



In the trading market, very few indexes are price-weighted. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is an example of one of the few price-weighted indexes in the market.


   Example of Free-Float Methodology  

Suppose that stock ABC is trading at $100 and has 125,000 shares in total. Out of this amount, 25,000 shares are locked-in (meaning that they are held by large institutional investors and company management and are not available for trading). Using the free-float methodology, ABC's market capitalization is 100 x 100,000 (total number of shares available for trading) = $10 million.
What Is the Free Look Period?  

The free look period is the required time period in which a new life insurance policy owner can terminate the policy without any penalties, such as surrender charges. A free look period often lasts 10 or more days depending on the insurer and state law.



During the free look period, the contract holder can decide whether or not to keep the insurance policy. If they are not satisfied and wish to cancel, they can receive a full refund of their premium.



Free look periods are most commonly associated with life insurance policies, but can apply to other products as well like annuity contracts. Laws vary by state, For example, Texas requires a free look period of at least 10 to 20 days.





Key Takeaways

The free look period is a period of time, typically 10 to 30 days, in which a new life insurance policy owner can terminate the policy and have their premium refunded.Canceling during the free look period will incur no penalties, such as surrender charges.If a policyholder is not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the policy, they can cancel and return the policy during the period and get a full refund.The free look period is for the benefit of a policyholder.


   How Free Look Periods Work  

Insurance policies are legal contracts that grant rights and responsibilities to both the insurer and policyholder. If you are not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the policy you have purchased, you can cancel and return the policy within a specified period after receiving it, and your premiums will be fully refunded. The time frame will vary depending on your insurer and state law.



During the free look period, sometimes known as the free examination period, the purchaser can continue to ask the insurer questions regarding the contract to better understand the policy. If refunded, the amount given back may equate to the value of the account at cancellation or the number of payments, depending on the state in which the policy was written.



The free look period is for the benefit of a policyholder. It provides additional time to review a new contract in depth. Policyholders might also ask their agent, lawyer, or company representative to review their policy's terms and conditions.



Once a policyholder is in receipt of a new life insurance policy, the free look period begins. If you decide to cancel the policy, you must notify your agent or company representative.


   History of the Free Look Period  

The U.S. life insurance industry was once very poorly regulated and rife with scams. Back in the 1930s and 1940s, the industry tended to attract unscrupulous characters. Much of the life insurance industry got a bad reputation because of high-pressure tactics, badgering of customers, and many disreputable, insolvent, or nonexistent insurance companies that never paid claims.



The industry has vastly improved since those days. The negative reputation of the past forced the industry to reform its practices.






State governments became involved with complaints about abusive sales strategies, responding with legislation, which is one reason free look periods exist.


   Example of the Free Look Period  

Let's say you live in Texas and buy a variable life insurance policy. Two days after signing up, you receive your executed policy documents in the mail. Your free look period begins when your receive those documents. In Texas, you have 10 to 20 days to review the policy and decide whether you want to keep it.



Two days later, you brings your policy to your lawyer to review, and you're advised to cancel the policy and go with another insurer instead. You take your lawyer's advice and advise your insurer the next day that you want to cancel the policy. The insurer is obliged under law to comply, and you will be refunded your initial premium payment.




What Is a 30-Day Free Look Period?
If a life insurance policy has a 30-day free look period, it mean you have 30 days from when your policy starts to cancel the policy with no penalties. The length of a free look period will vary by provider and by state.




Can You Cancel Life Insurance Policy at Any Time?
You can cancel a life insurance policy at any time. However, if you cancel a policy after your free look period ends, you will not have your premium refunded although you can receive your cash value in a lump sum, minus any fees.




Can You Cancel a Life Insurance Policy Online?
You can cancel a life insurance policy by contacting the provider, which you can usually do online, by phone, or by mail. The exact cancellation process will depend on the type of life insurance you have.




When Does a Free Look Period Begin?
A free look period for a life insurance policy begins when you receive the policy, or the day the policy is delivered. Check with the insurance company for what date they are considering as the delivery date.


   The Bottom Line  

Free look periods provide you a time period to decide whether you want to keep your insurance policy. If you decide to cancel your policy, you can receive your premium refunded and you will not have to pay a penalty. If you are in the process of buying life insurance, check with your insurance provider to learn more about the specific terms of their first look policy.
What Is a Free Market?  

The free market is an economic system based on supply and demand with little or no government control. It is a summary description of all voluntary exchanges that take place in a given economic environment. Free markets are characterized by a spontaneous and decentralized order of arrangements through which individuals make economic decisions. Based on its political and legal rules, a country's free market economy may range between very large or entirely illegal.





Key Takeaways

A free market is one where voluntary exchange and the laws of supply and demand provide the sole basis for the economic system, without government intervention. A key feature of free markets is the absence of coerced (forced) transactions or conditions on transactions.While no pure free market economies actually exist, and all markets are in some ways constrained, economists who measure the degree of freedom in markets have found a generally positive relationship between free markets and measures of economic well being.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Free Market  

The term “free market” is sometimes used as a synonym for laissez-faire capitalism. When most people discuss the “free market,” they mean an economy with unobstructed competition and only private transactions between buyers and sellers. However, a more inclusive definition should include any voluntary economic activity so long as it is not controlled by coercive central authorities.



Using this description, laissez-faire capitalism and voluntary socialism are each examples of a free market, even though the latter includes common ownership of the means of production. The critical feature is the absence of coercive impositions or restrictions regarding economic activity. Coercion may only take place in a free market by prior mutual agreement in a voluntary contract, such as contractual remedies enforced by tort law.


   The Free Market's Connection With Capitalism and Individual Liberty  

No modern country operates with completely uninhibited free markets. That said, the most free markets tend to coincide with countries that value private property, capitalism, and individual rights. This makes sense since political systems that shy away from regulations or subsidies for individual behavior necessarily interfere less with voluntary economic transactions. Additionally, free markets are more likely to grow and thrive in a system where property rights are well protected and capitalists have an incentive to pursue profits.


   Free Markets and Financial Markets  

In free markets, a financial market can develop to facilitate financing needs for those who cannot or do not want to self-finance. For example, some individuals or businesses specialize in acquiring savings by consistently not consuming all of their present wealth. Others specialize in deploying savings in pursuit of entrepreneurial activity, such as starting or expanding a business. These actors can benefit from trading financial securities such as stocks and bonds.



For example, savers can purchase bonds and trade their present savings to entrepreneurs for the promise of future savings plus remuneration, or interest. With stocks, savings are traded for an ownership claim on future earnings. There are no modern examples of purely free financial markets.


   Common Constraints on the Free Market  

All constraints on the free market use implicit or explicit threats of force. Common examples include: prohibition of specific exchanges, taxation, regulations, mandates on specific terms within an exchange, licensing requirements, fixed exchange rates, competition from publicly provided services, price controls, and quotas on production, purchases of goods, or employee hiring practices. Common justifications for politically imposed constraints on free markets include consumer safety, fairness between various advantaged or disadvantaged groups in society, and the provision of public goods. Whatever the outward justification, business firms and other interest groups within society often lobby to shape these constraints in their own favor in a phenomenon known as rent-seeking. When free market behavior is regulated, the scope of the free market is curtailed but usually not eliminated entirely, and voluntary exchanges may still take place within the framework of government regulations.



Some exchanges may also take place in violation of government rules and regulations on illegal markets which may be in some ways considered an underground version of the free market. However, market exchange is still heavily constrained because, on an illegal market, competition often takes the form of violent conflict between rival groups of producers or consumers as opposed to free market competition or rent-seeking competition via the political system. As a result, in an illegal market, competitive advantage tends to flow to those who have a relative advantage at violence, so monopolistic or oligopolistic behavior is likely and barriers to entry are high as weaker players are driven out of the market.


   Measuring Economic Freedom  

In order to study the effects of free markets on the economy, economists have devised several well known indexes of economic freedom. These include the Index of Economic Freedom published by the Heritage Foundation, and the Economic Freedom of the World and Economic Freedom of North America indexes published by the Fraser Institute. These indexes include items such as the security of property rights, the burden of regulation, and openness of financial markets, among many other items. Empirical analysis comparing these indexes to various measures of economic growth, development, and standards of living shows overwhelming evidence of a relationship between free markets and material well being across countries.
What Is Free on Board (FOB)?  

Free on Board (FOB) is a shipment term that defines the point in the supply chain when a buyer or seller becomes liable for the goods being transported. Purchase orders between buyers and sellers specify the FOB terms and help determine ownership, risk, and transportation costs.



"FOB Origin" or FOB Shipping Point" means the buyer accepts the title of the goods at the shipment point and assumes all risk once the seller ships the product. The buyer is responsible if the goods are damaged or lost while in transit.



"FOB Destination" means the seller retains the title of the goods and all responsibility during transit until the items reach the buyer.





Key Takeaways

Free on Board (FOB) is a term used to indicate when the ownership of goods transfers from buyer to seller and who is liable for goods damaged or destroyed during shipping."FOB Origin" means the buyer assumes all risk once the seller ships the product."FOB Destination" means the seller retains the risk of loss until the goods reach the buyer.FOB terms can impact inventory, shipping, and insurance costs.












Xiaojie Liu / Investopedia


   Understanding Free on Board (FOB)  

FOB is a common term used for all types of shipping, both domestic and international. Shipping orders and contracts often describe the time and place of delivery, payment, when the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer, and which party pays the costs of freight and insurance.



The vendor-client transaction defines the FOB terms in the purchase order. FOB status does not determine ownership, which is determined in the bill of sale or agreement between the buyer and seller, but defines which party takes responsibility for the shipment, whether at Origin, where the shipment begins or at Destination, where the shipment ends.



Each party should have a firm understanding of free on board (FOB) to ensure a smooth transfer of goods from the vendor to the client. Regardless of whether that transfer occurs on the domestic or international level, FOB terms can impact inventory, shipping, and insurance costs.


   FOB Origin vs. FOB Destination  

FOB origin, or shipping point, means that the buyer will receive the title for the goods they purchased when shipment begins. The seller’s responsibility ends when the items are placed with a shipment carrier, and the buyer must ensure their goods reach their final destination on time and undamaged.



For FOB destination, the seller retains ownership of the goods and is responsible for replacing damaged or lost items until the point where the goods have reached their final destination.



For shipments internationally, especially for companies ordering large inventory for global shipment on vessels and containers, international contracts establish and outline provisions, including the time and place of delivery, payment terms, and FOB designation to define when the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer and which party pays for freight and insurance.



The most common international trade terms are Incoterms, which the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) publishes, but firms that ship goods within the U.S. must adhere to the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).



Since there is more than one set of rules, and legal definitions of FOB may differ from one country to another, the parties to a contract must indicate which governing laws are being used for a shipment.





FOB and Company Accounting 

For FOB origin, after the goods are placed with a carrier for transport, the company records an increase in its inventory and the seller records the sale at the same time.For FOB destination the seller completes the sale in its records once the goods arrive at their final destination and the buyer records the increase in its inventory at that time.






   Other Shipping Terms  

Although FOB Origin and Destination are the most familiar shipping terms, other terms include:



• FAS or Free Alongside: The seller must deliver goods on a ship that pulls up alongside a ship and close enough that the ship can use its lifting devices to bring the goods aboard.



• FCA or Free Carrier: The seller is obligated to deliver goods to an airport, shipping port, or railway terminal where the buyer has an established place of operation and takes delivery there.



• EXW or Ex Works: The seller prepares items for shipment from its location, but the buyer is responsible for picking the goods up and arranging shipment.



• DES or Delivered Ex Ship: The seller delivers products to a specified shipping port, where the buyer will take delivery on arrival.




What Is FOB Pricing?
The costs associated with FOB can include transportation of the goods to the port of shipment, loading the goods onto the shipping vessel, freight transport, insurance, and unloading and transporting the goods from the arrival port to the final destination.




Who Pays Freight for FOB Origin?
If the terms include the phrase "FOB origin, freight collect," the buyer is responsible for freight charges. If the terms include "FOB origin, freight prepaid," the buyer assumes the responsibility for goods at the point of origin, but the seller pays the cost of shipping.




What Is the Difference Between FOB and CIF?
CIF (Cost, Insurance, and Freight) and FOB (Free on Board) are two widely used INCOTERM agreements. Although the definition of both terms can differ across countries and is ultimately determined by each vendor-client contract, historically, FOB transfers liability from seller to buyer when the shipment reaches the port or other facility designated as the point of origin. With a CIF agreement, the seller pays costs and assumes liability until the goods reach the port of destination chosen by the buyer.


   The Bottom Line  

Free on Board (FOB) is a shipment term that defines the point in the supply chain when a buyer or seller assumes responsibility for the goods being transported. FOB terms like FOB Origin and FOB Destination help define ownership, risk, and transportation costs for both buyers and sellers.
What Is the Free Rider Problem?  

The free rider problem is the burden on a shared resource that is created by its use or overuse by people who aren't paying their fair share for it or aren't paying anything at all.



The free rider problem can occur in any community, large or small. In an urban area, a city council may debate whether and how to force suburban commuters to contribute to the upkeep of its roads and sidewalks or the protection of its police and fire services. A public radio or broadcast station devotes airtime to fundraising in hopes of coaxing donations from listeners who aren't contributing.





Key Takeaways

Free riding is considered a failure of the conventional free market system.The problem occurs when some members of a community fail to contribute their fair share to the costs of a shared resource.Their failure to contribute makes the resource economically infeasible to produce.


   Understanding the Free Rider Problem  

The free rider problem is an issue in economics. It is considered an example of a market failure. That is, it is an inefficient distribution of goods or services that occurs when some individuals are allowed to consume more than their fair share of the shared resource or pay less than their fair share of the costs.



Free riding prevents the production and consumption of goods and services through conventional free-market methods. To the free rider, there is little incentive to contribute to a collective resource since they can enjoy its benefits even if they don't. As a consequence, the producer of the resource cannot be sufficiently compensated. The shared resource must be subsidized in some other way, or it will not be created.


   When the Free Rider Problem Arises  

The free rider problem as an economics issue only occurs under certain conditions:



When everyone can consume a resource in unlimited amounts.When no one can limit anyone else's consumption.When someone has to produce and maintain the resource. That is, it's not a natural lake, it's a swimming pool, and someone had to undertake its construction and maintenance.



Economists point out that no business would voluntarily produce goods or services under these conditions. When the free rider problem looms, businesses back away. Either the shared resource will not be provided, or a public agency must provide it using taxpayer funds.






As an economic issue, the problem occurs when everyone can consume a resource in unlimited amounts, no one can limit anyone else's consumption, but someone has to produce and maintain the resource.



On the positive side, some people in every community will demonstrate that they feel a responsibility to pay their fair share. Some combination of a high sense of trust, positive reciprocity, and a sense of collective duty makes them willing to pay their fair share.


   Beyond Economics  

The free rider problem can crop up when the resource is shared by all and free to all. Like air. If a community sets voluntary pollution standards that encourage all residents to cut back on carbon-based fuels, many will respond positively. But some will refuse to make any change in their habits. If enough follow the standards, the air quality will improve and all the residents will benefit equally, even the free riders.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Solutions to the Free Riding Problem  

Communities that face a free riding problem may try any of several solutions.



Government addresses the problem by collecting and distributing tax dollars to subsidize public services. Theoretically, taxes are proportionate to income, so fair cost-sharing can be achieved.
Communities can turn their public resource into a private or club resource, charging dues to make sure everyone who uses it contributes to it.
Communities can impose a small fee on everyone. This will limit over-consumption and, over time, may even spur altruistic behavior. That is, many people may like the idea of making a small contribution to a resource that they use.
What Is a Free Trade Agreement (FTA)?  

A free trade agreement is a pact between two or more nations to reduce barriers to imports and exports among them. Under a free trade policy, goods and services can be bought and sold across international borders with little or no government tariffs, quotas, subsidies, or prohibitions to inhibit their exchange.



The concept of free trade is the opposite of trade protectionism or economic isolationism.





Key Takeaways

Free trade agreements reduce or eliminate barriers to trade across international borders.Free trade is the opposite of trade protectionism.In the U.S. and the E.U., free trade agreements do not come without regulations and oversight.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How a Free Trade Agreement Works  

In the modern world, free trade policy is often implemented by means of a formal and mutual agreement of the nations involved. However, a free-trade policy may simply be the absence of any trade restrictions.



A government doesn't need to take specific action to promote free trade. This hands-off stance is referred to as “laissez-faire trade” or trade liberalization.



Governments with free-trade policies or agreements in place do not necessarily abandon all control of imports and exports or eliminate all protectionist policies. In modern international trade, few free trade agreements (FTAs) result in completely free trade.



For example, a nation might allow free trade with another nation, with exceptions that forbid the import of specific drugs not approved by its regulators, or animals that have not been vaccinated, or processed foods that do not meet its standards.






The benefits of free trade were outlined in "On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation," published by economist David Ricardo in 1817.



Or, it might have policies in place that exempt specific products from tariff-free status in order to protect home producers from foreign competition in their industries.


  The Economics of Free Trade  

In principle, free trade on the international level is no different from trade between neighbors, towns, or states. However, it allows businesses in each country to focus on producing and selling the goods that best use their resources while other businesses import goods that are scarce or unavailable domestically. That mix of local production and foreign trade allows economies to experience faster growth while better meeting the needs of its consumers.



This view was first popularized in 1817 by economist David Ricardo in his book, "On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation." He argued that free trade expands the diversity and lowers the prices of goods available in a nation while better exploiting its homegrown resources, knowledge, and specialized skills.


   Free Trade Models  
  Mercantilism  

Prior to the 1800s, global trade was dominated by the theory of mercantilism. This theory placed priority on having a favorable balance of trade relative to other countries, and accumulating more gold and silver.



In order to attain a favorable balance of trade, countries would often place trade barriers like taxes and tariffs to discourage their residents from purchasing foreign goods. This incentivized consumers to purchase locally-made products, thereby supporting domestic industries.


  Comparative Advantage  

Ricardo introduced the law comparative advantage, which states that countries can attain the maximum benefits through free trade. Ricardo demonstrated that if countries prioritize producing the goods that they can produce more cheaply than other countries (i.e., where they have a comparative advantage) they will be able to produce more goods in total than they would by limiting trade.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Free Trade  
  Rapid Development  

Free trade has allowed many countries to attain rapid economic growth. By focusing on exports and resources where they have a strong comparative advantage, many countries have been able to attract foreign investment capital and provide relatively high-paying jobs for local workers.


  Lower Global Prices  

For consumers, free trade creates a competitive environment where countries strive to provide the lowest possible prices for their resources. This in turn allows manufacturers to provide lower prices for finished goods, ultimately increasing the buying power for all consumers.


  Unemployment and Business Losses  

However, there are economic losers when a country opens its borders to free trade. Domestic industries may be unable to compete with foreign competitors, causing local unemployment. Large-scale industries may move to countries with lax environmental and labor laws, resulting in child labor or pollution.


  Increased Dependency on the Global Market  

Free trade can also make countries more dependent on the global market. For example, while the prices for some goods may be cheaper on the world market, there are strategic benefits for a country that produces those goods domestically. In the event of a war or crisis, the country may be forced to rebuild these industries from scratch.




Free Trade Pros and Cons

Pros

Allows consumers to access the cheapest goods on the world market.
Allows countries with relatively cheap labor or resources to benefit from foreign exports.
Under Ricardo's theory, countries can produce more goods collectively by trading on their respective advantages.



Cons

Competition with foreign exports may cause local unemployment and business failures.
Industries may relocate to jurisdictions with lax regulations, causing environmental damage or abusive labor practices.
Countries may become reliant on the global market for key goods, leaving them at a strategic disadvantage in times of crisis.





   Public Opinion on Free Trade  

Few issues divide economists and the general public as much as free trade. Research suggests that faculty economists at American universities are seven times more likely to support free-trade policies than the general public. In fact, the American economist Milton Friedman said: “The economics profession has been almost unanimous on the subject of the desirability of free trade.”



Free-trade policies have not been as popular with the general public. The key issues include unfair competition from countries where lower labor costs allow price-cutting and a loss of good-paying jobs to manufacturers abroad.



The call on the public to Buy American may get louder or quieter with the political winds, but it never goes silent.


  The View From Financial Markets  

Not surprisingly, the financial markets see the other side of the coin. Free trade is an opportunity to open another part of the world to domestic producers.



Moreover, free trade is now an integral part of the financial system and the investing world. American investors now have access to most foreign financial markets and to a wider range of securities, currencies, and other financial products.



However, completely free trade in the financial markets is unlikely in our times. There are many supranational regulatory organizations for world financial markets, including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO), and the Committee on Capital Movements and Invisible Transactions.


   Real-World Examples of Free Trade Agreements  

The European Union is a notable example of free trade today. The member nations form an essentially borderless single entity for the purposes of trade, and the adoption of the euro by most of those nations smooths the way further. It should be noted that this system is regulated by a bureaucracy based in Brussels that must manage the many trade-related issues that come up between representatives of member nations.


  U.S. Free Trade Agreements  

The United States currently has a number of free trade agreements in place. These include multi-nation agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which covers the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, and the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which includes most of the nations of Central America. There are also separate trade agreements with nations from Australia to Peru.



Collectively, these agreements mean that about half of all goods entering the U.S. come in free of tariffs, according to government figures. The average import tariff on industrial goods is 2%.



All these agreements collectively still do not add up to free trade in its most laissez-faire form. American special interest groups have successfully lobbied to impose trade restrictions on hundreds of imports including steel, sugar, automobiles, milk, tuna, beef, and denim.




Why Were Free Trade Zones Created in China?
Starting in 2013, China began establishing free trade zones around key ports and coastal areas. These were areas where national regulations were relaxed in order to facilitate foreign investment and business development.




What Is a Free Trade Area?
A free trade area is a group of countries that have agreed to mutually lower or eliminate trade barriers for trade within the area. This allows participating countries to benefit from reduced tariffs, while maintaining their existing protections for trade with countries outside of the area.




What Are the Arguments Against Free Trade?
Opponents often assert that free trade invites foreign competition with domestic industries, causing job loss and harming key industries. In some cases, free trade cause manufacturers to move their operations to countries with fewer regulations, rewarding companies that cause pollution or use abusive labor practices. In other cases, countries with weak IP laws may steal technology from foreign companies.


   The Bottom Line  

Free trade refers to policies that allow permit inexpensive imports and exports, without tariffs or other trade barriers. In a free trade agreement, a group of countries agrees to lower their tariffs or other barriers to facilitate more exchanges with their trading partners. This allows all countries to benefit from lower prices and access to one another's resources.
What Is a Free Trade Area?  

A free trade area is a region in which a number of countries have signed a free trade agreement and maintain little or no barriers to trade in the form of tariffs or quotas among one another. Free trade areas facilitate international trade and the associated gains from trade along with the international division of labor and specialization, but they have been criticized for costs that are associated with increasing economic integration and for artificially restraining free trade.





Key Takeaways

A free trade area is a group of countries that have mutually agreed to limit or eliminate trade barriers among them. Free trade areas tend to promote free trade and the international division of labor, though the provisions of the agreement and the resulting scope of free trade is subject to politics and international relations.Free trade areas have benefits and costs and corresponding supporters and opponents.


   Understanding Free Trade Areas  

A free trade area is a group of countries that have agreed to put up few or no barriers to trade in the form of tariffs or quotas among them. Free trade areas tend to increase the volume of international trade among member countries and allow them to increase their specialization in their respective comparative advantages.



To develop a free trade area, participating nations must set rules for how it will operate. What customs procedures will each country have to follow? What tariffs, if any, will be allowed, and what will their costs be? How will participating countries resolve trade disputes? How will goods be transported for trade? How will intellectual property rights be protected and managed? How these questions are answered in a specific free trade agreement tends to be based on political influences within and power relations among countries. This shapes the scope and degree of how “free” the trade will actually be. The goal is to create a trade policy that all countries in the free trade area can feasibly agree upon.


  Benefits  

The benefits of free trade areas include providing consumers with increased access to less expensive and/or higher quality foreign goods and the lowering of prices as governments reduce or eliminate tariffs. Producers can acquire a greatly expanded market of potential customers or suppliers. Free trade areas can also encourage economic development in countries as a whole, benefiting some of the population through increased living standards.


  Costs  

With regard to costs, workers in some countries and industries will lose jobs and face related hardships as production moves to areas where comparative advantage or home market effects make those industries less costly to run and more efficient overall. Some investments in fixed physical capital and human capital will end up losing value or as entirely sunk costs. Producers may struggle with increased competition.


   Arguments For and Against Free Trade Areas  

The history of international trade agreements is a long one, but the current general acceptance of free trade agreements dates to the Bretton Woods Conference in the aftermath of Word War II. Free trade is favored by some advocates of free market economics because they say it increases access to high-quality, low-price goods; promotes economic growth; improves efficiency and innovation; drives competitiveness; and promotes fairness.



Others argue that free trade areas threaten domestic jobs and industries by allowing production to migrate overseas, can make an economy too dependent on just a few products, prevent the growth of infant industries that need economic protection, endanger security if a country becomes too dependent on imports of vital resources, and can force countries to lower environmental standards in order to compete.



More recently, President Trump moved the country away from free trade agreements, instituting tariffs as a form of economic warfare. President Biden has yet to rescind these tariffs.





Note

Both political parties in the U.S. have moved away from reflexive support of free trade policies, according to reporting in The New York Times.


   Free Trade Areas and the United States  

The United States participates in 14 free trade areas with 20 countries as of 2022. One of the best-known and largest free trade areas was created by the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on Jan. 1, 1994. This agreement, signed by Canada, the United States, and Mexico, encouraged trade among these North American countries.



In 2018 the same three countries signed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to replace NAFTA. The USMCA took effect on July 1, 2020. In addition to the USMCA, there is the Central American Free Trade Area-Dominican Republic (CAFTA-DR), which includes the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, and Guatemala. The United States also has individual free trade agreements with Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia, Panama, Peru, Singapore, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Oman, and Morocco.



The United States began negotiations in March 2010 for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which was intended to create a “high-standard, broad-based regional pact” for a regional Asia-Pacific trade agreement. However, President Donald Trump pulled the U.S. out of the agreement on Jan. 30, 2017, one of his first official acts, and it proceeded without the United States as a participant.



An attempt to negotiate a free trade agreement with the European Union (EU), the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T-TIP), was intended as a companion to TPP. It came to naught in 2016 after the environmental activist group Greenpeace leaked 248 classified pages from the negotiations. Currently, there is no free trade agreement between the EU and the U.S., but in August 2020 a reduction of tariffs between the two entities was announced that was intended to “increase market access for hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. and EU exports.”




What Is a Free Trade Area?
A free trade area is formed by a group of like-minded countries that agree to reduce trade barriers, such as tariffs and quotas, among others. It encourages international trade among the member countries.




What Are the Advantages of a Free Trade Area?
The advantages include greater access to low-priced, high-quality goods, lower prices overall, greater efficiency and innovation in production, increased economic development and living standards, and overall economic growth.




What Are the Disadvantage of a Free Trade Area?
It can cause jobs to migrate to a country where the cost of production is lower, harm the growth of nascent industries that are just beginning to develop, allow an economy to become dependent on too few products, endanger security if a country becomes dependent on the importation of a vital resource, and lead to reduced environmental standards due to the need to compete with other countries that have lower standards.


   The Bottom Line  

A free trade area is an agreement among a group of nations to reduce or eliminate trade barriers such as quotas or tariffs. There are potential advantages as well as disadvantages for a member nation, including improved access to high-quality, low-priced goods and increased economic development on the plus side and job migration out of a country as well as developing a dependence on two few goods on the down side. The U.S. currently participates in 14 free-trade areas with 20 different countries.
What Is Freemium?  

A combination of the words "free" and "premium," freemium is a type of business model that offers basic features of a product or service to users at no cost and charges a premium for supplemental or advanced features. A company using a freemium model provides basic services on a complimentary basis, often in a "free trial" or limited version for the user, while also offering more advanced services or additional features at a premium.





Key Takeaways

Freemium is a business model in which a company offers basic or limited features to users at no cost and then charges a premium for supplemental or advanced features.The freemium business model dates back to the 1980s, though the term was coined in 2006.Freemium models are especially popular among software applications and internet-based businesses.This type of business model has the advantage of acquiring a large set of initial users, especially when there's no cost associated with trying out an app or a service.Ultimately, for the freemium model to work, companies must ensure their premium users can access more upgraded features, such as increased storage or customizations, and additional customer service.


   Understanding Freemium  

Under a freemium model, a business gives away services at no cost to the consumer as a way to establish the foundation for future transactions. By offering basic-level services for free, companies build relationships with customers, eventually offering them advanced services, add-ons, enhanced storage or usage limits, or an ad-free user experience for an extra cost.



The freemium model tends to work well for internet-based businesses with small customer acquisition costs, but high lifetime value. It allows users to utilize basic features of a software, game, or service for free, then charges for "upgrades" to the basic package. It is a popular tactic for companies just starting out as they try to lure users to their software or service.



Since the 1980s, freemium has been common practice with many computer software companies. They offer basic programs that are free for consumers to try but have limited capabilities; to get the full package, you have to upgrade and pay a charge. It is a popular model for gaming companies as well. All people are welcome to play the game for free, but special features and more advanced levels are only unlocked when the user pays for them.



Freemium games and services can catch users off guard, as they may not be aware of how much they (or their kids) are spending on the game since payments are made in small increments.






The term freemium is attributed to Jarid Lukin of Alacra, a provider of corporate information and workflow tools, who coined it in 2006.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Freemium  

Freemium business models are popular and have the advantage of acquiring a large set of initial users under a pressure-free trial, especially when there's no cost associated with trying out an app or a service. Most people are willing to take a new app or service for a spin, giving the company an easy way to acquire potential users and study their usage behavior. In many cases, companies still benefit from their free users: though these users may not be explicitly purchasing upgrades or items, the company can collect their user information and data, show them ads to make revenue, and boost their own business numbers to continue to enhance the application.



Especially for startups or companies that are trying to build a following for their product, the freemium model brings a large amount of brand awareness while not having to provide a lot of customer support.



On the flipside, some of the disadvantages of the freemium model are that free users never convert to paid users. Ultimately, though some companies are perfectly happy with their free users (and have accounted for these free users to make up a majority of their forecasted earnings through their ad consumption or time spent on the app), they may offer too many features on the free version that prevents users from ever upgrading into the premium version.



In addition, users may eventually get tired of a free version as it doesn't offer additional bells and whistles but encounter other barriers or an unwillingness to upgrade to the premium version.





Pros

Companies can easily acquire potential users and collect their user information and data
They can make revenue on ads and boost their own business numbers to enhance the application
For startups, it provides a large amount of brand awareness without requiring a lot of customer support.



Cons

Free users never convert to paid users
Too many features on the free version may prevent users from upgrading to a premium version
Users may get tired of a free version that doesn't offer additional bells and whistles





   How to Convert a Free User to a Paid User  

Converting a free user to a paid one is at the crux of many businesses' dilemmas. Especially when a business' longevity is hinging on converting users, there can be additional pressure to "upsell" their free users and make a larger margin of profit off them. Ultimately, for the freemium model to work and move people along to more expensive plans, companies must do a mix of the following:



Limit the features offered to free users, so that they will be enticed to upgrade for a better experience.As free users increasingly use the product or service, offer increased storage, more flexibility or time allowed on the app, and customizations.Offer additional personalized or customer service associated with an account.


   Examples of Freemium  

Spotify is one of the best-known companies with a highly successful freemium model; the online music streaming service boasts an impressive 381 million users, and about 172 million of those users are paid subscribers.



While users of the free version of Spotify have the ability to access all the same music as premium users, they have to listen to ads and have a limited number of "skips" on songs they want, among other drawbacks. For some, these limitations don't pose a challenge. But for music aficionados who want more control and higher audio quality, paying for the premium version is well worth the price.



Another example of a company that uses the freemium business model is Skype, the firm that allows you to make video or voice calls over the internet. There's no cost to set up a Skype account, the software can be downloaded for free, and there's no charge for their basic service—calling from a computer (or a cell phone or tablet) to another computer. But for more advanced services, such as placing a call to a landline or a mobile phone, you do have to pay, albeit a small amount compared to conventional phone company charges.



A third employer of the freemium model—one of the earliest to do so—is King, the developer of the highly popular internet game Candy Crush Saga. The addictive activity, available on the king.com site, on Facebook, and on apps, is free to play. It allows users an allotted number of lives within a certain timeframe, but charges for extra lives if someone wants to play more during that window. Users also can pay for "boosters" or extra moves to help win the levels and advance through the game more easily.




Is a Free Trial a Freemium?
Free trials and freemiums are slightly different; free trials are typically time-bound and only allow a user to "test out" a few parts of a product or service. Meanwhile, freemium models allow their free users to access the full application indefinitely.




Do Freemiums Increase the Number of Customers?
Freemium models lower new users' barriers to entry, increasing a business' number of total customers by allowing some to test out a limited version of the product without financial commitment.




Which Companies Use Freemium?
Many companies use freemium models, including Spotify, Dropbox, Hinge, Slack, and Asana.




Can Freemium Lead to a Loss of Income?
Theoretically, businesses with freemium models can lose money if their conversion rate to premium users is too low.
What Is a Frequency Distribution?  

A frequency distribution is a representation, either in a graphical or tabular format, that displays the number of observations within a given interval. The frequency is how often a value occurs in an interval while the distribution is the pattern of frequency of the variable.



The interval size depends on the data being analyzed and the goals of the analyst. The intervals must be mutually exclusive and exhaustive. Frequency distributions are typically used within a statistical context. Generally, frequency distributions can be associated with the charting of a normal distribution.





Key Takeaways

A frequency distribution in statistics is a representation that displays the number of observations within a given interval.The representation of a frequency distribution can be graphical or tabular so that it is easier to understand.Frequency distributions are particularly useful for normal distributions, which show the observations of probabilities divided among standard deviations.In finance, traders use frequency distributions to take note of price action and identify trends.


   Understanding a Frequency Distribution  

As a statistical tool, a frequency distribution provides a visual representation of the distribution of observations within a particular test. Analysts often use a frequency distribution to visualize or illustrate the data collected in a sample. For example, the height of children can be split into several different categories or ranges.



In measuring the height of 50 children, some are tall and some are short, but there is a high probability of a higher frequency or concentration in the middle range. The most important factors for gathering data are that the intervals used must not overlap and must contain all of the possible observations.


   Visual Representation of a Frequency Distribution  

Both histograms and bar charts provide a visual display using columns, with the y-axis representing the frequency count, and the x-axis representing the variable to be measured. In the height of children, for example, the y-axis is the number of children, and the x-axis is the height. The columns represent the number of children observed with heights measured in each interval.



In general, a histogram chart will typically show a normal distribution, which means that the majority of occurrences will fall in the middle columns. Frequency distributions can be a key aspect of charting normal distributions which show observation probabilities divided among standard deviations.



Frequency distributions can be presented as a frequency table, a histogram, or a bar chart. Below is an example of a frequency distribution as a table.












Height of Children in a School




Interval (Height)
4'
4'5"
5'
5'2"


Frequency
2
5
6
3





   Frequency Distribution in Trading  

Frequency distributions are not commonly used in the world of investments; however, traders who follow Richard D. Wyckoff, a pioneering early 20th-century trader, use an approach to trading that involves frequency distribution.



Investment houses still use the approach, which requires considerable practice, to teach traders. The frequency chart is referred to as a point-and-figure chart and was created out of a need for floor traders to take note of price action and to identify trends.



The y-axis is the variable measured, and the x-axis is the frequency count. Each change in price action is denoted in Xs and Os. Traders interpret it as an uptrend when three X's emerge; in this case, demand has overcome supply. In the reverse situation, when the chart shows three O's, it indicates that supply has overcome demand.




What Are the Types of Frequency Distribution?
The types of frequency distribution are grouped frequency distribution, ungrouped frequency distribution, cumulative frequency distribution, relative frequency distribution, and relative cumulative frequency distribution.




What Is the Importance of a Frequency Distribution?
A frequency distribution is a means to organize a large amount of data. It takes data from a population based on certain characteristics and organizes the data in a way that is comprehensible to an individual that wants to make assumptions about a given population.




How Can I Construct a Frequency Distribution?
To construct a frequency distribution, first, note the specific classes determined by intervals in one column then sum the numbers in each isolated category based on how many times it shows up. The frequency can then be noted in the second column.


   The Bottom Line  

A frequency distribution is used to display the number of observations within a particular interval. This method, while not always commonly used in investing, is still used by some traders. In this case, the frequency chart is called a point-and-figure chart and is used to identify trends through the observation of price action.
What is Freudian Motivation Theory?  

Freudian motivation theory posits that unconscious psychological forces, such as hidden desires and motives, shape an individual's behavior, like their purchasing patterns. This theory was developed by Sigmund Freud who, in addition to being a medical doctor, is synonymous with the field of psychoanalysis.





Key Takeaways

Freudian motivation theory posits that unconscious psychological forces, such as hidden desires and motives, shape an individual's behavior, like their purchasing patterns.Freudian motivation theory is frequently applied to a number of disciplines, including sales and marketing, to help understand the consumer's motivations when it comes to making a purchasing decision.The Freudian motivation theory explains the sales process in terms of a consumer fulfilling conscious, functional needs as well as unconscious needs.


   Understanding Freudian Motivation Theory  

Freudian motivation theory is frequently applied to a number of disciplines, including sales and marketing, to help understand the consumer's motivations when it comes to making a purchasing decision. More precisely, Freud's theory has been applied to the relationship between the qualities of a product, such as touch, taste, or smell, and the memories that it may evoke in an individual. Recognizing how the elements of a product trigger an emotional response from the consumer can help a marketer or salesperson understand how to lead a consumer toward making a purchase.



The Freudian motivation theory explains the sales process in terms of a consumer fulfilling conscious, functional needs, such as blinds to cover a window, as well as unconscious needs, such as the fear of being seen naked by those outside. A salesperson trying to get a consumer to purchase furniture, for example, may ask if this is the first home that the consumer has lived in on their own. If the consumer indicates yes, this may prompt the salesperson to mention how the furniture is warm or comfortable, triggering a feeling of safety.


   Freudian Motivation Theory Tenets  

Freud believed that the human psyche could be divided into the conscious and unconscious mind. The ego, the representation of the conscious mind, is made up of thoughts, memories, perceptions, and feelings that give a person their sense of identity and personality. The id, which represents the unconscious mind, is the biologically determined instincts that someone possesses since birth. And the superego represents the moderating factor of society's traditional morals and taboos as seen in the fact that not every person acts on impulse. These ideas can help market researchers determine why a consumer has made a particular purchase by focusing on their conscious and unconscious motivations, as well as the weight of societal expectations.


   Freudian Motivation Theory Put to Use  

When companies want to gauge the probability of success for a new product, they will enlist market researchers to uncover the hidden motivations of a selected group of consumers to determine what might trigger their buying habits. They may utilize a number of techniques to discover such deeper meanings, such as role-playing, picture interpretation, sentence completion, or word association, among others. Such exercises can help researchers learn about how consumers react to products and how to best market them as a result. For example, buying a particular brand of computer can make a person feel smart, successful, productive, and prestigious. Marketers can use this information to cultivate brand identity.
What Is Frictional Unemployment?  

Frictional unemployment occurs with voluntary employment transitions within an economy. As workers choose to move from one job to another and new workers enter the workforce for the first time, a temporary period of unemployment is created.



Frictional unemployment can be evident in a growing, stable economy and is regarded as a part of natural unemployment, the minimum unemployment rate in an economy due to economic forces and the movement of labor.



The frictional unemployment rate is calculated by dividing the workers actively looking for jobs by the total labor force. The workers actively looking for jobs are typically classified into three categories: workers who left their job, people returning to the workforce, and new entrants.





Key Takeaways

Frictional unemployment is the result of voluntary employment transitions within an economy.Frictional unemployment occurs in a growing, stable economy.Workers moving from job to job and new workers entering the workforce contribute to frictional unemployment.Frictional unemployment is also caused by those deciding to prioritize taking care of their family, returning to school, or finding purpose in life.Frictional unemployment differs from cyclical unemployment (the natural ebb and flow of an economy) as well as structural unemployment (changes to industries).


   Causes of Frictional Unemployment  
  New Entrants Into Labor Market  

Recent graduates from school and other first-time job seekers may lack the resources or efficiency for finding a company that has an available and suitable job for them. As a result, they don’t take on other work, temporarily holding out for better-paying jobs. Temporary transitions—such as moving to another town or city—will also add to frictional unemployment, as there is often a gap in time between when workers quit their job and when they find a new ones.


  Search for Greater Meaning  

Workers quitting their job to look for better pay add to frictional unemployment. In other cases, workers may resign from their job to go back to school or learn a new skill because they believe they need the skill to earn more income. Others might leave the workforce for personal reasons, such as to care for a family member, sickness, retirement, or pregnancy. When the workers return to the workforce to look for a job, they’re counted as part of frictional unemployment.


  Looking for New/Better Jobs  

The phenomenon of people quitting their job without having another one to move into to is an indication that they "believe" the economy is robust enough to not fear unemployment. In recent years it's become a closely tracked indicator of consumer confidence, called the "Quit Rate." This phenomenon is also more likely to occur when individuals have had time to build up their savings, having resources on hand to handle months of unemployment.


  Unemployment Benefits  

Unemployment benefits paid by the government can sometimes lead to frictional unemployment because the income allows workers to be selective in finding their next job, further adding to their time unemployed. It can also occur due to companies abstaining from hiring because they believe there are not enough qualified individuals available for the job.






Frictional unemployment can be a positive sign that workers are voluntarily seeking better positions, providing businesses with a wider array of qualified potential employees.


   Impact of Frictional Unemployment  

Like all other forms of unemployment, there are downstream implications that impact companies and management. When frictional unemployment is high, employers may find it difficult to retain talent. Frictional unemployment often means workers may be comparing different offers, waiting for strong opportunities, and requiring investment from their company to be retained.



Frictional unemployment also tends to mean the economy is doing well. Employees are more willing to seek better opportunities when there are more opportunities to browse; this likely occurs when the economy is fully functioning and companies have a larger number of open positions.



Last, frictional unemployment may have implications on how people live their lives. Friction unemployment indicates that people may be inspired to seek out other work opportunities. Similarly to how COVID-19 may have put certain work tendencies in perspective for some, friction unemployment may mean that people are more concerned about a greater purpose and seeking better livelihoods.


   Advantages of Frictional Unemployment  

Frictional unemployment always exists in an economy with a free-moving labor force and is beneficial because it’s an indicator that individuals are seeking better positions by choice. It also helps businesses because it gives them a wider selection of potentially highly qualified candidates applying for positions. It is short-term and thus does not place much of a drain on government resources.



Frictional unemployment is reduced by quickly matching prospective job seekers with job openings. Thanks to the internet, workers can use social media and job-posting websites to search for jobs, which can lead to quicker turnaround times in getting hired.


   Frictional Unemployment vs. Other Types of Unemployment  
  Cyclical Unemployment  

Frictional unemployment is not as worrisome as cyclical unemployment, which is predominant in a recession and caused by businesses laying off employees. In a recession with unemployment rising, frictional unemployment actually tends to decline because workers are usually afraid to leave their jobs to look for a better one.


  Seasonal Unemployment  

Seasonal unemployment is the situation where workers are unemployed during certain times of the year as a result of decreasing demand. As seasons change and demand fluctuates, certain jobs return. Seasonal unemployment often doesn't last, as the peak season often means many workers become employed once again.


  Structural Unemployment  

Structural unemployment is a more serious form of unemployment. This type of unemployment occurs when there are fundamental structural changes to the economy such as changing industries. For example, consider how environmentally-friendly solutions have replaced less eco-friendly options. As consumer demand changes to green solutions, jobs from less desirable industries begin to close.






As of November 2022, the United States unemployment rate was 3.7%.


   Frictional Unemployment and Economic Stimulus  

Frictional unemployment is the only form of unemployment that is largely unaffected by economic stimulus from the government. For example, during bad economic times, the Federal Reserve Bank might lower interest rates to encourage borrowing. The hope is that the added money will spur spending by consumers and businesses, leading to growth and a reduction in unemployment. However, added money doesn’t address the causes of frictional unemployment, except perhaps in giving some workers the courage to become unemployed while searching for a new job. Still, as noted above, a challenging economic landscape would probably forestall such a choice.




What Is the Main Cause of Frictional Unemployment?
Frictional unemployment is mainly caused by voluntary conversions to new jobs within a highly functioning economy. Frictional unemployment is often caused by people willingly step aside from their job to seek jobs with better pay, opportunity, or work-life balance.




Why Is Frictional Unemployment a Problem?
Frictional unemployment may be difficult on employers as employees are more willing to voluntarily step aside from their jobs. Companies must be mindful to invest resources in top performers, else those individuals are likely to look for other opportunities. On the other hand, frictional unemployment may also be difficult on job-seekers. Because more people are voluntarily looking for a job, there may be more competition that makes it more difficult for workers to find new roles.




What Is the Difference Between Frictional and Cyclical Unemployment?
Cyclical employment is the natural ebb and flow of the economy. As the economy develops, more jobs are created and more workers are employed. As the economy cools, those jobs may be eliminated and cyclical unemployment occurs. On the other hand, frictional unemployment occurs usually when the economy is doing well. Frictional unemployment is when workers voluntarily seek out other opportunities to better their lives and careers.


   The Bottom Line  

Frictional unemployment is a natural economic occurrence that happens when the economy is usually doing well. Workers decide it may be time to seek better opportunities, return to school, care for family, or simply improve their lives outside of work. Frictional unemployment is still problematic to the economy, though it is not as permanent as structural or cyclical unemployment.
Friedrich Engels was a German philosopher, writer, and social scientist during the 19th century. Known for his collaboration with Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels helped define modern communism.



Friedrich Engels is the co-author of The Communist Manifesto, an 1848 pamphlet regarded as one of the world's most influential political documents.



Engels died on Aug. 5, 1895, in London, England.





Key Takeaways

Friedrich Engels wrote The Communist Manifesto with Karl Marx in 1848.He also wrote under the pseudonym of Friedrich Oswald.Engels edited the second and third volumes of Karl Marx's Das Kapital after Marx's death.Along with Marx, Engels formed the basis for the modern communist movement.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

Friedrich Engels was born on Nov. 20, 1820, in Barmen, Prussia, today's Germany. He was the eldest son of a wealthy textile manufacturer. At age 17, Engels traveled to Manchester, England, to learn the family business at the Ermen & Engels cotton plant.



Although raised in a family environment of moderate political views, and steadfast loyalty to Prussia and the Protestant faith, Friedrich Engels developed a sense of cynicism toward major institutions like religion and capitalism. His ideology would later become a theme of his publications.


   The Bremen Years  

After his apprenticeship in Manchester, Friedrich Engels worked in the export trade business and lived in the city of Bremen, Prussia from 1838 to 1841.



"The Bremen years" marked the start of his career in journalism, politics, and economics where he wrote under the pseudonym of Friedrich Oswald. He was involved in social reform and the literary movement of a young Germany. For three years in Bremen, Friedrich Engels lived a double life, one as a merchant’s clerk, and that of an anonymous journalist, commentator, and intellectual.


   Meeting Marx  

In 1841, Friedrich Engels enlisted as a volunteer for one year in an artillery regiment in Berlin. While in the city, he attended lectures at the university and his "Friedrich Oswald" articles gained him entry into the Young Hegelian circle of The Free, a club frequented by Karl Marx.



The Young or Left Hegelians were considered radical followers of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, a German idealist, between the late 1830s and the mid-1840s. They flourished between the French Revolution in 1830, and a wave of revolutions that swept Europe in 1848.



The Young Hegelians were both the product and the producers of the potent mixture of religion, philosophy, and politics that fermented in Germany during that period. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels would become leaders of this revolutionary group.


   Socialism  

Life as a Young Hegelian at Berlin University, and time spent at his family mill in Manchester, England, strengthened Engels' skeptical view of capitalism. His support of socialism, where resources and means of production are commonly or publicly owned to create a more equal society, grew.



After witnessing the uneven distribution of wealth gained during the Industrial Revolution in Manchester, Engels recalled “women made unfit for childbearing, children deformed, men enfeebled, limbs crushed, whole generations wrecked, afflicted with disease and infirmity, purely to fill the purses of the bourgeoisie," in his 1845 book, The Condition of the Working Class in England.



He noted that urban planning, how city space was socially and economically constructed, to support capitalism at the time, was an arena ripe for class conflict and revolution.


   The Communist Manifesto  

Engels believed that capitalism created and maintained class struggles between the bourgeoisie, the business owners, and the proletariat, the working class. Marx's theory, or Marxism, represented the recognition of this imbalance and defined ideas to create a political and economic landscape without class structure.



The Communist Manifesto, published in 1848, represents the converging ideas of Freidrich Engels and Karl Marx and formed the basis for the modern communist movement. Written at a time of industrial and social change, cities were expanding, with large proportions of the population moving from the countryside to urban areas to find employment. Economic growth was dependent on this workforce, often exploited by employers. Engels and Marx argued that a series of class struggles would destroy capitalism, and be replaced by socialism, followed by communism. 



The document encouraged revolution and its ideas reverberated with increasing force into the 20th century. By 1950, nearly half the world’s population lived under Marxist governments.


   Das Kapital  

Karl Marx published the first volume of Das Kapital in 1867, in London, with financial support from Friedrich Engels. Translated as Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, the book argues that the motivating force of capitalism is in the exploitation of labor, and Marx wanted to create a theoretical foundation for the overthrow of capitalism.


   Legacy  

Friedrich Engels worked with Karl Marks to lay the groundwork for the practice of communism, where people live in social equilibrium, without class distinction, family structure, religion, or property.



Their published works includeThe Condition of the Working Class in England, The Communist Manifesto, The Holy Family, and Das Kapital. 



After Karl Marx died in 1883, Engels served as the foremost authority on Marx and completed two edits of Das Kapital. He also wrote Socialism: Utopian and Scientific in 1880, The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State in 1884, and Ludwig Feuerbach and the Outcome of Classical German Philosophy in 1888.



For the remainder of his life, Friedrich Engels corresponded extensively with German social democrats, perpetuating the image of Marx and fostering a degree of conformity among followers of their philosophy.




What Encouraged Engels to Write "The Condition of the Working Class in England"?
The book recounts Engels' experience while working in Manchester, England, recalling the use of child labor, environmental damage, low wages, bad conditions, poor health, and the high death rates among laborers.




Where Are Engels' Published Works Written as Pseudonym Friedrich Oswald?
Thirty literary works that were published under Engels' pseudonym were found in Bremen after Engels' passing and are preserved. His pseudonym was not revealed until after his death.




What Is a Utopian Socialist?
Contrary to Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx, who both believed in necessary revolution, utopian socialists believed that capitalists could be encouraged to surrender the means of production peacefully to the people through moral persuasion alone.


   The Bottom Line  

Friedrich Engels is remembered as a staunch advocate for communism and social change during the 19th century. Together with Karl Marx, Engels' books and publications have influenced societies worldwide, most notably, the former Soviet Union, Cuba, and China.
Friedrich Hayek was a famous economist, well-known for his numerous contributions to the field of economics and political philosophy. Hayek's approach mostly stems from the Austrian school of economics and emphasizes the limited nature of knowledge. He is particularly famous for his defense of free-market capitalism and is remembered as one of the greatest critics of the socialist consensus.





Key Takeaways

Social theorist and political philosopher Friedrich Hayek and his colleague Gunnar Myrdal each won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1974.His theory on how changing prices relay information that helps people determine their economic plans was a stunning milestone achievement in economics.Hayek's approach to economics mainly came from the Austrian school of economics.He was an ardent defender of free-market capitalism.Hayek is considered by most experts as one of the greatest critics of the socialist consensus.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Early Life and Education  

Friedrich Hayek was born in Vienna, Austria, on May 8, 1899. He attended the University of Austria where he obtained doctorates in both law and political science in 1921 and 1923, respectively. He also completed postgraduate work at New York University in 1924.



Hayek founded the Austrian Institute for Business Cycle Research and served as its director from 1927 to 1931. In 1931, he left to join the London School of Economics (LSE) as the Tooke Professor of Economic Science and Statistics until 1950. After LSE, he took a position at the University of Chicago as the Professor of Social and Moral Science up until 1962. From 1962 to 1968 he was a professor at the University of Freiburg.



A World War I veteran, Hayek later said his experience in the war and his desire to help avoid the mistakes that ignited the war drew him into economics. Hayek lived in Austria, Great Britain, the United States, and Germany and became a British subject in 1938.


   Notable Accomplishments  

Friedrich Hayek and Gunnar Myrdal each won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1974 "for their pioneering work in the theory of money and economic fluctuations and their penetrating analysis of the interdependence of economic, social, and institutional phenomena."


  Published Works  

One of Hayek's key achievements was his book The Road to Serfdom, which he wrote out of concern for the general view in British academia that fascism was a capitalist reaction to socialism. It was written between 1940 and 1943. The title was inspired by the French classical liberal thinker Alexis de Tocqueville's writings on the "road to servitude." 






The Austrian school of economics was first developed in the late 19th century and focuses on the idea of using logic to discover economic laws.



The book was quite popular and was published in the United States by the University of Chicago in 1944, which propelled it to even greater popularity than in Britain. At the instigation of editor Max Eastman, the American magazine Reader's Digest also published an abridged version in April 1945, enabling The Road to Serfdom to reach a far wider audience than academics.



The book is widely popular among those advocating individualism and classical liberalism.



Other published works by Hayek include Individualism and Economic Order, John Stuart Mill and Harriet Taylor, The Pure Theory of Capital, and The Sensory Order.


  Honors and Awards  

In 1984, Hayek was appointed a member of the Order of the Companions of Honour by Queen Elizabeth II, on the advice of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, for his "services to the study of economics." He was the first recipient of the Hanns Martin Schleyer Prize in 1984. He also received the U.S. Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1991 from President George H. W. Bush.




What Did Friedrich Hayek Win the Nobel Prize for?
Friedrich Hayek won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on the theory of money and economic fluctuations. He won it in 1974 with Gunnar Myrdal.




What Did Friedrich Hayek Believe?
Friedrich Hayek had many beliefs in relation to economics. He was part of the Austrian School of Economics and believed in free-market capitalism. He also believed that free markets allowed for creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship, which are necessary for societies to bloom and citizens to prosper.




Was Friedrich Hayek a Capitalist?
Friedrich Hayek was a defender of free-market capitalism and spoke out against many of the economic norms of the 20th century, such as Keynesian economics and socialism.


   The Bottom Line  

Hayek is considered a major social theorist and political philosopher of the 20th century. His theory on how changing prices relay information that helps people determine their plans is widely regarded as an important milestone achievement in economics. This theory is what led him to the Nobel Prize.
What Are Fringe Benefits?  

Fringe benefits are additions to compensation that companies give their employees. Some fringe benefits are given universally to all employees of a company while others may be offered only to those at executive levels. Some benefits are awarded to compensate employees for costs related to their work while others are geared to general job satisfaction.



In any case, employers use fringe benefits to help them recruit, motivate, and keep high-quality people.





Key Takeaways

Fringe benefits help companies recruit, motivate, and keep high-quality employees.Companies competing for the most in-demand skills tend to offer the most lavish benefits.Some of the most common fringe benefits like health and life insurance are not taxable but others are taxed at fair market value. Adoption assistance is exempt from income tax.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Fringe Benefits  

Common fringe benefits are basic items often included in hiring packages. These include health insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance, childcare reimbursement, cafeteria subsidies, below-market loans, employee discounts, employee stock options, and personal use of a company-owned vehicle.



Uncommon fringe benefits may fit the company profile. PetSmart And Dogtopia both operate pet-friendly workplaces. Ben & Jerry's rewards its workers with free ice cream. Patagonia's headquarters features extensive volleyball courts and yoga classes.



The companies that compete for the best talent in highly competitive fields may offer the most extraordinary fringe benefits. Alphabet, the parent company of Google, is known for its benefits that include free commuter bus service and a free gourmet cafeteria. Microsoft gives 20 weeks of paid time off to new birth mothers and 12 weeks for other new parents.


   Valuing Fringe Benefits  

Any fringe benefit not named above, or any of the benefits named above which does not conform to IRS rules for exemption, is taxable. Those rules are complex too.



For example, working condition benefits are taxable to the extent that they are for personal use. If an employee is given a laptop, the taxable income would be the percentage of the laptop's fair market value that is devoted to personal use. If 80% of its use is personal, the taxable income is 80% of the value of the computer.



In general, fringe benefits are valued at fair market value. This is the amount the employee would pay for the same benefit at retail.


   Special Considerations  

By default, fringe benefits are taxable unless they are specifically exempted. Recipients of taxable fringe benefits are required to include the fair market value of the benefit in their taxable income for the year.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) maintains a list called the Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits. The list of fringe benefits excluded from income taxes includes:



Accident and health benefits
Achievement awards (up to $1,600 for qualified awards)
Adoption assistance
Athletic facilities
Commuting benefits
De minimis (minimal) benefits
Dependent care assistance
Educational assistance
Employee discounts
Employee stock options
Employer-provided cell phones
Group-term life insurance coverage
Health savings accounts (HSA)
Lodgings on business premises
Meals
No-additional-cost services
Retirement planning services
Tuition reduction 
Working conditions benefits



All of these exemptions are subject to certain and often complex conditions. For example, achievement awards are only exempt up to a value of $1,600 for qualified plan awards and a value of $400 for non-qualified plan awards.



Qualified plan awards are open to all employees, not just highly-paid employees. Other exemptions are not available to highly compensated employees if the benefits are given to them but not rank-and-file employees. These include employee discounts, adoption assistance, and dependent care assistance. Most but not all fringe benefits that are income tax-exempt are also exempt from Social Security, Medicare, and federal unemployment taxes.






The companies that compete for the best talent in highly competitive fields may offer the most extraordinary fringe benefits.




Are Fringe Benefits Taxable?
Any fringe benefit you provide is taxable and must be included in the recipient's pay unless the law specifically excludes it (see above).




What Is a Cafeteria Plan?
A cafeteria plan refers to a suite of fringe benefits offered by a company that allows employees to choose among them. Often these benefits will come out of pre-tax dollars and can include insurance plans, retirement benefits, and so on. The name cafeteria is used because it is akin to a menu of benefits that can be selected or passed over, such as at a cafeteria buffet.




Is a Lifetime Achievement Award Given to an Employee Taxable?
An achievement award may be excluded from taxation as a fringe benefit if it meets certain criteria. For example, it must be worth less than $1,600 and cannot come in the form of cash or cash equivalents such as a gift certificate or gift card. It also cannot come in the form of stocks, bonds, or other securities. The exclusion also doesn't apply to vacations, meals, lodging, and tickets to theater or sporting events. A wristwatch would, however, fall under the tax exclusion.
What Is the Front-End Debt-to-Income (DTI) Ratio?  

The front-end debt-to-income (DTI) ratio is a variation of the DTI that calculates how much of a person's gross income is going toward housing costs. If a homeowner has a mortgage, the front-end DTI is typically calculated as housing expenses (such as mortgage payments, mortgage insurance, etc.) divided by gross income. Back-end DTI, sometimes called the back-end ratio, calculates the percentage of gross income going toward additional debt types such as credit cards and car loans. You may also hear these ratios referred to as "Housing 1" and "Housing 2," or "Basic" and "Broad," respectively.





Key Takeaways:

The front-end debt-to-income (DTI) ratio, or the housing ratio, calculates how much of a person's gross income is spent on housing costs.The front-end DTI is typically calculated as housing expenses (such as mortgage payments, mortgage insurance, etc.) divided by gross income.A back-end DTI calculates the percentage of gross income spent on other debt types, such as credit cards or car loans.Lenders usually prefer a front-end DTI of no more than 28%.Back-end DTI, also called the back-end ratio, considers housing expenses as part of the calculation.


   Front-End Debt-to-Income (DTI) Ratio Formula and Calculation  

The DTI is also known as the mortgage-to-income ratio or the housing ratio. It may be contrasted with the back-end ratio. There's a specific formula for calculating front-end debt-to-income ratio.








Front-End DTI


=



(



Housing Expenses


Gross Monthly Income



)



∗


100



\text{Front-End DTI}=\left(\frac{\text{Housing Expenses}}{\text{Gross Monthly Income}}\right)*100


Front-End DTI=(Gross Monthly IncomeHousing Expenses​)∗100



To calculate the front-end DTI, add up your expected housing expenses and divide it by how much you earn each month before taxes (your gross monthly income). Multiply the result by 100, and that is your front-end DTI ratio. For instance, if all your housing-related expenses total $1,000 and your monthly income is $3,000, your DTI is 33%.


   What Is a Desirable Front-End DTI Ratio?  

To qualify for a mortgage, the borrower often must have a front-end debt-to-income ratio of less than an indicated level. Paying bills on time, having a stable income, and having a good credit score won't necessarily qualify you for a mortgage loan. In the mortgage lending world, how far you are from financial ruin is measured by your DTI. Simply put, this is a comparison of your housing expenses and your monthly debt obligations versus how much you earn.



Higher ratios tend to increase the likelihood of default on a mortgage. For example, in 2009, many homeowners had front-end DTIs that were significantly higher than average, and consequently, mortgage defaults began to rise. In 2009, the government introduced loan modification programs in an attempt to get front-end DTIs below 31%.



Lenders usually prefer a front-end DTI of no more than 28%. In reality, depending on your credit score, savings, and down payment, lenders may accept higher ratios, although it depends on the type of mortgage loan. However, the back-end DTI is actually considered more important by many financial professionals for mortgage loan applications.





Note

The maximum acceptable DTI for qualified mortgages is 43%.


   Front-End DTI vs. Back-End DTI  

The main difference between front-end debt-to-income ratio and debt-to-income ratio is how the two are calculated. With the front-end DTI, calculations are based solely on your housing expenses. The back-end DTI, however, takes into account other financial obligations, including:



Monthly payments on installment debtsMonthly payments on revolving debts, such as credit cards or lines of creditMonthly student loan paymentsMonthly lease paymentsMonthly alimony and child support paymentsMonthly payments for rental properties you own



Back-end debt-to-income ratio is more comprehensive in that it takes into all of your debt payments beyond housing. A good back-end DTI ratio is typically no more than 33% to 36%.





Important

Back-end debt-to-income ratio can be used to qualify borrowers for other loans beyond mortgages including personal loans, auto loans, and private student loans.


   How Lenders Use Front-End DTI Ratio  

Lenders use both front-end and back-end debt-to-income ratios to determine your ability to repay a home mortgage loan. A higher DTI can signal to lenders that you might be stretched thin financially, while a lower DTI suggests that you have more disposable income each month that isn't going to debt repayment.



Debt-to-income ratio is just one part of the puzzle, however. Lenders can also look at your income, assets, and employment history to gauge your ability to repay a mortgage loan. Debt-to-income ratios can play a part in decision-making for purchase loans as well as mortgage refinancing.





Tip

Paying off credit cards, student loans, or other debts can improve your back-end debt-to-income ratio and potentially increase the amount of home you're able to afford.


   Special Considerations  

When preparing for a mortgage application, the most obvious of strategies for lowering the front-end DTI is to pay off debt. However, most people don’t have the money to do so when they are in the process of getting a mortgage—most of their savings are going toward the down payment and closing costs. If you think you can afford the mortgage, but your DTI is over the limit, a cosigner might help. Keep in mind, however, that if you're unable to meet your mortgage obligations, your credit score as well as your cosigner's could suffer.




What Is Front-End Debt-to-Income Ratio?
Front-end debt-to-income ratio is a measure of how much of monthly income goes toward housing costs. That includes mortgage payments, property taxes, homeowners insurance premiums, and homeowners association fees, if applicable.




What Is a Good Debt-to-Income Ratio to Buy a Home?
Generally, lenders look for a debt-to-income ratio of between 28% and 36% when qualifying a borrower for a mortgage. Qualified mortgage loans, however, may allow a DTI of up to 43%.




How Can I Improve My Debt-to-Income Ratio for a Mortgage?
Some of the best ways to improve debt-to-income ratio include paying down revolving or installment debts, reducing housing costs, and increasing income. A lower DTI can increase the amount of home you may be able to afford when qualifying to mortgage a property.


   The Bottom Line  

Prospective borrowers should do everything they can to keep their debt-to-income ratios low. This shows potential creditors that the prospective borrower has a good relationship with debt, and has a monetary cushion between their income and debt in order to absorb unforeseen expenses, which greatly lessens the likelihood of default.
What Is a Front-End Load?  

A front-end load is a commission or sales charge applied at the time of the initial purchase of an investment. The term most often applies to mutual fund investments, but may also apply to insurance policies or annuities. The front-end load is deducted from the initial deposit, or purchase funds and, as a result, lowers the amount of money actually going into the investment product.



Front-end loads are paid to financial intermediaries as compensation for finding and selling the investment which best matches the needs, goals, and risk tolerance of their clients. So these are one-time charges, not part of the investment's ongoing operating expenses.



The opposite of a front-end load is a back-end load, which is paid by deducting it from profits or principal when the investor sells the investment. There are also other types of fund loading, including level loads, which charge an ongoing annual fee.


   The Basics of Front-End Loads  

Front-end loads are assessed as a percentage of the total investment or premium paid into a mutual fund, annuity, or life insurance contract. The percentage paid for the front-end load varies among investment companies but typically falls within a range of 3.75% to 5.75%. Lower front-end loads are found in bond mutual funds, annuities, and life insurance policies. Higher sales charges are assessed for equity-based mutual funds.



Mutual funds that carry front-end loads are called load funds. Whether an investor pays a front-end load depends on the type of shares in the fund that he owes. Class-A shares, also known as A-shares, typically carry a front-end load. Generally, the sales charge on a load mutual fund is waived if such a fund is included as an investment option in a retirement plan such as a 401(k).





Key Takeaways

A front-end load is a sales charge or commission that an investor pays "upfront"—that is, upon purchase of the asset.The percentage paid for the front-end load varies among investment companies but typically falls within a range of 3.75% to 5.75%.While they leave less capital to invest, front-end-loaded funds have lower ongoing fees and expense ratios.


   How Front-End Load Compensation Works  

When mutual fund investments and annuities were first introduced to the market, investors were only able to access them through licensed brokers, investment advisors, or financial planners. The front-end load concept arose out of an effort to provide compensation for these go-betweens—and of course, to encourage them to put clients into a particular product.



Nowadays, individuals can often purchase products directly from the mutual fund company or insurance company. The lion's share of the contemporary front-end load goes to the investment company or insurance carrier that sponsors the product. The remaining portion is paid to the investment advisor or broker who facilitates the trade.



Some financial professionals argue that a front-end load is the cost investors incur for obtaining an investment intermediary's expertise in selecting appropriate funds. It could also be considered payment in advance for the expertise of a professional financial manager to oversee the client's money.



Investments that assess a front-end load do not charge an additional fee for redemption of shares previously purchased, although trading fees may apply. Similarly, the majority of front-end load investments do not charge investors an additional sales charge when shares are exchanged for a different investment, as long as the same fund family offers the new investment.


   Advantages of Front-End Load Funds  

Investors may opt to pay upfront fees for several reasons. For instance, front-end loads eliminate the need to continually pay additional fees and commissions as time progresses, allowing the capital to grow unimpeded over the long-term. Mutual fund A-shares—the class that carries front-end loads—pay lower expense ratios than other shares pay. Expense ratios are the annual management and marketing fees.



Further, funds that don't carry up-front fees often charge an annual maintenance fee that increases along with the value of the client's money, meaning the investor may wind up paying more. In contrast, front-end loads are often discounted as the size of the investment grows.





Pros

Lower fund expense ratio
Unimpeded principal growth
Discounted fees for larger investments



Cons

Less capital invested
Required longterm investment horizon
Not optimal for short investment horizons





   Disadvantages of Front-End Load Funds  

On the downside, since front-end loads are taken out of your original investment, less of your money is going to work for you. Given the benefits of compounding, less money at the outset has an impact on the way your money grows. Over the long-term, it may not matter, but front-end-loaded funds are not optimal if you have a short investment horizon; you won't have a chance to recoup the sales charge through realizing earnings over time.



Also, given the plethora of no-load mutual funds available currently, some financial advisors argue that no one should be paying any sales charges—front, back, or ongoing.


   Real-World Example  

Many companies offer mutual funds with varying loads to meet the investing style of any investor. American Funds Growth Fund of America (AGTHX) is an example of a mutual fund that carries a front-end load.



To illustrate how the load works let's say an investor invests $10,000 in the AGTHX fund. They will pay a front-end load of 5.75%, or $575. The remaining $9,425 is used to purchase shares of the mutual fund at the current share net asset value (NAV) price.
What Is the Front Office?  

The front office represents the customer-facing division of a firm. For example, customer service, sales, and industry experts who provide advisory services are considered part of a firm's front office operations.



The functions of the front office generally generate the majority of revenue for a firm.





Key Takeaways

On a conceptual level, the operations of many firms are divided into three parts: the front office, the middle office, and the back office.The front office is typically composed of customer-facing employees, such as the marketing, sales, and service departments.Because the front office has the most direct contact with clients, it is responsible for generating the bulk of revenues for the firm.The front office relies on the back office for support in the form of human resources, internet technology (IT), accounting, and secretarial functions.


   Understanding the Front Office  

The term "front office" originally emerged in the law enforcement field in the early 20th century. Those convicted of crimes or engaged in criminal activity sometimes referred to the main police office or the main detective bureau as the "front office" because it was the highest law enforcement establishment in a local area. By the 1930s, the meaning of the term front office had evolved and was mainly used to the most critical staffers in a company, such as management and executives.



Front office staffers typically have the most direct contact with clients. For most businesses, the front office is the reception and sales area of the business. However, in the financial services industry, front-office employees are typically those experts that generate revenue for the company by providing direct client services, such as wealth management. Depending on the industry, the front office personnel of a company may be some of the lowest-paid employees, including receptionists.


   Front Office vs. Middle Office vs. Back Office  

On a conceptual level, many firms are divided into three parts: the front office, the middle office, and the back office. While the front office is responsible for performing sales and client service functions, the middle office is responsible for managing risk and corporate strategy, and the back office provides analysis, technical, and administrative support services.



Using this conceptual model, the middle office and back office employees support the activities of the front office. The middle office personnel are tasked with ensuring that a company remains solvent and complies with regulations and ethical business practices. For a financial services firm, these departments might include corporate strategy, compliance, and financial control.



The back office includes administrative assistants, human resources staff, and accounting staff. Also critical to the success of the back office operations are the IT and technology departments. In a financial services firm, technology in the form of predictive analytics and algorithms play a central role.


   Special Considerations  

The term "front office" has a more specific meaning in certain industries, primarily investment banking, hotels, and sports.



In the hotel industry, the front office specifically refers to the area where customers first arrive at the hotel. This area is also called the reception area. A receptionist is typically employed to work in the front office; the role of a receptionist is to get in touch with the customers, confirm their reservation, and answer customer's questions.



In investment banking, front office usually describes a revenue-generating role. There are two main areas of specialization within the front office: investment banking and markets. Investment bankers advise organizations on mergers and acquisitions (M&A), as well as a wide array of capital-raising strategies. Those individuals employed in a markets-type role within the front office of an investment bank either perform sales and trading activities or research activities.



In sports businesses, the front office employs many different sports industry professionals, from the owners of the sports team to general managers and the ticket sales offices.
What Is Front-Running?  

Front-running is trading stock or any other financial asset by a broker who has inside knowledge of a future transaction that is about to affect its price substantially. A broker may also front-run based on insider knowledge that their firm is about to issue a buy or sell recommendation to clients that will almost certainly affect the price of an asset.



This exploitation of information that is not yet public is illegal and unethical in almost all cases. Front-running is also called tailgating. 





Key Takeaways

Front-running is illegal and unethical when a trader acts on inside information.A straightforward example of front-running occurs when a broker exploits market-moving knowledge that has not yet been made public.There are gray areas. An investor may buy or sell a stock and then publicize the reasoning behind it. Transparency and honesty are key.


   How Front-Running Works  

Here's a straightforward example of front-running: Say a broker gets an order from a major client to buy 500,000 shares of XYZ Co. Such a huge purchase is bound to drive up the price of the stock immediately, at least in the short term. The broker sets aside the request for a minute and first buys some XYZ stock for their own personal portfolio. Then the client's order is put through. The broker immediately sells the XYZ shares and pockets a profit.



This form of front-running is illegal and unethical. The broker has made a profit based on information that was not public knowledge. The delay in execution may even have cost the client money.



Front-running is similar to insider trading, with the minor difference in this case that the broker works for the client's brokerage rather than inside the client's business.






Front-running is commonly confused with insider trading, but they are distinct. Insider trading refers to a company insider who trades on advanced knowledge of corporate activities–for example, using their insider knowledge to buy or sell shares ahead of a major announcement.


  Exploiting Analyst Recommendations  

Another tactic for front-running is acting upon an analyst recommendation that has not yet been published.



The analysts work in a separate division from the broker and concentrate on evaluating the potential of individual companies in order to advise the company's clients. They constantly issue "buy," "sell," or "hold" recommendations for specific stocks. These go directly to clients first and then are picked up by the financial media and reported widely.



A broker who acts upon that recommendation for personal gain before it reaches the company's clients is front-running.



There is some grey area here. For example, a professional short-seller may accumulate a short position and then publicize the reasons for shorting the stock. This seems perilously close to a short-seller's version of a pump-and-dump scheme, in which a speculator hypes (or bashes) an investment for personal gain.



There is a distinction, however. The short-seller in this example reveals the personal financial stake at the time of the recommendation. And, the information conveyed by the short-seller reflects a genuine fact-based view of the outlook of the stock shorted rather than a falsehood intended to mislead.





Rule 17(j)-1

Most types of front-running are prohibited by SEC Rule 17(j)-1, which sets out the ethical requirements for portfolio managers and brokers. This rule has been interpreted to prohibit these insiders from taking advantage of their knowledge of client trades for personal gain.


  Index Front-Running  

A form of front-running in index funds is common and is not illegal.



Index funds track a financial index by mirroring the index's portfolio. The composition of the index changes periodically in order to balance it accurately as the stocks that make it up change dramatically in price or as stocks are added or removed from the index. That forces the fund's managers to buy or sell some components of the index.



Traders watch the prices of those stocks, and they know when an index fund will update its components. They will front-run the trade by buying or selling shares to gain an edge.



This is not illegal because that information is available to all those who are paying attention. 


   Example of Front-Running  

In 2020, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority(FINRA) announced penalties against Citadel Securities, arguing that the Chicago-based market maker had front-run against its own clients between 2012 and 2014.



According to the financial regulator, Citadel removed hundreds of thousands of large OTC orders from its automatic trading processes, requiring those trades to be executed manually by human traders. At the same time, Citadel "traded for its own account on the same side of the market at prices that would have satisfied the orders," violating their obligations to their clients.



In a single sample month, FINRA found that Citadel had traded against their customers in nearly three-quarters of the inactive orders. Citadel ultimately agreed to make their clients whole, in addition to a $700,000 fine, without admitting any wrongdoing.




Is Front-Running Illegal?
Yes, front-running is often illegal. Most types of front-running are prohibited by SEC Rule 17(j)-1,




Is Payment for Order Flow Front-Running?
Payment for order flow (PFOF) is when a broker receives compensation for routing customer orders first to a particular market maker or trading firm. This practice has been criticized for discouraging best-execution for customers, but it is not considered front running since the firm receiving the flow will trade with the customer, not place trades going in the same direction in front of them.




Is Trading Ahead Front-Running?
Trading ahead is when a broker or market maker uses their firm's account to make a trade instead of matching available bids and offers from others in the market. Trading ahead is illegal, but it is not considered by regulators to be the same as front-running.
What Is Full Costing?  

Full costing is an accounting method used to determine the complete end-to-end cost of producing products or services.





Key Takeaways

Full costing, or absorption costing, accounts for all costs, both fixed and variable along with overhead, that go into a finished product.Advantages of full costing include compliance with reporting rules and greater transparency.Drawbacks include potential skewed profitability in financial statements and difficulties determining variations in costs at different production levels.


   Understanding Full Costing  

Also known as "full costs" or "absorption costing,” it is required in most common accounting methodologies, including generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and reporting standards for income tax purposes.



When using the full costing method, all direct, fixed, and variable overhead costs are assigned to the end product.



Direct costs: are expenses directly related to the manufacturing process. They can include staff wages, the costs of any raw materials used, and any overhead expenses, such as batteries to run machinery.
Fixed costs: are primarily overhead expenses, such as salaries and building leases, that remain the same, regardless of how much or how little the company is selling. A company must pay its office rent and wages every month, even if it manufactures nothing.
Variable overhead costs: are the indirect expenses of operating a business that fluctuates with manufacturing activity. For example, when output rises additional staff may be hired to help out. This scenario would result in the company stomaching higher variable overhead costs.



In full costing accounting, these various expenses move with the product (or service) through inventory accounts until the product is sold. The income statement will then recognize these as expenses under costs of goods sold (COGS).


   Full Costing Vs. Variable Costing  

The alternative to the full costing method is known as variable or direct costing. The treatment of fixed manufacturing overhead costs, such as salaries and building leases, is the primary difference between these two different accounting styles.



Companies that use variable costing separate these operating expenses from production costs. In short, they seek to establish the expenses incurred during the manufacturing process, independent of the everyday costs of running a business.



Under the variable costing method, fixed manufacturing overhead costs are expensed during the period they are incurred. In contrast, the full costing approach recognizes fixed manufacturing overhead costs as an expense when goods or services are sold. Choosing one method over another can have sizable effects on the reporting of financial statements.



In practice, neither costing method is right or wrong. Some organizations will find variable costing more effective, while others will prefer full costing. The usefulness of method selection boils down to managerial attitude, behavior, and organizational design as it relates to accurate input cost capture and valuation.



As more businesses move to just-in-time (JIT) or related streamlined production procedures and inventory systems, in many ways, direct or full costing methods lose their significance, because fewer costs and expenses are tied up in production processes.


   Advantages of Full Costing  

Compliant With Reporting Rules: One of the biggest benefits of full costing is that it complies with GAAP. Even if a company decides to use variable costing in-house, it is required by law to use full costing in any external financial statements it publishes. Full costing is also the method that a company is required to use for calculating and filing its taxes.



Accounts for All Production Costs: Factoring in all expenses provides investors and management with a complete picture of how much it costs a company to manufacture its products. Establishing the total cost per unit helps businesses to determine suitable pricing for goods and services.



Easier to Track Profits: Full costing presents a more accurate idea of profitability than variable costing if all of the products are not sold during the same accounting period when they are manufactured. This can be especially important for a company that ramps up production well in advance of an anticipated seasonal increase in sales.


   Disadvantages of Full Costing  

Difficult to Compare Product Lines: Full costing also has several drawbacks. For example, taking into account all expenses, including those not directly associated with production, may make it slightly harder for management to compare the profitability of different product lines.



Impacts Efforts to Improve Operational Efficiency: Management teams using full costing will also find it more challenging to run cost-volume-profit (CVP) analysis, which is used to determine how many products a company must manufacture and sell to reach the point of profitability, and improve operational efficiency. If fixed costs are an especially large part of total production costs, it is difficult to determine variations in costs that occur at different production levels.



Can Skew Profit: Another major flaw of full costing is that it can potentially mislead investors. Fixed costs are not deducted from revenues unless all of the company's manufactured products are sold, meaning that a company's profit level can appear better than it actually is during a specified accounting period.
What Is Full Disclosure?  

Full disclosure is the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) requirement that publicly traded companies release and provide for the free exchange of all material facts that are relevant to their ongoing business operations.



Full disclosure also refers to the general need in business transactions for both parties to tell the whole truth about any material issue about the transaction. For example, in real estate transactions, there is typically a disclosure form signed by the seller that may result in legal penalties if it is later discovered that the seller knowingly lied about or concealed significant facts.


   How Full Disclosure Works  

Full disclosure laws began with the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The SEC combines these acts and subsequent legislation by implementing related rules and regulations.


  SEC Registration Requirements  

Congress and the SEC realize full disclosure laws should not increase the challenge of companies raising capital through offering stock and other securities to the public. Because registration requirements and ongoing reporting requirements are more burdensome for smaller companies and stock issues than for larger ones, Congress has raised the limit on the small-issue exemption over the years. In 1933, the exemption was $100,000, whereas, in 1982, it became $5 million. Therefore, securities issued up to $5 million are not subject to the SEC’s registration requirements.


  SEC Reporting Requirements  

Publicly owned companies prepare a Form 10-K annual report for the SEC. The report’s content and form are strictly governed by federal statutes and contain detailed financial and operating information. Management typically provides a narrative response to questions about the company’s operations. Public accountants prepare detailed financial statements.



Due to SEC regulations, annual reports to stockholders contain certified financial statements, including a two-year audited balance sheet and a three-year audited statement of income and cash flows. Annual reports also contain five years of selected financial data, including net sales or operating revenue, income or loss from continuing operations, total assets, long-term obligations, redeemable preferred stock, and cash dividends declared per common share.


   Real-Life Example of Full Disclosure  

A real estate contract often contains a full disclosure requirement. The real estate agent or broker and the seller must be truthful and forthcoming about all material issues before completing the transaction. If one or both parties falsifies or fails to disclose important information, that party may be charged with perjury.



Full disclosure typically means the real estate agent or broker and the seller disclose any property defects and other information that may cause a party to not enter into the deal. The agent or broker must disclose whether the agent or broker has any interest in the property being sold or any personal relationship with the seller, figures and estimates of the property value, how long the property has been on the market, and updates on offers or counteroffers placed on the property.
What Is Full Employment?  

Full employment is an economic situation in which all available labor resources are being used in the most efficient way possible. Full employment embodies the highest amount of skilled and unskilled labor that can be employed within an economy at any given time.



True full employment is an ideal—and probably unachievable—situation in which anyone who is willing and able to work can find a job, and unemployment is zero. It is a theoretical goal for economic policymakers to aim for rather than an actually observed state of the economy. In practical terms, economists can define various levels of full employment that are associated with low but non-zero rates of unemployment.





Key Takeaways

Full employment is when all available labor resources are being used in the most efficient way possible.Full employment embodies the highest amount of skilled and unskilled labor that can be employed within an economy at any given time.Economists define various types of full employment based on their theories as targets for economic policy.Many modern economists agree that some unemployment is necessary to avoid inflation and to allow workers to move between jobs, pursue education, or improve their skills.Unemployment of 5% or lower is often considered full employment in a real-world context.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Full Employment  

Full employment is seen as the ideal employment rate within an economy at which no workers are involuntarily unemployed. Full employment of labor is one component of an economy that is operating at its full productive potential and producing at a point along its production possibilities frontier. If there is any unemployment, then the economy is not producing at full potential, and some improvement in economic efficiency may be possible. 



However, because it may not be practically possible to eliminate all unemployment from all sources, full employment may not actually be attainable. For many economists, newer understandings of full employment require some degree of unemployment to temper inflation and allow workers to move between jobs, pursue their education, or improve their skills.



An unemployment rate of 5% is often considered full employment. This level of unemployment is enough to minimize inflation and allow workers to move between jobs, but those wanting full-time work should be able to find a full-time job (even if it is not their preferred occupation).















Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang.


  The Phillips Curve  

In terms of cyclical unemployment, many macroeconomic theories present full employment as a goal that, once attained, often results in an inflationary period. The link between inflation and unemployment is a prominent part of the Monetarist and Keynesian theories. This inflation is a result of workers having more disposable income, which would drive prices upward, according to the concept of the Phillips curve.



This poses a potential problem for economic policymakers, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, that have a dual mandate to achieve and maintain both stable prices and full employment. If there is, in fact, a trade-off between employment and inflation, per the Phillips curve, then simultaneous full employment and price stability may not be possible.


  The Austrian School  

On the other hand, some economists also argue against the overzealous pursuit of full employment, especially via the over-expansion of money and credit through monetary policy. Economists of the Austrian School believe that this will result in damaging distortions to the financial and manufacturing sectors of the economy. This might even result in more unemployment in the long run by precipitating a subsequent recession as real resource constraints come into conflict with artificially increased demand for various types of capital goods and complementary labor.


   Types of Unemployment  

Unemployment can result from cyclical, structural, frictional, or institutional causes. Policymakers can focus on reducing the underlying causes of each of these types of unemployment, but in doing so they may face trade-offs against other policy goals.


  Structural  

The desire to encourage technological progress can cause structural unemployment. For example, when workers find themselves obsolete due to the automation of factories or the use of artificial intelligence.


  Institutional  

Institutional unemployment arises from institutional policies that affect the economy. These can include governmental programs promoting social equity and offering generous safety net benefits, and labor market phenomena, such as unionization and discriminatory hiring.


  Frictional  

Some unemployment may be unavoidable by policymakers entirely, such as frictional unemployment, which is caused by workers voluntarily changing jobs or first entering the workforce. Searching for a new job, recruiting new employees, and matching the right worker to the right job are all a part of it.


  Cyclical  

Cyclical unemployment is the fluctuating type of unemployment that rises and falls within the normal course of the business cycle. This unemployment rises when an economy is in a recession and falls when an economy is growing. Therefore, for an economy to be at full employment, it cannot be in a recession that’s causing cyclical unemployment.






The Phillips curve is cyclical. It posits that full employment inevitably results in higher inflation, which in turn leads to increasing unemployment.



For the most part, macroeconomic policymakers focus on reducing cyclical unemployment to move the economy toward full employment. In this case they may face trade-offs against rising inflation or the risk of distorting other sectors of the economy.



Cyclical unemployment, which is driven by changes in economic cycles, should not be confused with "seasonal unemployment," where there are changes in the workforce that predictably occur throughout the year, For example, jobs in the retail sector typically decrease after the traditional run-up to the holiday shopping season ends after New Year's. Unemployment rises when people hired for the holidays are no longer needed to meet demand.


   Types of Full Employment  

Due to the difficulty, and questionable desirability, of achieving true full employment, economists have developed other, more pragmatic goals for economic policy.


  Natural Rate  

The natural rate of unemployment represents only the amount of unemployment due to structural and frictional factors in labor markets. The natural rate serves as an achievable approximation of full employment while accepting that technological change and the normal transaction costs of labor markets will always mean some modest unemployment at any given point in time.


  Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate  

The non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) represents the rate of unemployment that is consistent with a low, stable rate of price inflation. The NAIRU is useful as a policy target for economic policymakers who operate under a dual mandate to balance full employment and stable prices.



This is not full employment, but it is the closest the economy can be to full employment without excessive upward pressure on prices from increasing wages. Modern economists often mean the NAIRU when they refer to full employment. Note that the NAIRU only makes sense conceptually and as a policy target if and when there is indeed a stable trade-off between unemployment and inflation, as posited by the Phillips curve. 


   Benefits of Full Employment  

Full employment can provide a number of benefits both to individuals and to the overall social and economic balance of a country. As employment increases toward full employment, benefits include:



Reduced poverty if all workers have access to work at or above the prevailing rate of compensationImproved wages and working conditions as employers must complete for workersPreventing the unemployed from becoming demotivated or losing valuable skillsGDP growth as workers are able to afford goods and servicesReduction in government spending on unemployment benefits and welfare programsLess government borrowing due to increased revenue from income taxes


   Examples of Full Employment  

Full employment is an ideal condition. As a result, there are no real-world examples of full employment. Countries work to increase employment towards full employment and lower the rate of unemployment.



However, there are examples of what economists consider full employment, which is when a country's unemployment is as close to zero as real-world conditions allow without triggering inflation or other economic hardships. In general, full employment in the real world is often considered 95% employment or higher.



By the end of 2021, countries whose reported unemployment rates could be considered full employment included Bahrain (1.9%), Benin (1.6%), Cuba (2.8%), Germany (3.5%), Japan (2.8%), Malta (3.5%), Mexico (4.4%), the Netherlands (4%), Norway (5%), Poland (3.4%), and Thailand (1.4%).



In the United States, the unemployment rate was 3.4% in January 2023, one of the lowest historical rates since 1948. The lowest unemployment rate in the U.S. since 1948 was 2.7% in 1952. Both of these rates would be considered full employment by economists.



Unemployment numbers, however, do not take into account those who have dropped out of the workforce entirely because they have stopped looking for work, even if they would prefer to have a job, or those who are working part-time but would prefer full-time work. Under true full employment conditions, anyone who wanted to find a full-time job would be able to.




What Rate Is Considered Full Employment?
Many economists consider an unemployment rate of 5% or lower to be maximum employment, or as close to full employment as is possible in the real world. This means that the rate of full employment is 95% or above.




How Do You Know If There Is Full Employment?
In the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics considers full employment to be happening when the unemployment rate is equal to the NAIRU, there is no cyclical unemployment, and the country's GDP is at its potential. For many countries, these conditions are met when the unemployment rate is at 5% or lower.




Why Is There Unemployment at Full Employment?
Full employment and zero unemployment are not the same thing in the real world. Some types of unemployment are unavoidable or even necessary to prevent inflation, allow workers to move between jobs, or give people the chance to improve their education or job skills. Industries and companies also change, which changes the available jobs, and this process is eventually beneficial to the economy even if it leaves some workers temporarily unemployed.


   The Bottom Line  

Full employment is when all available labor resources are being used in the most efficient way possible without triggering inflation. It is a theoretical state in which anyone who wants to find full-time work can do so and unemployment is at 0%.



Many modern economists agree that some unemployment is necessary to avoid inflation. Temporary unemployment can also allow workers time to move between jobs, go to school or otherwise improve their skills. In the real world, an unemployment rate of 5% or lower is often considered full employment. This level of unemployment prevents inflation and lets workers move between jobs, but is low enough that those wanting full-time work should be able to find some kind of full-time job.
What Is a Full Ratchet?  

A full ratchet is a contractual provision designed to protect the interests of early investors. Specifically, it is an anti-dilution provision that applies, for any shares of common stock sold by a company after the issuing of an option (or convertible security), the lowest sale price as the adjusted option price or conversion ratio for existing shareholders.





Key Takeaways

A full ratchet is an anti-dilution provision that applies the lowest sale price as the adjusted option price or conversion ratio for existing shareholders.It protects early investors by ensuring they are compensated for any dilution in their ownership caused by future rounds of fundraising.Full ratchet provisions can be costly for founders and can undermine efforts to raise capital in future rounds of fundraising.Weighted average approaches are a popular alternative to the full ratchet provision.


   Understanding Full Ratchets  

A full ratchet protects early-stage investors by ensuring that their percentage ownership is not diminished by future rounds of fundraising. This provision also offers a level of cost protection should the pricing of future rounds be lower than that of the initial round.



There are some caveats, though. Offering these assurances to early-stage investors can be quite expensive from the perspective of company founders or investors participating in later rounds of fundraising.



Essentially, the existence of a full ratchet provision can make it difficult for the company to attract new rounds of investment. For this reason, full ratchet provisions are usually only kept in force for a limited period of time.


   Full Ratchet Example  

To illustrate, consider a scenario in which a company sells 1 million convertible preferred shares at a price of $1.00 per share, under terms that include a full ratchet provision. Suppose that the company then undertakes a second fundraising round, this time selling 1 million common shares at a price of $0.50 per share.



Due to the full ratchet provision, the company would then be obliged to compensate the preferred shareholders by reducing the conversion price of their shares down to $0.50. Effectively, this means that the preferred shareholders would need to be given new shares (at no additional cost) in order to ensure that their overall ownership is not diminished by the sale of the new common shares.



This dynamic can lead to a series of adjustments in which new shares need to be created to satisfy the demands both of the original preferred shareholders (who benefit from the full ratchet provision) and of new investors who wish to purchase a fixed percentage of the company. After all, investors desire not just an abstract number of shares, but a concrete percentage of ownership.



In this situation, company founders can find their own ownership stakes quickly diminished by the back-and-forth adjustments benefiting old and new investors.


   The Full Ratchet vs. Weighted Average Approaches  

An alternative provision, which uses a weighted average approach, is arguably fairer in balancing the interests of founders, early investors, and later investors. This approach comes in two varieties: the narrow-based weighted average, and the broad-based weighted average.
What Is a Fully Amortizing Payment?  

A fully amortizing payment refers to a type of periodic repayment on a debt. If the borrower makes payments according to the loan's amortization schedule, the debt is fully paid off by the end of its set term. If the loan is a fixed-rate loan, each fully amortizing payment is an equal dollar amount. If the loan is an adjustable-rate loan, the fully amortizing payment changes as the interest rate on the loan changes.





Key Takeaways

A fully amortizing payment is a periodic loan payment made according to a schedule that ensures it will be paid off by the end of the loan's set term.Loans for which fully amortizing payments are made are known as self-amortizing loans.Traditional fixed-rate, long-term mortgages typically take fully amortizing payments.Interest-only payments, which are typical of some adjustable-rate mortgages, are the opposite of fully amortizing payments.


   Understanding a Fully Amortizing Payment  

Loans for which fully amortizing payments are made are known as self-amortizing loans. Mortgages are typical self-amortizing loans, and they usually carry fully amortizing payments. Homebuyers can see how much they can expect to pay in interest over the life of the loan using an amortization schedule provided by their lender.


  Fully amortizing payments vs. interest-only payments  

An interest-only payment is the opposite of a fully amortizing payment. If our borrower is only covering the interest on each payment, they are not on the schedule to pay the loan off by the end of its term. If a loan allows the borrower to make initial payments that are less than the fully amortizing payment, then the fully amortizing payments later in the life of the loan are significantly higher. This is typical of many adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs).



To illustrate, imagine someone takes out a $250,000 mortgage with a 30-year term and a 4.5% interest rate. However, rather than being fixed, the interest rate is adjustable, and the lender only assures the 4.5% rate for the first five years of the loan. After that point, it adjusts automatically.



If the borrower were making fully amortizing payments, they would pay $1,266.71, as indicated in the first example, and that amount would increase or decrease when the loan's interest rate adjusts. However, if the loan is structured so the borrower only pays interest payments for the first five years, his monthly payments are only $937.50 during that time. But they are not fully amortizing. As a result, after the introductory interest rate expires, his payments may increase up to $1,949.04. By making non-fully amortizing payments early in the life of the loan, the borrower essentially commits to making larger fully amortizing payments later in the loan's term.





Important

If you have an interest-only adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM), refinancing it before the rate adjusts could help to avoid a significant jump in monthly payments.


   Fully Amortized Loan Payment Example  

To illustrate a fully amortizing payment, imagine a man takes out a $250,000 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with a 4.5% interest rate, and his monthly payments are $1,266.71. At the beginning of the loan's life, the majority of these payments are devoted to interest and just a small part to the loan's principal; near the end of the loan's term, the majority of each payment covers principal, and only a small portion is allocated to interest. Because these payments are fully amortizing, if the borrower makes them each month, they pay off the loan by the end of its term.



Here's how the loan amortization schedule would look for years one through five of the loan.













Amortization Schedule for a 30-Year $250,000 Loan at 4.5%


Payment Date
Payment
Principal
Interest
Total Interest
Balance




Nov 2021
$1,266.71
$329.21
$937.50
$937.50
$249,670.79


Dec 2021
$1,266.71
$330.45
$936.27
$1,873.77
$249,340.34


Jan 2022
$1,266.71
$331.69
$935.03
$2,808.79
$249,008.65


Feb 2022
$1,266.71
$332.93
$933.78
$3,742.57
$248,675.72


Mar 2022
$1,266.71
$334.18
$932.53
$4,675.11
$248,341.54


Apr 2022
$1,266.71
$335.43
$931.28
$5,606.39
$248,006.11


May 2022
$1,266.71
$336.69
$930.02
$6,536.41
$247,669.42


Jun 2022
$1,266.71
$337.95
$928.76
$7,465.17
$247,331.47


Jul 2022
$1,266.71
$339.22
$927.49
$8,392.67
$246,992.25


Aug 2022
$1,266.71
$340.49
$926.22
$9,318.89
$246,651.75


Sep 2022
$1,266.71
$341.77
$924.94
$10,243.83
$246,309.98


Oct 2022
$1,266.71
$343.05
$923.66
$11,167.49
$245,966.93


Nov 2022
$1,266.71
$344.34
$922.38
$12,089.87
$245,622.60


Dec 2022
$1,266.71
$345.63
$921.08
$13,010.95
$245,276.97


Jan 2023
$1,266.71
$346.92
$919.79
$13,930.74
$244,930.04


Feb 2023
$1,266.71
$348.23
$918.49
$14,849.23
$244,581.82


Mar 2023
$1,266.71
$349.53
$917.18
$15,766.41
$244,232.29


Apr 2023
$1,266.71
$350.84
$915.87
$16,682.28
$243,881.44


May 2023
$1,266.71
$352.16
$914.56
$17,596.84
$243,529.29


Jun 2023
$1,266.71
$353.48
$913.23
$18,510.07
$243,175.81


Jul 2023
$1,266.71
$354.80
$911.91
$19,421.98
$242,821.00


Aug 2023
$1,266.71
$356.13
$910.58
$20,332.56
$242,464.87


Sep 2023
$1,266.71
$357.47
$909.24
$21,241.80
$242,107.40


Oct 2023
$1,266.71
$358.81
$907.90
$22,149.71
$241,748.59


Nov 2023
$1,266.71
$360.16
$906.56
$23,056.26
$241,388.43


Dec 2023
$1,266.71
$361.51
$905.21
$23,961.47
$241,026.93


Jan 2024
$1,266.71
$362.86
$903.85
$24,865.32
$240,664.06


Feb 2024
$1,266.71
$364.22
$902.49
$25,767.81
$240,299.84


Mar 2024
$1,266.71
$365.59
$901.12
$26,668.94
$239,934.25


Apr 2024
$1,266.71
$366.96
$899.75
$27,568.69
$239,567.29


May 2024
$1,266.71
$368.34
$898.38
$28,467.07
$239,198.96


Jun 2024
$1,266.71
$369.72
$897.00
$29,364.06
$238,829.24


Jul 2024
$1,266.71
$371.10
$895.61
$30,259.67
$238,458.13


Aug 2024
$1,266.71
$372.50
$894.22
$31,153.89
$238,085.64


Sep 2024
$1,266.71
$373.89
$892.82
$32,046.71
$237,711.75


Oct 2024
$1,266.71
$375.29
$891.42
$32,938.13
$237,336.45


Nov 2024
$1,266.71
$376.70
$890.01
$33,828.14
$236,959.75


Dec 2024
$1,266.71
$378.11
$888.60
$34,716.74
$236,581.64


Jan 2025
$1,266.71
$379.53
$887.18
$35,603.92
$236,202.11


Feb 2025
$1,266.71
$380.96
$885.76
$36,489.68
$235,821.15


Mar 2025
$1,266.71
$382.38
$884.33
$37,374.01
$235,438.77


Apr 2025
$1,266.71
$383.82
$882.90
$38,256.91
$235,054.95


May 2025
$1,266.71
$385.26
$881.46
$39,138.36
$234,669.69


Jun 2025
$1,266.71
$386.70
$880.01
$40,018.37
$234,282.99


Jul 2025
$1,266.71
$388.15
$878.56
$40,896.93
$233,894.84


Aug 2025
$1,266.71
$389.61
$877.11
$41,774.04
$233,505.23


Sep 2025
$1,266.71
$391.07
$875.64
$42,649.68
$233,114.16


Oct 2025
$1,266.71
$392.54
$874.18
$43,523.86
$232,721.63


Nov 2025
$1,266.71
$394.01
$872.71
$44,396.57
$232,327.62


Dec 2025
$1,266.71
$395.48
$871.23
$45,267.80
$231,932.13


Jan 2026
$1,266.71
$396.97
$869.75
$46,137.54
$231,535.17


Feb 2026
$1,266.71
$398.46
$868.26
$47,005.80
$231,136.71


Mar 2026
$1,266.71
$399.95
$866.76
$47,872.56
$230,736.76


Apr 2026
$1,266.71
$401.45
$865.26
$48,737.82
$230,335.31


May 2026
$1,266.71
$402.96
$863.76
$49,601.58
$229,932.35


Jun 2026
$1,266.71
$404.47
$862.25
$50,463.83
$229,527.89


Jul 2026
$1,266.71
$405.98
$860.73
$51,324.56
$229,121.90


Aug 2026
$1,266.71
$407.51
$859.21
$52,183.77
$228,714.40


Sep 2026
$1,266.71
$409.03
$857.68
$53,041.44
$228,305.36


Oct 2026
$1,266.71
$410.57
$856.15
$53,897.59
$227,894.79


Nov 2026
$1,266.71
$412.11
$854.61
$54,752.19
$227,482.69






Now, here's what the amortization schedule looks like for the last five years of the loan.













Amortization Schedule for a 30-Year $250,000 Loan at 4.5%


Payment Date
Payment
Principal
Interest
Total Interest
Balance




Oct 2046
$1,266.71
$1,008.14
$258.58
$197,959.70
$67,945.72


Nov 2046
$1,266.71
$1,011.92
$254.80
$198,214.49
$66,933.80


Dec 2046
$1,266.71
$1,015.71
$251.00
$198,465.50
$65,918.09


Jan 2047
$1,266.71
$1,019.52
$247.19
$198,712.69
$64,898.57


Feb 2047
$1,266.71
$1,023.34
$243.37
$198,956.06
$63,875.22


Mar 2047
$1,266.71
$1,027.18
$239.53
$199,195.59
$62,848.04


Apr 2047
$1,266.71
$1,031.03
$235.68
$199,431.27
$61,817.01


May 2047
$1,266.71
$1,034.90
$231.81
$199,663.08
$60,782.11


Jun 2047
$1,266.71
$1,038.78
$227.93
$199,891.02
$59,743.33


Jul 2047
$1,266.71
$1,042.68
$224.04
$200,115.05
$58,700.65


Aug 2047
$1,266.71
$1,046.59
$220.13
$200,335.18
$57,654.07


Sep 2047
$1,266.71
$1,050.51
$216.20
$200,551.38
$56,603.56


Oct 2047
$1,266.71
$1,054.45
$212.26
$200,763.65
$55,549.11


Nov 2047
$1,266.71
$1,058.40
$208.31
$200,971.96
$54,490.70


Dec 2047
$1,266.71
$1,062.37
$204.34
$201,176.30
$53,428.33


Jan 2048
$1,266.71
$1,066.36
$200.36
$201,376.65
$52,361.97


Feb 2048
$1,266.71
$1,070.36
$196.36
$201,573.01
$51,291.62


Mar 2048
$1,266.71
$1,074.37
$192.34
$201,765.35
$50,217.25


Apr 2048
$1,266.71
$1,078.40
$188.31
$201,953.67
$49,138.85


May 2048
$1,266.71
$1,082.44
$184.27
$202,137.94
$48,056.41


Jun 2048
$1,266.71
$1,086.50
$180.21
$202,318.15
$46,969.90


Jul 2048
$1,266.71
$1,090.58
$176.14
$202,494.29
$45,879.33


Aug 2048
$1,266.71
$1,094.67
$172.05
$202,666.34
$44,784.66


Sep 2048
$1,266.71
$1,098.77
$167.94
$202,834.28
$43,685.89


Oct 2048
$1,266.71
$1,102.89
$163.82
$202,998.10
$42,583.00


Nov 2048
$1,266.71
$1,107.03
$159.69
$203,157.79
$41,475.97


Dec 2048
$1,266.71
$1,111.18
$155.53
$203,313.32
$40,364.79


Jan 2049
$1,266.71
$1,115.35
$151.37
$203,464.69
$39,249.45


Feb 2049
$1,266.71
$1,119.53
$147.19
$203,611.88
$38,129.92


Mar 2049
$1,266.71
$1,123.73
$142.99
$203,754.86
$37,006.20


Apr 2049
$1,266.71
$1,127.94
$138.77
$203,893.64
$35,878.25


May 2049
$1,266.71
$1,132.17
$134.54
$204,028.18
$34,746.09


Jun 2049
$1,266.71
$1,136.42
$130.30
$204,158.48
$33,609.67


Jul 2049
$1,266.71
$1,140.68
$126.04
$204,284.51
$32,468.99


Aug 2049
$1,266.71
$1,144.95
$121.76
$204,406.27
$31,324.04


Sep 2049
$1,266.71
$1,149.25
$117.47
$204,523.74
$30,174.79


Oct 2049
$1,266.71
$1,153.56
$113.16
$204,636.89
$29,021.23


Nov 2049
$1,266.71
$1,157.88
$108.83
$204,745.72
$27,863.35


Dec 2049
$1,266.71
$1,162.23
$104.49
$204,850.21
$26,701.12


Jan 2050
$1,266.71
$1,166.58
$100.13
$204,950.34
$25,534.54


Feb 2050
$1,266.71
$1,170.96
$95.75
$205,046.09
$24,363.58


Mar 2050
$1,266.71
$1,175.35
$91.36
$205,137.46
$23,188.23


Apr 2050
$1,266.71
$1,179.76
$86.96
$205,224.41
$22,008.47


May 2050
$1,266.71
$1,184.18
$82.53
$205,306.94
$20,824.29


Jun 2050
$1,266.71
$1,188.62
$78.09
$205,385.04
$19,635.67


Jul 2050
$1,266.71
$1,193.08
$73.63
$205,458.67
$18,442.59


Aug 2050
$1,266.71
$1,197.55
$69.16
$205,527.83
$17,245.04


Sep 2050
$1,266.71
$1,202.04
$64.67
$205,592.50
$16,042.99


Oct 2050
$1,266.71
$1,206.55
$60.16
$205,652.66
$14,836.44


Nov 2050
$1,266.71
$1,211.08
$55.64
$205,708.30
$13,625.36


Dec 2050
$1,266.71
$1,215.62
$51.10
$205,759.39
$12,409.74


Jan 2051
$1,266.71
$1,220.18
$46.54
$205,805.93
$11,189.57


Feb 2051
$1,266.71
$1,224.75
$41.96
$205,847.89
$9,964.82


Mar 2051
$1,266.71
$1,229.35
$37.37
$205,885.26
$8,735.47


Apr 2051
$1,266.71
$1,233.96
$32.76
$205,918.01
$7,501.52


May 2051
$1,266.71
$1,238.58
$28.13
$205,946.15
$6,262.93


Jun 2051
$1,266.71
$1,243.23
$23.49
$205,969.63
$5,019.71


Jul 2051
$1,266.71
$1,247.89
$18.82
$205,988.45
$3,771.82


Aug 2051
$1,266.71
$1,252.57
$14.14
$206,002.60
$2,519.25


Sep 2051
$1,266.71
$1,257.27
$9.45
$206,012.05
$1,261.98


Oct 2051
$1,266.71
$1,261.98
$4.73
$206,016.78
$0.00






As you can see, more of the borrower's monthly payments go toward the principal on the loan as the end of the mortgage term approaches.





Note

Your amortization schedule for a mortgage may also break down what goes toward homeowners' insurance or property taxes if those are escrowed into your loan payments.


   Pros and Cons of Fully Amortized Loans  

The main advantage of fully amortized loans is the ability to see how your payment is divided up each month on a mortgage or similar loan. This can make planning your budget easier because you'll always know what your mortgage payments will be, assuming you choose a fixed-rate loan option.



The chief disadvantage of fully amortized loans is that they require you to pay the lion's share of interest charges up front. Going back to the fully amortized loan example offered previously, you can see that the majority of what the borrower pays in the first five years of the loan goes toward interest.



If they were to sell the home after five years, then they may have made only a very small dent in the loan balance. If the home hasn't increased significantly in value, they may have very little equity to show for their efforts, making a sale of the home less profitable. The lender is a winner, however, because they've been able to collect those interest payments in the preceding five years.





Tip

If you have a mortgage and you're thinking of refinancing, using an online calculator to find your breakeven point with a fully amortizing loan can help you decide if it's the right move.


   Other Types of Loan Payments  

In some cases, borrowers may choose to make fully amortizing payments or other types of payments on their loans. In particular, if a borrower takes out a payment option ARM, they receive four different monthly payment options: a 30-year fully amortizing payment, a 15-year fully amortizing payment, an interest-only payment, and a minimum payment. They must pay at least the minimum. However, if they want to stay on track to have the loan paid off in 15 or 30 years, they must make the corresponding fully amortizing payment.





Warning

Making minimum payments could result in a larger loan balance if you're not making a dent in what you owe toward the interest.


   FAQs  


What Is a Fully Amortizing Loan?
A fully amortizing loan has a set repayment period that will allow the borrower to repay the principal and interest due by a specified date. Fully amortizing loans assume that the borrower makes each scheduled payment in full and on time.




What Is an Amortization Schedule?
An amortization schedule illustrates how a borrower's payments are applied to the principal and interest on a loan over time. With fully amortized loans, the bulk of interest payments are made earlier in the loan term, with more of the payment going toward the principal as you get closer to the end of the loan.




Can You Pay Off a Fully Amortized Loan Early?
Yes, if your lender allows it. Paying off a fully amortized loan ahead of schedule could save money on interest. Keep in mind, however, that your lender may apply a prepayment penalty to recoup any lost interest if you decide to pay a loan off early.
What are Fully Diluted Shares?  

Fully diluted shares are the total number of common shares of a company that will be outstanding and available to trade on the open market after all possible sources of conversion, such as convertible bonds and employee stock options, are exercised. Fully diluted shares include not only those which are currently issued but also those that could be claimed through conversion. This number of shares is needed for a company’s earnings per share (EPS) calculations because applying fully diluted shares increases the share basis in the calculation while reducing the dollars earned per share of common stock.


   Understanding Fully Diluted Shares  

Fully diluted shares affect the EPS of a company, which is a common metric for assessing relative value and profitability. EPS represents net income minus preferred dividends, divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding, in which the weighted average of common shares outstanding = (beginning period balance + ending period balance) / 2.



If a company can increase earnings per common share, it is considered to be more valuable and the publicly traded share price may increase. However, the number of outstanding shares affects this metric and, when the number increases, it reduces the EPS.





Key Takeaways


While full dilution may not occur all at once, it indicates how many shares might be outstanding in the future, based on current company policy regarding conversions.
Earnings paid to preferred shareholders as cash dividends are subtracted from net income because EPS applies only to common shareholders.
Company policy regarding conversions may change over time, potentially impacting expectations about the future number of fully diluted shares.



   Factoring in Fully Diluted Shares  

Assume that ABC Corporation (ABC) generates $10 million in net income and pays preferred shareholders a total of $2 million in dividends. The net income available to common shareholders is $8 million. If the firm’s weighted average of common shares outstanding totals 1 million, the EPS will be $8.00 per share or ($8 million / 1 million shares). This $8.00 EPS is referred to as "basic" EPS because the total is not adjusted for dilution.



Full dilution means that every security that can be converted into common shares has been converted, indicating there will be fewer earnings available per share of common stock. Since EPS is a key measure of a company’s value and profitability, it is important for an investor to review basic EPS as well as fully diluted EPS.


   Example of Fully Diluted Shares  

Several types of securities can be converted into common stock, including convertible bonds, convertible preferred stock, employee stock options, rights, and warrants.



Assume that ABC issues 100,000 shares in stock options to employees to reward them for strong company performance. The firm has convertible bonds outstanding that allow bondholders to convert their securities into a total of 200,000 shares of common stock. ABC also has convertible preferred stock outstanding and those shares can be converted into 200,000 shares of common stock as well.



Full dilution assumes that all 500,000 additional common stock shares are issued, which increases the common shares outstanding to 1.5 million. Applying the $8 million in earnings to common shareholders, fully diluted EPS will be ($8 million / 1.5 million shares) or $5.33 per share, which is lower than the basic EPS of $8.00 per share.
What Is Fully Vested?  

Being fully vested means a person has rights to the full amount of some benefit, most commonly employee benefits such as stock options, profit sharing, or retirement benefits. Benefits that must be fully vested benefits often accrue to employees each year, but they only become the employee's property according to a vesting schedule.



Vesting may occur on a gradual schedule, such as 25 percent per year, or on a "cliff" schedule where 100 percent of benefits vest at a set time, such as four years after the award date. Fully vested may be compared with partially vested.





Key Takeaways

Fully vested occurs when funds contributed by another party become fully accessible by the recipient beneficiary.Typically retirement benefit contributions that are matched by a company, or pension plan payments, will fully vest only after a certain number of years and other criteria has been met.Vesting schedules can either be graded (graduated) or occur suddenly after a certain threshold is met by an employee.


   Understanding Fully Vested  

To be fully vested, an employee must meet a threshold as set by the employer. This most common threshold is employment longevity, with benefits released based on the amount of time the employee has been with the business. While employee-contributed funds to an investment vehicle, such as a 401(k), remain the property of the employee, even if that employee leaves the business, company-contributed funds may not become the employee’s property until a certain amount of time has lapsed.



An employee is considered fully vested when any and all agreed-upon requirements the company has set forth to become the full owner of the associated benefit have been met. Thus, when an employee becomes fully vested, they become the official owner of all of the funds within their 401(k) account, regardless of whether the employee or the employer contributed them.


   Instituting a Vesting Schedule   

To institute a vesting schedule, the employee must agree to the conditions set forth. Often, this requirement can be considered a condition of receiving the benefit. If an employee chooses not to accept the vesting schedule, they would surrender the rights to participate in employer-sponsored retirement benefits until choosing to agree. In those cases, employees may have the option of investing for retirement independently, such as through an individual retirement account (IRA) instead.


   Business Benefits of Vesting Schedules  

With vesting schedules, companies seek to retain talent by providing lucrative benefits contingent upon the employees' continued employment at the firm throughout the vesting period. An employee who leaves employment often loses all benefits that have not yet vested in at the time of departure. This type of incentive can be done on such a scale that an employee stands to lose tens of thousands of dollars by switching employers. This strategy can backfire when it promotes the retention of disgruntled employees who may hurt morale and do the minimum required until it is possible to collect previously un-vested benefits.



The most commonly used vesting schedule is graded or graduated vesting, which requires an employee to have worked for a certain number of years in order to be 100% vested in the employer-funded benefits. Each year worked, more money vests. This schedule of vesting differs from cliff vesting, in which employees become immediately 100 percent vested following an initial period of service; and immediate vesting, in which contributions are owned by the employee as soon as they start the job.
What Is a Functional Currency?  

Popular with multinationals, functional currency represents the primary economic environment in which an entity generates and expends cash. It is the main currency used by a business in its business dealings.





Key Takeaways

A functional currency is the main currency that a company conducts its business.As companies transact in many currencies but report their financial statements in one currency, the foreign currencies have to be translated into the functional currency.The guidelines for translating foreign currencies for financial statements are laid out in the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and the functional currency does not necessarily have to be the currency of the country in which the company is headquartered.


   Understanding a Functional Currency  

As the financial statements of a business are reported in only one currency, the dealings or transactions that are done in another currency must be converted back to the principal currency used on the financial statements. The International Accounting Standards (IAS) and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) offer guidance on the translation of foreign currency transactions.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) was the first regulatory body to present the idea of a functional currency under their Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 52.﻿﻿


   Choosing a Functional Currency  

The world's economies have grown increasingly interdependent. Multinational corporations recognizing the integration of world markets, including the trade of commodities and services and the flow of international capital, are thinking global to remain competitive. 



With international operations comes the tough choice of selecting a functional currency, which must address several financial reporting issues, including determining appropriate functional currencies, accounting for foreign currency transactions, and converting financial statements of foreign subsidiaries into a parent company’s currency for consolidation.



Factors may include finding the currency that most affects sales price. For retail and manufacturing entities, the currency in which inventory, labor, and expenses are incurred may be most relevant. Ultimately, it’s often management's judgment between a local currency, that of a parent, or the currency of a primary operational hub.



It can be difficult to ascertain overall business performance when a variety of currencies are involved. Therefore, both U.S. GAAP and IAS outline procedures for how entities can convert foreign currency transactions into the functional currency for reporting purposes.



At times, a company’s functional currency may be the same currency as the country where it does most of its business. Other times, the functional currency may be a separate currency from the currency in which a firm is headquartered. 



When converting a currency, the exchange rates can positively or adversely impact a company's performance. Most often conversions are done at the spot rate on the date that the transaction occurred. There may be some instances in which a standard rate is used, such as a peak rate or average rate for a period.
What Is Functional Obsolescence?  

Functional obsolescence is the reduction of an object's usefulness or desirability because of an outdated design feature that cannot be easily changed or updated.



The application of the term varies based on industry. For example, in real estate, it refers to the loss of property value due to an obsolete feature, such as an old house with one bathroom in a neighborhood filled with new homes that have at least three bathrooms. It may also refer to outdated technologies, such as an older version of a mobile phone or computer processor.



Obsolescence risk is the risk that a process, product, or technology used or produced by a company for profit will become functionally obsolete, and thus no longer competitive in the marketplace.





Key Takeaways

Functional obsolescence is a reduction of an object's usefulness or desirability because of an outdated design feature that cannot be easily changed.Consumers can mitigate losses caused by functional obsolescence by considering the long-term usefulness of purchased goods.While various efforts have been made over the years to objectively quantify the effect of functional obsolescence in real estate, assessment or appraisal of functional obsolescence is mostly subjective.


   Understanding Functional Obsolescence  

Consumers can mitigate losses caused by functional obsolescence by considering the long-term usefulness of purchased goods. An item can be unattractive to consumers if its design prevents upgrades or connectivity with compatible devices. Many consumer electronics are known for their functional obsolescence due to the constant introduction of newer, refreshed versions.



For example, before the late 1990s, most households had bulky, heavy tube televisions, with entertainment centers being constructed to accommodate their weight and size. Fast forward to today and most households have low-profile flat-screen televisions, rendering the old entertainment centers functionally obsolete. To keep pace with the technological advances of consumer electronics, furniture manufacturers often redesign their products.



Companies also take functional obsolescence into consideration in long-term business planning. Depreciation of an asset is one example of quantifiable functional obsolescence. Companies can use various accounting methods to calculate the depreciation of an asset on its books, but the overall goal is to measure and track an asset's declining usefulness over time. This method of business planning also helps companies anticipate the need to sell or repurchase new assets.






Planned obsolescence is a strategy of deliberately ensuring that the current version of a given product will become out of date or useless within a known time period.


   Functional Obsolescence and Real Estate  

In real estate, functional obsolescence usually leads to lower appraisal values. Real estate can exhibit functional obsolescence if its design features are outdated, not useful, or not aligned with market tastes and standards, such as when an old house is located within a neighborhood of new homes. 



While functional obsolescence is generally associated with rundown structures or dilapidated neighborhoods, it can also occur in the opposite case. For example, a home may have "over-improvements" when a homeowner renovates and includes features within their home that might not be necessary.



While various efforts have been made over the years to objectively quantify the effect of functional obsolescence in real estate, assessment or appraisal of functional obsolescence is mostly subjective. The subjectivity occurs because various factors go into making decisions about the price of a home. In the case of real estate, some features can potentially be renovated to overcome functional obsolescence.


   Examples of Functional Obsolescence  

Consider a 1950s house with three bedrooms and one bathroom located in a gated subdivision filled with two-story houses containing five bedrooms and four bathrooms. Because the old house does not have the capacity that buyers in this market want, it is said to be functionally obsolete even if it is still in good condition and is perfectly livable.



Within the technology industry, the constantly changing parade of smartphones and the evolution of smartphone technology is another example of functional obsolescence. New smartphones are able to do more and include more features that make old ones functionally obsolete.



In some cases, the tech companies actively put policies in place, such as refusing support or updates for old models, to make products functionally obsolete. For instance, Apple Inc. has been criticized for not maintaining updates and customer service for older, outdated iPhones and other devices.
What Is a Fund?  

A fund is a pool of money that is allocated for a specific purpose. A fund can be established for many different purposes: a city government setting aside money to build a new civic center, a college setting aside money to award a scholarship, or an insurance company that sets aside money to pay its customers’ claims.





Key Takeaways

A fund is a pool of money set aside for a specific purpose.The pool of money in a fund is often invested and professionally managed in order to generate returns for its investors.Some common types of funds include pension funds, insurance funds, foundations, and endowments.Funds are also used by individuals and families for personal financial matters, such as emergency funds and college funds. Retirement funds are common funds offered as a benefit to employees.


   How Funds Work  

Individuals, businesses, and governments all use funds to set aside money. Individuals might establish an emergency fund—also called a rainy-day fund—to pay for unforeseen expenses or a trust fund to set aside money for a specific person.



Individual and institutional investors can also place money in different types of funds with the goal of earning money. Examples include mutual funds, which gather money from numerous investors and invest it in a diversified portfolio of assets, and hedge funds, which invest the assets of high-net-worth individuals (HNWI) and institutions in a way that is designed to earn above-market returns. Governments use funds, such as special revenue funds, to pay for specific public expenses.


   Types of Funds  

The following are examples of funds commonly used for personal ventures:



Emergency funds are personal savings vehicles created by individuals used to cover periods of financial hardship, such as job loss, prolonged illness, or a major expense. The rule of thumb is to create an emergency fund that contains at least three months' worth of net income.College funds are usually tax-advantaged savings plans set up by families to allocate funds for their children’s college expenses.Trust funds are legal arrangements set up by a grantor who appoints a trustee to administer valuable assets for the benefit of a listed beneficiary for a period of time, after which all or a portion of the funds are released to the beneficiary or beneficiaries.Retirement funds are savings vehicles used by individuals saving for retirement. Retirees receive monthly income or pensions from retirement funds.



In the realm of investments, some types of funds include:



Mutual funds are investment funds managed by professional managers who allocate the funds received from individual investors into stocks, bonds, and/or other assets.
Money-market funds are highly liquid mutual funds purchased to earn interest for investors through short-term interest-bearing securities, such as Treasury bills and commercial paper.
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are similar to mutual funds but are traded on public exchanges (similar to stocks).
Hedge funds are investment vehicles for high-net-worth individuals or institutions designed to increase the return on investors’ pooled funds by incorporating high-risk strategies such as short selling, derivatives, and leverage.
Government bond funds are for investors looking to put their money away in low-risk investments through Treasury securities—such as Treasury bonds—or agency-issued debt—such as securities issued by Fannie Mae. Both alternatives are backed by the U.S. government.



The government also creates funds that are allocated for various reasons. Some government funds include:



Debt-service funds are allocated to repay the government’s debt.
Capital projects fund resources are used to finance the capital projects of a country, such as purchasing, building, or renovating equipment, structures, and other capital assets.
Permanent funds are investments and other resources that the government is not allowed to cash out or spend; however, the government normally has the right to spend any revenue these investments generate on appropriate functions of government.




How Do You Start a Fund?
Depending on what type of fund you want to start will depend on how you start it. If it is an emergency fund, a simple way to start one is to set aside a small portion of money every week or month in a separate bank account. If you are interested in starting an investment fund, this is more complicated. You would first need to have a professional background, raise money to start the basics of a fund, such as incorporating it and any trading equipment, then you would need to decide on an investment strategy, then attract investors willing to invest capital into your fund.




What Is the Purpose of a Fund?
The purpose of a fund is to set aside a certain amount of money for a specific need. An emergency fund is used by individuals and families to use in times of emergency. Investment funds are used by investors to pool capital and generate a return. College funds are usually set up by parents to contribute money to a child's future college education.




What Is an Example of a Fund?
An example of a fund is a mutual fund. Mutual funds accept money from investors and use that money to invest in a variety of assets. Mutual funds have managers that manage the fund, which they charge a fee to investors for. Investors allocate money to mutual funds in hopes of increasing their wealth.


   The Bottom Line  

A fund is a pool of money that has been created for a specific reason. There are different types of funds for different purposes. An emergency fund is created by individuals and families for emergency expenses, such as medical bills or to pay for rent and food if someone loses a job.



An investment fund is an entity created to pool the money of various investors with the goal of investing that money into various assets in order to generate a return on the invested capital. Individuals, governments, families, and investors all use funds for very different purposes but the essential goal remains the same: to set aside a certain amount of money for a specific need.
What Is Fund Flow?  

Fund flow is the cash that flows into and out of various financial assets for specific periods of time. It's usually measured on a monthly or quarterly basis.



Fund flow doesn't measure the performance of any single asset but emphasizes how cash is moving. For example, with mutual funds, fund flow measures the cash involved in share purchases or inflows and the cash resulting from share redemptions or outflows. It doesn't say anything about how well or badly a fund performed.



Net inflow occurs when more cash flows into, say, the mutual fund than out of it. A net inflow creates excess cash for managers to invest. Theoretically, this then creates demand for securities such as stocks and bonds. A net outflow would indicate that more cash was taken from the mutual fund than was invested in it.





Key Takeaways

Fund flows are a reflection of cash that is flowing in and out of financial assets.Investors can look at the direction of the cash flows for insights about the health of specific stocks and sectors or the overall market.Mutual fund or ETF fund managers with net inflow have more cash to invest, and demand for the underlying assets tends to rise. With net outflows, the opposite is true.High net inflow may reflect growing overall investor optimism.High net outflow may suggest increasing investor wariness.


   Understanding Fund Flow  

Investors have a choice of where to allocate their investment capital and normally place it in financial markets that they expect to be profitable. If they then contemplate a downturn in the markets and their investments, they may extract their investment capital and any profits.



This movement of investment capital is the fund flow of cash in the financial markets.



Investors and market analysts watch fund flows to gauge investor sentiment relating to specific asset classes, sectors, or the market as a whole. For instance, net fund flow for bond funds that's negative during a given month by a large amount might signal broad-based pessimism for the fixed-income markets.



Fund flow focuses on the movement of cash only and reflects the net flow after measuring inflows and outflows. Inflows can include the money retail investors put into mutual funds. Outflows can include payments to investors or payments made to a company in exchange for goods and services.



Fund flow does not include any money that is due to be paid. It looks at only actual cash that was paid into or out of the asset.






Investors can find information about fund flow from information aggregators like Morningstar and investment research firms. For example, the Investment Company Institute (ICI) provides estimated fund flows for long-term mutual funds. The latest estimate for July 2022 shows a net outflow of $12.82 billion.


   Fund Flow Statements  

A fund flow statement discloses the types of inflows and outflows a company experiences.



The fund flow statement can highlight fund flow that might be out of the ordinary, such as a higher-than-expected outflow due to an irregular expense. Further, it often categorizes the various transaction types and sources to help track any fund flow activity changes.


   Fund Flow Changes  

Broadly speaking, fund flow changes could reflect a change in customer sentiment. This could relate to new product releases or improvements, recent news regarding a company, or shifts in feelings about an industry as a whole.



Positive fund flow changes note an upswing in inflow, a lessening of outflow, or a combination of the two. In contrast, negative fund flow suggests lower inflows, higher outflows, or both.



While occasional shifts may not be cause for concern, repeated instances of negative fund flows can be a worrying sign. For example, it could indicate that income can't meet a company’s expenses. If the trend continues, a company might need a form of debt to continue operating.


   Example  

According to Morningstar, for March 2022, U.S. long-term mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) had total inflows of $30 billion. U.S. large-growth funds that typically see redemptions, or outflows, took in $9.3 billion that month.



Still, due to previous months' low inflows, the first quarter of 2022 was the weakest for inflows since first quarter 2020.



Despite a bit of good news, such as for long-term government bond funds, which took in $8.7 billion (a 9.8% one-month growth rate), Morningstar concluded that this low level of inflow reflects softening sentiment and investor caution.




What Does Fund Flow Measure?
Where investing is concerned, it measures only the movement of cash into and out of investments. It does not measure performance.




Why Is Fund Flow Important to Know About?
Many analysts and market watchers believe that fund flow provides a window on investor sentiment and behavior. Some investors use fund flow data to signal when to buy or sell. On the other hand, others use fund flow information to substantiate their investment outlooks before they take action.




Can Fund Flow Predict Market Behavior Reliably?
Not necessarily, although in past years apparently it did a pretty good job. Morningstar has found that net outflows happen even when a market is strong. If fund flow were an accurate indicator, both flow and behavior would probably match more often than they do.
What Is a Fund Manager?  

A fund manager is responsible for implementing a fund's investing strategy and managing its portfolio trading activities. The fund can be managed by one person, by two people as co-managers, or by a team of three or more people.



Fund managers are paid a fee for their work, which is a percentage of the fund's average assets under management (AUM). They can be found working in fund management with mutual funds, pension funds, trust funds, and hedge funds.



Investors should fully review the investment style of fund managers before they consider investing in a fund.


   Understanding Fund Managers  

The main benefit of investing in a fund is trusting the investment management decisions to the professionals. That's why fund managers play an important role in the investment and financial world. They provide investors with peace of mind, knowing their money is in the hands of an expert.



While a fund's performance may have a lot to do with market forces, the manager's skills are also a contributing factor. A highly trained manager can lead their fund to beat its competitors and their benchmark indexes. This kind of fund manager is known as an active or alpha manager, while those who take a backseat approach are called passive fund managers.



Fund managers generally oversee mutual funds or pensions and manage their direction. They are also responsible for managing a team of investment analysts. This means the fund manager must have great business, math, and people skills.



The fund manager's main duties include meeting with their team, as well as existing and potential clients. Since the fund manager is responsible for the success of the fund, they must also research companies, and study the financial industry and the economy. Keeping up to date on trends in the industry help the fund manager make key decisions that are consistent with the fund's goals.






Before investing in a fund, investors should review a fund manager's investment style to see if it is compatible with their own.


  The Path to Fund Management  

To qualify for a position in fund management—mutual funds, pension funds, trust funds, or hedge funds—individuals must have a high level of educational and professional credentials and appropriate investment managerial experience. Investors should look for long-term, consistent fund performance with a fund manager whose tenure with the fund matches its performance time period.



Most fund managers often pursue a chartered financial analysts (CFA) designation as a first step in becoming the head stock-picker for a portfolio. CFA candidates undergo rigorous coursework pertaining to investment analysis and portfolio management.



Typically, these analysts assist portfolio managers with individual research on investment ideas and subsequent buy, sell, or hold recommendations. After a number of years working for the fund, familiarity with fund operations and management style aid in the analyst in a career path. Successful CFAs build a quality case for an internal promotion to manager if the opportunity arises.


   Responsibilities of Fund Managers  

Fund managers primarily research and determine the best stocks, bonds, or other securities to fit the strategy of the fund as outlined in the prospectus, then buy and sell them.



At larger funds, the fund manager typically has a support staff of analysts and traders who perform some of these activities. Multiple managers at some investment companies oversee client money, and each may be responsible for a portion or make decisions via committee.



Some other responsibilities of the fund manager include preparing reports on how well the fund is performing for clients, developing reports for potential clients to know the risks and objectives of the fund, and identifying clients and companies who may make good fits as clients.





Key Takeaways

A fund manager is responsible for implementing a fund's investment strategy and managing its trading activities.They oversee mutual funds or pensions, manage analysts, conduct research, and make important investment decisions.Most fund managers are highly educated, have professional credentials, and possess management experience.Fund managers fall into two categories: active managers and passive managers.


   Active vs. Passive Managers  

Active fund managers try to outperform their peers and the benchmark indexes. Managers who engage in active fund management study trends in the market, analyze economic data, and stay current on company news.



Based on this research, they buy and sell securities—stocks, bonds, and other assets—to rake in greater returns. These fund managers generally charge higher fees because they take on a more proactive role in their funds by constantly changing their holdings. Many mutual funds are actively managed, which explains why their fees are generally high.



Passive fund managers, on the other hand, trade securities that are held in a benchmark index. This kind of fund manager applies the same weighting in their portfolio as the underlying index. Rather than trying to outperform the index, passive fund managers normally try to mirror its returns. Many exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and index mutual funds are considered passively managed. Fees for these investments are generally much lower because there isn't a lot of expertise involved on the part of the fund manager.


   Notable Mutual Fund Managers  

One of the most iconic fund managers in history piloted Fidelity Investments' Magellan Fund. Peter Lynch managed the company's notable equity portfolio from 1977 to 1990. Lynch was a proponent of selecting stocks in industries with which he was most comfortable. Magellan's chief amassed remarkable average returns of 29% per year throughout his tenure, growing AUM from $20 million to $14 billion.



One of the longest-tenured fund managers is 85-year old Albert "Ab" Nicholas. Founder of the Nicholas Company, the seasoned portfolio manager has run the five-star Morningstar Nicholas Fund since July 14, 1969, besting the S&P 500 Index each year from 2008 through 2014.


   A Hedge Fund Icon  

Hedge funds differ from mutual funds in that hedge fund portfolios require large investment minimums only from accredited investors. Ken Griffin's Citadel Global Equities hedge fund returned almost 6% after fees in 2018.



Griffin had a net worth of $9.1 billion as of 2018. Buying and selling stocks from his Harvard dormitory in the 1980s, Griffin leaped right into the world of private equity management, launching Citadel with $4 million in 1990.
What Is a Fund of Funds (FOF)?  

A fund of funds (FOF)—also known as a multi-manager investment—is a pooled investment fund that invests in other types of funds. In other words, its portfolio contains different underlying portfolios of other funds. These holdings replace any investing directly in bonds, stocks, and other types of securities.



FOFs usually invest in other mutual funds or hedge funds. They are typically classified as "fettered," or only able to invest in funds managed by the FOF's managing company, or "unfettered," or able to invest in funds across the market.





Key Takeaways

A fund of funds (FOF) is a pooled fund that invests in other funds.FOFs usually invests in other hedge funds or mutual funds.The fund of funds strategy aims to achieve broad diversification and minimal risk.Funds of funds tend to have higher expense ratios than regular mutual funds.






   How a Fund of Funds (FOF) Works  

The fund of funds (FOF) strategy aims to achieve broad diversification and appropriate asset allocation with investments in a variety of fund categories that are all wrapped into one portfolio.



There are different kinds of FOFs, with each type acting on a different investment scheme. A FOF may be structured as a mutual fund, a hedge fund, a private equity fund, or an investment trust. The FOF may be fettered, meaning it only invests in portfolios managed by one investment company. Alternatively, the FOF can be unfettered, letting it invests in external funds controlled by other managers from other companies.


   Fund of Funds Advantages  

Typically, FOFs attract small investors who want to get better exposure with fewer risks compared to directly investing in securities—or even in individual funds. Investing in a FOF gives the investor professional wealth management services and expertise.



Investing in a FOF also allows investors with limited capital to tap into diversified portfolios with different underlying assets. Many of these would be out-of-reach for the average retail investor. For example, hedge funds typically require six-figure minimum investments or require investors to have a minimum net worth—or both.



Most FOFs require a formal due-diligence procedure for their fund managers—both their own and those managing the underlying funds. Applying managers' backgrounds are checked, which ensures the portfolio handler's background and credentials in the securities industry.


   Fund of Funds Disadvantages  

Though FOFs provide diversification and less exposure to market volatility, these returns may be lessened by investment fees that are typically higher than traditional investment funds. Higher fees come from the compounding of fees on top of fees.



Like most mutual funds, a FOF carries an annual operating expense—known as the expense ratio—as well as management fees and operating costs. However, FOFs investors are essentially paying double—because the underlying funds in the FOF all have their annual costs and fees, too.



In the past, funds of funds' prospectuses didn't always include the fees of the underlying funds. As of January 2007, the SEC began requiring that these fees be disclosed in a line called Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses (AFFE).



A fund of funds might charge annual management fees of 0.5% to 1% to invest in funds that charge another 1% annual management fee. So, the FOF investor in sum is paying up to 2%. Small wonder that, after allocating the money invested to fees and other payable taxes, the returns of fund of funds investments may generally be lower compared to the profits that single-manager funds can provide—even if the funds perform very well.



Picking good fund managers and funds can be difficult, too—especially if the FOF is fettered. The FOF may end up owning the same stock or other security through several different funds, thus reducing the actual diversification.





Pros

Ultimate in diversification
Professional management expertise
Alleviation of risk and volatility
Exposure to assets usually beyond small investors



Cons

Additional layer of fees
Risk of overlap in holdings
Difficulty in finding qualified managers, funds





   Real-World Example for Fund of Funds  

Since they are so varied, funds of funds can be hard to track as a group and to compare. However, an index does exist. The Barclay Fund of Funds Index, sponsored by Barclay-Hedge, a provider of data on alternative investments, is a measure of the average return of all FOFs that report into the company database. Through Q1 2022, for instance, 156 funds of funds had yielded an average return of 0.33% year-to-date. The S&P 500 during the same period lost more than 7.5%.




Are Funds of Funds Common?
Dedicated funds of funds may be less common that standalone mutual funds or ETFs. However, the SEC estimates that approximately 40% of all registered funds hold an investment in at least one other fund.




How Much Assets Are Invested in Funds of Funds?
According to the SEC, Total net assets in mutual funds that invest primarily in other mutual funds reached over $2.54 trillion in 2019.  




Are Funds of Funds Regulated by the SEC?
Yes, like all other pooled investment products, FOF are also overseen by the SEC. In particular, SEC Rule 12d1-4, updated in 2020, sets out procedures that provide a consistent framework for fund of funds arrangements. The SEC also requires FOFs to disclose their fees in a transparent manner.
What Is Fundamental Analysis?  

Fundamental analysis (FA) measures a security's intrinsic value by examining related economic and financial factors. Intrinsic value is the value of an investment based on the issuing company's financial situation and current market and economic conditions.



Fundamental analysts study anything that can affect the security's value, from macroeconomic factors such as the state of the economy and industry conditions to microeconomic factors like the effectiveness of the company's management.



The end goal is to determine a number that an investor can compare with a security's current price to see whether the security is undervalued or overvalued by other investors.





Key Takeaways

Fundamental analysis is a method of determining a stock's real or "fair market" value.Fundamental analysts search for stocks currently trading at prices higher or lower than their real value.If the fair market value is higher than the market price, the stock is deemed undervalued, and a buy recommendation is given.If the fair market value is lower than the market price, the stock is deemed overvalued, and the recommendation might be not to buy or to sell if the stock is held.In contrast, technical analysts favor studying the historical price trends of the stock to predict short-term future trends.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Fundamental Analysis  

Fundamental analysis is usually done from a macro to micro perspective to identify securities that are not correctly priced by the market.



Analysts typically study, in order:



The overall state of the economyThe strength of the specific industryThe financial performance of the company issuing the stock



This ensures they arrive at a fair market value for the stock.


  Sources for Fundamental Analysis  

Fundamental analysis uses publicly available financial data to evaluate the value of an investment. The data is recorded on financial statements such as quarterly and annual reports and filings like the 10-Q (quarterly) or 10-K (annual). The 8-K is also informative because public companies must file it any time a reportable event occurs, like an acquisition or upper-level management change.






Most public—and many private—companies list annual reports on the investor relation sections of their websites, highlighting financial decisions made and results achieved throughout the year.



For example, you might perform a fundamental analysis of a bond's value by looking at economic factors such as interest rates and the overall state of the economy. Then, you'd evaluate the bond market and use financial data from similar bond issuers. Finally, you'd analyze the financial data from the issuing company, including external factors such as potential changes in its credit rating. You could also read through the 8-K, 10-Q, 10-K, and the issuer's annual reports to find out what they are doing, their goals, or other issues.



Fundamental analysis uses a company's revenues, earnings, future growth, return on equity, profit margins, and other data to determine a company's underlying value and potential for future growth.


  Intrinsic Value  

One of the primary assumptions behind fundamental analysis is that a stock's current price often does not fully reflect the value of the company when compared to publicly available financial data. A second assumption is that the value reflected from the company's fundamental data is more likely to be closer to the true value of the stock.






Intrinsic value means something different in stock valuation than in options trading. Option pricing uses a standard calculation for intrinsic value, while it can be calculated in many different ways for a stock.



For example, say that a company's stock was trading at $20, and after extensive research on the company, an analyst determines that it ought to be worth $24. Another analyst does equal research but decides it should be worth $26.



Many investors will consider the average of these estimates and assume that the stock's intrinsic value may be near $25. Often investors consider these estimates highly relevant because they want to buy stocks trading at prices significantly below these intrinsic values.



This leads to a third major assumption of fundamental analysis: In the long run, the stock market will reflect the fundamentals. The problem is, no one knows how long "the long run" really is. It could be days or years.



This is what fundamental analysis is all about. By focusing on a particular business, an investor can estimate the intrinsic value of a firm and find opportunities to buy at a discount or sell at a premium. The investment will pay off when the market catches up to the fundamentals.






Fundamental analysis is used most often for stocks, but it is useful for evaluating any security, from a bond to a derivative. If you consider the fundamentals, from the broader economy to the company details, you are doing a fundamental analysis.


   Fundamental Analysis vs. Technical Analysis  

This method of analysis starkly contrasts with technical analysis, which attempts to forecast price direction through analyzing historical market data such as price and volume. Technical analysis uses price trends and price action to create indicators. Some of the indicators create patterns that have names resembling their shapes, such as the head and shoulders pattern. Others use trend, support, and resistance lines to demonstrate how traders view investments and indicate what will happen. Some examples are the symmetrical triangle or the wedge.



Fundamental analysis relies on financial information reported by the company whose stock is being analyzed. Ratios and metrics are created using the data which indicate how a company is performing compared to similar companies.


   Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis  

The problem with defining the word fundamentals is that it can cover anything related to the economic well-being of a company. They include numbers like revenue and profit, but they can also include anything from a company's market share to the quality of its management.



The various fundamental factors can be grouped into two categories: quantitative and qualitative. The financial meaning of these terms isn't much different from well-known definitions:



Quantitative: information that can be shown using numbers, figures, ratios, or formulasQualitative: rather than a quantity of something, it is its quality, standard, or nature



In this context, quantitative fundamentals are hard numbers. They are the measurable characteristics of a business. That's why the biggest source of quantitative data is financial statements. Revenue, profit, assets, and more can be accurately measured.



The qualitative fundamentals are less tangible. They might include the quality of a company's key executives, brand-name recognition, patents, and proprietary technology.



Neither qualitative nor quantitative analysis is inherently better. Many analysts consider them together.


   Qualitative Fundamentals to Consider  

There are four key fundamentals that analysts always consider when regarding a company. All are qualitative rather than quantitative. They include:


  The Business Model  

What exactly does the company do? This isn't as straightforward as it seems. If a company's business model is based on selling fast-food chicken, is it making its money that way? Or is it just coasting on royalty and franchise fees?


  Competitive Advantage  

A company's long-term success is primarily driven by its ability to maintain a competitive advantage—and keep it. Powerful competitive advantages, such as Coca-Cola's brand name and Microsoft's domination of the personal computer operating system, create a moat around a business allowing it to keep competitors at bay and enjoy growth and profits. When a company can achieve a competitive advantage, its shareholders can be well rewarded for decades.


  Management  

Some believe management is the most important criterion for investing in a company. It makes sense: Even the best business model is doomed if the company's leaders fail to execute the plan properly. While it's hard for retail investors to meet and truly evaluate managers, you can look at the corporate website and check the resumes of the top brass and the board members. How well did they perform in previous jobs? Have they been unloading a lot of their stock shares lately?


  Corporate Governance  

Corporate governance describes the policies in place within an organization denoting the relationships and responsibilities between management, directors, and stakeholders. These policies are defined and determined in the company charter, its bylaws, and corporate laws and regulations. You want to do business with a company that is run ethically, fairly, transparently, and efficiently. Particularly note whether management respects shareholder rights and shareholder interests. Make sure their communications to shareholders are transparent, clear, and understandable. If you don't get it, it's probably because they don't want you to.


  Industry  

It's also important to consider a company's industry: its customer base, market share among firms, industry-wide growth, competition, regulation, and business cycles. Learning how the industry works will give an investor a deeper understanding of a company's financial health.


   Quantitative Fundamentals to Consider: Financial Statements  

Financial statements are the medium by which a company discloses information concerning its financial performance. Followers of fundamental analysis use quantitative information from financial statements to make investment decisions. The three most important financial statements are income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements.


  The Balance Sheet  

The balance sheet represents a record of a company's assets, liabilities, and equity at a particular point in time. It is called a balance sheet because the three sections—assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity—must balance using the formula:



Assets = Liabilities + Shareholders' Equity



Assets represent the resources the business owns or controls at a given time. This includes items such as cash, inventory, machinery, and buildings. The other side of the equation represents the total financing value the company has used to acquire those assets.



Financing comes as a result of liabilities or equity. Liabilities represent debts or obligations that must be paid. In contrast, equity represents the total value of money that the owners have contributed to the business—including retained earnings, which is the profit left after paying all current obligations, dividends, and taxes.


  The Income Statement  

While the balance sheet takes a snapshot approach in examining a business, the income statement measures a company's performance over a specific time frame. Technically, you could have a balance sheet for a month or even a day, but you'll only see public companies report quarterly and annually.



The income statement presents revenues, expenses, and profit generated from the business' operations for that period.


  Statement of Cash Flows  

The statement of cash flows represents a record of a business' cash inflows and outflows over a period of time. Typically, a statement of cash flows focuses on the following cash-related activities:



Cash from investing (CFI): Cash used for investing in assets, as well as the proceeds from the sale of other businesses, equipment, or long-term assets
Cash from financing (CFF): Cash paid or received from the issuing and borrowing of funds
Operating Cash Flow (OCF): Cash generated from day-to-day business operations



The cash flow statement is important because it's challenging for a business to manipulate its cash situation. There is plenty that aggressive accountants can do to manipulate earnings, but it's tough to fake cash in the bank. For this reason, some investors use the cash flow statement as a more conservative measure of a company's performance.






Fundamental analysis relies on using financial ratios drawn from data on corporate financial statements to make inferences about a company's value and prospects.


   Example of Fundamental Analysis  

The Coca-Cola Company is a prime example that can be used in fundamental analysis. To begin, an analyst would examine the economy using some published metrics:



Consumer price index (inflation measure)Gross domestic product growthExports/importsPurchasing manager's indexInterest rates



Then, the sector and industry would be examined using statistics and metrics from various reports and competitor companies. Lastly, the analysts would gather the reports from Coca-Cola or the Security and Exchange Commission's Edgar filings database.



Analysts might also use data gathered by another firm, such as CSIMarket. CSIMarket provides fundamental analysis data for investors, so you could begin by assessing the value of Coca-Cola's assets, income streams, debts, and liabilities. You might find comparisons of objective metrics such as revenue, profits, and growth, especially in the context of the broader beverage industry.



Using CSIMarket's analysis, the analyst could compare growth rates to the industry and sector Coca-Cola operates in, along with the other information provided, to see if the company is valued correctly. For example, as of August 2022, for the trailing twelve months (TTM), Coca-Cola had (using only a few of the possible ratios and metrics):












 Coca-Cola
Industry 
Sector 


Y/Y Revenue Growth
13.48% 
10.86% 
16.18%


P/E Ratio
29.12 
25.16 
18.68 


Price to Free Cash Flow
24
7.45
4.23


Debt to Equity (TTM)
1.57
0.14
0.11


Quick Ratio (TTM)
0.16
0.24
0.2


Return on Equity (TTM)
13.14%
30.21%
23.16%


Return on Assets (TTM)
11.5%
8.69%
7.91%


Return on Investment (TTM)
13.14%
19.76%
15.84%


Revenue per Employee (TTM)
$111,578
$55,015
$66,896






One factor not shown in an analysis of ratios and numbers is how long a company has been around and the conditions they have weathered. Coca-Cola was founded in 1892 in Atlanta, Georgia. It has stayed in business through several wars, depressions, recessions, epidemics, pandemics, stock market crashes, and a global financial crisis. Not many companies can claim a history like that.






Additionally, a company's brand can add value to an investment. Coca-Cola has been providing beverages for a long time, and its logo is recognized worldwide.



So, an analyst can combine brand, longevity, growth above that of the beverages manufacturing industry, an above average price-to-earnings ratio, and good return on investment.



Coca-Cola has more debt than equity, but it also generates more returns using its assets than the rest of the industry. The company doesn't have as much liquidity as other companies, but it seems the industry hovers on pretty low quick ratios. More than 1.0 means a company can pay its short-term obligations quickly—so in general, most of the industry is low, but Coca-Cola has more than $1 billion in net cash flows, which gives it a lot of wriggle room.



An interesting measurement is how much revenue one employee generates. Coca-Cola employees generate about twice as much revenue as employees for comparative companies. This might warrant a deeper investigation into what Coca-Cola is doing differently. They may have invested in new technology or have much more efficient systems. Looking over press releases and reading company reports can provide insights into what the company is doing. It might also be that Coca-Cola simply sells more products than its competitors, so it's important to review any reports and releases and conduct a fundamental analysis carefully.




What Is Fundamental Analysis and Its Objective?
Fundamental analysis uses publicly available financial information and reports to determine whether a stock and the issuing company are valued correctly by the market.




What Are the Types of Fundamental Analysis?
There are two types of fundamental analysis, qualitative and quantitative.




What Are the 3 Layers of Fundamental Analysis?
When conducting an analysis, you start with economic analysis, then analyze the industry, then the company.




Why Is Fundamental Analysis Important?
Fundamental analysis allows you to see what the market value for a company should be. Many investors only look at the price a stock is currently trading at and what it has traded at instead of analyzing what lies behind the stock. A stock is issued by a company, so its overall performance is related to the financial performance of the company.




What Are the Tools for Fundamental Analysis?
Analysts use many tools. Some examples are financial reports, ratios from the reports, spreadsheets, charts, graphs, infographics, government agency reports on industries and the economy, and market reports.


   The Bottom Line  

Fundamental analysis is a valuation tool used by stock analysts to determine whether a stock is over- or undervalued by the market. It considers the economic, market, industry, and sector conditions a company operates in and its financial performance.



Financial ratios generated from financial reports and government industry and economic reports are used to valuate a company. Not every analyst uses the same tools or views stocks similarly—you might determine a stock is valued differently than another analyst. What's important is that the stock you analyze meets your criteria for value and that your analysis creates actionable information for you.
What Are Fundamentals?  

Fundamentals include the basic qualitative and quantitative information that contributes to the financial or economic well-being of a company, security, or currency, and their subsequent financial valuation. Where qualitative information includes elements that cannot be directly measured, such as management experience, quantitative analysis (QA) uses mathematics and statistics to understand the asset and predict its movements.





Key Takeaways

Fundamentals provide a method to set the financial value of a company, security, or currency.Included in fundamental analysis is basic qualitative and quantitative information that contributes to the asset's financial or economic well-being.Macroeconomic fundamentals include topics that affect an economy at large.Microeconomic fundamentals focus on the activities within smaller segments of the economy.For businesses, information such as profitability, revenue, assets, liabilities, and growth potential are considered fundamentals.


   Understanding Fundamentals  

In business and economics, fundamentals represent the primary characteristics and financial data necessary to determine the stability and health of an asset. This data can include macroeconomic, or large-scale factors, and microeconomic, or small-scale factors to set a value on securities or businesses.



Analysts and investors examine these fundamentals to develop an estimate as to whether the underlying asset is considered a worthwhile investment, and if there is fair valuation in the market. For businesses, information such as profitability, revenue, assets, liabilities, and growth potential are considered fundamentals. Through the use of fundamental analysis, you may calculate a company's financial ratios to determine the feasibility of the investment.



While fundamentals are most often considered factors that relate to particular businesses or securities, national economies, and their currencies also have a set of fundamentals that can be analyzed. For example, interest rates, gross domestic product (GDP) growth, trade balance surplus/deficits, and inflation levels are some factors that are considered to be fundamentals of a nation's value.


   Macroeconomic and Microeconomic Fundamentals  

Macroeconomic fundamentals are topics that affect an economy at-large, including statistics regarding unemployment, supply and demand, growth, and inflation, as well as considerations for monetary or fiscal policy and international trade. These categories can be applied to the analysis of a large-scale economy as a whole or can be related to individual business activity to make changes based on macroeconomic influences. Large scale, macroeconomic fundamentals are also part of the top-down analysis of individual companies.



Microeconomic fundamentals focus on the activities within smaller segments of the economy, such as a particular market or sector. This small-scale focus can include issues of supply and demand within the specified segment, labor, and both consumer and firm theories. Consumer theory investigates how people spend within their particular budget restraints. The theory of the firm states that a business exists and makes decisions to earn profits.


   Fundamentals in Business  

By looking at the economics of a business, including the overall management and the financial statements, investors are looking at a company's fundamentals. Not only do these data points show the health of the business, but they also indicate the probability of further growth. A company with little debt and sufficient cash is considered to have strong fundamentals.



Strong fundamentals suggest that a business has a viable framework or financial structure. Conversely, those with weak fundamentals may have issues in the areas of debt obligation management, cost control, or overall organizational management. A business with strong fundamentals may be more likely to survive adverse events, like economic recessions or depressions, than one with weaker fundamentals. Also, strength may indicate less risk should an investor consider purchasing securities associated with the businesses mentioned.


   Fundamental Analysis  

Investors and financial analysts are interested in evaluating the fundamentals of a company to compare its economic position relative to its industry peers, to the broader market, or to itself over time. Fundamental analysis involves digging deep into a company's financial statements to extract its profit and growth potential, relative riskiness, and to ultimately decide if its shares are over, under, or fairly valued in the market.



Often fundamental analysis involves computing and analyzing ratios to make apples-to-apples comparisons. Some common fundamental analysis ratios are listed below.



The debt-to-equity ratio (DE) measures how a company is financing its operations. 
The quick ratio measures the company’s ability to meet its short-term obligations.
The degree of financial leverage (DFL) measures the stability or volatility of the earnings per share (EPS).
The price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio compares investment to earnings dollars.
The DuPont analysis looks at return on equity (ROE) by looking at asset use efficiency, operating efficiency, and financial leverage.



Fundamental analysis should be carried out with a holistic approach, utilizing several ratios and including a bottom-up as well as a top-down analysis to come to specific conclusions and actions.


   Real World Example  

In the fourth quarter of 2018, according to MarketWatch, large-cap tech companies Microsoft and Apple had similar market caps for the first time since 2010. Although the two companies had similar market caps of about $850 billion, they had very different fundamentals. For example, Microsoft was trading at 45X earnings while Apple was trading at 15X earnings.



Also, while Microsoft’s earnings were predicated on software as a service (SaaS) and software sales, Apple’s were still primarily dependent on hardware sales. Apple’s revenue base is about 2½ times Microsoft’s; the global market for its devices is far more saturated than the global market for Microsoft’s software.



Though both companies had a similar market cap, they had very different fundamentals, which would need to be considered when choosing them as potential investments, particularly in determining future growth prospects.
What Is a Funded Debt?  

Funded debt is a company's debt that matures in more than one year or one business cycle. This type of debt is classified as such because it is funded by interest payments made by the borrowing firm over the term of the loan.



Funded debt is also called long-term debt since the term exceeds 12 months. It is different from equity financing, where companies sell stock to investors to raise capital.





Key Takeaways

Funded debt is a company's debt that matures in more than one year or one business cycle. Funded debt is also called long-term debt and is made up of long-term, fixed-maturity types of borrowings.Examples of funded debt include bonds with maturity dates of more than a year, convertible bonds, long-term notes payables, and debentures. 


   Understanding Funded Debts  

When a company takes out a loan, it does so either by issuing debt in the open market or by securing financing with a lending institution. Loans are taken out by a company to finance its long-term capital projects, such as the addition of a new product line or the expansion of operations. Funded debt refers to any financial obligation that extends beyond a 12-month period, or beyond the current business year or operating cycle. It is the technical term applied to the portion of a company's long-term debt that is made up of long-term, fixed-maturity types of borrowings.



Funded debt is an interest-bearing security that is recognized on a company’s balance sheet statement. A debt that is funded means it is usually accompanied by interest payments which serve as interest income to the lenders. From the investor's perspective, the greater the percentage of funded debt to total debt disclosed in the debt note in the notes to financial statements, the better.






Funded debt means it is usually accompanied by interest payments which serve as interest income to lenders.



Because it is a long-term debt facility, funded debt is generally a safe way of raising capital for the borrower. That's because the interest rate the company gets can be locked in for a longer period of time.



Examples of funded debt include bonds with maturity dates of more than a year, convertible bonds, long-term notes payables, and debentures. Funded debt is sometimes calculated as long-term liabilities minus shareholders’ equity.


   Funded vs. Unfunded Debt  

Corporate debt can be categorized as either funded or unfunded. While funded debt is a long-term borrowing, unfunded debt is a short-term financial obligation that comes due in a year or less. Many companies that use short-term or unfunded debt are those that may be strapped for cash when there isn't enough revenue to cover routine expenses.



Examples of short-term liabilities include corporate bonds that mature in one year and short-term bank loans. A firm may use short-term financing to fund its long-term operations. This exposes the firm to a higher degree of interest rate and refinancing risk, but allows for more flexibility in its financing.


   Analyzing Funded Debt  

Analysts and investors use the capitalization ratio, or cap ratio, to compare a company’s funded debt to its capitalization or capital structure. The capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing long-term debt by the total capitalization, which is the sum of long-term debt and shareholders’ equity. Companies with a high capitalization ratio are faced with the risk of insolvency if their debt is not repaid on time, hence, these companies are considered to be risky investments. However, a high capitalization ratio is not necessarily a bad signal, given that there are tax advantages associated with borrowing. Since the ratio focuses on financial leverage used by a company, how high or low the cap ratio is depends on the industry, business line, and business cycle of a company. 



Another ratio that incorporates funded debt is the funded debt to net working capital ratio. Analysts use this ratio to determine whether or not long-term debts are in proper proportion to capital. A ratio of less than one is ideal. In other words, long term debts should not exceed the net working capital. However, what is considered an ideal funded debt to net working capital ratio may vary across industries.


   Debt Funding vs. Equity Funding  

Companies have several options available when they need to raise capital. Debt financing is one. The other choice is equity financing. In equity financing, companies raise money by selling their stock to investors on the open market. By purchasing stock, investors get a stake in the company. By allowing investors to own stock, companies share their profits and may have to relinquish some control to shareholders over their operations.



There are several advantages to using debt over equity financing. When a company sells corporate bonds or other facilities through debt financing, it allows the company to retain full ownership. There are no shareholders who can claim an equity stake in the company. The interest companies pay on their debt financing is generally tax-deductible, which can lower the tax burden.
What Is Funds From Operations (FFO)?  

The term funds from operations (FFO) refers to the figure used by real estate investment trusts (REITs) to define the cash flow from their operations. Real estate companies use FFO as a measurement of operating performance. FFO is calculated by adding depreciation, amortization, and losses on sales of assets to earnings and then subtracting any gains on sales of assets and any interest income. It is sometimes quoted on a per-share basis. The FFO-per-share ratio should be used in lieu of earnings per share (EPS) when evaluating REITs and other similar investment trusts.





Key Takeaways

Funds from operations is the figure used by real estate investment trusts (REITs) to define the cash flow from their operations.Real estate companies use FFO as a measurement of operating performance.FFO excludes one-time cash inflows such as income from the sale of an asset; instead, it only includes income from business activities.A REIT's adjusted funds from operations subtracts any recurring expenses capitalized and then amortized in addition to any straight-lining of rents.REITs disclose their FFO in the footnotes of their income statements.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Formula and Calculation of Funds From Operations (FFO)  

The formula for FFO is:















FFO


=


(


NI


+


D


+


A


+


PSL


)


−


PSG


−


II
















where:
















FFO


=


Funds from operations
















NI


=


Net income
















D


=


Depreciation
















A


=


Amortization
















PSL


=


Property Sales Losses
















PSG


=


Property Sales Gains
















II


=


Interest Income







\begin{aligned}&\text{FFO} = (\text{NI} + \text{D} + \text{A} + \text{PSL} ) - \text{PSG} - \text{II} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{FFO} = \text{Funds from operations} \\&\text{NI} = \text{Net income} \\&\text{D} = \text{Depreciation} \\&\text{A} = \text{Amortization} \\&\text{PSL} = \text{Property Sales Losses} \\&\text{PSG} = \text{Property Sales Gains} \\&\text{II} = \text{Interest Income} \\\end{aligned}


​FFO=(NI+D+A+PSL)−PSG−IIwhere:FFO=Funds from operationsNI=Net incomeD=DepreciationA=AmortizationPSL=Property Sales LossesPSG=Property Sales GainsII=Interest Income​
All components of the FFO calculation are listed on a REIT's income statement. Here are the steps to take to calculate it:

Obtain the figure for net income, which is the company's profit and is located at the bottom of the income statement.
Depreciation and amortization are the expensed portions of a company's tangible (physical) and intangible assets for the period. Depreciation and amortization are merely accounting measures to help companies spread out the costs of their assets. The expensed amounts ultimately reduce net income for the accounting period. As a result, depreciation and amortization are added back to net income to determine the actual incoming cash or revenue from the REIT's operations.
Add any losses on the sales of business property, if any. This generally includes long-term assets such as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). These losses are considered one-time and non-recurring, and are therefore not part of normal operations and should not be included in the FFO calculation.
Subtract any gains or revenue earned from the sale of property from the total figure of net income, depreciation, and amortization to obtain the funds from operations for the period.
Subtract any interest income the business earned. Interest income is generally not a regular part of a business's normal operations, and therefore it should not be included in the FFO calculation.

If, for example, a REIT had depreciation of $20,000, gains on sales of property of $40,000, and net profit of $100,000, its FFO would be $80,000.






In most situations, you won't need to calculate a REIT's FFO because all REITs are required to show their FFO calculations on their public financial statements. The FFO figure is typically disclosed in the footnotes for the income statement.


   What FFO Can Tell You  

FFO is a measure of the cash generated by a REIT. Real estate companies use FFO as an operating performance benchmark. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) originally pioneered this figure, which is a non-GAAP measure.



The funds from operations measure the net amount of cash and equivalents that flows into a firm from regular, ongoing business activities. FFO should not be seen as an alternative to cash flow or as a measure of liquidity.



For example, a typical company's cash flow would be influenced by the money earned from the sale of an asset, but FFO excludes those gains. Also, a typical company would show a cash inflow on its CFS if the company received loan proceeds from a bank. However, FFO does not include such cash inflows. Instead, it is only a measure of the income from business activities.






Don't confuse a REIT's funds from operations with other metrics, such as the cash flow from operations. This figure is reported on the statement of cash flows (CFS) and represents money that a company earns from its normal core operations. A company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) is also different. This metric measures the corporation's profitability to net income by factoring out depreciation and amortization expenses, along with taxes and liability costs.


   Why FFO Is a Good Measure of REIT Performance  

FFO compensates for cost-accounting methods that may inaccurately communicate a REIT's true performance. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that all REITs depreciate their investment properties over time using one of the standard depreciation methods. However, many investment properties actually increase in value over time, making depreciation inaccurate in describing the value of a REIT. Depreciation and amortization must be added back to net income to reconcile this issue.



FFO also subtracts any gains on sales of property because these types of sales are considered to be nonrecurring. REITs must pay out 90% of all taxable income in the form of dividends, which are cash payments to investors. Gains on sales of property do not add to a REIT's taxable income and should therefore not be included in the measurement of value and performance.



As mentioned, FFO per share is sometimes provided by firms as a supplement to their EPS. Earnings per share is a company's net income divided by the outstanding equity shares. EPS and FFO per share provide a measure of how much income is being generated on a per-share basis.



These measures also help investors determine whether the money is being used effectively by management. Also, many analysts and investors assess a REIT's price-FFO ratio as a supplement to the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, which is the stock price divided by EPS. In the case of a REIT, the market price of the REIT would be divided by its FFO per share.


   Funds From Operations (FFO) vs. Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO)  

Real estate analysts are also increasingly calculating a REIT's adjusted funds from operations (AFFO). This calculation takes a REIT's FFO and subtracts any recurring expenditure that is capitalized and then amortized, as well as any straight-lining of rents. These recurring capital expenditures may include such maintenance expenses as painting projects or roof replacements. AFFO has gained traction as a more accurate estimate of a REIT's earnings potential.



The AFFO measure was developed to provide a better measure of a REIT's cash-generated or dividend-paying capacity. In addition to AFFO, this alternate measure is sometimes referred to as funds available for distribution or cash available for distribution.


   Example of How to Use FFO  

Simon Property Group is a popular mall REIT. It reported funds from operations on its 2017 income statement of $4 billion, up 6% from 2016. The firm's net income, meanwhile, totaled $2.2 billion. 



To arrive at FFO, the firm added back depreciation and amortization of about $1.8 billion, and further adjusted for other smaller figures—including a reduction of $5.3 million for payment of preferred distributions and dividends, and a noncontrolling interests portion of depreciation and amortization that resulted in an additional $17.1 million reduction.



Simon also reported a diluted FFO-per-share figure of $11.21, compared to a diluted EPS figure of $6.24.




What Do a Company's Funds From Operations Tell You?
Funds from operations measure how much cash a real estate investment trust generates. This cash is derived from a variety of sources, including regular business activities. FFO is the way that REITs measure their operating performance. Keep in mind that FFO doesn't include the gains a REIT makes on the sale of its property(s). That's because this doesn't count as an ongoing or recurring activity.




Where Do You Find a REIT's Funds From Operations?
REITs are required to disclose their funds from operations to the general public. You can easily find this figure on a REITs public financial statements. Search for the income statement and look for this figure within the footnotes. You can also calculate the FFO by adding together the REIT's net income, depreciation, amortization, and losses on property sales. Then subtract that figure from any gains on property sales and any interest income.




What's the Difference Between Funds From Operations and the Cash Flow From Operations?
It may be easy to confuse a REIT's funds from operations and the cash flow from operations. But the two are different from one another. The FFO represents the operating performance and takes net income, depreciation, amortization, and losses on property sales into account while factoring out any interest income and gains from property sales.The cash flow from operations, on the other hand, is reported on the cash flow statement. It's the total amount of cash that a company earns during the course of its operations. This includes working capital, revenue, and expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

There are a number of ways you can measure a company's success. The metric depends on the type of corporation. For instance, some companies measure their profitability using EBITDA or return on equity. REITs, though, use funds from operations. This figure, which measures the company's operating performance, was established by NAREIT and is now an industry standard. It takes into account depreciation, amortization, and losses on the sale of property while factoring out any interest earned along with the gains on property sales. But don't worry, You won't have to calculate this figure. You can find it in the footnotes of the REITs income statement.
What Is Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP)?  

The term funds transfer pricing (FTP) refers to a system that is used to estimate how funding adds to a company's overall profitability. FTP is commonly used in the banking industry to help financial institutions analyze their strengths and failures. FTP may also help companies determine the profitability of various product lines offered, the performance of branch outlets, and judge the effectiveness of processes.






Funds transfer pricing is a method used to measure how funding is contributing to overall profitability for a firm.FTP remains an important metric for internal analysis with several regulatory guidelines provided for industry best practices.The single-rate and multi-rate methods provide two basic systems for internal FTP analysis.


   How Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) Works  

Funds transfer pricing is an important reporting metric that is used in banking management analysis and reporting. Financial institutions use this tool as a way to measure their overall profitability as well as the profitability of different segments of their business, such as product offerings and customer relationships. They can also determine whether keeping certain branches open is economically viable.



The basis of FTP is that financial institutions should benefit from both of their most basic activities: lending and deposits. According to Moody's, an FTP system that is well-designed will have a bank's Treasury department "buy funds from the liability business unit and then sell those funds to the asset business unit at a rate that balances both the deposit and lending activity areas." As such, FTP requires the pooling of information across assets and liabilities.



It is also analyzed in conjunction with asset/liability management. FTP may also be evaluated alongside other metrics, such as net income or net interest margin (NIM), which is the difference between a financial institution's income and interest expenses.



There is a great deal of risk involved if financial institutions that don't implement FTP protocols within their operations. Some of these issues include (note that this isn't an exhaustive list):



Mispricing of products and services, resulting in losses
Business unit volatility as a result of liquidity and other risks that aren't hedged or transferred
Lack of clarity on the real margins of products and services






Funds transfer pricing is different from transfer pricing, which is an accounting practice that represents the implied prices that one division in a company charges another division for goods and services.


   Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) Methodologies  

There are a variety of methodologies for FTP used in the banking industry. Two of the most basic methods include:



Single-rate FTP, which provides a comprehensive view of assets versus liabilities by maturity. With the single-rate method, all assets and liabilities are assigned a single transfer rate regardless of the nature of the product.
Multi-rate FTP, which breaks assets and liabilities into additional groups based on selected characteristics. With the multi-rate method, management has a more granular view of risks.



The multi-rate methodology is often for product and maturity breakouts. In these breakouts, some of the more granular details of consideration may also include the funding liquidity spread, the contingent liquidity spread, the credit spread, the option spread, and the basis spread.



Charting is a key part of all FTP methodologies. Charting represents the pooled data across assets and liabilities. In general, it provides a visual picture of the association between yield-to-maturity (YTM) and time-to-maturity. Charting can be customized based on methodology and report requirements. Internally, financial institutions will have an interface that includes all of the high-level FTP metrics they are following.






Most global regulators have not incorporated FTP analysis into comprehensive bank regulatory reporting.


   Example of Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP)  

Many banks use FTP charting to analyze funding by location. Bank management would use FTP to determine the profitability of funds at individual divisions. This analysis takes into account the deposits each branch brings in, the amount provided as loans, as well as the number of customers the location serves. If a particular arm is continuously underperforming established baselines or reporting significant declines, then it can lead to a branch closure decision. If a branch closes, it will typically transfer accounts and resources to another nearby location.



Since the 2007-2008 financial crisis, the U.S. government’s Dodd-Frank Act primarily focused on increasing the regulated level of liquid capital to help reduce risk across the largest banks. Funds transfer pricing analysis has gained increased attention from bank managers as well, but guidance has been more informally introduced rather than mandated.



According to Moody's, some of the leading regulatory precedents for funds transfer pricing best practices include those created by the United States Federal Reserve’s SR16-3 letter.




Why Is Funds Transfer Pricing an Important Tool for Banks?
Funds transfer pricing is a tool that banks and other financial institutions use to help them determine whether their business is profitable. They can also use this tool as a way to evaluate the profitability of different parts of their companies, including product offerings. Not having a system like this in place can lead to mispricing of products and services, and can increase the risk of volatility among other things.




What Is the Difference Between Single-Rate and Multi-Rate FTP?
Single-rate and multi-rate funds transfer pricing are two different methodologies used by financial institutions in the banking industry.Single-rate FTP allows banks to take a comprehensive look at their assets compared to their liabilities. Under this method, all assets and liabilities are given a single transfer rate.Multi-rate FTP divides assets and liabilities into different groups based on their characteristics. This gives the company's management a more detailed look of the risks involved with each group.




How Do Banks Earn Profits?
Profitability is any money that is earned after all expenses are accounted for by a business or individual. Banks earn profits from a variety of sources. The main drivers for bank profits are the fees and service charges they impose on their customers. Interest expenses on loans and other credit products also help generate income.


   The Bottom Line  

Profitability is a key metric for any business. There are different tools that companies can use to determine whether they are in the black. Funds transfer pricing is a system that banks and other financial institutions can implement to assess their overall success and that of their individual business units, products, and services among other things. Not having a system like this can be risky for financial institutions because it can lead to mispricing and increased volatility.
What Is Fungibility?  

Fungibility is the ability of a good or asset to be interchanged with other individual goods or assets of the same type. Fungible assets simplify the exchange and trade processes, as fungibility implies equal value between the assets.





Key Takeaways

Fungibility is the ability of a good or asset to be readily interchanged for another of like kind.Like goods and assets that are not interchangeable, such as owned cars and houses, are non-fungible.Money is a prime example of something fungible, where a $1 bill is easily convertible into four quarters or ten dimes, etc.


   Understanding Fungibility  

Fungibility implies that two things are identical in specification, where individual units can be mutually substituted. For example, specific grades of commodities, such as No. 2 yellow corn, are fungible because it does not matter where the corn was grown; all corn designated as No. 2 yellow corn is worth the same amount. Commodities, common shares, options, and dollar bills are all examples of fungible goods.



Cross-listed stocks, which refer to the shares of stock listed on multiple exchanges are still considered fungible. The shares represent the same ownership interest in a firm, whether you purchased them on the New York Stock Exchange or the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Although fungibility is commonly associated with finance, it is also found in other disciplines, such as quantum physics.






Although cryptocurrencies are generally considered fungible assets, some are unique and not interchangeable (e.g., non-fungible tokens [NFT]).


   Fungibility vs. Non-Fungibility  

Another example of a fungible asset is money. If Person A lends Person B a $50 bill, it does not matter to Person A if he is repaid with a different $50 bill, as it is mutually substitutable. In the same sense, Person A can be repaid with two $20 bills and one $10 bill and still be satisfied, since the total equals $50.



Conversely, as an example of non-fungibility, if Person A lends Person B his car, it is not acceptable for Person B to return a different car, even if it is the same make and model as the original car lent by Person A. Cars are not fungible with respect to ownership, but the gasoline that powers the cars is fungible. Assets like diamonds, land, or baseball cards are not fungible because each unit has unique qualities that add or subtract value.



For instance, because individual diamonds have different cuts, colors, sizes, and grades, they are not interchangeable, so they cannot be referred to as fungible goods. Real estate is never genuinely fungible. Even on a street of identical houses, each house experiences different levels of noise and traffic, is in varying states of repair, and has unique views of surrounding areas.


   Special Considerations  

The line between fungibility and non-fungibility may be a thin one. Gold is generally considered fungible (one gold ounce is equivalent to another gold ounce), though in some cases, it is not. When otherwise fungible goods are given serial numbers or other uniquely identifying marks, they may no longer be as fungible. Adding unique numbers to bars of gold, collectibles, and other items makes it possible to distinguish them.



The Federal Reserve Bank of New York offers gold custody services to central banks and governments around the world by storing gold bars in its underground vault. All of the gold bars deposited into the vault are weighed with precision, and the refiner and purity markings on the individual bars are inspected to confirm they match the depositor instruction sheets. All of this is carefully monitored and recorded, and since the exact bars deposited to the New York Fed are the exact ones returned upon withdrawal, these types of gold deposits are not considered fungible.
What Is Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment (FF&E)?  

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment (abbreviated as FF&E or FFE) refers to movable furniture, fixtures, or other equipment that have no permanent connection to the structure of a building. These items, which include desks, chairs, computers, electronic equipment, tables, bookcases, and partitions, typically depreciate substantially over their long-term use but are nevertheless important costs to consider when valuing a company, especially during liquidation events.



These items are sometimes referred to as furniture, fixtures, and accessories (FF&A).





Key Takeaways

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment (FF&E) are items that are not permanently affixed to a building and are consequently easily removable from their respective locations.For accounting purposes, each FF&E item has a different useful life, according to IRS guidelines.Companies account for wear and tear of FF&E items by depreciating their values over their useful lives.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment Explained  

An asset is classified as FF&E if it's used by a business for normal daily operations. For example, an office receptionist relies on their desk, chair, telephone, computer, desk organizer, and pen holder to conduct routine activities throughout the normal course of doing business.



Accountants categorize FF&E as tangible assets, under separate line items on financial statements and other budgeting documents. The FF&E balance is then added into a project's total costs to determine if an initiative comes in over or under budget.


   Real-World Example of FF&E Accounting Treatment  

Accountants spread the acquisition costs of FF&E items over time by steadily depreciating their values over their lives. But to accomplish this, accountants must first correctly determine the useful life of each item, based on IRS guidelines.



Although FF&E items typically have useful lives of one year or more, they may vary substantially, from one item to the next. For example, while a desktop computer may be deemed technologically outdated after three years, according to the IRS, it has a useful life of five years. On the contrary, the IRS assigns office furniture a useful life of seven years.






Security equipment, such as X-ray scanners, may be considered FF&E, because these items may be removed from a building's premises and placed elsewhere.


   Real-World Example of FF&E Depreciation  

Let's assume a new car is worth $10,000, and it has a useful life of five years, according to the IRS. Let's further assume that the vehicle's maximum salvage value is 20%. When a company first buys the car, it records the monthly depreciation charge as follows:



The depreciation charge is $133.33 at the end of the first month. The net book value of the car is calculated as the difference between the original book value and the amount of its accumulated depreciation over its useful life.
What Is Future Value (FV)?  

Future value (FV) is the value of a current asset at a future date based on an assumed rate of growth. The future value is important to investors and financial planners, as they use it to estimate how much an investment made today will be worth in the future.



Knowing the future value enables investors to make sound investment decisions based on their anticipated needs. However, external economic factors, such as inflation, can adversely affect the future value of the asset by eroding its value.



Future value can be contrasted with present value (PV).





Key Takeaways

Future value (FV) is the value of a current asset at some point in the future based on an assumed growth rate.Investors are able to reasonably assume an investment’s profit using the FV calculation.Determining the FV of a market investment can be challenging because of market volatility and uncertainty about future investment conditions.There are two ways of calculating the FV of an asset: FV using simple interest, and FV using compound interest.Future value is opposed by present value (PV); the former calculates what something will be worth at a future date, while the other calculates what something at a future date is worth today.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Future Value (FV)  

The future value calculation allows investors to predict, with varying degrees of accuracy, the amount of profit that can be generated by different investments. The amount of growth generated by holding a given amount in cash will likely be different than if that same amount were invested in stocks; therefore, the future value equation is used to compare multiple options.



Determining the future value of an asset can become complicated, depending on the type of asset. Also, the future value calculation is based on the assumption of a stable growth rate. If money is placed in a savings account with a guaranteed interest rate, then the future value is easy to determine accurately. However, investments in the stock market or other securities with a more volatile rate of return can present greater difficulty.



To understand the core concept, however, simple and compound interest rates are the most straightforward examples of the future value calculation.






You can use the future value formula to calculate how your current savings may turn into a home down payment, car down payment, or funds used to pay tuition.


   Formula and Calculation of Future Value  
  Future Value Using Simple Annual Interest  

The future value formula assumes a constant rate of growth and a single up-front payment left untouched for the duration of the investment. The future value calculation can be done one of two ways, depending on the type of interest being earned. If an investment earns simple interest, then the FV formula is:



















F


V



=


I


×


(


1


+


(


R


×


T


)


)
















where:
















I


=


Investment amount
















R


=


Interest rate
















T


=


Number of years







\begin{aligned} &\mathit{FV} = \mathit{I} \times ( 1 + ( \mathit{R} \times \mathit{T} ) ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\mathit{I} = \text{Investment amount} \\ &\mathit{R} = \text{Interest rate} \\ &\mathit{T} = \text{Number of years} \\ \end{aligned}


​FV=I×(1+(R×T))where:I=Investment amountR=Interest rateT=Number of years​



For example, assume a $1,000 investment is held for five years in a savings account with 10% simple interest paid annually. In this case, the FV of the $1,000 initial investment is $1,000 × [1 + (0.10 x 5)], or $1,500.


  Future Value Using Compounded Annual Interest  

With simple interest, it is assumed that the interest rate is earned only on the initial investment. With compounded interest, the rate is applied to each period’s cumulative account balance. In the example above, the first year of investment earns 10% × $1,000, or $100, in interest. The following year, however, the account total is $1,100 rather than $1,000; so, to calculate compounded interest, the 10% interest rate is applied to the full balance for second-year interest earnings of 10% × $1,100, or $110.



The formula for the FV of an investment earning compounding interest is:



















F


V



=


I


×


(


1


+


R



)


T

















where:
















I


=


Investment amount
















R


=


Interest rate
















T


=


Number of years







\begin{aligned}&\mathit{FV} = \mathit{I} \times ( 1 + \mathit{R})^T \\&\textbf{where:}\\&\mathit{I} = \text{Investment amount} \\&\mathit{R} = \text{Interest rate} \\&\mathit{T} = \text{Number of years}\end{aligned}


​FV=I×(1+R)Twhere:I=Investment amountR=Interest rateT=Number of years​



Using the above example, the same $1,000 invested for five years in a savings account with a 10% compounding interest rate would have an FV of $1,000 × [(1 + 0.10)5], or $1,610.51.






Bearish about the market? Future value can also handle negative interest rates to calculate scenarios such as how much $1,000 invested today will be worth if the market loses 5% each of the next two years.


   Pros and Cons of Future Value  

Future value can be useful in some situations. However, there are limitations to the calculation, and it may not be suitable for use in some cases.


  Advantages of Future Value  

Future value allows for planning. A company or investor may know what they have today, and they may be able to input some assumptions about what will happen in the future. By combining this information, people can plan for the future as they understand their financial position. For example, a homebuyer attempting to save $100,000 for a down payment can calculate how long it will take to reach this savings by using future value.
Future value makes comparisons easier. Let's say an investor is comparing two investment options. One requires a $5,000 investment that will return 10% for the next 3 years. The other requires a $3,000 investment that will return 5% in year one, 10% in year 2, and 35% in year 3. The only way an investor will know which investment may make more money is by calculating the future values and comparing the results.
Future value is easy to calculate due to estimates. Future value does not require sophisticated or real numbers. Because it is heavily reliant on estimates, anyone can use future value in hypothetical situations. For example, regarding the homebuyer above trying to save $100,000, that person can calculate the future value of their savings using their estimated monthly savings, estimated interest rate, and estimated savings period.


  Disadvantages of Future Value  

Future value usually assumes constant growth. In the formulas above, only one interest rate is used. Although it is possible to calculate future value using different interest rates, calculations get more complex and less intuitive. In exchange for a simplified formula using only rate, a situation may have unrealistic parameters as growth may not always be linear or consistent year-over-year.
Future value assumptions may not actually happen. Because future value is based on future assumptions, the calculations are simply estimates that may not truly happen. For example, an investor may have calculated the future value of their portfolio estimated the market would return 8% each year. When the market fails to produce that estimated return, the future value calculation from before is worthless.
Future value may fail at comparisons. Future value simply returns a final dollar value for what something will be worth in the future. Therefore, there are some limitations when comparing two projects. Consider this example: an investor can choose to invest $10,000 for an expected 1% return or can choose to invest $100 for an expected 700% return. Looking at only future value, the first option would appear favorable because it is higher; it fails to consider the starting point of the initial investment.




Future Value Pros & Cons

Pros

Relies on estimates, therefore it is easy to calculate.
Future value calculations of lump sum or simple cashflows may be easy to calculate.
Future value can singlehanded determine whether an investor meets a target or goal.
The concept of future value can be applied to any cashflow, return, or investment structure.



Cons

Relies on estimates, therefore findings may be quickly invalidated.
Future value calculations of annuities or irregular cashflow may be difficult to calculate.
Future value by itself cannot be used to compare and choose between two mutually exclusive projects.
Most future value models assume constant rate growth which is often impractical.





   Future Value vs. Present Value  

The concept of future value is often closely tied to the concept of present value. Whereas future value calculations attempt to figure out the value of something in the future, present value attempts to figure out what something in the future will be worth today.



Both concepts rely on the same financial principles (i.e. discount or growth rates, compounding periods, initial investments, etc.). Each component is related and inherently feed into the calculation of the other. For example, imagine having $1,000 on hand today and expecting to earn 5% over the following year.



Future Value: $1,000 * (1 + 5%)^1 = $1,050



The future value formula could be reversed to determine how much something in the future is worth today. In other words, assuming the same investment assumptions, $1,050 has the present value of $1,000 today.



Present Value: $1,050 / (1 + 5%)^1 = $1,000



Therefore, by changing directions, future value can derive present value and vice versa. The future value of $1,000 one year from now invested at 5% is $1,050, and the present value of $1,050 one year from now assuming 5% interest is earned is $1,000.





Annuity vs. Annuity Due

When calculating future value of an annuity, understand the timing of when payments are made as this will impact your calculation. If payments are made at the end of a period, it is an ordinary annuity. If payments are made at the beginning of a period, it is an annuity due.


   Example of Future Value  

The Internal Revenue Service imposes a Failure to File Penalty on taxpayers who do not file their return by the due date. The penalty is calculated as 5% of unpaid taxes for each month a tax return is late up to a limit of 25% of unpaid taxes. An additional Failure to Pay penalty can also be assessed, and the IRS imposes interest on penalties.



If a taxpayer knows they have filed their return late and are subject to the 5% penalty, that taxpayer can easily calculate the future value of their owed taxes based on the imposed growth rate of their fee.



For example, consider if a taxpayer anticipates filing their return one month late. The taxpayer expects to have a $500 tax obligation. The taxpayer can calculate the future value of their obligation assuming a 5% penalty imposed on the $500 tax obligation for one month. In other words, the $500 tax obligation has a future value of $525 when factoring in the liability growth due to the 5% penalty.



Consider another example of a zero-coupon bond trading at a discount price of $950. The bond has two years left to maturity and has a target yield to maturity is 8%. If an investor is interested in knowing what the value of this bond will be in two years, they can simply calculate the future value based on the current variables. In two years, the future value of this bond will be $1,108.08 ($950 * (1 + 8%)^2). Through TreasuryDirect, the U.S. Department of Treasury bond website, investors can utilize calculators to estimate the growth and future value of savings bonds.




What Is Future Value?
Future value (FV) is a financial concept that assigns a value to an asset based on estimated variables such as future interest rates or cashflows. It may be useful for an investor to know how much their investment may be in five years given an expected rate of return. This concept of taking the investment value today, applying expected growth, and calculating what the investment will be in the future is future value.




How Do I Calculate Future Value?
There are several formulas to calculate future value. In all of them, the concept is the same: future value is calculated by taking cashflows and projecting them forward based on anticipated growth rates. Simple future value calculations regarding a single lump sum are easier to calculate (principal * (1 + rate) ^ periods), while future value calculations of annuities, varying cash flows, or varying interest rates are more complex.




What Is Future Value Used for?
Future value is used for planning purposes to see what an investment, cashflow, or expense may be in the future. Investors use future value to determine whether or not to embark on an investment given its future value. Future value can also be used to determine risk, see what a given expense will grow at if interest is charged, or be used as a savings target to understand whether enough money will be reserved given the current pace of savings and expected rate of return.




What Is the Future Value of an Annuity?
The future value of an annuity is the value of a group of recurring payments at a certain date in the future, assuming a particular rate of return, or discount rate. The higher the discount rate, the greater the annuity's future value.FV of an annuity is calculated as:FV = PMT x [(1+r)n - 1)]/r​where:FV = Future value of an annuity streamPMT = Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr = The discount (interest) raten = Number of periods in which payments will be made




How Is Future Value Different From Present Value?
Future value takes a current situation and projects what it will be worth in the future. For example, future value would estimate the value of $1,000 today invested at 10% interest for 5 years. Alternatively, present value takes a future situation and projects what it is worth today. For example, present value would estimate how much money you would need to have today to invest at 10% for 5 years to end up with $1,000.


   The Bottom Line  

Future value (FV) is a key concept in finance that draws from the time value of money: a dollar today is worth relatively more than a dollar in the future. Using future value, once can estimate the value of that dollar at some point later in time, or the value of an investment or series of cash flows at that future date. In general, the future value of a sum of money today is calculated by multiplying the amount of cash by a function of the expected rate of return over the expected time period. Future value works in the opposite way as discounting future cash flows to the present value.
What Is the Future Value of an Annuity?  

The future value of an annuity is the value of a group of recurring payments at a certain date in the future, assuming a particular rate of return, or discount rate. The higher the discount rate, the greater the annuity's future value. As long as all of the variables surrounding the annuity are known such as payment amount, projected rate, and number of periods, it is possible to calculate the future value of the annuity.





Key Takeaways

The future value of an annuity is a way of calculating how much money a series of payments will be worth at a certain point in the future.By contrast, the present value of an annuity measures how much money will be required to produce a series of future payments.In an ordinary annuity, payments are made at the end of each agreed-upon period. In an annuity due, payments are made at the beginning of each period.To calculate the future value of an annuity, you must know the annuity payment amount, number of periods, and projected rate of return. Because annuity due payments often entail having an additional compounding period, the future value of an annuity due will usually be higher than the future value of an annuity. 


   Understanding the Future Value of an Annuity  

Because of the time value of money, money received or paid out today is worth more than the same amount of money will be in the future. That's because the money can be invested and allowed to grow over time. By the same logic, a lump sum of $5,000 today is worth more than a series of five $1,000 annuity payments spread out over five years.






Ordinary annuities are more common, but an annuity due will result in a higher future value, all else being equal.


   Formula and Calculation of the Future Value of an Annuity  

The formula for the future value of an ordinary annuity is as follows. (An ordinary annuity pays interest at the end of a particular period, rather than at the beginning, as is the case with an annuity due.)


















P


=


PMT


×




(


(


1


+


r



)


n



−


1


)



r

















where:
















P


=


Future value of an annuity stream
















PMT


=


Dollar amount of each annuity payment
















r


=


Interest rate (also known as discount rate)
















n


=


Number of periods in which payments will be made







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { \big ( (1 + r) ^ n - 1 \big ) }{ r } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{P} = \text{Future value of an annuity stream} \\ &\text{PMT} = \text{Dollar amount of each annuity payment} \\ &r = \text{Interest rate (also known as discount rate)} \\ &n = \text{Number of periods in which payments will be made} \\ \end{aligned}


​P=PMT×r((1+r)n−1)​where:P=Future value of an annuity streamPMT=Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr=Interest rate (also known as discount rate)n=Number of periods in which payments will be made​


  Future Value of an Annuity Due  

With an annuity due, where payments are made at the beginning of each period, the formula is slightly different. To find the future value of an annuity due, simply multiply the formula above by a factor of (1 + r). So:


















P


=


PMT


×




(


(


1


+


r



)


n



−


1


)



r



×


(


1


+


r


)







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { \big ( (1 + r) ^ n - 1 \big ) }{ r } \times ( 1 + r ) \\ \end{aligned}


​P=PMT×r((1+r)n−1)​×(1+r)​


   Future Value of an Annuity Example  

Assume someone decides to invest $125,000 per year for the next five years in an annuity they expect to compound at 8% per year. In this example, the series of payments is a regular annuity in which the payments are made at the end of each period. The expected future value of this payment stream using the above formula is as follows:








Future value








=


$


125


,


000


×




(


(


1


+


0.08



)


5



−


1


)



0.08

















=


$


733


,


325







\begin{aligned} \text{Future value} &= \$125,000 \times \frac { \big ( ( 1 + 0.08 ) ^ 5 - 1 \big ) }{ 0.08 } \\ &= \$733,325 \\ \end{aligned}


Future value​=$125,000×0.08((1+0.08)5−1)​=$733,325​


  Future Value of an Annuity Due  

Assume the same example as above was an annuity due. This means each of the $125,000 payments was made at the beginning of each period. Its future value would be calculated as follows:











Future value








=


$


125


,


000


×




(


(


1


+


0.08



)


5



−


1


)



0.08



×


(


1


+


0.08


)
















=


$


791


,


991







\begin{aligned} \text{Future value} &= \$125,000 \times \frac { \big ( ( 1 + 0.08 ) ^ 5 - 1 \big ) }{ 0.08 } \times ( 1 + 0.08 ) \\ &= \$791,991 \\ \end{aligned}


Future value​=$125,000×0.08((1+0.08)5−1)​×(1+0.08)=$791,991​



All else being equal, the future value of an annuity due will be greater than the future value of an ordinary annuity because it has had an extra period to accumulate compounded interest. In this example, the future value of the annuity due is $58,666 more than that of the ordinary annuity.




What Is a Future Value Factor?
When calculating future values, one component of the calculation is called the future value factor. The future value factor is simply the aggregated growth that a lump sum or series of cash flow will entail. For example, if the future value of $1,000 is $1,100, the future value factor must have been 1.1. A future value factor of 1.0 means the value of the series will be equal to the value today.




What Is The Difference Between Annuity and Annuity Due?
Annuity payments are often made at the end of a period. An annuity due, however, is a payment made at the beginning of a period. Though it may not seem like much of a distinction, there may be considerable differences between the two when considering what interest is accrued.




What Is the Relationship Between Present Value and Future Value?
Present value and future value simply indicate the value of an investment looking forward or looking back. The two concepts are directly related, as the future value of a series of cash flows also has a present value. For example, a present value of $1,000 today may be equal to the future value of $1,200 today.Most often, investors and analysts will know one value and try to solve for the other. For instance, if you buy a stock today for $100 that awards a 2% dividend each year, you can calculate the future value. Alternatively, if you want to have $10,000 of future value on hand for a down payment for a car next year, you can solve for the present value.


   The Bottom Line  

An annuity is a series of payments made over a period of time, often for the same amount each period. Investors can determine the future value of their annuity by considering the annuity amount, projected rate of return, and number of periods. There are also implications whether the annuity payments are made at the beginning of the period or at the end.
What Are Futures?  

Futures are derivative financial contracts that obligate parties to buy or sell an asset at a predetermined future date and price. The buyer must purchase or the seller must sell the underlying asset at the set price, regardless of the current market price at the expiration date.



Underlying assets include physical commodities and financial instruments. Futures contracts detail the quantity of the underlying asset and are standardized to facilitate trading on a futures exchange. Futures can be used for hedging or trade speculation.





Key Takeaways

Futures are derivative financial contracts obligating the buyer to purchase an asset or the seller to sell an asset at a predetermined future date and set price.A futures contract allows an investor to speculate on the price of a financial instrument or commodity.Futures are used to hedge the price movement of an underlying asset to help prevent losses from unfavorable price changes.When you engage in hedging, you take a position opposite to the one you hold with the underlying asset; if you lose money on the underlying asset, the money you make on the futures contract can mitigate that loss.Futures contracts trade on a futures exchange and a contract's price settles after the end of every trading session.






   Understanding Futures  

Futures—also called futures contracts—allow traders to lock in the price of the underlying asset or commodity. These contracts have expiration dates and set prices that are known upfront. Futures are identified by their expiration month. For example, a December gold futures contract expires in December.



Traders and investors use the term futures in reference to the overall asset class. However, there are many types of futures contracts available for trading including:



Commodity futures with underlying commodities such as crude oil, natural gas, corn, and wheatStock index futures with underlying assets such as the S&P 500 IndexCurrency futures including those for the euro and the British poundPrecious metal futures for gold and silverU.S. Treasury futures for bonds and other financial securities



It's important to note the distinction between options and futures. American-style options contracts give the holder the right (but not the obligation) to buy or sell the underlying asset any time before the expiration date of the contract. With European options, you can only exercise at expiration but do not have to exercise that right.



The buyer of a futures contract, on the other hand, is obligated to take possession of the underlying commodity (or the financial equivalent) at the time of expiration and not any time before. The buyer of a futures contract can sell their position at any time before expiration and be free of their obligation. In this way, buyers of both options and futures contracts benefit from a leverage holder's position closing before the expiration date.





Pros

Investors can use futures contracts to speculate on the direction of the price of an underlying asset.
Companies can hedge the price of their raw materials or products they sell to protect against adverse price movements.
Futures contracts may only require a deposit of a fraction of the contract amount with a broker.



Cons

Investors risk losing more than the initial margin amount since futures use leverage.
Investing in a futures contract might cause a company that hedged to miss out on favorable price movements.
Margin can be a double-edged sword, meaning gains are amplified but so too are losses.





   Using Futures  

The futures markets typically use high leverage. Leverage means that the trader does not need to put up 100% of the contract's value amount when entering into a trade. Instead, the broker would require an initial margin amount, which consists of a fraction of the total contract value.






The amount required by the broker for a margin account can vary depending on the size of the futures contract, the creditworthiness of the investor, and the broker's terms and conditions.



The exchange where the futures contract trades will determine if the contract is for physical delivery or if it can be cash-settled. A corporation may enter into a physical delivery contract to lock in the price of a commodity it needs for production. However, many futures contracts involve traders who speculate on the trade. These contracts are closed out or netted—the difference in the original trade and closing trade price—and have a cash settlement.


  Futures for Speculation  

A futures contract allows a trader to speculate on the direction of a commodity's price. If a trader bought a futures contract and the price of the commodity rose and was trading above the original contract price at expiration, then they would have a profit. Before expiration, the futures contract—the long position—would be sold at the current price, closing the long position.



The difference between the prices would be cash-settled in the investor's brokerage account, and no physical product would change hands. However, the trader could also lose if the commodity's price was lower than the purchase price specified in the futures contract.



Speculators can also take a short speculative position if they predict the price of the underlying asset will fall. If the price does decline, the trader will take an offsetting position to close the contract. Again, the net difference would be settled at the expiration of the contract. An investor would realize a gain if the underlying asset's price was below the contract price and a loss if the current price was above the contract price.



It's important to note that trading on margin allows for a much larger position than the amount held by the brokerage account. As a result, margin investing can amplify gains, but it can also magnify losses.



Imagine a trader who has a $5,000 brokerage account balance and has a $50,000 position in crude oil. If the price of oil moves against the trade, it can mean losses that far exceed the account's $5,000 initial margin amount. In this case, the broker would make a margin call requiring that additional funds be deposited to cover the market losses.


  Futures for Hedging  

Futures can be used to hedge the price movement of the underlying asset. Here, the goal is to prevent losses from potentially unfavorable price changes rather than to speculate. Many companies that enter hedges are using—or in many cases producing—the underlying asset.



For example, corn farmers can use futures to lock in a specific price for selling their corn crop. By doing so, they reduce their risk and guarantee they will receive the fixed price. If the price of corn decreased, the farmer would have a gain on the hedge to offset losses from selling the corn at the market. With such a gain and loss offsetting each other, the hedging effectively locks in an acceptable market price.





Regulation of Futures

The futures markets are regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The CFTC is a federal agency created by Congress in 1974 to ensure the integrity of futures market pricing, including preventing abusive trading practices, fraud, and regulating brokerage firms engaged in futures trading.


   Example of Futures  

Let's say a trader wants to speculate on the price of crude oil by entering into a futures contract in May with the expectation that the price will be higher by year-end. The December crude oil futures contract is trading at $50 and the trader buys the contract.



Since oil is traded in increments of 1,000 barrels, the investor now has a position worth $50,000 of crude oil (1,000 x $50 = $50,000). However, the trader will only need to pay a fraction of that amount up front—the initial margin that they deposit with the broker. 



From May to December, the price of oil fluctuates as does the value of the futures contract. If oil's price gets too volatile, the broker may need to ask that additional funds to be deposited into the margin account. This is called maintenance margin.



In December, the end date of the contract is approaching (the third Friday of the month). The price of crude oil has risen to $65. The trader sells the original contract to exit the position. The net difference is cash-settled. They earn $15,000, less any fees and commissions owed the broker ($65 - $50 = $15 x 1000 = $15,000).



However, if the price oil had fallen to $40 instead, the investor would have lost $10,000 ($50 - $40 = a loss of $10 x 1000 = a loss of $10,000).




What Are Futures Contracts?
Futures contracts are an investment vehicle that allows the buyer to bet on the future price of a commodity or other security. There are many types of futures contracts available. These may have underlying assets such as oil, stock market indices, currencies, and agricultural products.Unlike forward contracts, which are customized between the parties involved, futures contracts trade on organized exchanges such as those operated by the CME Group Inc. (CME). Futures contracts are popular among traders, who aim to profit on price swings, as well as commercial customers who wish to hedge their risks.




Are Futures a Type of Derivative?
Yes, futures contracts are a type of derivative product. They are derivatives because their value is based on the value of an underlying asset, such as oil in the case of crude oil futures. Like many derivatives, futures are a leveraged financial instrument, offering the potential for outsized gains or losses. As such, they are generally considered to be an advanced trading instrument and are usually traded only by experienced investors and institutions.




What Happens if You Hold a Futures Contract Until Expiration?
Oftentimes, traders who hold futures contracts until expiration will settle their position in cash. In other words, the trader will simply pay or receive a cash settlement depending on whether the underlying asset increased or decreased during the investment holding period.In some cases, however, futures contracts will require physical delivery. In this scenario, the investor holding the contract upon expiration would take delivery of the underlying asset. They'd be responsible for the goods and covering costs for material handling, physical storage, and insurance.
What is a Futures Commission Merchant - FCM  

A futures commission merchant (FCM) plays an essential role in enabling customers to participate in the futures markets. An FCM is an individual or organization involved in the solicitation or acceptance of buy or sell orders for futures or options on futures in exchange for payment of money (commission) or other assets from customers. An FCM has the responsibility of collecting margins from customers. The FCM is also responsible for ensuring asset delivery after the futures contract has expired.



In Europe, FCMs are analogous to clearing members of the futures market.





Key Takeaways

A futures commission merchant (FCM) solicits and accepts trading for future contracts with customers.The FCM is also responsible for collecting margins from customers and ensuring delivery of assets or cash, per terms stipulated in the contract.An FCM must be registered with the National Futures Association (NFA) and must be accredited by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).


   Basics of Futures Commission Merchant (FCM)  

FCMs are required to be registered with the National Futures Association (NFA). This is required unless the entity handles transactions only for the firm itself, or the firm's affiliates, top officers, or directors; or if the entity is a non-U.S. resident or firm with only non-U.S. customers and submits all trades for clearing to an FCM.



An FCM may either be a clearing member firm of one or more exchanges (a "clearing FCM") or a non-clearing member firm (a "non-clearing FCM"). Clearing FCMs are required to hold substantial deposits with the clearing house of any exchange of which it is a member. A non-clearing FCM must have its customers' trades cleared by a clearing FCM.



Additionally, FCMs must also meet the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) guidelines:



Segregation of customer funds from the FCMs fundsMaintenance of a minimum of $1,000,000 in adjusted net capitalReporting, recordkeeping, and supervision of employees and affiliated brokersMonthly submission of financial reports to the CFTC.



A futures commission merchant is able to handle futures contract orders as well as extend credit to customers wishing to enter into such positions. These include many of the brokerages with which investors in the futures markets deal.



If a customer wishes to purchase (or sell) a futures contract, they contact an FCM who acts as an intermediary by purchasing (or selling) the contract on the customer's behalf. This is similar to what a stockbroker does with stocks. At maturity, or the delivery date, the FCM also makes sure the contract is fulfilled and either the commodity or cash is delivered to the customer.



FCMs, among other things, enable farmers and companies (called commercials) to hedge their risks and provide customers access to exchanges and clearinghouses. They can be subsidiaries of larger financial firms or smaller, independent firms. However, in recent years, and especially since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank legislation in 2010, the numbers of FCMs, especially small independents, have declined due to the regulatory burden.
What Is a Futures Contract?  

A futures contract is a legal agreement to buy or sell a particular commodity asset, or security at a predetermined price at a specified time in the future. Futures contracts are standardized for quality and quantity to facilitate trading on a futures exchange.



The buyer of a futures contract is taking on the obligation to buy and receive the underlying asset when the futures contract expires. The seller of the futures contract is taking on the obligation to provide and deliver the underlying asset at the expiration date. 





Key Takeaways

Futures contracts are financial derivatives that oblige the buyer to purchase some underlying asset (or the seller to sell that asset) at a predetermined future price and date.A futures contract allows an investor to speculate on the direction of a security, commodity, or financial instrument, either long or short, using leverage.Futures are also often used to hedge the price movement of the underlying asset to help prevent losses from unfavorable price changes.There are tradeable futures contracts for almost any commodity imaginable, such as grain, livestock, energy, currencies, and even securities.In the United States, futures contracts are regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Futures Contracts  

Futures are derivative financial contracts that obligate the parties to transact an asset at a predetermined future date and price. Here, the buyer must purchase or the seller must sell the underlying asset at the set price, regardless of the current market price at the expiration date.



Underlying assets include physical commodities or other financial instruments. Futures contracts detail the quantity of the underlying asset and are standardized to facilitate trading on a futures exchange. Futures can be used for hedging or trade speculation.



"Futures contract" and "futures" refer to the same thing. For example, you might hear somebody say they bought oil futures, which means the same thing as an oil futures contract. When someone says "futures contract," they're typically referring to a specific type of future, such as oil, gold, bonds, or S&P 500 index futures. Futures contracts are also one of the most direct ways to invest in oil. The term "futures" is more general, and is often used to refer to the whole market, such as, "They're a futures trader."



Futures contracts are standardized, unlike forward contracts. Forwards are similar types of agreements that lock in a future price in the present, but forwards are traded over-the-counter (OTC) and have customizable terms that are arrived at between the counterparties. Futures contracts, on the other hand, will each have the same terms regardless of who is the counterparty.






   Application of a Futures Contracts  

Futures contracts are used by two categories of market participants: hedgers and speculators.


  Hedgers  

Producers or purchasers of an underlying asset hedge or guarantee the price at which the commodity is sold or purchased. They use futures contracts to ensure that they have a buyer and a satisfactory price, hedging against any changes in the market.



An oil producer needs to sell its oil. They may use futures contracts to lock in a price they will sell at, and then deliver the oil to the buyer when the futures contract expires. Similarly, a manufacturing company may need oil for making widgets. Since they like to plan ahead and always have oil coming in each month, they too may use futures contracts. This way they know in advance the price they will pay for oil (the futures contract price) and they know they will be taking delivery of the oil once the contract expires.


  Speculators  

Since many commodity prices tend to move in predictable patterns, it is possible to make a profit by trading futures, even if one does not have a direct interest in the underlying commodity. Traders and fund managers use futures to bet on the price of the underlying asset.



For example, a trader may buy grain futures if they expect the price of grain to increase before the delivery date. Any unexpected changes to the weather or growing conditions may cause the futures price to rise or drop.


   Types of Futures Contracts  

Futures contracts can be used to set prices on any type of commodity or asset, so long as there is a sufficiently large market for it. Some of the most frequently traded types of futures are outlined below:



Agricultural Futures: These were the original futures contracts available at markets like the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. In addition to grain futures, there are also tradable futures contracts in fibers (such as cotton), lumber, milk, coffee, sugar, and even livestock.Energy Futures: These provide exposure to the most common fuels and energy products, such as crude oil and natural gas.Metal Futures: These contracts trade in industrial metals, such as gold, steel, and copper.Currency Futures: These contracts provide exposure to changes in the exchange rates and interest rates of different national currencies.Financial Futures: Contracts that trade in the future value of a security or index. For example, there are futures for the S&P 500 and Nasdaq indexes. There are also futures for debt products, such as Treasury bonds.


   Futures Contract vs. Forward Contract  

A futures contract is similar to a forwards contract, where a buyer and seller agree to set a price and quantity of a product for delivery at a later date. Both types of contract can be used for speculation, as well as hedging.



However, there are also important differences. While a futures contract is a standardized agreement that can be traded on an exchange, a forward contract is simply a private agreement between a buyer and a seller. While it is possible to trade forwards on OTC markets, they are less regulated and less accessible to retail investors. This means that there are also more opportunities to customize a forward agreement according to the buyer's and seller's needs.


   Mechanics of a Futures Contract  

Imagine an oil producer plans to produce one million barrels of oil over the next year. It will be ready for delivery in 12 months. Assume the current price is $75 per barrel. The producer could produce the oil, and then sell it at the current market prices one year from today.



Given the volatility of oil prices, the market price at that time could be very different than the current price. If the oil producer thinks oil will be higher in one year, they may opt not to lock in a price now. But, if they think $75 is a good price, they could lock in a guaranteed sale price by entering into a futures contract.



A mathematical model is used to price futures, which takes into account the current spot price, the risk-free rate of return, time to maturity, storage costs, dividends, dividend yields, and convenience yields. Assume that the one-year oil futures contracts are priced at $78 per barrel. By entering into this contract, in one year the producer is obligated to deliver one million barrels of oil and is guaranteed to receive $78 million. The $78 price per barrel is received regardless of where spot market prices are at the time.



Contracts are standardized. For example, one oil contract on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is for 1,000 barrels of oil. Therefore, if someone wanted to lock in a price (selling or buying) on 100,000 barrels of oil, they would need to buy/sell 100 contracts. To lock in a price on one million barrels of oil/they would need to buy/sell 1,000 contracts.



The futures markets are regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The CFTC is a federal agency created by Congress in 1974 to ensure the integrity of futures market pricing, including preventing abusive trading practices, fraud, and regulating brokerage firms engaged in futures trading. 


   Trading Futures Contracts  

Retail traders and portfolio managers are not interested in delivering or receiving the underlying asset. A retail trader has little need to receive 1,000 barrels of oil, but they may be interested in capturing a profit on the price moves of oil. 



Futures contracts can be traded purely for profit, as long as the trade is closed before expiration. Many futures contracts expire on the third Friday of the month, but contracts do vary so check the contract specifications of any and all contracts before trading them.



For example, it is January, and April contracts are trading at $55. If a trader believes that the price of oil will rise before the contract expires in April, they could buy the contract at $55. This gives them control of 1,000 barrels of oil. They are not required to pay $55,000 ($55 x 1,000 barrels) for this privilege, though. Rather, the broker only requires an initial margin payment, typically of a few thousand dollars for each contract.



The profit or loss of the position fluctuates in the account as the price of the futures contract moves. If the loss gets too big, the broker will ask the trader to deposit more money to cover the loss. This is called maintenance margin.



The final profit or loss of the trade is realized when the trade is closed. In this case, if the buyer sells the contract at $60, they make $5,000 [($60-$55) x 1,000). Alternatively, if the price drops to $50 and they close out the position there, they lose $5,000.







How to Trade Futures Contracts




Why Is It Called a Futures Contract?
A futures contract gets its name from the fact that the buyer and seller of the contract are agreeing to a price today for some asset or security that is to be delivered in the future.




Are Futures and Forwards the Same Thing?
These two types of derivatives contract function in much the same way, but the main difference is that futures are exchange-traded and have standardized contract specifications. These exchanges are highly regulated and provide transparent contract and pricing data. Forwards, in contrast, trade over the counter (OTC) with terms and contract specifications customized by the two parties involved.




What Happens If a Futures Contract Is Held Until It Expires?
Unless the contract position is closed out prior to its expiration, the short is obligated to make delivery to the long, who is obligated to take it. Depending on the contract, the values exchanged can be settled in cash. Most often, the trader will simply pay or receive a cash settlement depending on whether the underlying asset increased or decreased during the investment holding period. In some cases, however, futures contracts will require physical delivery. In this scenario, the investor holding the contract upon expiration would be responsible for storing the goods and would need to cover costs for material handling, physical storage, and insurance.




Who Uses Futures Contracts?
Speculators can use futures contracts to bet on the future price of some asset or security. Hedgers use futures to lock in a price today to reduce market uncertainty between now and the time that good is to be delivered or received. Arbitrageurs trade futures contracts in or across related markets, taking advantage of theoretical mispricings that may exist temporarily.




How Can I Trade Futures?
Depending on your broker and your account status with that broker, you may be eligible to trade futures. You will require a margin account and be approved to do so. Qualified traders in the U.S. will often have the ability to trade futures on different exchanges such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), ICE Futures U.S. (Intercontinental Exchange), and the CBOE Futures Exchange (CFE).


   The Bottom Line  

Futures contracts play an important role in the smooth operations of the commodities market. By allowing buyers and sellers to lock in prices in advance, they allow farmers, miners, manufacturers and other market participants to work without having to worry about daily changes in the market.
What Is a Futures Market?  

A futures market is an auction market in which participants buy and sell commodity and futures contracts for delivery on a specified future date. Futures are exchange-traded derivatives contracts that lock in future delivery of a commodity or security at a price set today.



Examples of futures markets are the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), the Chicago Board of Trade (CBoT), the Cboe Options Exchange (Cboe), and the Minneapolis Grain Exchange.



Originally, such trading was carried on through open outcry and the use of hand signals in trading pits, located in financial hubs such as New York, Chicago, and London. Throughout the 21st century, like most other markets, futures exchanges have become mostly electronic.





Key Takeaways

A futures market is an exchange where futures contracts are traded by participants who are interested in buying or selling these derivatives.In the U.S., futures markets are largely regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), with futures contracts standardized by exchanges.Today, the majority of trading of futures markets occurs electronically, with examples including the CME and ICE.Unlike most stock markets, futures markets can trade 24 hours a day.


   The Basics of a Futures Market  

In order to understand fully what a futures market is, it’s important to understand the basics of futures contracts, the assets traded in these markets.



Futures contracts are made in an attempt by producers and suppliers of commodities to avoid market volatility. These producers and suppliers negotiate contracts with an investor who agrees to take on both the risk and reward of a volatile market.



Futures markets or futures exchanges are where these financial products are bought and sold for delivery at some agreed-upon date in the future with a price fixed at the time of the deal. Futures markets are for more than simply agricultural contracts, and now involve the buying, selling and hedging of financial products and future values of interest rates.



Futures contracts can be made or "created" as long as open interest is increased, unlike other securities that are issued. The size of futures markets (which usually increase when the stock market outlook is uncertain) is larger than that of commodity markets and is a key part of the financial system.


   Major Futures Markets  

Large futures markets run their own clearinghouses, where they can both make revenue from the trading itself and from the processing of trades after the fact. Some of the biggest futures markets that operate their own clearinghouses include the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the ICE, and Eurex. Other markets like Cboe have outside clearinghouses (Options Clearing Corporation) settle trades.



Most all futures markets are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the main U.S. body in charge of regulation of futures markets. Exchanges are usually regulated by the nations regulatory body in the country in which they are based.






Futures market exchanges earn revenue from actual futures trading and the processing of trades, as well as charging traders and firms membership or access fees to do business.


   Futures Market Example  

For instance, if a coffee farm sells green coffee beans at $4 per pound to a roaster, and the roaster sells that roasted pound at $10 per pound and both are making a profit at that price, they’ll want to keep those costs at a fixed rate. The investor agrees that if the price for coffee goes below a set rate, the investor agrees to pay the difference to the coffee farmer.



If the price of coffee goes higher than a certain price, the investor gets to keep profits. For the roaster, if the price of green coffee goes above an agreed rate, the investor pays the difference and the roaster gets the coffee at a predictable rate. If the price of green coffee is lower than an agreed-upon rate, the roaster pays the same price and the investor gets the profit.
